10-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Polls 2021: AIADMK releases list of 171 candidates, BJP gets 20 seats||Eyeing a record straight third term, the ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday announced its second list of 171 candidates for the April 6 Assembly polls, renominating most of its heavyweights. Together with its first list of six candidates, the AIADMK would be in fray in 177 constituencies and its partners the PMK (23) and BJP (20) in 43 while 14 more seats are yet to be allocated out of the total 234 segments. Of the 30-member Cabinet of Chief Minister K Palaniswami, 27 have been renominated, apparently rewarding them for supporting him during the past four years when he weathered many a political storm. The 2021 Assembly polls will be a watershed election for the AIADMK since this is the first state polls after the demise of its supremo J Jayalalithaa, who had led the party to two back to back wins in 2011 and 2016. Following the legacy of Jayalalithaa, the AIADMK has now announced seats for most constituencies stealing a march over arch-rival DMK which is yet to release its list of nominees. Filing of nominations would start on March 12 and end on March 19. The names of Ministers, G Baskaran, Nilofer Kafeel and S Valarmathi do not find a mention in the list. Fourteen more constituencies are yet to be finalised with seat-sharing talks pending with Tamil Maanila Congress and smaller allies. Hence, there is a possibility of some more ruling party nominees including whose name do not feature in the first and second lists getting tickets. At least 72 MLAs have been renominated and more than 44 dropped which includes former Minister and presently a legislator, Thoppu N D Venkatachalam, and Kallakurichi MLA, A Prabhu. Former Ministers and Rajya Sabha MPs, K P Munusamy and R Vaithilingam have been nominated. The AIADMK has also dropped several of its MLAs as their constituencies like Sholingur, Gummidipoondi, Modakurichi, Madurai North and Coimbatore South have gone to allies, the PMK and BJP. Tamil Nadu Assembly has 234 seats and the state would have a single-phase poll on April 6. Most heavyweights including Assembly Speaker P Dhanapal, Deputy Speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman, Ministers S P Velumani, P Thangamani, C Vijayabaskar, C Ve Shanmugam, D Jayakumar and K A Sengottaiyan have been renominated. Former ministers such as B V Ramana and TKM Chinnayya find a place in the list of candidates. The PMK is set to contest from Gingee, Mailam, Vandavasi (Reserved), Arcot, Gummidipoondi, Kancheepuram in north Tamil Nadu besides 17 other constituencies. The BJP would try its luck from 20 segments including Nagercoil, Kolachel and Vilavancode in Kanyakumari district besides the spiritual hub of Tiruvannamalai and Coimbatore South.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
10-03-2021||India||We will talk to farmers in Calcutta and urge them to defeat BJP in polls, says Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday said he will go to Kolkata this week to urge farmers to defeat the BJP in the West Bengal Assembly elections, but claimed he is not supporting any political party. Farmers are distressed, and election will be discussed with them, Tikait said, adding that he is not going to West Bengal to seek votes. "I will go to Kolkata on March 13. The clarion call for a decisive struggle will come from Kolkata. We will talk to farmers there and urge them to defeat the BJP," the BKU leader said. He was in Ballia to address a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat'. Replying to a query if he would meet West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Tikait said there was no such programme. The farmer leader said a call has already been made to defeat the BJP in the five Assembly elections scheduled to begin from March 27, but asserted that he would not support any political party. Besides West Bengal, Assembly elections are going to be held in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Counting of votes will take place on May 2. Tikait said the farmers' movement would continue and that he is ready to negotiate with the central government. "If the Indian government talks, we will talk," he added. Replying to a question, the farmer leader said he had no intention to contest elections. Addressing another farmers' gathering in Rasda, Tikait said a long fight will be fought and success will be achieved. Earlier, at a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Sikandarpur, about 32 km from the district headquarters earlier, the farmer leader launched a scathing attack on the Narendra Modi government. Without taking any names, he said "robbers" have to be driven out of Delhi. In an apparent reference to the prime minister, he said, "He will prove to be the last emperor." Taking potshots at the ruling BJP, Tikait said he too belonged to Ayodhya and he is also a descendant of Lord Rama. He stressed that there is no need to divide the farmers' movement on regional lines. Stating that political parties too have now started organising Kisan Panchayats, Tikait said 2021 would be the year of the movement. The echo of the farmers' movement in India is being heard across the world, he added. Giving a call to intensify the farmers' struggle, which he said is a symbol of their self-respect, Tikait warned that if the farmers are defeated, labourers and youth will also be defeated. Stressing that the fight has to be organised with full force, he asked the farmers to mend their tractor and trolleys and be prepared. He said the call to leave for Delhi could be given any day. He also called for giving a boost to the movement in neighbouring Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
10-03-2021||India||Zomato staff assaults woman in Bengaluru for complaining against late delivery||A Zomato delivery personnel was arrested here on Wednesday for allegedly assaulting a city-based model and makeup artist for complaining against him over late delivery of food, police said. The man was arrested shortly after Hitesha Chandranee took to Twitter to air her woes and tagged the city police, who asked her to provide the area details to assist her further. The model said she lodged a complaint with the Zomato customer care asking them to either deliver food free of cost or cancel the order after it was delayed on Tuesday. "So guys, my Zomato order was late and I was talking to the customer care executive and meanwhile the delivery person just did this," said Chandranee, crying and showing her bleeding nose in a selfie video, which was aired by some TV channels. Zomato reacted to her Twitter post, saying, "We can assure you this is not the experience our delivery universe stands for. Our local representative shall be in touch with you shortly to help you with the police investigation along with assistance on the medical care required." Stating that they were sorry for the incident, the food delivery company tweeted: "Rest assured we'll take necessary actions to prevent such incidents from happening in the future."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
10-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand: Tirath Singh Rawat was denied BJP ticket in 2017||Tirath Singh Rawat was denied the BJP ticket to contest the Uttarakhand assembly polls in 2017. Four years later, the party has picked him for the top job in the state. Replacing Trivendra Singh Rawat ahead of next year's assembly polls, the new CM, sworn in Wednesday, has the reputation of being a simple and down-to-earth leader. Though a first-time MP, Rawat has held key organisational positions with the party, both in the state and at the Centre. He was the state's first education minister, a part of the interim government when Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh. He went on to become the state BJP president from 2013 to 2015 and is now a national secretary. In the 2017 assembly polls, the BJP nomination for Chaubattakhal went to heavyweight Satpal Maharaj, overlooking Rawat's claim to the seat he had won in 2012. But the party made up to him. Rawat was soon made a national secretary and given the ticket to contest from Pauri Garhwal Lok Sabha constituency in the 2019 general elections. In that poll battle, he was pitted against BJP veteran and former chief minister Bhuvan Chandra Khanduri's son Manish Khanduri, who was the Congress nominee. The senior Khanduri appeared to maintain distance as both his son and Rawat who was considered his own prot g tried to dig into his support base. Rawat, who had described himself as the true heir to Khanduri's political legacy, won by 3,02,669 votes, one of the biggest margins in the state. Tirath Singh Rawat's wife Rashmi, a professor of psychology, vouches for his simplicity . "He is simple and unassuming despite having occupied several organisational positions, and a long political experience. These are his virtues," she told reporters after Rawat was elected leader of the state legislature party. "He is a serious man and does not speak much," she said. Rawat's principal challenge now is the assembly election next year, when his organisational experience will be put to test as the party hopes to retain power in Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||Farmers call nationwide strike on March 26||Farmer unions on Wednesday called for a Bharat bandh on March 26, when their protest at Delhi's borders against the Centre's three new farm laws completes four months. Farmer leader Buta Singh Burjgill said farmers along with trade unions will protest the hike in fuel prices and privatisation of railways on March 15. "We will observe a complete Bharat bandh on March 26, when our protest against the three farm laws completes four months. The peaceful bandh will remain effective from morning till evening," he told reporters at the Singhu border. On March 19, the farmers will observe "Mandi Bachao-Kheti Bachao" day, he said. The farmer unions have also decided to celebrate Shaheedi Diwas of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev, Burjgill added. Farmers leaders also said that copies of the new farm laws will be burnt during Holika Dahan' on March 28. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for over four months, demanding the repeal of farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||No confidence motion against Khattar govt defeated in Haryana Assembly ||The Congress' motion of no confidence against the BJP-JJP government in Haryana was defeated on Wednesday with 55 members of the assembly voting against the motion while 32 members from the opposition camp backed it. The motion was defeated following a division of votes. At the end of a marathon six-hour discussion on the motion, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta announced the 55-32 break up in the House. The 55 members who voted against the motion included 39 from the BJP, 10 of ally Jannayak Janta Party, five Independents and one from the Haryana Lokhit Party. Thirty members of Congress and two Independents, who had earlier withdrawn support, backed the motion. In the 90-member Haryana Assembly, currently having an effective strength of 88 members, the ruling BJP has 40 members, the JJP 10 and the Congress 30. Seven are Independents, five of whom are supporting the government, while one member is of the Haryana Lokhit Party, who has also extended support to the government. Earlier, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said there is no threat to the government. "You will get to know the moment you step into the assembly. We have full confidence that the opposition motion will be defeated," Mr Khattar said this morning, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala at his side.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||Tirath Singh Rawat takes oath as new Uttarakhand chief minister||Tirath Singh Rawat was sworn-in as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand on Wednesday, replacing Trivendra Singh Rawat. The oath of office was administered on Rawat by Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya at a simple ceremony held at the Raj Bhawan here in the presence of a host of dignitaries. Rawat alone was sworn-in on Wednesday, which means the members of his Cabinet will be sworn-in later. Rawat is currently the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Uttarakhand's Pauri Garhwal Lok Sabha constituency as well as a national secretary of the party. He headed the Uttarakhand BJP unit from 2013-15. Known as a simple and down-to-earth leader, Tirath Singh Rawat takes over the reign of power in Uttarakhand at a time when the BJP is preparing for the state Assembly polls due early next year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Rawat saying  he brings with him vast administrative and organisational experience. Modi expressed confidence that under Rawat's leadership, the state will continue to scale new heights of progress. Congratulating the new chief minister, Modi tweeted, "Congratulations to Shri @TIRATHSRAWAT on taking oath as the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand. He brings with him vast administrative and organisational experience. I am confident under his leadership the state will continue to scale new heights of progress."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||Kerala CPI(M) releases candidate list for Assembly polls||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and six of his cabinet colleagues have been fielded by the ruling CPI(M) for the April 6 state assembly elections, while Finance minister Thomas Issac has been denied a ticket this time. The party on Wednesday released the list of 83 of its 85 candidates including nine CPI(M) supported independents. Health Minister K K Shailaja, Labour minister T P Ramakrishnan, Power minister M M Mani,Devaswom minister Kadakkampally Surendran, Fisheries minister Mercykutty Amma and Local Self Government minister A C Moideen are trying their luck once again. Vijayan will contest from Dharmadam constituency in Kannur district. However, five ministers have been denied seats-- T M Thomas Isaac, E P Jayarajan, R Ravindranath, G Sudhakaran and A K Balan as the party decided not to provide seats to those who had been elected twice. M V Govindan Master, K Radhakrishan, P Rajeev and K N Balagopal are the state secretariat members who are contesting. There are 12 women candidates in the list. Candidates for Manjeshwaram and Devikulam constituencies would be announced later, Acting state secretary, A Vijayaraghavan, told reporters here. The party's aim was not to deny tickets to anyone, but to give an opportunity to new candidates, he said. The CPI(M) led LDF is eyeing a second consecutive term this time. In the 2016 polls, the LDF had won 91 seats in the 140- member assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||Kerala Congress leader PC Chacko quits party alleging ‘groupism’||In a blow to the Congress in poll bound Kerala, Senior leader P C Chacko on Wednesday announced his resignation from the party, alleging group interest in deciding party candidates for the assembly elections. Addressing a press conference, Chacko said he will send his resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. He alleged that the party's candidates for April 6 Assembly polls in Kerala were being determined in an undemocratic way by two groups --"A" group headed by Oommen Chandy and "I" group headed by Ramesh Chennithala. "There is no democracy left in Congress. The list of candidates has not been discussed with the state Congress committee. There are no panels for any discussions on polls, winnability of candidates. There have always been factions in parities, even in the Congress, but there is no point anymore. I have submitted my resignation to Sonia Gandhi," Chacko said during the press conference, as quoted by NDTV. The two groups have been active in the state unit of Congress since the period of veteran leader and late K Karunkaran and senior leader AK Antony. While the A group was then headed by Antony, the I group was led by Karunakaran. Chacko was one of the members known to be loyal to the Gandhi family. He had called out the “G-23” leaders or the dissenters in the party who had written a letter to Sonia Gandhi last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||Delhi HC stays ED summons to Mehbooba Mufti||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday gave an interim stay on summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate to former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, her daughter said. The matter came up for hearing before a division bench of Justices Siddarth Mridul and Hairam Bhambhani. The matter was posted for March 18 with a direction to the ED not to press for her personal appearance on March 15. The PDP leader had challenged the validity of the summons issued by the ED for appearing before it on March 15 without specifying the case for which she was being investigated. She asked the court to quash the summons, her daughter Iltija Mufti said. The summons were issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act but the case under which she was asked to appear was missing from the notice. Mehbooba, 60, who was released last year after more than a year in detention following the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, was served notice to appear at the ED headquarters in the national capital. Though the ED did not specify the case in which she was summoned, officials indicated it could be linked to alleged financial irregularities in loans taken in the past from Jammu and Kashmir Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||No confidence motion against Khattar govt taken up in Haryana Assembly||The motion of no confidence against the BJP-JJP government, brought by the main opposition Congress, was on Wednesday taken up in the Haryana Assembly, with Speaker Gian Chand Gupta reserving two-hour discussion on it. After the end of the Question hour, the Speaker admitted the notice of no-confidence motion against the Council of Ministers. "I have received no-confidence motion from the Leader of Opposition (Bhupinder Singh Hooda) and 27 other Congress MLAs," the Speaker said. The notice was admitted by the Speaker and two hours were kept for discussion. Hooda expressed want of confidence in the Haryana Ministry headed by Chief Minister M L Khattar. In the 90-member Haryana Assembly, currently having an effective strength of 88 members, the ruling BJP has 40 members, the JJP 10 and the Congress 30. Seven are Independents, five of whom are supporting the government, while one member is of the Haryana Lokhit Party, who has also extended support to the government. Talking to reporters after the day's proceedings in the state assembly ended on Friday, Hooda had said, "The no-confidence motion will let people know which MLA stands with the government and which MLA stands with farmers." He had said the party needed to move a no-confidence motion because the BJP-JJP government has "lost public confidence" and the coalition government, "betraying public opinion, is taking anti-people decisions one after the other".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||Tirath Singh Rawat to be new Uttarakhand chief minister||Pauri Garhwal MP Tirath Singh Rawat was chosen the leader of the Uttarakhand BJP legislature party on Wednesday, paving the way for his appointment as the new chief minister of the state. His name was announced by outgoing chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat after the legislature party meeting, which lasted for around 30 minutes. Tirath Singh Rawat will be sworn-in as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand in the evening, official sources said. They said preparations have begun at the Raj Bhawan here for the swearing-in ceremony. Earlier, accompanied by party MLAs and MPs, Tirath Singh Rawat met Governor Baby Rani Maurya at the Raj Bhawan to stake his claim for forming the government. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has 56 MLAs in the 70-member Uttarakhand Assembly. Tirath Singh Rawat was the state BJP president from 2013-15 and is currently the party's national secretary. He was also an MLA from the Chaubattakhal constituency from 2012-17. His choice as the new chief minister by the BJP comes as a surprise as he was not among the favourites. After being congratulated by the outgoing chief minister and BJP's central observer and national vice-president Raman Singh, Tirath Singh Rawat thanked the top leadership of the saffron party for giving him the new responsibility. "I have been a humble party worker. I had never imagined that I will be a given an opportunity like this by the party. I hope that with everyone's cooperation and blessings, I will do justice to my new role," he said. Though he has held important organisational positions both in the state and at the Centre, Tirath Singh Rawat is a first-time MP. He defeated his political mentor and BJP veteran Bhuvan Chandra Khanduri's son Manish Khanduri of the Congress by over three lakh votes to win from the Pauri Garhwal seat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh, whose report to the central leadership of the party set in motion the process of leadership change in the hill state, said, "With the kind of challenges facing Uttarakhand, it has got a good leader." Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal "Nishank", who was also being considered a contender for the post, said Tirath Singh Rawat was a good choice. "Tirath Singh Rawat is indeed a good choice. Now the BJP is sure to win the 2022 Assembly polls in Uttarakhand," he told reporters after coming out of the state party office here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||India logs almost 18,000 fresh Covid cases, 133 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,12,62,707 with 17,921 fresh cases being reported in a day, while the recoveries surpassed 1.09 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,58,063 with 133 new fatalities, according to the ministry data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases reduced to 1,84,598 which now comprises 1.64 per cent of the infection count. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,09,20,046, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.96 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.40 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 22,34,79,877 samples have been tested up to March 9 for the viral disease, including 7,63,081 on Tuesday. The 133 new fatalities include 56 from Maharashtra, 20 from Punjab and 16 from Kerala. A total of 1,58,063 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,556 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,525 from Tamil Nadu, 12,373 from Karnataka, 10,928 from Delhi, 10,281 from Bengal, 8,740 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,176 from Andhra Pradesh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths were caused due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||India hopes to double Covid vaccination centres||India hopes to double its Covid-19 vaccination centres to over 50,000 within weeks and complete inoculation of the estimated 300 million people from priority population groups by September, but this plan will hinge on synchronised public acceptance and vaccine supply, experts said. A senior adviser to the government’s vaccination drive said India has the capacity and the experience largely through childhood immunisation programmes to dramatically scale up the campaign to more than 50,000 vaccination centres from an estimated 20,000 active at present. Experts believe India would need to quickly scale up the campaign to overcome its sluggish start that they say is due to both, the vaccine hesitancy among sections of recipients and a cautionary “start-slow” approach by the government. The Union health ministry said more than 24 million vaccine doses had been given till 7pm on Tuesday since the campaign’s start on January 16. The 24 million doses, however, make up a little more than half the 41 million doses the Centre had procured from vaccine makers by early February — the health ministry had told the Parliament on February 12 that it had procured 41 million doses. “There is no shortage of vaccines, but we have to synchronise the process of adding immunisation centres with public acceptance of the vaccines,” said Narendra Arora, a member a Covid-19 expert group set up by the Indian Council of Medical Research who is advising the government on the vaccination campaign. “Otherwise, there may be vaccine wastage,” he said. Arora said the campaign could be expanded to over 50,000 centres by April. Under the health ministry’s operational guidelines, each immunisation centre is expected to typically offer 100 vaccinations per day. “We have the capacity to increase to five million per day — but we’re doing an adult mass immunisation programme for the first time. We want to go slow and learn as we move along,” Arora said, adding that India has significant experience in conducting large-scale childhood immunisation programmes. Till Monday evening, over 7 million of an estimated 10 million healthcare workers and 6.7 million of an estimated 20 million frontline workers had received their first doses of the vaccine, while 3.7 million healthcare workers and 3.1 million frontline workers have received both vaccine doses. Two doses are required for protection. “There will be a need for close monitoring for compliance with the second dose,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi.  “The trend so far suggests compliance to the second dose has been somewhat suboptimal. The health system is dependent on self-initiated demand for vaccines. People need to come forward,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat resigns||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned on Tuesday, a day after he was summoned by the party high command over resentment in the ranks against his leadership.
The swift move pushed by the central leadership was seen as a corrective measure ahead of polls early next year. First-time MLA Dhan Singh Rawat, a minister in the state government, is most likely to replace Trivendra, sources said. The formality of electing a leader of the central leadership’s choice will be completed on Wednesday at a legislature party meeting in Dehradun. A deputy chief minister is also likely to be named, sources said. The name of Pushkar Singh Dhami, a second time MLA from the Kumaon region, is said to be the frontrunner. After tendering his resignation to the governor, the outgoing chief minister said it was a “unanimous decision” of the party’s central leadership that he should step down. Asked the reason, he said: “Aapko Dilli jana padega (You have to go to Delhi)”, refusing to talk about the opposition to his leadership by a section of party MLAs. The change has come a year before the state is scheduled to go to polls. Party insiders said the decision to bring a new chief minister was taken based on a report by party observers, who were sent after reports of resentment among a large section of MLAs, accusing Trivendra of “incompetence” and terming him an “uninspiring” face. Party sources said an internal survey had also shown that it would be very difficult for the BJP to return to power under Trivendra’s leadership. In the 70-member Assembly, the BJP has a majority with 56 MLAs and there was no threat to the government. Some party leaders, however, indicated something more serious, hinting at corruption charges against the chief minister. The current leadership of the BJP is not known to change chief ministers under pressure from MLAs and so the move raised eyebrows in sections of the party. Barring Congress stalwart  N.D. Tiwari, no chief minister has completed the full five-year term in the hill state that came into existence in 2000, bifurcated from Uttar Pradesh. The BJP and the Congress are the principal parties in the state. “I am thankful to the party for having given me this opportunity to serve the people,” Trivendra said, adding that he would have completed four years as chief minister in just nine days. He said he hailed from a small village and a humble family and never thought he would become a chief minister. Like Trivendra, his likely successor Dhan Singh Rawat also has deep RSS roots and belong to the same Thakur caste. Dhan Singh, however, is much younger. He is 45 whereas Trivendra is 60. Party leaders said it was also a move to build a young leadership in the state. Likely deputy chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami too is below 50 years. Party insiders said it was Trivendra who had suggested the name of Dhan Singh to the central leadership as his successor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Vote will help identify who is with us: Farmers  ||Farmers have urged Haryana MLAs to support their cause by voting against the Manohar Lal Khattar government during Wednesday’s no-confidence motion in the Assembly. Given the way the numbers are stacked, the farmers are not particularly optimistic but went through with the appeal, issued by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, to force the MLAs to stand up and be counted. “This vote will help us identify who is truly standing with the farmers. We will give a boycott call for all those legislators who do not vote for the motion moved by the Opposition,” said a farmer leader. Since all parties have issued whips for the vote and defiance can lead to disqualification, farmers are promising legislators that MLAs who bite the bullet would get their full support, which would be enough to be elected back as Independents. Issuing an appeal to all MLAs through a video message, Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) urged them not to side with the BJP-JJP government during the vote. Gurnam Singh Chaduni of the BKU (Chaduni) said in his appeal that this was the only time farmers and workers were seeking the vote of MLAs. “If they do not vote for the motion, then they are effectively voting for corporates. Such MLAs should not come to us seeking votes the next time. Go to your corporate friends. We will boycott them and chase them away from our areas,” Chaduni said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Farm law no-trust heat on Haryana MLAs||A no-trust motion against the Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana on Wednesday provides the Congress an opportunity to confront Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s claim of good governance ahead of Assembly elections in five states at a time the BJP has been forced to remove its Uttarakhand chief minister over corruption charges. Although the Congress, which has moved the no-confidence motion in Haryana, doesn’t expect the government to fall as Dushyant Chautala’s Jannnayak Janata Party has decided to continue to support the BJP, the Opposition hopes that the social pressure on the ruling combine’s MLAs will multiply after they defied the farmers’ pressure on them to pull down the Khattar government. The Congress has used the no-confidence motion more as an instrument to align with the sentiments of the farmers, who want the Centre’s new farm laws repealed, than to overthrow the Haryana government. Farmers gheraoed the houses of all MLAs from the JJP and the BJP on Tuesday, petitioning them to vote in favour of the no-trust motion. The farmers joining the protest at Delhi’s borders are angry with Haryana chief minister Khattar who had used brute force to stop them — dug up roads and used water cannons — and tried to malign them by linking them to Khalistanis and anti-India forces. Farmers are going to election-bound states to let people know how the BJP has behaved with them. Bharatiya Kisan Union faction chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni has described the no-confidence motion against the Khattar government as crucial and issued a video appeal saying: “Residents of the state should protest in front of the residences of legislators, who have been supporting the state government. They should warn the leaders that they would face social and political boycott if they continued to support the laws.” In the 90-member Haryana Assembly, the BJP has 40 MLAs, the JJP 10 and the Congress 30. Seven are Independents and there are two vacancies. While some MLAs had publicly expressed unease over the handling of the farmers’ agitation, the powerful Jats turned against the BJP, putting leaders from the community in a fix. But the no-confidence motion will determine the stance of every MLA, no matter what rhetoric they have been using to defend themselves. If some MLAs defy the party line during the no-confidence vote, the BJP will suffer embarrassment before the critical elections in five states. The removal of Trivendra Singh Rawat as the chief minister of Uttarakhand is no less a humiliation as the decision had to be taken under compulsion a day ahead of the hearing in the Supreme Court in a case of bribery that had forced Nainital High Court to order a CBI enquiry. The Congress grabbed the opportunity to highlight the corruption angle, with state in-charge Devendra Yadav saying: “The BJP’s Operation Cover-up cannot divert the people’s attention from four years of corruption and failures.” Apart from dwelling on gross mismanagement during the Covid-induced lockdown and the alarming unemployment figures leading to an exodus from every village across the hill state, the Congress said: “There are so many scams, including instances of personal corruption by the chief minister. His removal is an admission of guilt by the central leadership of the BJP. But change of chief minister is not the answer, the entire government should resign and fresh elections should be ordered.” Prime Minister Modi has been attacking chief ministers of Opposition parties on corruption and perceived poor performance and has promised to create a “Sonar Bangla”, ignoring the questionable law-and-order situation in BJP-ruled states. The Uttarakhand case has come like a bolt from the blue at a time when the Prime Minister is flaunting his good governance plank. Rawat had been made chief minister despite indictment by a judicial commission in another corruption case. That case, known as the Dhencha seeds scam, was about the purchase of seeds from Jharkhand and Bihar from non-existent firms when Rawat was agriculture minister in the previous BJP government. Fake truck numbers and names of firms for transportation and purchase had been furnished. The case was similar to the fodder scam in which former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad is in jail, a matter the BJP never fails to highlight. The Justice Tripathi Commission had indicted Rawat and recommended the filing of an FIR. While the Congress government, then led by Harish Rawat, did not progress on the recommendations, the BJP leadership picked Trivendra Singh Rawat as chief minister despite the indictment. Later, Trivendra Singh Rawat presided over a cabinet meeting that formally rejected the recommendations of the Justice Tripathi Commission and legitimised his continuance as chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||India displeased with UK debate on new farm laws||India on Tuesday summoned the British high commissioner to convey its displeasure about the debate on agricultural reforms by MPs in Westminster on Monday, billing the discussion as an interference in the politics of another country. What got the goat of the Narendra Modi government whose leader had no qualms about addressing campaign-style rallies in Texas and at the Wembley in the UK? From the complex where the Mother of Parliaments is located, a lesson was delivered in healthy bilateral relations in a democracy, dissent and debate — the practice of which can draw sedition charges in contemporary India. The context was the farmers’ movement in India, which is refusing to go away in spite of a collective exercise in amnesia by the Modi government and large sections of the media. Nigel Adams, minister of state for Asia, sought to assure the MPs that the importance of the bilateral relationship will not stop the British government from “raising difficult issues”. “Candid discussions are an important part of our mature and wide-ranging relationship with the Indian government,” he said, responding to Labour MP John McDonnell’s argument that trade deals or crucial business with India or any nation should not come before standing up for human rights globally. “Now is not the time for the British government to look the other way,” the MP had said. Adams, the Conservative MP for Selby and Ainsty, revealed British diplomats in India are reporting back to the foreign office in London. Adams said: “I will begin by saying that the officials in our network of high commissions in India have monitored and reported back on the protests in response to the agricultural reform laws ever since they first flared up in September,” he said. He acknowledged that “agricultural policy is a domestic matter for the Indian government” but added: “The UK government firmly believes, however, that freedom of speech, Internet freedom… and the right to peaceful protest, are vital to any democracy. “Let me be clear that this government believes that an independent media is essential to any robust democracy.” Referring to Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s forthcoming visit to India, he said: “This will be an opportunity to discuss a range of bilateral issues with India. Where we have serious and specific concerns, we will raise them directly with the Indian government, as would be expected of a friend and neighbour.” Adams added: “The Opposition spokesman also raised the issue of Amnesty International in India…. We have requested that Amnesty’s accounts be unfrozen while the investigation is ongoing, and in our contacts with the government of India we have noted the important role in a democracy of organisations such as Amnesty.” The UK debate took place because a petition organised by a local councillor, Gurch Singh, drew 115,000 signatures. It was held not in the Commons but in Portcullis House, a building on the other side of Westminster Bridge from the Palace of Westminster. British parliamentarians, cutting across party lines, expressed concern about the democratic backsliding in India, which was time and again acknowledged as the world’s largest democracy. Although the Labour party had the maximum number of MPs participating in the discussion — 10 out of 18 — representatives of the Scottish National Party, the ruling Conservative, Liberal-Democrat and Labour-Cooperative were one in expressing concern about the shrinking space for democracy in India. Only one MP — a Conservative — spoke up for the Modi government. The parliamentarians did not dispute the Indian government’s right to enact the farm laws. The concern was essentially about the manner in which India has handled the farmers’ protests. Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, the Labour MP for Slough and a Sikh, said: “Some supporters of the governing party in India have said that this is an internal matter — ‘Foreigners, keep your nose out of it’. I can tell them why everyone is so concerned. It is because human rights are universal, and a world in which they are upheld in all of our interests. “The millions of protesters are from across India and different faiths, yet because a significant number of them are Sikhs, they have been singled out and branded separatists and terrorists by unscrupulous elements of the mainstream Indian media. “It is part of a pattern where Muslim Indians are labelled as Pakistanis, Christians as being under foreign influence, and Sikhs as Khalistani separatists — but we see you, and so does the world. “Let me let members into a little secret about the Sikhs: they are taught to feed millions of those in need for free, year in and year out, regardless of background, colour or creed. They are brought up to stand up for the rights of others, so we can bet our bottom dollar that they will go to the nth degree to stand up for their own rights. “While I am at it, let me debunk another myth used to silence anyone in Britain who offers anything but praise: that they must apparently have a colonial hang-up. To those people, I say that while we spend most of our time discussing national issues, the beauty of being a British parliamentarian in the Mother of Parliaments is that almost every day we conduct debates about what is happening around the world.” Only one MP — Theresa Villiers, Tory member for Chipping Barnet — spoke up for Modi: “Reform of farm subsidy and support has been under active and intensive discussion in India for 20 years, and international bodies such as the International Monetary Fund have welcomed Prime Minister Modi’s attempt to take action on this challenge, which many of his predecessors have backed away from. “India is a country where respect for the rule of law and human rights is constitutionally protected and embedded in society. “The authorities’ approach to the protests should not shake our faith in that central truth. Rather than denigrating India with unjustified criticism, we should celebrate it as the democratic success story that it is.” Villiers’s party colleague Paul Bristow, however, said the Indian government had crossed a line in its response to the farmers’ protests; they “break accepted norms”. “India should conduct itself like a democracy and uphold its own Constitution,” he said, adding: “Upholding the law should never be allowed to slide into authoritarian oppression.” Bristow added: “The Indian government blocked the use of the Internet on mobile phones and arrested journalists, and now we read the reports of new legislation to force social media platforms to censor posts and break into encrypted messages. These are illiberal measures. The strength of feeling of protesters does not make them (the harsh measures) acceptable, and the excuse of national security does not make them any less authoritarian. My constituents with family connections to India are right to be worried.” Among those who intervened in the discussion was former Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn who said the nature in which the protesters have been dealt with in Delhi was “unprecedented”. Corbyn, who now sits as an Independent, said: “For all those hundreds of thousands of protesters in Delhi, many more have joined in, and when a national call was made for a strike, 250 million people took part in it — the biggest ever industrial dispute in the history of this planet — so we should think about why those people are protesting.” One Pakistani-origin MP, Tahir Ali, the Labour member for Birmingham Hall Green, went so far to say: “I am calling on the UK government to consider the imposition of sanctions — diplomatic and otherwise — on Prime Minister Modi and his government.” This demand was rejected by minister Adams who replied: “This sanctions regime, which we launched in July, enables the UK to impose sanctions on those who commit serious human rights violations or abuses. It is not appropriate to speculate on who may be designated under the regime in future, as to do so could very well reduce their impact.” Another MP with roots in Pakistan, Khalid Mahmood, member for Birmingham, Perry Barr, said that when the farmers “have sought a peaceful change to the legislation, the Indian government has abused them and delivered lathi charges — charges by the police with batons of wood. They hit elderly people and women.” A third Pakistani-origin MP, Naz Shah of Labour, said: “The truth is that we should not need someone such as Rihanna to speak up on such issues as the farmers’ protests in India is for the world to take notice, but that in some ways explains how the world now works. The powerful are heard with a single tweet, while the average person’s voice is often ignored. That is one of the central arguments that the Indian farmers are making.” According to the external affairs ministry, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla summoned UK high commissioner Alexander Ellis and conveyed India’s “strong opposition to the unwarranted and tendentious discussion on agricultural reforms in India in the British Parliament”. India said it “represented a gross interference in the politics of another democratic country”; adding that “British MPs should refrain from practising vote-bank politics by misrepresenting events, especially in relation to another fellow democracy”. The Indian high commission in London has described the debate as “distinctly one-sided”. In a statement released after the 90-minute discussion that was wrapped up close to midnight in India, the high commission said it had been “taking care to inform all concerned about the issues raised in the petition”. “We deeply regret that rather than a balanced debate, false assertions — without substantiation or facts — were made, casting aspersions on the largest functioning democracy and its institutions,” the high commission said about the discussion, which it described as “involving a small group of H’ble parliamentarians in a limited quorum”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Information “not available” on Shah’s claim of bomb factories in Bengal:  Union home ministry||If Amit Shah has inside information on bomb-making factories in Bengal, his home ministry does not appear to have been brought up to speed. The Union home minister had said in an interview to a news channel last October that “bomb-making factories are present in every district of West Bengal”. But the Union home ministry has replied to an RTI query that information on Shah’s claim “is not available” with it, according to transparency activist Saket Gokhale. In fact, the Union home ministry has advised Gokhale to approach Bengal police to obtain the “factual information”. “The information asked by you vide point number 1 to 3 is not available with the offices of which the undersigned is the CPIO (central public information officer)…,” says the March 3 reply attributed to the home ministry, which has been uploaded by Gokhale on Twitter. Email and text messages sent by this newspaper to the home ministry for corroboration and comment did not elicit any response till late on Tuesday night. Shah had in the TV interview claimed that law and order had “gone for a toss in” in Bengal. “There are bomb-making factories in every district of Bengal,” he had said while speaking on the poll-bound state. Gokhale had filed a four-point RTI application on October 18, asking for “(1) A list of bomb-making factories district-wise in Bengal as referred to by Amit Shah (2) Whether MHA had briefed Shah about this (3) Whether Shah’s remarks were based on official inputs/records by agencies and the ministry.” According to the reply attributed to the Union home ministry and bearing the sign of Praveen Kumar Rai, director (CT)&CPIO, “it is further informed that ‘police’ and ‘public order’ are State subjects as Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India and State Police is the first responder in case of any criminal/terrorist activity. Therefore, you may obtain the factual information from CPIOs of State Police….” Gokhale said the ministry was silent on his fourth query — whether a list of the purported bomb factories in every district of Bengal, as mentioned by the Union home minister, had been shared with the Bengal government or Bengal police. “They haven’t done that. Why? Because no such factories exist,” he tweeted. “It is SHOCKING that the Union Home Minister of India would openly perpetrate fake news about internal security matters just to malign & insult the state of West Bengal for electoral gains. How can the Home Minister be trusted when he lies openly on record about things?” Gokhale tweeted. “This blatant lying also happens because mainstream interviewers & reporters NEVER ask the ruling party to provide sources or facts to back their claims. They never challenge their falsehood. And this is why they manage to push such lies with impunity,” he said. Gokhale said it was not easy obtaining information on Shah’s claim. “Getting this info wasn’t easy. MHA stalled giving a response since October. Even 1st appeal wasn’t responded to. An MHA official called me & said ‘we’ve been told not to reply on this’. Finally got the response after issuing a legal notice last week,” the activist claimed on Twitter. Last year Shah’s home ministry had in reply to an RTI query filed by Gokhale admitted that the “Ministry of Home Affairs has no information concerning tukde-tukde gang”. The derogatory term is used liberally by BJP politicians and sections of the media to refer to the critics of the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Delhi High Court to fliers: Wear masks right ||Delhi High Court has taken note of air passengers not wearing masks properly and issued guidelines to all domestic airlines and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation for strict compliance. Justice C. Hari Shankar saw passengers not wearing masks properly on a flight and took suo motu cognisance. The guidelines say masks should be worn covering the nose and mouth. If any passenger refuses to comply before take-off, they should be offloaded. Passengers refusing to comply in air should have action taken against them, which could include placing them on a “no-fly” regimen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Antilia case: Wife suspects police inspector's role ||Vimla Hiren, wife of Mansukh Hiren who was found dead days after a vehicle that had been in his possession was seized from near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence with explosives inside, has told the anti-terrorism squad that she suspects assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze’s role in the death. Mansukh, who had a vehicle spare parts business, had said the Scorpio had been stolen a week before it was found near the Ambani residence on February 25. He was found dead in a creek on March 5. Vimla in her statement on March 7 said the Scorpio, owned by Peter Newton, was in the possession of the Hiren family for the past three years with Newton’s consent. Her husband knew Vaze who was a regular client, she said. In November 2020, he had given the Scorpio to Vaze to use, Vimla said, adding that the police officer returned it on February 5, 2021. Vimla said on March 3, Mansukh told her Vaze had asked him to get arrested in the case and assured help to get him out on bail within 2-3 days. She advised him against this and he seemed tense. On March 4, her husband said he was going to consult the police who were their well-wishers. After 11pm his phone became unreachable. His brother Vinod called Vaze who advised him to wait till morning, she said. The next day Mansukh’s body was found in the creek.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Delhi High Court takes up digital news media rules||Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought the Centre’s response on a plea challenging the new rules regulating digital news media, responding to an appeal that dubbed them palpably illegal in seeking to control online platforms. A bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notices to the ministry of electronics and information technology and the ministry of information and technology, and granted them time to file their response. The high court was hearing a petition filed by the Foundation for Independent Journalism that said the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, issued by the government on February 25 were palpably illegal in seeking to control and regulate digital news media when the parent IT Act nowhere provides for such a remit. 
The plea said the new IT rules had profound and serious harms for digital news media outlets like the petitioner and destructive of their rights. It sought to declare the “IT rules as void and inoperative insofar as these define and apply to publishers of news and current affairs content”. Besides the Foundation for Independent Journalism, the other two petitioners are its director and founding editor of The Wire news portal, Mangalam Kesavan Venu, and founder and editor-in-chief of The News Minute, Dhanya Rajendran. The petitioners urged the high court to grant them interim protection so that no coercive steps are taken against digital news media outlets by the authorities till the next date of hearing on April 16. The bench said the petitioners may move the court with an application if any coercive action is taken. Advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, representing the petitioners, contended that regulation of news content is not within the Information Technology (IT) Act’s purpose and added that she was not at all saying that news media was beyond regulation. “The new rules go far beyond anything that is permissible in a democracy,” she argued. The petition has challenged the new rules as being ultra vires the IT Act, as they set up a classification of “publishers of news and current affairs content” as part of “digital media”, and seek to regulate news portals by imposing government oversight and a “code of ethics” that stipulates such vague conditions as “good taste” and “decency”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Satellite image aid to douse Similipal fire||The Odisha government has sought the help of National Remote Sensing Centre, Hyderabad, for providing it satellite images of the fire raging in the forests of Similipal, the second largest biosphere of Asia and other major forests of the state. The core area of Similipal biosphere includes a tiger reserve in Mayurbhanj district and its periphery areas touch two other districts — Balasore and Keonjhar. Newly appointed head of the task force for controlling forest fires, Dr Sandeep Tripathi, former Principal chief conservator of forests and head of forest force, told The Telegraph on Tuesday, “We are getting NRSC help and they are sharing images of the fire inside the forest area. Through satellite images, we will be able to know the extent of the damage and the new fires starting at new places. Accordingly, we will chalk out plans to control the fire. Two days ago, they shared the images of 400 hectares of forest burning inside Similipal.” The state government has included head of forest and ecology, NRSC, Hyderabad, as members of the task force constituted on Monday to offer suggestions for improvement of standard operating procedure (SoP) for fire prevention and management to curb such occurrences. “We are also taking the help of Forest Survey of India (FSI), Dehradun and Indian Council of Forest Research and Education, Dehradun to tackle the growing forest fire incident. “The DG FSI and representative of Director General, ICFRE have been included in the task force. They will process the data from the satellite and inform about the extent of loss compared to last year. Then we will sit and formulate strategies to contain the spread of fire,” Tripathi said. “Basing on the satellite images, we are everyday re-deploying and mobilising the personnel in the Similipal forest area to douse the fire. But the intense heat wave has piled upon the misery of people as it helps spread of fire,” said a senior official. The fire in Similipal forest is yet to be doused despite 1,000 forest and fire brigade personnel being put on the task. Meanwhile, the state government has also cancelled leaves of all forest personnel under Baripada Forest Division (Baripada is the headquarters of Mayurbhanj district) for indefinite period. Assistant fire officer Prakash Kumar Jena, Baripada told this newspaper: “The number of fire calls from the periphery of Similipal has come down to 100. Besides, forest officials and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), fire brigade officials are also on the job to douse the fire.” Forest fires have also been reported from areas in Sambalpur, Sundergarh, Kendrapara and Koraput districts. Official sources said the forest fires have been reported at 918 places across the state. Though animals, particularly deer have started moving towards villages, Tripathi maintained that not a single animal casualty has been reported so far. Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (PCCF incharge) Jitendra Kumar told the reporters, “Forest fire is nothing new. But as the temperature in February was relatively high compare to other years, there were fire incidents reported from different parts of the state. “There has been no rain so far. Once it takes place, it will make a big change.” The state level task force headed by Tripathi has been asked to make a review of ongoing forest fire incidents, causes and immediate containment, suggest measure for augmentation of existing fire management protocols, including Geomatics based fire alert system, recommend suggestions for improved community participation in fire management and prevention, to conduct post assessment of forest fire affected area, loss to wildlife, biodiversity and suggest measures for augmentation. In another development, Sambalpur forest division announced a cash reward of Rs 5000 for sharing information about people burning dry leaves leading to loss of wild life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Fuel price hike row halts House again||The Opposition on Tuesday stalled Parliament proceedings for the second day in a row to protest against rising fuel prices, demanding an immediate discussion. Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha witnessed loud protests, forcing repeated adjournments as the presiding officers refused the Opposition’s demand to suspend the scheduled House businesses of the day and discuss fuel prices first. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla conducted Question Hour for sometime in the din but gave up and adjourned the House as the Opposition, mostly Congress members, raised anti-government slogans and demanded reduction in fuel prices. As the Lok Sabha assembled for the day at 11am, Congress House leader Adhir Chowdhury complained to the Speaker about “digital discrimination”, claiming Lok Sabha TV cameras don’t show what the Opposition says. Birla objected, saying: “Do you want to show to the people of this country the uproar and placards?” Adhir replied: “We don’t wave placards.… Parliament is not only for the government.” Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi intervened and asked whether the Opposition wanted the ruckus it created to be shown on TV. After taking up a couple of questions related to the agriculture and fisheries sector, Birla adjourned the House till noon. Post-noon the Lok Sabha was adjourned till 2pm and then for the day as the Opposition refused to call off their protest. Similar scenes were witnessed in the upper House too. Four notices were given on Tuesday for suspension of business to discuss the fuel price hike. Deputy chairman Harivansh said the chairman had already ruled on the issue a day earlier and the decision could not be revisited. The House was adjourned within 20 minutes of the first hour. Efforts to take up Question Hour also proved futile as the Opposition continued to demand a separate discussion on fuel prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
10-03-2021||India||Urgent plea in Supreme Court on poll bonds ||The Association for Democratic Rights (ADR) on Tuesday urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre and the Reserve Bank “not to open any further window for the sale of electoral bonds” ahead of elections in Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. According to the NGO, the BJP has received more than 60 per cent of the total electoral bonds issued till date. Bonds worth more than Rs 6,500 crore have been sold so far. Almost 99 per cent of the bonds purchased are of denominations between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 1 crore, which shows that large corporations, not individual citizens, are purchasing them, the ADR said. The ADR has moved a fresh “urgent application” before the top court, pleading that its earlier “urgent application on October 10, 2020, has not yet been listed”. “The petitioner has now filed an application for directions to the respondents not to open any further sale window for… electoral bonds and not to allow any further sale in light of the fact that the RBI and the Election Commission had both objected to the EB scheme. Furthermore, data obtained through RTI has shown that illegal sale windows have been opened in the past to benefit certain political parties,” the application jointly filed through advocates Prashant Bhushan and Nehta Rathi stated. “…There is a serious apprehension that any further sale of electoral bonds before the upcoming state elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies. Thus, the petitioner seeks that no further opening of window for the sale of EBs be allowed during the pendency of the instant writ petition,” the application added. The ADR recalled that it had as early as on September 4, 2017, filed a PIL citing alleged corruption and subversion of democracy through illicit and foreign funding of political parties. In that PIL the ADR had urged the apex court to strike down certain amendments made through the Finance Act, 2017, and the Finance Act, 2016, both passed as money bills. According to the ADR, the electoral bonds scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies, which can have serious repercussions for Indian democracy. The Finance Act of 2017 had introduced the use of electoral bonds that are exempt from disclosure under the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951. The amendment removed the cap of 7.5 per cent of net profit in the last three years on campaign donations by companies and legalised anonymous donations. The ADR pointed out that in 2017 it had placed on record the following details for the consideration of the court: ⦾ The Election Commission had through a letter dated May 26, 2017, and the RBI vide letters dated January 31, September 14 and 27, 2017, had objected to electoral bonds and advised against the issuance of such documents as a mode for donation to political parties. ⦾ The Prime Minister’s Office had ordered special and illegal sale of bonds just before Assembly polls in Karnataka in May 2018 in violation of the electoral bonds scheme. ⦾ Another special sale window for electoral bonds was opened between November 1 and 10 before the Assembly elections in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Mizoram, Rajasthan and Telangana. ⦾ As per data on electoral bonds declared by political parties in their audit reports for the financial years 2017-18 and 2018-19, the BJP had received more than 60 per cent of the total electoral bonds issued. Corporations were being allowed to make unlimited anonymous donations to the ruling party because of amendments in the Finance Acts of 2016 and 2017. Pointing out that the issue relating to electoral bonds was heard more than a year ago, the ADR cited the upcoming elections and pleaded on Tuesday: “…the instant matter requires urgent adjudication by this Hon’ble Court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
10-03-2021||India||Assembly ticket discontent in Kerala CPM||The CPM is facing resentment against the choice of candidates in Kerala Assembly seats where the Left Democratic Front is seeking a second consecutive term in office. While dissent has been brewing in many districts, matters came to a head with hundreds of CPM workers taking to the streets at Kuttiyadi in Kozhikode district and in Ponnani in neighbouring Malappuram district on Monday against the party’s decisions. New faces who are not the choice of the majority of cadres have been proposed to be fielded in many seats as several sitting MLAs are making way for others after having completed two terms and some seats have been assigned to a new entrant into the LDF — the Kerala Congress (Mani). A few local committee members even resigned in Ponnani on Tuesday, protesting the party’s decision to field P. Nandakumar instead of popular leader T.M. Siddique. While the official candidates’ list has yet to be finalised, the CPM has zeroed in on names in most of the 140 constituencies going to polls on April 6. The protest in Kuttiyadi was against the Left Democratic Front’s decision to give the seat to the Kerala Congress (Mani). CPM cadres want their party to field local leader K.P. Kunjammad Kutty. Simmering discontentment over the denial of a ticket to CPM powerhouse P. Jayarajan, whom many see as the next Pinarayi Vijayan, has led to dissent in Kannur. Sports minister E.P. Jayarajan and Kannur district secretary M.V. Jayarajan are also unlikely to be fielded this time. The omission of P. Jayarajan has caused much heartburn among his followers, one of whom quit from the Kannur sports council in protest. P. Jayarajan has, however, distanced himself from the developments. Similarly, strong resentment has come to haunt the party and the LDF in several other constituencies, either over giving the seats to KC (M) or picking candidates against the wishes of the majority view. Manjeshwar in Kasaragod bordering Dakshina Kannada district of Karnataka is one of the seats the BJP is betting on apart from Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram that it won in 2016. The BJP is considering to field its state president K. Surendran to try his luck in Manjeshwar for a second time after losing by 89 votes to the Congress-led United Democratic Front. Local CPM cadres have launched a protest against the CPM’s decision to pick K.R. Jayananda to take on the might of the BJP and the UDF in Manjeshwar. Posters have appeared in various parts of the constituency against the choice. Similar posters have been seen at Kalamassery in Ernakulam district and Alappuzha where the CPM has decided to field P. Rajeev and P.P. Chittaranjan, respectively. While the dissenters are against nominating Rajiv from anywhere, the objection in Alappuzha is about leaving out well-liked party veteran and public works minister G. Sudhakaran due to the CPM’s two-term norm. The general feeling among party cadres is that the CPM would suffer if leaders like Sudhakaran and finance minister Thomas Isaac are left out due to the two-term policy.
CPM leaders have been varying in their response to what is essentially anti-party activities in the state ahead of the crucial elections. Acting state secretary and LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan said he had only “seen the protests on TV” and added: “I cannot say anything more than that.” But CPM central committee member M.V. Govindan admitted to the dissent. “There have been issues when seats have been given to LDF partners (even in the past). That is usually sorted out at the organisational level,” he told reporters in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
