11-03-2021||India||After govt ‘admission’, desi cows no longer the gold standard||Is this the final blow for desi cows? After initially claiming that the milk from Indian cows contains “traces of gold” and is superior to the milk from foreign cows, the government now has disavowed those claims. In the chilly bureaucratese of a parliamentary answer, the government pronounced, “as per the information received from ICAR (Indian Council of Agricultural Research), there is no conclusive information available regarding the difference between the quality of milk of foreign breeds of cows and indigenous cattle.” The bad news was delivered by Sanjeev Balyan, minister of state for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying. It contradicts the extravagant claims made by the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA)which is part of Balyan’s own ministry, about the virtues and superior quality of Indian cow breeds. The RKA, which is the body established for cow welfare, had planned to hold a massive online exam last month to educate the public on the virtues of Indian cow breeds and how they were far superior to “exotic” beefier imports like the Jerseys and Holsteins. Nearly half a million people in India and around the world had registered to take part. But the exam was called off at the last moment, reportedly because of opposition within the ministry to the “unscientific” claims being touted by RKA in the syllabus for the exam. Relying on a study from Junagadh University, a blog on the RKA website asserted that experiments had “successfully identified more than 752 compounds found in cow urine having immense medicinal value.” The RKA also claimed that a host of illnesses could be cured by the milk from Indian cows, including “obesity, joint pain, asthma, mental illness”. It added that, conversely, the milk from foreign cows could trigger these illnesses. The syllabus took particular aim at the Jersey cow which it described as “lazy” and prone to disease. Indian cows, it said, followed hygienic practices being “hardy and clever enough not to sit at dirty places.” The Kamdhenu Aayog was set up in 2019 and its specific goal was the “conservation, protection and development of cows and their progeny.” However, it appeared to have interpreted its mission as being the salvation of Indian cow breeds like the Red Kandhari and the Kasaragod dwarf cow. Agricultural experts call most of the RKA’s claims far-fetched. They point out that the real problem for Indian livestock is that artificial insemination over the last four-to-five decades has created a situation where it is impossible to find pure cattle breeds. “Breed surveys show 80 per cent of cattle is unidentifiable. You have a complete mix of breeds,” says Vikas Rawal, who’s a professor at the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning at Jawaharlal Nehru University. So even if the milk from Indian cow breeds were superior to foreign ones, pure desi cows are thin on the ground. Rawal says that cross-breeding and artificial insemination have been done mainly to increase milk yields. “With an eye to increasing milk yield. Artificial insemination has helped to increase milk production. This means the identifiable cattle population has shrunk hugely,” says Rawal. Balyan’s dismissal of the virtues of Indian breeds came in response to a question from YSR Congress MP Magunta Sreenivasulu Reddy. Still, desi or not, BJP leaders are still keen to extol the cow’s virtues. On Sunday, Madhya Pradesh Culture minister Usha Thakur declared that a mix of ghee made from cow milk and added to cow dung cakes during a havan at sunrise or sunset can sanitise a home for 12 hours and prevent Covid-19. Thakur also advised adopting a Vedic lifestyle to be protected against the coronavirus. BJP leaders have drawn much attention for their ideas for combating the coronavirus. At the height of the pandemic last year, West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh advocated drinking cow urine to ward off Covid-19. In 2019 he also claimed that “desi cows have a hump on their back” and that “the hump has a ‘Swarna nari’. When sunlight falls on the hump, it produces gold.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
11-03-2021||India||Ravneet Bittu to undertake charge as leader of Congress in Lok Sabha temporarily||Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu would function as the leader of the Congress party in Lok Sabha for the remaining part of the Budget session of Parliament, sources said on Thursday. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Thursday entrusted the responsibility to Bittu, who is already the party's whip in the Lower House of Parliament. The change was made as the Congress' leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury would be busy in West Bengal assembly elections which is starting on March 27. Chowdhury is also the Congress' West Bengal unit president. Bittu, the three-time MP from Ludhiana, will discharge the role of Congress leader for the ongoing budget session of parliament. The Congress' deputy leader in Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi is also busy campaigning in poll-bound Assam. The Congress has been stalling both the houses of Parliament since the beginning of the second part of the budget session from March 8, demanding a discussion on the rise in fuel prices and on the farmer's issue and demands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
11-03-2021||India||Covaxin out of ‘clinical trial mode’ now, declares Centre||The Centre on Thursday said Bharat Biotech's indigenously developed Covaxin is out of the "clinical trial mode" and that it has now been granted the restricted emergency use authorisation. Addressing a weekly press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul said Covaxin has been granted the permission for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest and that both Covid-19 vaccines Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute have the same licensure status now. "The condition of it (Covaxin) being required to be administered under clinical trial mode is no more there," Paul said. "Both the Covid-19 vaccines Covaxin and Covishield have the same licensure status. Covaxin has stood the test of time in terms of great safety. Only 311 individuals had minimal side effects. It is the triumph for India's research and development enterprise and science and technology enterprise," he said. India's drug regulator on January 3 had granted permission for the restricted use of Covaxin in emergency situations in the public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, especially in case of infection by mutant strains. The Subject Expert Panel on Covid-19 of the CDSCO had recommended granting emergency use authorisation to Bharat Biotech's indigenously developed Covaxin while removing the condition for the vaccine to be administered in "clinical trial mode". Replying to a question whether the government has a timeline in mind for phase 3 vaccination drive and who gets included in that, Paul said, "We are now focused on the relatively large group of individuals above the age of 60 as well as those aged 45- 60 with comorbidities. We are building a momentum to cover this significantly large group." "We will see progress and moving forward, yes, further increase in the circle of those who are eligible will be considered," Paul said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
11-03-2021||India|| Health Ministry urges people to be ‘careful’ amid Covid surge||Expressing concern over the rise in active Covid-19 cases in a few states, including Maharashtra, the Centre on Thursday advised people to be "careful and watchful" and not lower guard as the pandemic is not yet over. At a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul termed the coronavirus situation, especially in Maharashtra, "worrisome". He referred to the lockdown imposed in Nagpur from March 15 to 21 to say, "We are reaching a situation where these approaches (to tackle the spread of Covid-19) are being brought back." "We are very worried about the rise in cases in Maharashtra. Don't take this virus for granted. It can come up unexpectedly. If we have to remain free of this virus, Covid-appropriate behaviour, containment strategy as well as vaccination has to be brought in," Paul said. He advised that in districts where Covid-19 cases are seemingly on the rise, vaccination of eligible individuals should be intensified and prioritised. Sounding a word of caution for Delhi and its neighbourhood, Paul said the national capital is seeing a rise in positivity rate, so is Gurgaon, Faridabad and to an extent Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad. "Be careful, be watchful. We still have a huge population at risk of this virus. This pandemic is not yet over. Be vigilant," he said. "Today, using the force of vaccination, we are in a position to give a stronger fight (to the pandemic). We plead again, do not lower your guard and please embrace the vaccines that are available," Paul added. Asked whether a mutant strain of the coronavirus is responsible for the rise in cases, ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said it has not been found incriminating in the surge in Maharashtra. "At the moment, it is just related to reduced testing, tracking and tracing as well as Covid-inappropriate behaviour and large congregations," he said. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said Nagpur, Pune, Thane, Mumbai, Bengaluru Urban, Ernakulam, Amravati, Jalgaon, Nashik and Aurangabad districts have the highest number of active Covid-19 cases. Bhushan said Kerala had 64,607 active cases of Covid-19 on February 11 which has now declined to 35,715. "We need to appreciate this," he said. In Uttar Pradesh, from 3,256 active cases on February 11 it has come down to 1,689 on March 11. In West Bengal, active cases have come down from 4,300 to 3,127, the Union health secretary said. However, in the case of Maharashtra, there were 36,917 active cases on February 11 and now it has crossed a lakh. Punjab had 2,100 cases which is now touching 9,400, Bhushan said. "We think Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana are at a tipping point. They are yet to have a surge. But looking at early signs of increase in numbers, we have had three meetings where the states have been told to increase the number of tests, surveillance, containment areas," he said. Bhushan informed the press conference that 2,56,90,545 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered till Thursday 1 pm, which includes 67,86,086 for the elderly and those aged 45-60 with comorbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
11-03-2021||India||Kangana challenges court warrant in case filed by Javed Akhtar||Actor Kangana Ranaut has approached a sessions court here challenging a bailable warrant issued by a magistrate in a defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. Ranaut's plea, filed on Wednesday, is slated to be heard on March 15, court sources said. The Andheri metropolitan magistrate's court had on March 1 issued a bailable warrant against the actor after she failed to appear before the court. The magistrate had issued summons in February, directing her to appear on March 1. Earlier, the police had submitted a report on Akhtar's complaint, saying an offence of defamation was prima facie made out against Ranaut. Akhtar has accused the actor of making false statements about him and damaging his reputation when she spoke about a 'coterie in Bollywood in the aftermath of Sushant Singh Rajput's death last June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
11-03-2021||India||Maharashtra CM hints at 'strict lockdown' in parts of state||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said strict lockdown measures will be enforced in some parts of the state to contain the spread of COVID-19. Thackeray, 60, was speaking after receiving the first dose of the vaccine against COVID-19 at the government-run J J Hospital here. Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 13,659 new coronavirus cases, the highest one-day spike this year, which took the state's caseload to 22,52,057. The state has so far reported 52,610 deaths due to the disease, as per official data. "Some areas of Maharashtra will witness strict lockdown measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus infection. The government is going to hold a special meeting with officials before coming out with the lockdown measures," Thackeray said. He said the government has been requesting people to wear mask, maintain physical distance and avoid moving out unnecessarily. Earlier in the day, minister Nitin Raut announced a "strict lockdown" in the Nagpur police commissionerate limits from March 15 to 21. Raut is the guardian minister of Nagpur. Last month, lockdown was enforced in Amravati, while certain restrictions were imposed in some other districts of the Amravati division. Meanwhile, the chief minister took the first shot of 'Covishield' vaccine at the J J Hospital here on Thursday. His wife Rashmi Thackeray and mother-in-law also received the vaccine doses. The CM was accompanied by his son and state cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
11-03-2021||India||PM's picture removed from Covid vaccine certificates in poll-bound states||The Union Health Ministry has applied filters in its Co-Win platform in poll-going states and a union territory to exclude the picture of the prime minister from the COVID-19 vaccine certificates, sources said on Thursday. In a letter to the Election Commission on March 9, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan is learnt to have said that "technical measures to comply with the directions of EC have been explored promptly." "Necessary filters" in Co-WIN have been applied for the vaccination centres situated in the four states of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Bengal and Union Territory of Puducherry, as suggested by the Commission. Following a complaint by the Trinamool Congress, the Commission had asked the health ministry to follow the model code in letter and spirit. It had suggested use of filters in the Co-Win platform to exclude the picture of the prime minister in COVID-19 certificates being given to people in the poll-bound states and the UT. Sources aware of the correspondence between the Election Commission and the ministry said the panel has not referred to any individual or personality but had asked the health ministry to follow the provisions of the model code in letter and spirit. The poll panel had suggested use of filters to comply with the provisions of the poll code. The model code had come into force in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry on February 26, the day the EC announced polls in these four states and union territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
11-03-2021||India||Crux of  'Atmanirbhar Bharat' is to create wealth, value for humanity, asserts Modi||Asserting that a self-reliant India is good for the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that at the core of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' is to create wealth and values "not only for ourselves but for the larger humanity". Speaking at the launch of the Kindle version of Swami Chidbhavananda's 'Bhagavad Gita' via video conferencing, the prime minister said 1.3 billion people of India have decided their course of action which is that they are going to make India 'Atmanirbhar' or self-reliant. "In the long term, only a self-reliant India is in everyone's interest. At the core of Atmanirbhar Bharat is to create wealth and values not only for ourselves but for the larger humanity. We believe that an Atmanirbhar Bharat is good for the world," he said. In the recent past, when the world needed medicines, India did whatever it could to provide them, he said. "Our scientists worked in a quick time to come out with vaccines. Now, India is humbled that vaccines made in India are going around the world. We want to heal as well as help humanity. This is exactly what the Bhagavad Gita teaches us," the prime minister stressed. He said when the Bhagavad Gita was born there was conflict and many feel that humanity is passing through similar conflict and challenges now, Modi said. "The world is fighting a tough battle against a once-in-a-lifetime global pandemic. The economic and social impacts are also far reaching. In such a time, the path shown in Bhagavad Gita becomes ever relevant," he asserted. It could provide strength and direction to once again emerge victorious from the challenges humanity faces, he said. "In India, we saw many instances of this. --our people-powered fight against COVID-19, the outstanding spirit of the people, the courage of citizens, one can say that behind this is a glimpse of what the Gita highlights," he said. Noting that E-books are becoming very popular specially among the youth, Modi said, therefore, this effort will connect more youngsters with the noble thoughts of the Gita. The beauty of the Gita is in its depth, diversity and flexibility, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
11-03-2021||India||India logs over 22,000 fresh Covid cases after more than two months||India recorded its highest daily tally of COVID-19 cases this year with 22,854 new infections, taking the total tally to 1,12,85,561, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The country last recorded such an increase in daily cases 76 days ago on December 25 when it registered 23,067 infections in a day. The death toll increased to 1,58,189 with 126 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total active cases have increased to 1,89,226 which now comprises 1.68 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,09,38,146 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.92 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.40 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 22,42,58,293 samples have been tested up to March 10 with 7,78,416 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 126 new fatalities include 54 from Maharashtra, 17 from Punjab and 14 from Kerala. A total of 1,58,189 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,610 from Maharashtra followed by 12,530 from Tamil Nadu, 12,379 from Karnataka, 10,931 from Delhi, 10,283 from Bengal, 8,740 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,177 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||Research organisation declares India as an ‘electoral autocracy’ ||The V-Dem Institute, an independent research organisation based in Sweden, has declared India an “electoral autocracy”, downgrading the world’s largest democracy from the 2019 ranking. The new ranking suggests India is as autocratic as Pakistan when it comes to censorship and worse than Bangladesh and Nepal. In 2019, India was counted among the 10 autocratising countries. The development comes a week after the democracy watchdog Freedom House, mostly funded by the US government, dropped India from the list of “free” countries and designated it as “partly free”. The report of the V-Dem (Varieties of Democracy) Institute, which conceptualises and measures democracy through what is said to be one of the largest-ever social science data collection efforts, was released on Wednesday in the presence of Sweden’s deputy foreign minister Robert Rydberg. Billing 2020 as another year of decline for liberal democracy, the new report stated that “a major change is that the world’s largest democracy turned into an electoral autocracy: India with 1.37 billion people”. Autocratisation, according to the report, typically follows a similar pattern across very different contexts. “Ruling governments first attack the media and civil society, and polarise societies by disrespecting opponents and spreading false information, then undermine elections,” the report said. In the India chapter, the report detailed the downward trajectory. “India’s autocratisation process has largely followed the typical pattern for countries in the ‘Third Wave’ over the past ten years: a gradual deterioration where freedom of the media, academia, and civil society were curtailed first and to the greatest extent.” On the V-Dem Institute’s scale, India recorded a 23 percentage-point drop from 2013 to 2020-end, “making it one of the most dramatic shifts among all countries in the world over the past 10 years, alongside autocratising countries like Brazil, Hungary, and Turkey”. The unkindest cut for the Narendra Modi government was the comparison with Pakistan. “India is, in this aspect (censorship), now as autocratic as is Pakistan, and worse than both its neighbours Bangladesh and Nepal. In general, the Modi-led government in India has used laws on sedition, defamation, and counter-terrorism to silence critics,” the report said. The report referred to the constraints imposed by the Modi government on civil society, the weakening of secularism under its watch with particular reference to the Citizenship Amendment Act, the use of the UAPA to harass, intimidate and imprison political opponents, people mobilising to protest government policies and silence dissent in academia, and the repression of civil society organisations. “Meanwhile, civil society organisations aligning themselves with the Hindutva movement have gained more freedom,” the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||SC plea to allow women into National Defence Academy||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre on two petitions seeking permission for women to be allowed admission into the National Defence Academy (NDA), where only men can join now. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian was hearing separate petitions filed by Anita and Kush Kalra alleging that the system of confining the eligibility criteria to male candidates was unconstitutional and discriminatory under Article 14 (equality) 15 (non-discrimination) 16 (equal opportunities in government jobs) and 19 (right to practise one’s profession or livelihood) of the Constitution. The petitioners were represented by advocates Chinmoy Pradip Sharma and Mohit Paul. According to the petitioners, eligible and willing women candidates are being denied admission to the NDA on the basis of their sex, thereby categorically refusing them a chance to train at the premier institute of the Indian armed forces. “…Systematic discriminatory treatment meted out to eligible female candidates who are aspiring to join the National Defence Academy to train as future officers of the Indian armed forces is done away with and a system is brought into place through which the eligible and willing female candidates are not able to enrol and train in the National Defence Academy,” Anita’s petition said. She contended that due to the discrimination she could not join the NDA and had to pursue a post-graduate course in law. “The applicant herein could identify with the issues and the discrimination being faced by eligible female candidates to join the National Defence Academy on a personal level as she herself aspired for a career in the armed forces as a school student. “The applicant had seen her male classmates from school prepare for the National Defence Academy and the Naval Academy examination and the applicant was left distraught when she learned that she did not have the opportunity to prepare for the National Defence Academy and the Naval Academy examination as females are not admitted into the National Defence Academy on the sole ground of their sex,” Anita’s petition said. A career as a permanent commissioned officer of the armed forces is considered to be one of the most respected and exciting professions in India, the petitioner said. However, women are not eligible to get directly recruited to that position.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||Kerala Assembly elections 2021: CPM faces questions over decision to omit popular duo||The CPM is facing uneasy questions over the decision to omit two battle-hardened ministers from the list of candidates for the Kerala Assembly elections, with its justification that MLAs who have completed consecutive terms should make way for fresh faces failing to smother speculation. Finance minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, an economist with a doctorate, and public works minister G. Sudhakaran are both popular and affable leaders with a clean image and CPM bulwarks in Alappuzha district for about two decades. Their relationship with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan that has raised tantalising questions in party circles. Isaac had famously snapped at the vigilance department’s raid on the Kerala State Financial Enterprises Ltd in December. “I don’t know whose mad idea is this,” he had lamented when vigilance officials had searched the KSFE premises. Being a senior minister it was unlikely that Isaac would not have known that vigilance was under the home department handled by Vijayan. Several CPM leaders had rushed to prevent that spark from raging into a fire within the party. The state secretariat had issued a statement pointing out that Vijayan had described the raid as a “routine examination”. Without naming Isaac, the CPM had said: “Such public statements should have been avoided.” A CPM source who cannot be named said on Wednesday: “There were some differences. But unlike other parties we don’t wash our dirty linen in public.” He, however, denied that differences had guided the candidate selection. “I think the chief minister had some issues with their independent style of functioning although he never doubted their capabilities. They were denied tickets only because of the two-term norm,” he said. While Isaac is a four-time MLA, Sudhakaran has been elected thrice. A leader from a CPM pocket borough in north Kerala contended that Isaac’s outburst against the raids on the KSFE had not gone down well with the chief minister. Writer and political commentator M.N. Karassery said: “It is generally admitted that things are not well between Pinarayi and the two ministers. Their friendly and corruption-free style of functioning had won them massive support among the people. Imagine a public works department without a single case of corruption.” “Everyone knows that Pinarayi doesn’t tolerate any challenge to his authority,” Karassery noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||Kerala Assembly elections 2021: CPM drops 38 MLAs, picks youths||The CPM has dropped 38 sitting MLAs including five ministers from its candidate list and fielded an equal number of newcomers, banking on youth to try and retain power in Kerala. The party on Wednesday announced its nominees for 83 of the 85 constituencies it will contest when Kerala votes on April 6 to fill its 140 Assembly seats. A party release said 25 of the candidates were aged below 50, including four who were under 30 — K.M. Sachin Dev (Balussery), Jaick C. Thomas (Puthupally), Linto Joseph (Thiruvambady) and P. Mithuna (Wandoor). Twelve women, including eight newcomers, have been fielded. Another 33 candidates are under 60. The CPI, the second-biggest partner in the ruling Left Democratic Front, had on Monday announced candidates for 21 of the 25 seats it will contest. All the MLAs and ministers dropped had served two or more consecutive terms — a yardstick the CPM has adopted to ease out the veterans in favour of younger and fresher faces. The ministers left out are Thomas Isaac (finance), G. Sudhakaran (public works), E.P. Jayarajan (sports), C. Raveendranath (education) and A.K. Balan (SC/ST development). Also dropped is Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan. While announcing the list, CPM acting state secretary A. Vijayaraghavan told a news conference the party wanted to promote young candidates and professionals. The list includes 28 lawyers, an architect and 2 medical doctors, party sources said. Vijayaraghavan said the candidates for Devikulam in Idukki and Manjeshwar in Kasaragod would be announced later but didn’t explain the delay. Local leader K.R. Jayananda had been tipped for the Manjeshwar ticket but party cadres have been demanding a stronger candidate considering the CPM had come  third from the constituency in a triangular fight the last time. The candidate of the Indian Union Muslim League, a constituent of the Congress-led United Democratic Front, had edged past state BJP president K. Surendran by just 89 votes in 2016. Apart from withholding the nomination from Manjeshwar, the CPM has largely ignored the brewing ground-level resentment in several districts over its choice of candidates. CPM leaders have declared there would be no going back on the party decision. The candidate list names eight state secretariat members including chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan (Dharmadom), health minister K.K. Shailaja (Mattannur), excise minister T.P. Ramakrishnan (Perambra) and electricity minister M.M. Mani (Udumbanchola). Vijayaraghavan said 42 of the candidates were graduates, 14 others held master’s degrees and another 2 had doctorates. Of the 83 candidates announced, 9 are Independents, including minority affairs minister K.T. Jaleel. The CPM will field V.P. Sanu, national president of its student arm SFI, in the Lok Sabha by-election from Malappuram constituency, recently vacated by P.K. Kunhalikutty of the IUML. Vijayaraghavan denied allegations that the CPM had had to compromise on seat-sharing with its 10 LDF partners. “All the LDF partners have sacrificed seats; the CPM gave up five sitting seats,” he said. Former Lok Sabha member M.B. Rajesh, who had lost during the 2019 general election, will contest the Thrithala Assembly seat in Palakkad, where he will battle the incumbent V.T. Balram of the Congress. “The party and the LDF have entrusted me with a very important task. This election is crucial for Kerala’s future and India’s political trajectory,” Rajesh told reporters. The Left had won 91 of the 140 seats in 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||Shiv Sena asks Narendra Modi to act on Dadra MP suicide ||Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut on Wednesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to suspend and prosecute top administrative officers in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, alleging the suicide note of Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar had accused them of harassment. One of those purportedly accused in the note is Praful Khoda Patel, administrator of the Union Territory and former BJP minister from Gujarat who is believed to be close to Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Raut said that while Mumbai police were investigating the suicide, the Centre couldn’t ignore its responsibility to act since Delkar was a senior MP and had first complained about his troubles to the Lok Sabha Speaker. Raut’s request to Modi comes at a time Delkar’s suicide is emerging as another flashpoint between the BJP-led central government and Maharashtra’s Sena-Congress-NCP administration, which has been underlining that as a Union Territory, Dadra and Nagar Haveli came directly under the Centre’s control. Delkar, an Independent MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli serving his seventh term, was found hanging in a Mumbai hotel last month. Media reports say he left behind a 15-page suicide note in Gujarati alleging systematic harassment by Patel, collector Sandeep Kumar Singh and five other officials. Delkar’s son Abhinav has said his father wrote in the suicide note that he was ending his life in Maharashtra because he had faith in the state government. “My father was aware that if he ended his life in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, the suicide note would have vanished and no case would have been registered,” he said. Mumbai police on Tuesday lodged an FIR and registered a case of abetment to suicide against the accused after the Uddhav Thackeray government announced a probe by a special investigation team (SIT). Raut, the Sena’s leader in the Lok Sabha, raised the subject during Zero Hour and waved a copy of Delkar’s suicide note. He recalled that Delkar had earlier written to the Speaker about harassment, and that this letter was sent to the House privilege committee. “The senior MP had circulated his letter among all members of the House. At the privilege committee meeting on February 12 he had (said) that if his harassment by the officers of the Union Territory was not stopped, he would be compelled to commit suicide,” Raut said. He added: “Therefore, through you (the Speaker), I want to request the Prime Minister to suspend the administrative officers, the SP (superintendent of police) and the collector responsible for the suicide of the MP and start criminal proceedings against them under 304 of IPC (culpable homicide not amounting to murder).” Delkar had posted a video a few months ago threatening to resign from Parliament if the officials harassing him were not curbed. Delay worry Sources said Sena and Congress leaders were upset at the state government’s slow probe in the suicide case at a time when the BJP was attacking the administration over the discovery of an explosives-laden vehicle near Mukesh Ambani’s home in February. But state home minister Anil Deshmukh, who is from the NCP, has apparently justified his cautious approach saying the police were discreetly examining the entire range of issues. A senior Congress politician from Mumbai suggested the BJP’s “belligerence on the Ambani issue” was probably a pressure tactic to ensure the state authorities went slow on the Delkar case. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Wednesday said Ambani’s home was 1km from where the car was parked and would have been in no danger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||Half of urban slum households use LPG despite having connections: survey||Only half of urban slum households surveyed in six states exclusively use liquid petroleum gas for cooking despite 86 per cent of these families having LPG connections, a study has found. Researchers associated with the survey have cited the poor doorstep delivery of LPG cylinders at slums and the sharp rise in cooking gas prices as some of the reasons why many families turn to alternative cooking fuels. They have emphasised that these alternative fuels can cause severe indoor air pollution and leave households more vulnerable to Covid infection. The Cooking Energy Access Survey, 2020, was conducted by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, which together account for nearly a quarter of India’s urban slum population. The survey covered 656 households across 83 urban slums in 58 districts. “Only half of the urban slum households in six Indian states use LPG exclusively. This is in spite of 86 per cent of urban slum households in these states having an LPG connection,” the survey says. Some 16 per cent of the households still use traditional fuels such as firewood, dung cakes, farm residue, charcoal and kerosene as their primary cooking fuel, thus increasing indoor air pollution, the survey says. Over a third stack LPG with these polluting fuels. “As part of the next phase of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, the government must target poor households without an LPG connection in urban slums. Policymakers must also nudge oil marketing companies and distributors to improve home delivery of LPG refills in slum areas to increase the exclusive use of LPG,” council CEO Arunabha Ghosh said. “Also, as the LPG refill prices rise, the government must target vulnerable households — beyond the PMUY beneficiaries — with differential subsidy support for using LPG in a sustained manner.” A sizeable share of urban slum households cannot afford LPG for all their cooking, especially because of the rising fuel prices and the economic impact of the pandemic, said Shaily Jha, research analyst with the council and lead author of the study. Jha suggested that “access to clean cooking energy” be included within the ambit of the government’s welfare schemes. According to the study, three-fourths of households that use polluting fuels cook inside the main house, and two-thirds have no chimneys, exposing their women and children to high levels of indoor air pollution. Long-term exposure to emissions from biomass burning also makes the population more vulnerable to Covid-19 infection, the survey says. It has highlighted that 37 per cent of LPG-using slum households do not receive the cylinders at their doorstep. The survey has recommended leveraging platforms like “LPG panchayats” to increase awareness about the way the cooking gas subsidy is calculated for households. It says male family members dominate the decision-making about refill purchases, and increased awareness about the actual expense on the refills may help raise women’s bargaining power within the household.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||AAP competes with BJP in grabbing nationalist space||The Aam Aadmi Party government plans to install 500 Tricolours across Delhi as part of an avowed “deshbhakti (patriotism) budget” that also promotes yoga and Ayodhya pilgrimage, appearing to compete with the BJP in grabbing the nationalist and majoritarian space. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told the Assembly on Wednesday his government was striving to establish “this model of Ram Rajya in Delhi”, although he defined the concept in terms of welfare measures such as education and healthcare along with state-funded pilgrimages to Ayodhya. In the budget presented on Tuesday, his government had set aside Rs 45 crore to erect across the capital 500 Tricolours, which an independent expert estimated would be about 100 feet tall. “I propose that in the 75th year of Independence... all citizens of Delhi, when coming out of their homes even for short distances, do not return without similar sentiments of patriotism and national pride,” deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said in the budget speech. “With these 500 Tricolours... we will decorate our entire city in such a way that even if you pass through one or two kilometres in Delhi, you will find a flag waving high.” The Rs 69,000-crore budget focuses on 75 weeks of celebrations, from March 12 until Independence Day next year, with various public events. Sums of Rs 10 crore each have been set aside for programmes on Bhagat Singh and B.R. Ambedkar. The budget proposes a new Sainik School and a defence preparatory academy. It proposes yoga instructors for neighbourhoods – something not usually identified with patriotism outside the BJP-RSS ecosystem. On Wednesday, Kejriwal told the House: “All of us worship Lord Ram. Personally, I worship Lord Hanuman who was a devotee of Lord Ram. So, I’m a devotee of both Lord Ram and Hanuman. Lord Ram was the king of Ayodhya. “During his rule, it is said, people were content, with no sorrows in life as they had access to all basic facilities…. Hence, we have been constantly striving to establish this model of ‘Ram Rajya’ in Delhi for the past six years, based on 10 principles.” He said these principles included food security, quality education, the best healthcare, free electricity and water for those who consume less, employment, public housing, security for women and the state-funded pilgrimages for all faiths introduced in 2019. Kejriwal said: “After the Supreme Court judgment (handing the disputed plot in Ayodhya to Hindus), a magnificent temple is yet to be constructed. I would like to declare before senior citizens of Delhi that once the temple is constructed, I will ensure that all of you can visit the Ayodhya temple free of cost.” Many saw in the visual spectacle of the proposed flags a low-cost challenge to the Centre’s Central Vista project to redevelop Lutyens Delhi. Kejriwal has over the past couple of years abandoned his strident opposition to Hindutva politics, choosing instead to project the AAP as a benign Hindu outfit with better credentials than the BJP in upholding nationalism and the majority faith. On Tuesday, when reporters drew parallels between the AAP budget and the Centre’s thrust on nationalism, Kejriwal had said: “The central government is of this country; the Delhi government, Madhya Pradesh government are all of this country. We will all celebrate (the 75th anniversary) together.” When a reporter asked him to define patriotism, he said that for him it meant being proud of India, obeying traffic rules, and not taking bribes. Ajay Gudavarthy, associate professor of political science at Jawaharlal Nehru University, dubbed the AAP flag proposal “cartographic nationalism”. “This kind of cartographic nationalism has become a counter-narrative to people’s aspirations. This will clearly tell us the directions in which the AAP is going,” he told The Telegraph. “The thing with welfare is that once it is fulfilled, the second time around the demands will be much bigger. The AAP pre-empts that — they know the mood (of hyper-nationalism) that the BJP has built.” Research by American psychologists Markus Kemmelmeier and David G. Winter, published in the journal Political Psychology in 2008, found that college students gave more nationalistic responses to questionnaires designed to measure patriotism and attitudes to authoritarianism when the American flag was visible in the room. The display of the national flag increased greatly in the US after the Twin Tower bombings in September 2001. Authoritarian Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan — in power since 2003 — has promoted the display of the national flag and the slogan “One nation, one flag, one state”, particularly when faced with dissent. Turkish political scientist  Asli Cirakman wrote in 2011: “On ordinary days, flags hang out of windows and shops and are displayed on the rear panels of cars much more often than before. Daily the nation is indicated, or ‘flagged’ in the lives of its citizenry to protest against Kurds, the European Union, the USA, or political Islam, depending on the specific political agenda of the day. “National identity is being underlined not by hanging out flags on official days from official buildings (for which there is specific legislation), but by citizens’ daily assertions in initiating the flag to become visible against the ‘enemies’.” In India, supporters of the Narendra Modi government as well as its critics — such as the protesters against the new citizenship and farm laws — have made use of the national flag. Height and cost Delhi has several permanent flag installations, most notably a 207-foot-tall one at Connaught Place that is illuminated at night since the flag code prohibits the Tricolour from being flown in the dark. In 2016, the Centre had urged all central universities to erect similarly large, 24-hour flags. The Connaught Place flag was put up by the Flag Foundation of India (FFI), an NGO funded by industrialist and Congress politician Naveen Jindal that has erected such flags at several places in India. An FFI source said the cost of a steel flagpole went up “exponentially” once it crossed 100 feet, and that flag tears caused by winds became more frequent at higher altitudes. Nowadays the FFI recommends only 100-foot-tall flagpoles. The FFI source said the Rs 9 lakh set aside per flag by Sisodia’s budget suggested that Delhi’s flags would be about 100 feet tall. “The Connaught Place flag has to be replaced five to six times a year because of tears. Repairs are done every month for damage to the large flag,” the source said. “A new flag costs around Rs 60,000. We are not charged for power. The monthly maintenance costs and the guards’ salaries come to around Rs 40,000.” The illumination consumes around 2,400 units of power a month. Education push A quarter of the budget has been earmarked for education, with the proposals including a new university, a new board of education, 100 schools of excellence, and a virtual school. For students of government schools, the budget suggests mentorship volunteers — people from various professions who would offer career counselling. Olympic bid One of the big-ticket proposals in the budget is to bid for the 2048 Olympics. The budget talks of increasing the average income of citizens 16-fold before the centenary of Independence in 2047.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||Manohar Lal Khattar govt defeats no-confidence motion||The Manohar Lal Khattar government on Wednesday comfortably defeated the no-confidence motion brought by the Congress, as expected, after the Speaker disallowed the Opposition’s appeal for a secret ballot. While moving the motion, in the backdrop of the farmers’ protests that the BJP-JJP government in Haryana has tried its best to thwart, the Congress had said its aim was to “expose” the MLAs who are not standing with farmers. “The government has been exposed. I had said they would get majority as they had issued a whip.… Had there been secret voting, the results would have been different,” former Congress chief minister and incumbent leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said. The government secured 55 votes and the Opposition 32. The BJP has 40 MLAs, including the Speaker, and ally JJP has 10. Five Independents and the lone Haryana Lokhit Party MLA voted with the government. Two Independents who had withdrawn support to the government on the farmers’ issue voted for the no-confidence motion. As did all 30 of the Congress MLAs. The current strength of the Assembly is 88. The BJP had been confident of sailing through because MLAs would not dare to risk disqualification by violating the party whip. Further, most MLAs had been promised posts helming various boards and corporations, sources said. Since ministerial berths are limited, boards and corporations are used to check defections by MLAs. One JJP MLA who had before the voting called on his party to quit the alliance, Devender Babli, protested because he was not allowed to speak during the debate. He, however, voted with his party. Khattar brought up the strikes against Pakistan, the border face-off with China and Rahul Gandhi’s recent statement about politics in Kerala being centred on issues. He claimed his government had been retrained in its handling of the farmers’ protests. Farmers resolute The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the farmers’ movement against the three new laws, said in a statement: “The anti-farmer face of the JJP, which describes themselves as a party belonging to the farming community, has been completely exposed.” Earlier, addressing a media conference at the Singhu border soon after the Khattar government survived the no-confidence vote, Vikas Sisar of the Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, Haryana, condemned the BJP and JJP MLAs for their doublespeak and said the farmers of the state would step up their boycott of these legislators. “As it is many of them were unable to move around the state; we will make it even more difficult for them,” he said, urging people to ensure that the leaders cannot enter villages. While the Haryana farmers had been hopeful of being able to force some JJP MLAs to cross over, many in the SKM leadership were not surprised by the result. Buta Singh Burjgill said farmers were prepared for the long haul. The SKM has given a call for a Bharat Bandh on March 26 to mark four months of their protest at Delhi’s borders, followed by the burning of copies of the three farm laws for Holika Dahan to symbolise the victory of good over evil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||Valley protest triggers biggest crackdown since 2019||The first protest in months in Srinagar’s old city has triggered the biggest government crackdown since 2019, with dozens of youths arrested since Friday and some of them booked under the stringent Public Safety Act. Police said they had arrested 39 “stone-throwing” youths during dozens of raids after a protest at Jamia Masjid on Friday. Fifteen accused have been booked under the PSA, Valley police chief Vijay Kumar told a news conference on Wednesday. A person can be detained for six months or even longer without trial under the PSA. Friday’s protest came after the government went back on its decision to release moderate Hurriyat chairman and the Valley’s chief cleric, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, who has been under house arrest for the past 19 months. Areas around the Jamia Masjid are seen as the nerve centre of Kashmir’s pro-independence movement. The stringent clampdown that coincided with the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August 2019 had succeeded in silencing the protests there. The mosque had been shut for months to prevent gatherings. On Friday, a group of stone-throwing youths clashed with security forces in the first bout of violence in the area since August 2019. The protest was mild by the area’s own yardstick but the authorities went into an overdrive, raiding dozens of houses to arrest suspects. “We will not allow stone-pelting at any cost. We have arrested 39 who indulged in stone-pelting in Srinagar recently. Fifteen of them will be booked under PSA,” Kumar said. The crackdown suggests the government continues to have a zero-tolerance policy towards protests in the Valley 19 months after revoking key Article 370 provisions. Thousands of people, including three former chief ministers and dozens of former legislators and ministers, had been arrested during the 2019 clampdown to pre-empt protests. A resident of Srinagar’s old city said just a handful of people had engaged in stone-throwing on Friday and that the government’s reaction had been harsh. “They are arresting youths at random. There are raids during night. Some of our young men have shifted to safer places to evade arrest,” the resident said. Police sources said more arrests were expected. The Mirwaiz was to be released on Friday to allow him to attend congregational prayers after a long time. He has said the police initially gave him the go-ahead to join the prayers but the authorities later changed their mind. Security has been stepped up at the Mirwaiz’s home in Nageen to prevent him moving out and stop his supporters from gathering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||Swedish bribe finger at Indian minister||A Swedish bus maker paid bribes, including to an unnamed minister, in India to win bus contracts in seven states between 2013 and 2016, Reuters reported from Stockholm, quoting an investigation by three media outlets, including Swedish news channel SVT. Some media reports in India said a company with ties to the family of Nitin Gadkari, BJP leader and Union surface transport and highway minister, was provided a luxury bus that was allegedly used in the wedding celebrations of his daughter in 2016. The Wire news portal quoted Gadkari’s office as denying the allegations and saying that the claims were “malicious, fabricated and baseless”. The Swedish company is Scania, a truck and bus-making unit under Volkswagen AG’s commercial vehicle arm Traton SE. Gadkari’s office told the portal that he was “a pioneer in introducing Scania’s ethanol-run bus in Nagpur as a part of his drive to bring in green public transport in India” and it was purely a commercial arrangement between the Nagpur civic body and the Swedish bus manufacturers. Gadkari and his family had nothing to do with it, the minister’s office added. An investigation started by Scania in 2017 showed serious shortcomings by employees, including senior management, a Scania spokesperson told Reuters. The “misconduct included alleged bribery, bribery through business partners and misrepresentation”, Reuters quoted the spokesperson as saying. The Scania spokesperson said the company had since stopped selling city buses in the Indian market and the factory in the country had been closed down. The spokesperson said its investigation of wrongdoing had not involved the police as the evidence was not strong enough to lead to prosecution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Plea for TB drug generic production in India||Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Centre to respond to a petition seeking legal steps to allow generic production of two patented anti-tuberculosis drugs currently unavailable to all patients in India who need them. The court has asked the Centre to respond by April 28 to the petition by two TB survivors seeking a government use authorisation order or compulsory licence — provisions in Indian patent laws to allow local production of the drugs bedaquiline and delamanid. The petitioners have said the Centre is currently relying on donations from the patent holders — the US-based Janssen Pharmaceuticals for bedaquiline and Japan’s Otsuka Pharmaceuticals for delamanid — to procure a “miniscule quantity” of the drugs compared to what India needs. Bedaquiline and delamanid are prescribed to a subset of patients with multi-drug resistant (MDR) or extensive-drug resistant (XDR) TB that carry high mortality rates without the appropriate treatment. The petitioners told the court that in 2019 alone, 44,724 MDR-TB patients eligible to receive bedaquiline did not get the drug and 830 patients with XDR-TB did not receive delamanid. India’s TB control programme, in line with World Health Organisation guidelines, has recommended the use of bedaquiline and delamanid but, the petitioners have said, the limited supplies make them unavailable to patients. Many MDR-TB and XDR-TB patients in India thus continue to receive earlier generation anti-TB drugs that carry high toxicity and have poor cure rates. The WHO has estimated that treatment success rates with those earlier generation drugs are only 57 per cent for MDR-TB and 39 per cent for XDR-TB. “India is relying on donations for these two drugs,” said Anand Grover, director of the Lawyers Collective, a legal organisation representing the petitioners. “Without access to bedaquiline and delamanid, eligible patients face the risk of extremely high death rates.” The petitioners, Meera Yadav and Brinelle D’Souza, both TB survivors and representing Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, a network of health rights advocates, told the court that Janssen and Otsuka are selling the drugs at high prices and government efforts to procure the drugs through tenders “have failed”. Bedaquiline is priced at Rs 26,600 for a six-month course, and a prescribed 18-month regimen for MDR-TB patients would cost Rs 79,800 for one patient, the petitioners said, and delamanid is priced at about Rs 91,000 for a six-month course. However, a team of UK researchers have estimated that generic production could slash the price of both drugs to below Rs 10,000 per patient for a six-month course. Several manufacturers in India have said they have the capacity and technology to make generic versions of the drugs but no licensing pacts have emerged yet, the petitioners have pointed out. Health activists say the Centre’s inaction on taking legal steps to facilitate generic production of bedaquiline and delamanid contrasts with the Indian government’s application at the World Trade Organisation seeking waiver of intellectual property rights on Covid-19-related technologies. “For Covid-19, India proposed waiver of all patents on medical products. It is time drug resistant TB which is a public health emergency received similar attention,” Leena Menghaney, a lawyer and an adviser with the global humanitarian agency Medicins Sans Frontieres, told The Telegraph. Doctors and health activists said the Covid-19 mortality rate was significantly smaller than the mortality rate among patients with MDR-TB and XDR-TB. “It is time this appeal from TB survivors is considered by the government to encourage generic drug makers to enter the supply chain,” Menghaney said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Opposition protests against farm laws in Parliament||After rising fuel prices, Parliament was rocked by the Opposition’s protests against the three contentious farm laws on Wednesday. The Opposition members raised slogans demanding repeal of the laws and stalled business in both Houses after their adjournment motions were rejected. In the Lok Sabha, Congress House leader Adhir Chowdhury stressed the need to discuss the farmers’ protest immediately. Speaker Om Birla pulled up the Opposition leader for obstructing the business of the House every day. Undeterred, the Congress and some other Opposition parties raised slogans demanding repeal of the farm laws as the Speaker went ahead with Question Hour and adjourned the House after half an hour. In the Rajya Sabha, too, the Opposition MPs demanded suspension of business to discuss the farmers’ protest. But this was disallowed by Chairman Venkaiah Naidu. Very little business could be transacted during the day, which saw two adjournments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Tirath Singh Rawat sworn in as Uttarakhand chief minister||Lok Sabha member Tirath Singh Rawat was on Wednesday sworn in as the new Uttarakhand chief minister, a day after the incumbent Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned after being told to by the BJP central leadership. The choice of Tirath, 56, a low-profile MP from the Garhwal constituency, came as a surprise. Several party leaders had said an MLA would be elevated as chief minister, with the young Uttarakhand minister Dhan Singh Rawat considered the favourite. On Wednesday, party insiders said Tirath had been picked to strike a balance between senior and junior leaders in the state. Many claimed that Tirath was the personal choice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Tirath implied he was surprised himself. “I had never imagined I would be given an opportunity like this by the party,” he said after being formally elected leader of the legislature party in the morning in Dehradun.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Father of rape victim killed after alleged perpetrators threaten to kill family members||The father of a gang-rape victim was crushed to death by a truck in front of policemen in Kanpur on Wednesday, a day after the alleged perpetrators had in the presence of cops threatened to kill members of the girl’s family. The son of the deceased farmer alleged that policemen accompanying his father outside the community health centre where the 13-year-old girl is admitted pushed him in front of the truck. The police refused comment on the allegation. Earlier in the morning, one of the rape accused, Deepu Yadav, had been arrested. He is the son of Devendra Yadav, a sub-inspector posted at Banda. Another accused, Deepu’s friend Raj Kumar alias Golu Yadav, is still at large. Deepu and Raj had allegedly assaulted the brother of the girl, a resident of the Ghatampur area of Kanpur, when he was going to Sajeti police station on Tuesday morning to register a complaint. “The policemen kept threatening me with dire consequences till 6pm on Tuesday and registered the case under pressure of the media. The accused and some of their family members, including Saurabh Yadav, the elder brother of Deepu, had also come to the police station and declared that they would kill me and my father,” the brother of the girl told reporters near Anupur Crossing, where the family organised a dharna against the alleged “murder of the father”. “Although I was not there, an eyewitness told me that policemen accompanying my father outside the local community health centre on Wednesday morning pushed him in front of the truck,” the brother added. Brijesh Srivastava, the superintendent of police of Kanpur Rural, said: “The father of the victim had gone out for tea when a truck hit him. He was declared dead on arrival at the hospital. “The truck driver has been taken into custody and the police are interrogating him. We will initiate action on the basis of the complaint of the family members. We have also arrested Deepu and are trying to nab the second accused.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Central team to help Odisha curb forest fire||The Centre will send an expert team to Odisha to help the state government effectively tackle the devastating fire raging in Similipal National Park, the second-largest biosphere in Asia. The team is scheduled to reach here on Thursday to assess the situation in the national park, a major part of which is located in Mayurbhanj district. Some of its periphery areas touch neighbouring Keonjhar and Balasore districts. “Today Sh. @dpradhanbjp & other MPs from Odisha met me regarding Forest Fire in #SimilipalNationalPark & nearby. @moefcc is sending a committee of experts to Odisha to give technical advise &help out state forest dept. in effective management of forest fire incidents in the region,” Union minister for environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) Prakash Javadekar tweeted on Wednesday. The expert team from the ministry will be in touch with the Odisha forest officials on the issue of tackling fire in the Similipal forest. “The experts will work in coordination with the deployed team for early and effective dousing of forest fire. Will be reviewing the situation with the team on a regular basis,” Javadekar tweeted. The nine-member delegation of Odisha BJP MPs in their memorandum to the Union minister demanded setting up of a committee with representatives both from the central and state forest departments, environmentalists and forest conservationists to come up with a long-term action plan to prevent the recurrence of such incidents in Odisha. After meeting the Union minister, BJP MP Suresh Pujhari said, “Forest fire takes place in April and May. But this year, it started in February. The fire has spread to nearly 650 small and big forests, including Similipal forest, destroying the flora and fauna. It needs immediate attention.” The Press Information Bureau in a media release said, “Acting on the directions of the Union environment minister, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change has constituted a team consisting of Dr Amit Mallick, inspector-general of forests, National Tiger Conservation Authority, New Delhi; Subratt Mahapatra, deputy director-general of forests, MoEF&CC regional office, Bhubaneswar; and Arti Chaudhary, head, Silviculture–ICFRE (as fire expert). The initial terms of reference for the team would be to assess the status of fire incidents in Odisha and Similipal Tiger Reserve, provide expert and technical advice to the state for containing fire in forest area, gauge the status of loss of forest and wildlife and its relationship with poaching, if any. The team will be working till the state attains a normal situation with respect to fire incidents. The environment minister said along with the team at MoEFCC, he would himself monitor the map showing the forest fire detections in Odisha every day and a separate map showing fire detection in Similipal Tiger Reserve / Biosphere Reserve. Ruling Biju Janata Dal Rajya Sabha member Dr Sasmit Patra tweeted: “Odisha Govt along with its Task Force is working tirelessly 24x7 to control and eliminate the fire in Simlipal. The BJD volunteers on ground and working in tandem to douse the fire. Thousands of Forest Officials, ODRAF Personnel, Fire Services are at work. #BJDWithSimilipal” The state government has set up a 24x7 control room to get feedback from the people about the forest fire. The state government has also cancelled the leave of forest officials in all the forest divisions of Odisha for an indefinite period. “We have decided to involve the panchayat-level officials in the control and mitigation of forest fire incidents,” said Sandeep Tripathi, head of the task force constituted to suggest measures to tackle such incidents in Odisha. Tripathi also said that the active fire in Similipal had been contained now. According to the decision of the government, district-level officials will take the help of the sarpanches and panchayati raj institutions to douse the forest fires.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Puri Jagannath temple sets Rs 1,000cr target||The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration in Puri on Wednesday set a target to enhance its corpus fund to Rs 1,000 crore from Rs 650 crore by 2023. To realise the target, it will organise extensive donation programmes and set up donation boxes in places such as railway stations and airports to reach out to the devotees in large numbers. “We are no longer getting adequate money as interest from the banks towards our deposits. Besides setting up donation boxes, the administration will lease out its stone quarries for mining to augment its revenue base and also invest in other sectors,” a senior official of the temple administration said. After a meeting of the financial sub-committee of the temple, which met on Wednesday to draft an annual budget of Rs 202 crore for the financial year 2021-22, chief administrator of the temple Dr Krishan Kumar told reporters: “We have planned to enhance the corpus funds from Rs 650 crore to Rs 750 crore”. He said: “We have earmarked Rs 11 crore for the upcoming Rath Yatra. Besides, we will come up with a welfare fund to the tune of Rs 5 crore for the servitor families. We will soon set up an Adarsha Gurukul school for children of the servitors. Work is on to finalise the MoU,” Kumar added. The welfare fund will provide immediate financial assistance to the servitors and their kin in critical illnesses related to heart and kidney. The scheme will be operated on the lines of Odisha State Treatment Fund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
