12-03-2021||India||Kerala Gold Smuggling case: ED forced me to name the CM, says accused||A prime accused in the Kerala gold-smuggling case has written to a sessions judge in Ernakulam alleging that a senior official of the Enforcement Directorate had compelled him to name the chief minister and others. Sandeep Nair, the fourth accused in the high profile case, has in a hand-written letter to the sessions judge complained about the harassment by an ED officer identified only as Radhakrishnan to name Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, some ministers and the son of a senior party leader. “Investigating officer from this agency, Mr Radhakrishnan, told me they won’t oppose my bail plea if I named the Kerala chief minister, some ministers and the son of a senior leader,” Nair stated in the letter, a copy of which was leaked to the media on Friday. Nair alleged that the ED official even offered to arrange a good lawyer. “I was offered a good lawyer and promised not to oppose my bail plea if I named those mentioned (chief minister, ministers and the son of a leader) and stated that they had investments in some companies, that I have not even heard of,” he wrote in the letter. Currently in judicial custody, Nair accused the officer of harassing and threatening him while he was in the ED custody. “While in their custody, I was denied adequate sleep and faced all kinds of harassment and was threatened several times. When I refused to do his bidding and said I have a family, the officer named Radhakrishnan said I would get to see what they are capable of doing.” The date of submission of the letter was not clear in the leaked copy. A BJP worker, Nair is a co-accused along with P.S. Sarith, Swapna Suresh and others in the case related to smuggling 30kg of gold from Dubai allegedly using a diplomatic consignment addressed to the attache of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram in July last year. His allegations against the ED is quite similar to what two Kerala policewomen had narrated in their statements to a special investigating team probing an audio clip of Swapna, who too had alleged coercion to name the chief minister. The policewomen, who were among those who took turns to provide security to Swapna when she was in the ED custody, had admitted of being witnesses to Radhakrishnan forcing Swapna to name the chief minister. The policewomen had apparently recorded their separate statements after the state police launched an investigation into Swapna’s audio clip leaked on November 19 last year. Their statements were leaked to the media just days after customs commissioner Sumit Kumar filed a statement before the Kerala High Court citing Swapna’s confidential statement in which she allegedly named the chief minister and three other ministers for “illegal money transactions” in a dollar smuggling case linked to the gold-smuggling scandal. The customs department is investigating the suspected smuggling of $190,000 (Rs1.3 crore) from Thiruvananthapuram to Oman by an accounts officer of the consulate. The money was allegedly a kickback received from a local builder who was awarded the contract to build free houses for some of the 2018 flood victims in a project funded by Emirates Red Crescent. The advocate-general of Kerala had on Tuesday issued notice to the customs commissioner in a petition seeking contempt proceedings against the officer for leaking Swapna’s confidential statement filed before a court. The notice was based on a complaint by CPM’s Ernakulam district committee member K.J. Jacob who noted that leaking of a confidential statement amounted to the contempt of court. The petitioner had alleged that the officer deliberately leaked the petition to embarrass the Left Democratic Front government ahead of the April 6 state polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
12-03-2021||India||Covid cases rising in eight states||Eight states currently display an upward trend in daily new Covid-19 cases, the Union health ministry said on Friday as India’s count of Covid-19 patients under medical supervision approached 200,000 for the first time in over eight weeks. The number of active Covid-19 patients nationwide increased on Friday to 197,237 from 189,226 on Thursday. The count had dropped below 200,000 on January 20 under a near steady fall since its peak of over a million cases in mid-September. Maharashtra and Punjab show the sharpest rise in daily new Covid cases over the past four weeks, but counts have also increased in Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Health authorities have attributed the rise in several states to crowding, laxity in personal precautions and lowered levels of testing and contact tracing, but some epidemiologists believe viral genome sequencing needs to be intensified to determine whether faster-spreading mutants have any role. “We need some explanation for what’s happening in Maharashtra — some parts of the state such as Pune which were among the hardest hit areas of the country shouldn’t be seeing the kind of rise that we’re seeing now,” D.C.S. Reddy, a community medicine specialist and member of the government’s Covid-19 epidemiology expert group, said. Surveillance studies have suggested that in parts of Mumbai and Pune, the fraction of infected people is so high that the virus shouldn’t find it easy to spread as quickly and widely as it is now. But the surveillance also revealed even larger fractions of people susceptible to the infection and, health officials believe, the current growth appears to be driven by the virus spreading into this susceptible pool of the population. India had till Friday evening administered over 28 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines. Over 7.2 million healthcare workers, 7.2 million frontline workers, 7 million people aged 60 years or older and 1.2 million between 45 and 60 with health disorders have received their first doses. Over 4 million healthcare workers and nearly a million frontline workers have also received second doses. Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India, accounts for over 90 per cent of the doses administered so far. About 1.9 million people have received doses of Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine made by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
12-03-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 15,817 new infections, 56 deaths||Maharashtra recorded this year's highest one-day spike on the third day in a row on Friday with 15,817 new infections coming to light, a health official said. The caseload in the state rose to 22,82,191, while the death toll reached 52,723 with 56 new fatalities. The state had earlier reported more than 15,000 cases on October 2 last year, after which new cases had declined. But a fresh surge in cases began last month and the state recorded 13,659 and 14,317 cases on Wednesday and Thursday. As many as 11,344 patients were discharged from hospitals on Friday, taking the total of recoveries to 21,17,744. There are 1,10,485 active cases. Pune city recorded the highest 1,845 new cases, followed by 1,729 in Nagpur and 1,647 in Mumbai. Pune division comprising civic bodies of Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad as well as districts of Pune, Solapur and Satara reported a total of 3,580 cases, highest among the divisions. The number of cases in the Pune division so far stood at 5,53,064 and death toll at 11,832. Mumbai on Friday recorded 1,646 cases of coronavirus, the highest since mid-October, raising the tally of infections to 3,40,277, an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. With four fatalities in the last 24 hours, the toll reached 11,519, the official said. The daily count of infections in the city has crossed the 1,500 mark for the third consecutive day. This is the first time since October 17 that the city has witnessed such a high number of cases. At least 1,122 patients recovered from the infection during the day, taking the number of recoveries to 3,15,379, the official said, adding that the city now has 12,487 active cases. According to the civic body, as many as 20,730 swab samples have been tested in the last 24-hours, taking the number of tests conducted so far to 35,16,875. The average growth rate of cases in the city has increased to 0.35 per cent from 0.17 per cent on February 18, while the average doubling rate stands at 196 days. The city has 30 containment zones in slums and chawls, while 214 buildings have been sealed, it was stated. The wider Mumbai division reported 3,137 new cases and 11 deaths, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,52,986 and death toll to 19,932. Nashik division's case tally till now stood at 3,12,328 and the death toll at 5,357. Kolhapur division has reported 1,20,859 cases and 4,084 deaths till now, while Aurangabad division's case tally stood at 88,467 and the death count at 2,085. Latur division has reported 90,774 cases until now and 2,557 fatalities. Akola division has reported 1,14,655 cases while 1,893 people have succumbed to the disease until now. Nagpur division has reported 2,48,912 infections and 4,893 fatalities so far. With 97,274 tests carried out on Thursday, the state has so far tested 1,73,10,586 samples for coronavirus. There are 5,42,693 people in home quarantine while 4,884 are in institutional quarantine. Out of 56 deaths reported on Friday, 32 occurred in the last 48 hours, eight in the last week and 16 deaths were from the period before the last week. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 22,82,191, new cases: 15,817, death toll: 52,723, discharged: 21,17,744, active cases: 1,10,485, people tested so far: 1,73,10,586.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
12-03-2021||India||Covering areas like vaccines makes Quad a force for global good: Modi at Quad meet||The Quad has come of age and its agenda covering areas like vaccines, climate change and emerging technologies makes it a force for global good, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at the first summit of the coalition. In his opening remarks, he also talked about shared values and promoting a secure, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific. "We are united by our democratic values, and our commitment to a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. Our agenda today covering areas like vaccines, climate change and emerging technologies makes the Quad a force for global good," he said. The virtual summit was attended by US President Joe Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga. "I see this positive vision as an extension of India's ancient philosophy of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, which regards the world as one family," Modi said. "We will work together, closer than ever before, to advance our shared values and promote a secure, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific," he said. The prime minister said the holding of the summit shows that the Quad has come of age and it will now remain an important pillar of stability in the region. In his remarks, Biden said there was a need to focus on generating domestic demand and driving sustainable global growth. He also talked about having an ambitious new joint partnership that is going to boost vaccine manufacturing and strengthen vaccinations to benefit the entire Indo-Pacific region. "We are establishing a new mechanism to enhance our cooperation and raise our mutual ambition as we address accelerating climate change," he said. The US president also mentioned the commitment to ensure that the region is governed by international law and it is free from coercion. "I am optimistic about our prospects," he said. The most significant among the deliverables envisaged in the summit is a coronavirus vaccine initiative that will allow new manufacturing capacity to be added in India for exports to the Indo-Pacific region, sources said. Known as the "Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, representatives for the four member nations have met periodically since its establishment in 2007. The Quad member states have been resolving to uphold a rules-based international order in the Indo-Pacific amid growing Chinese assertiveness in the region. The foreign ministers of the Quad countries held a virtual meeting on February 18 during which they vowed to uphold a rules-based international order underpinned by respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, freedom of navigation and peaceful resolution of disputes. The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle-flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers. The US has been favouring making Quad a security architecture to check China's growing assertiveness. The foreign ministers of the Quad member nations met in Tokyo on October 6 last year and reaffirmed their collective vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. The Quad foreign ministers held their first meeting under the Quadrilateral or Quad framework in New York in September 2019. In November 2017, India, Japan, the US and Australia gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the Quad to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
12-03-2021||India||India, China hold talks to maintain stability at border||India and China on Friday held "in-depth" discussions on addressing the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, holding that disengagement in the North and South banks of Pangong lake provided a good basis to work towards their early resolution. The two countries also agreed during the parleys that in the interim they should continue to maintain stability at ground level and prevent any untoward incident. The talks were held under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC). The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the two sides agreed to maintain close communication and dialogue through both the diplomatic and military channels and agreed to convene the 11th round of military talks at an early date. In a statement, it said the two sides should continue their dialogue to reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points at the earliest. "This would enable two sides to look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area and work towards restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas. They also agreed that in the interim two sides should continue to maintain stability at ground level and prevent any untoward incident," the MEA added. The MEA also said that India and China agreed that the agreement reached between the two foreign ministers in Moscow in September last as also their recent phone conversation in February should continue to guide the work of the two sides. "The two sides reviewed the situation along the LAC in the Western sector and had in-depth discussions on the remaining issues along the LAC in the Western sector," it said. "They agreed that the completion of the disengagement in North and South Bank of the Pangong Lake provided a good basis for the two sides to work towards early resolution of these remaining issues." The Indian delegation was led by Additional Secretary (East Asia) in the MEA while the Chinese side was headed by director general of the boundary and oceanic department of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two countries had completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. After completion of the disengagement process in Pangong lake areas, senior military commanders of India and China held another round of talks on February 20 with a focus on taking forward the disengagement process in other friction points. At the talks, India pitched for a faster disengagement process in areas like Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang to bring down tension in the mountainous region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
12-03-2021||India||BJP demand independent inquiry into Mamata injury incident in Nandigram||A BJP delegation comprising Union Minister Piyush Goyal and party general secretary Bhupender Yadav on Friday met Election Commission officials and demanded an independent inquiry into the incident in which TMC supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee got injured. The BJP delegation met poll panel officials hours after a six-member group of Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders met the EC demanding a high-level probe into the alleged attack on West Bengal Chief Minister in Nandigram that led to her injury. Besides Goyal and Yadav, party leaders Sambit Patra, Anirban Ganguly and Swapan Dasgupta were also in the BJP delegation. Addressing reporters after the meeting, Yadav said the BJP has demanded an independent inquiry into the incident in West Bengal's Nandigram on March 10 when Banerjee got injured. Yadav, a general secretary of the BJP, said, "The party also requested the election commission to make public the video of Banerjee's rally in which she got injured." The BJP leader said once a candidate files nomination, the poll panel maintains a visual record of his public engagements. The saffron party also demanded that special observers be appointed for the Nandigram Assembly seat from where Banerjee is contesting against her protege-turned-adversary the BJP's Suvendu Adhikari. Earlier in the day, a TMC delegation met the Election Commission and demanded a high-level probe into the alleged attack on Banerjee in Nandigram and claimed it was not an "unfortunate incident", but a conspiracy. The TMC met the full EC team, including Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora, for over an hour and submitted a memorandum to it, highlighting how BJP leaders in West Bengal had threatened the chief minister through tweets and other remarks. In the memorandum, the TMC has made allegations against Suvendu Adhikari, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Nandigram in the upcoming state Assembly polls. TMC leaders had also met EC officials in Bengal on Thursday, following which the poll body sent a strongly-worded letter to the party on its memorandum over injuries to Banerjee during the campaign, saying it looks "undignified to even respond" to allegations that the poll panel is doing things in the state at the behest of a "particular party".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
12-03-2021||India||Modi flags off government’s initiative to mark 75 years of independence||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav', the government's initiative to mark 75 years of India's Independence. Modi said the 75th anniversary celebrations will continue till August 15, 2023, adding "conscious efforts" have been made in the last six years to preserve the history of unsung heroes of the country. The prime minister flagged off a padyatra (foot march) from Sabarmati Ashram to commemorate Mahatma Gandhi's Dandi march. The padyatra is being undertaken by 81 marchers from Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad to Dandi in Navsari, a journey of 386 km. The march will end after 25 days, on April 5. Led by Mahatma Gandhi, 78 people had started the Dandi Yatra on March 12, 1930 from Sabarmati Ashram by announcing the 'Salt Satyagraha', a non-violent protest against the oppressive British taxes on salt, which played a vital role in the Independence movement. "We are proud of our Constitution and democratic traditions. India is the mother of democracy and we are marching ahead by strengthening it. India's achievements are not just our own. Our achievements are showing light to the entire world," Modi said after launching the celebrations. India's 'Atmanirbhar' approach of development will give momentum to the development journey of the world, he said. "Five pillars - Freedom Struggle, Ideas at 75, Achievements at 75, Actions at 75 and Resolves at 75 - are the guiding force for moving forward," he said. Listing the contributions made by freedom fighters and different incidents related to the freedom struggle, Modi said, "The country has been making a conscious effort for the last six years to preserve this history, in every state and every region. "The revival of the site associated with the Dandi Yatra was completed two years ago. The site where Netaji Subhash (Chandra Bose) hoisted the tricolor in Andaman after the formation of the country's first independent government has also been revived. "The Andaman and Nicobar islands are named after the freedom struggle. Places associated with Babasaheb (Ambedkar) have been developed in the form of Panchatheertha. The memorial in Jallianwala Bagh and Paika movement memorial have also been developed, Modi said. After landing at Ahmedabad airport, Modi drove to Sabarmati Ashram, where he paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi. He also visited Hriday Kunj, the house in the Ashram where Mahatma Gandhi stayed with his wife Kasturba from 1918 to 1930. Modi wrote in the visitors' book that the Mahotsav is a tribute to our freedom fighters and freedom struggle. "By coming to the Sabarmati Ashram and with the inspiration of Bapu, my determination for nation building is strengthened," the prime minister wrote. "Mahatma Gandhi gave the message of atma-nirbharta (self-reliance) and atma-vishwas (self-confidence) from here, Modi wrote. "Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav is a tribute by our people to our freedom fighters and freedom movement. During the celebrations the country will not only remember all the important milestones, important times during the freedom movement but also gain new energy for development of our future," Modi wrote. "I am confident that with the blessings of Bapu, we Indians will follow our duties and achieve the goals set during this Amrut Mohatsav," he added. Modi then went to the venue of the cultural programme adjacent to the Ashram. "Todays #AmritMahotsav programme begins from Sabarmati Ashram, from where the Dandi March began. The March had a key role in furthering a spirit of pride and Aatmanirbharta among Indias people. Going #VocalForLocal is a wonderful tribute to Bapu and our great freedom fighters," Modi tweeted before the launch of the celebrations. "Buy any local product and post a picture on social media using #VocalForLocal. A Charkha will be installed near Magan Niwas at Sabarmati Ashram. It will rotate full circle with each Tweet related to Aatmanirbharta. This shall also become a catalyst for a peoples movement," Modi tweeted before the Mahotsav launch. The Central government has constituted a committee under Union Home Minister Amit Shah to chalk out policies and planning of various events to be undertaken as part of the celebrations. Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat and Chief Minister Vijay Rupani were present at the launch of the celebrations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Kamal Haasan to contest from Coimbatore South constituency||Actor-turned politician Kamal Haasan would make his electoral debut, contesting from Coimbatore South constituency in the April 6 Tamil Nadu assembly elections. The Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) president made the announcement here on Friday, releasing the second list of his party's candidates. Remembering his late father Sreenivasan, Haasan expressed confidence that the people of his constituency would enable him to voice his views in the assembly by voting for him. "My father's dream was I should become an IAS officer and then enter politics. Though I could not realise his dream (of becoming an IAS officer), my party comprises many (former) IAS officers. That is a proud moment for us," he told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Covid vaccine supply likely to be the focus of first Quad Summit||In their first summit under the Quad framework on Friday, leaders of India, the US, Japan and Australia will deliberate on expanding cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region and focus on a coronavirus vaccine initiative to effectively deal with the pandemic, people familiar with the matter said. They said the virtual summit is expected to delve into pooling in individual strengths by the Quad countries to expedite global vaccine delivery and explore concrete collaboration in supplying safe and affordable vaccines in the Indo-Pacific region. The people said the Quad vaccine initiative will project and reinforce India's credentials as a reliable manufacturer and supplier of the vaccines, reaffirming the country's stature as the "pharmacy of the world". The summit will be participated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, US President Joe Biden, Australian PM Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga. Biden is attending the summit less than two months after he took charge as US President. It is learnt that a major deliverable at the summit will be the vaccine initiative under which vaccines against COVID-19 will be developed in the US, manufactured in India, financed by Japan and US, and supported by Australia. The people cited above said the leaders will discuss regional and global issues of shared interest, and exchange views on practical areas of cooperation towards maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. The summit is likely to exchange views on contemporary issues such as post-pandemic recovery, resilient supply chains, emerging and critical technologies, maritime security, and climate change. The four Quad member countries have been resolving to uphold a rules-based international order in the Indo-Pacific amid growing Chinese assertiveness in the region. The foreign ministers of the Quad countries held a virtual meeting on February 18 during which they vowed to uphold a rules-based international order underpinned by respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, freedom of navigation and peaceful resolution of disputes. India's approach to the Indo-Pacific was enunciated by Modi in a speech at the Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore in 2018. Inclusiveness, openness and ASEAN centrality and unity lie at the heart of India's Indo-Pacific vision. The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle-flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers. The US has been favouring making Quad a security architecture to check China's growing assertiveness. The foreign ministers of the Quad member nations met in Tokyo on October 6 and reaffirmed their collective vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. The foreign minister of the four countries held their first meeting under the Quadrilateral or Quad framework in New York in September 2019. In November 2017, India, Japan, the US and Australia gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the Quad to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. Prime Minister Modi and his Japanese counterpart Suga, during a telephonic conversation on Tuesday, shared the view that cooperation towards realising a free and open Indo-Pacific is becoming increasingly important, the Japanese foreign ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Netflix asked to stop streaming 'Bombay Begums' over inappropriate portrayal of children||The apex child rights body NCPCR has asked Netflix to stop streaming 'Bombay Begums' citing inappropriate portrayal of children in the web series. In a notice to Netflix on Thursday, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has asked the OTT platform to furnish a detailed action report within 24 hours, failing which it said it will be constrained to initiate appropriate legal action. Objecting to the alleged inappropriate portrayal of children in the series, the commission said this type of content will not only pollute the young minds but may also result in abuse and exploitation of children. The commission took action based on a complaint which alleged that the series normalises minors indulging in casual sex and drug abuse. "Netflix should take extra precaution while streaming any content in respect of the children or for the children and shall also refrain themselves from getting into such things," the commission said in its notice. "Therefore, you are directed to look into this matter and immediately stop streaming of this series and furnish a detailed action report within 24 hours, failing which the Commission will be constrained to initiate appropriate action pursuant to the provisions of Section 14 of the CPCR (Commission for Protection of Child Rights) Act, 2005," the commission said. 'Bombay Begums' delves into the lives of five women from different sections of society who all want different things in life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||India registers over 23,000 fresh Covid cases, 117 casualties in a day||India recorded 23,285 cases of coronavirus infection in a day, the highest in around 78 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,13,08,846, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll increased to 1,58,306 with 117 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total active caseload increased to 1,97,237, which now comprises 1.74 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has dropped to 96.86 per cent. On December 24, 24,712 new infections were reported in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to1,09,53,303, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.40 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 22,49,98,638 samples have been tested up to March 11 with 7,40,345 samples being tested on Thursday. The 117 new fatalities include 57 from Maharashtra, 18 from Punjab and 13 from Kerala. A total of 1,58,306 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,667 from Maharashtra followed by 12,535 from Tamil Nadu, 12,381 from Karnataka, 10,934 from Delhi, 10,286 from West Bengal, 8,741 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,179 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||We need to be in spaces to drive policy: Aishe ||When the CPM announced her candidature for the Bengal polls on Wednesday, Aishe Ghosh had just led a group of students into Jawaharlal Nehru University’s B.R. Ambedkar Central Library and compelled the administration to reopen the reading rooms, closed since the pandemic began. Aishe, president of the JNU students’ union and just over five feet tall, was in the limelight last year when she suffered a deep cut on her forehead from an assault with steel rods by alleged ABVP supporters while leading a campus agitation against a hostel fee hike. The Durgapur native and leader of CPM student arm SFI is now one of a set of young candidates the party has fielded to try and wrest power back from the Trinamul Congress in Bengal. Aishe, 26, is the candidate from Jamuria, West Burdwan. From a varsity known for its disdain for the establishment, she is the first incumbent students’ union president to contest for public office. Her fellow SFI leader from JNU, Dipsita Dhar, is contesting from Bally and has already begun campaigning. Aishe told The Telegraph a realisation was growing that student leaders need to enter electoral politics to have an impact on the lives of students. “Whatever we face on campus is now seen in the context of what is happening outside. Be it the dilution of reservation, the growth of communal forces that led to the disappearance of (JNU student) Najeeb, or budget cuts,” she said. “Inside the university, when we talk of bringing about change, such a change has to be systemic, (involving) policy-level changes. And if there has to be change, we need to be in spaces where we can voice our opinion about what policies there should be.” JNU has been simmering since Aishe joined the School of International Studies for an MA in 2016. That year saw a police crackdown against alleged sedition by some students, and the disappearance of student Najeeb Ahmed after a scuffle with ABVP members. The following years witnessed seat cuts and a range of changes that the students’ union says were aimed at making the university inaccessible to students from marginalised segments and unduly congenial to those who espouse Hindutva. “When I joined JNU in 2016, activism itself was new to me. There were suggestions not to join JNU. Student politics and the political culture were new to me,” Aishe, who had joined the SFI after enrolling at JNU, said. Five years on, she has waded into electoral politics just when she has submitted the first draft of her MPhil dissertation on the “Impact of human intervention in the Tibetan plateau, 1980-2019”. She explained the plunge and the timing: “I know that the organisation I belong to, the SFI, and the party I represent now have an ideology. It’s not my individual view: it’s the organisation that has backed me up in JNU, it’s the party that is now backing me to contest.” After the attack on January 5 last year, Aishe had needed 16 stitches on her forehead and had to endure the false propaganda that her injuries were staged. When she returned home, neighbours came to see if the injury was real. She continues to suffer spells of dizziness. While no one has been arrested for the assault, during which several students and teachers were roughed up, police have accused Aishe of leading a mob that day. She has not yet been chargesheeted. With the self-disregard expected of communists, Aishe told this newspaper her injuries needed to be seen in the context of governments encouraging goons to quell protests. “The violence I have faced personally could have been faced by anybody in this university, and it may increase in the coming days…. Even in Jamuria, if there’s a fee hike the students will fight against it. What happened to me can happen to them if they fight for a government to spend more on education. So what has happened in JNU is not isolated,” she said. “These forces, which have attacked us before, will never be able to break our spirit. I had said back then that the answer to the iron rod will always be iron will, the answer for all kinds of violence will always be alternative policies that we put forward. An idea doesn’t die because of an attack on one person.” Indeed, it’s because violence is so common in Bengal that many students like her have moved out for higher education. Aishe graduated from Delhi University. She spoke of the Bengal she was now returning to. “In some places there is an ‘insider-outsider’ debate, or a Hindu-Muslim divide. The real issue is that a lot of people are forced to migrate. I would have been happy studying back home; we couldn’t because of a certain educational environment. Tomorrow we have to make sure that people are not forced to migrate for jobs or education,” Aishe said. “The idea of homogeneity is problematic. From Durgapur to Calcutta you will find three or four different kinds of Bengalis. We have always celebrated that. Everyone has the right to assert their culture. We can’t let people divide us on ‘insider-outsider’ lines or say that someone’s religion is not acceptable. That is what the front (Left-Congress-ISF alliance) and the Left have to make sure.” Transplanted from a campus of political purity to the realpolitik of allying with a party led by a cleric, Aishe was blunt when asked about the tie-up with Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui and his Indian Secular Front. “He (Siddiqui) is talking about the oppressed, the minorities, Dalits, Adivasis, their condition, education and employment. Not in a single place has he used religious jargon to mobilise people,” Aishe said. “Even on (the JNU) campus we have prioritised the inclusion of the marginalised in education. That priority remains the same in the Assembly elections.” Asked about Siddiqui’s misogynist and polarising utterances in the past, such as those against actress turned Trinamul MP Nusrat Jahan, she replied: “I’m not here to defend that. In the coming days it is for all of us to work towards a society where women are not objectified and are not in the clutches of a patriarchal society.” She added: “We need to go out and vote. I appeal to people to vote for the Morcha. While thinking (about) that, it is (also) very important that the fascist forces are defeated…. On May 2, voters must usher in a government that brings back the Bengal where people have a better standard of living and can hold their heads high.” With that she was off to the library, just like Wednesday, this time to catch up with her reading before she left for Jamuria on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Congress questions Yogi Adityanath's credentials to hold forth on women’s safety ||The Congress on Thursday questioned the credentials of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to hold forth on women’s safety and law and order while campaigning in election-bound states such as Bengal, contending that the crimes against women under his watch were a blot on civilised society. Referring to the death of a Kanpur man who had lodged a complaint about his daughter’s rape, the Congress also questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the unending horrors of crime against women in Uttar Pradesh and the apathy of home minister Amit Shah who has concentrated his energies on toppling Opposition governments. Party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “A very disturbing news from Kanpur — first the rape of a 13-year-old girl, which in itself should shake the collective consciousness of our society, but, what we see after that is even more shameful. Her father is crushed by a moving vehicle and this is a script that gets repeated in Uttar Pradesh. “This is the same thing that had happened in Unnao. The victim was intimidated, her family members were killed one by one to remove evidence and finally BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar was found guilty.” Shrinate added: “It is no surprise to me that the main accused (in the latest Kanpur case) is the son of an Uttar Pradesh police officer but the abject silence of Yogi Adityanath or Amit Shah or Modi is very, very questionable. They are conspicuous by their silence. “Adityanath has the time to go and campaign in West Bengal and talk about crime against women, what about your own track record? What is happening in UP and who is going to be responsible for that? Your information officers, your senior police officers, your MLAs, your ministers, their first attempt is to deny rape; and when they fail to do so, they start assassinating the character of the victim herself.” The Congress demanded the resignation of Adityanath. Campaigning in Bengal’s Malda on March 2, Adityanath had said: “The law and order in Bengal is in a shambles. Cattle rustling and cross-border smuggling have become commonplace and police and the administration do not take steps against criminals…. Even women aren’t spared. Any government that can’t ensure the safety of women and residents of the state as a whole should not be in power even for a day.” The Congress on Thursday urged Modi and Shah, who have been focussing on electoral campaigns, to speak on the situation in Uttar Pradesh. Shrinate said: “Instances after instances — Unnao, Hathras, Barabanki, Shahjahanpur — the kind of political protection that is offered is perhaps the reason for crimes like these and which is why, out of 312 elected BJP MLAs in 2017, 114 face criminal charges and 82 of them, nearly 40 per cent, face grave criminal charges like rape and murder. Can we even expect that people like these will ensure justice?” The Congress also raised issues like the reports of a Swedish bus maker paying bribes, including to an unnamed minister, in India to win bus contracts in seven states between 2013 and 2016, the abnormally high petroleum prices and the global warnings about erosion of democracy in India to caution voters in the election-bound states against trusting BJP propaganda. Referring to the report by the Swedish V-Dem institute classifying India as an “electoral autocracy”, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “India is no longer a democratic country.” Turning to corruption, Srinate said: “The reports of the bus contract scam are indeed very, very disturbing. The Scandinavian government reports point a finger at India’s central government, various ministers, various state governments and even the Prime Minister’s Office. The same Prime Minister who used to speak about probity in public life is today forced to remain silent. He does not even want to talk about this. Allegations are against the highest levels of the government. There are pictures of various ministers, including the Prime Minister, with the management of Scania (the company allegedly involved in bribery).” Showing pictures at the media conference, the Congress spokesperson said: “Modi with the Scania CEO, various pictures are there. There are pictures with surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari. There are also pictures with Vasundhara Raje, who was then the Rajasthan chief minister. With Ravi Shankar Prasad, the law and telecom minister. What is happening? They will have to answer a very basic question, who is responsible for this? “Their absolute silence, their conspicuous silence cannot be ignored and their absolute conspicuous silence is on account of this government’s complicity. There is no other reason why they are silent. Look at these pictures and they tell you a tale of a lot of proximity. They tell you a tale of lack of accountability. We demand a judicial inquiry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Print, TV platforms’ urge govt to keep them out of new ethics code purview||Digital news platforms linked to print and electronic media houses on Thursday urged the information and broadcasting ministry to keep them out of the purview of the new digital media ethics code. They pointed out that they already come under the Press Council of India and the News Broadcasters Standards Authority (NBSA). The request was made during a videoconference with I&B minister Prakash Javadekar where the ministry noted the request but remained non-committal. Digital-only platforms such as The Wire, Scroll, The Quint, AltNews, The News Minute and Newslaundry — which many see as the main targets of the new ethics code — were not invited for the consultations, and there was no indication from the ministry of there being a separate such interface with them in the near future. According to the ministry, Thursday’s meeting was attended by representatives of ABP, The Times of India, Dainik Bhaskar, Dainik Jagran, Hindustan Times, The Indian Express, India Today, Eenadu and Lokmat, and they welcomed the new code while seeking exemption for themselves. At the meeting, the minister briefed them about the new code, which included a three-tier grievance redress mechanism. While the first two tiers comprise people from the industry, the third tier provides a foothold to the government to step in through an oversight mechanism under the I&B ministry. After the meeting, the Digital News Publishers Association — “a body comprising of top media companies of India” — tweeted: “DNPA thanks the Minister for today’s constructive meet. DNPA made suggestions that preserve freedom of the press and emphasised that all its members are bound by — and follow — the regulations of Press Council of India and/or NBSA.” Jency Jacob of one such independent platform, Boom, tweeted in response to the DNPA’s tweet: “We have read the statement and it’s a shameful one. You asked for exemption while throwing standalone websites under the bus. Not sure why that was needed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Rising Covid cases highlight need for masks ||India on Thursday recorded over 20,000 new Covid-19 cases for the first time in two months amid Maharashtra’s second wave, Punjab’s third wave, and increasing counts in three other states, but continued declines elsewhere. However, health experts believe a second nationwide wave is unlikely without concurrent surges in many more large states. Health authorities recorded 22,854 new Covid-19 cases nationwide — the highest since 20,346 on January 6 — after a near-steady increase in the counts of Covid patients over the past month from 135,000 on February 12 to over 189,000 on March 10. Maharashtra and Punjab are largely driving the epidemic’s current growth. In Maharashtra, the seven-day average daily new cases have increased four-fold — from 2,500 to 10,000 — over the past month. In Punjab, counts have increased six-fold from 200 to over 1,300. “We’re very worried about several districts in Maharashtra. There are lessons for us — don’t take the virus for granted,” said Vinod Paul, a senior pediatrician, chair of the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccines and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. Paul said the surge in Maharashtra and other states underlines the importance of personal precautions such as masks and avoiding crowds and the need for rigorous implementation of standard public health measures such as testing, containment and health system preparedness. “It will also be our suggestion that vaccinations should be intensified and prioritised in districts where cases are on a significant rise,” Paul said. Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 13,659 new Covid-19 cases, more than halfway to its peak count of 24,886 on September 10 during the state’s first epidemic wave. Experts said the current rise represents a second wave in the state and appears driven by laxity in both precautions and public health measures. Punjab’s current rise marks a third wave, after the first in mid-September and a second peak in November. Health officials said Gujarat, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have also shown a steady rise in counts over the past month. “We think Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana are at a tipping point close to a surge,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. The daily new cases have more than doubled in the three states since early February. “The states have been told that they need to pull up their socks — increase their tests, increase their surveillance, increase their containment areas. Basically whatever we’ve been doing so far. More of the same but in a more efficient manner,” Bhushan said. Epidemiologists said while the surge in Maharashtra is surprising because the state had consistently reported large numbers of cases since the start of the epidemic in 2020, a nationwide second wave is unlikely without similar surges in other states with large populations. Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and Bengal are among the states that have continued to show a decline in the counts of active patients over the past month. In Kerala, the number fell from 64,000 in early February to around 35,000 this week. In Bengal, patient counts decreased from 4,300 to 3,100, while in Uttar Pradesh, the counts declined from 3,200 to 1,600. Community medicine specialists say the key to avoiding a second nationwide wave would be to ensure that surges like the one in Maharashtra do not occur in other states with large populations such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh or Tamil Nadu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Petition to compensate innocent people jailed for long periods||A petitioner has asked the Supreme Court to direct the Centre and the states to provide compensation to innocent people arrested and jailed for long periods, the plea coming amid a spurt in citizens being put behind bars for criticising the government. Wrongful imprisonment, resulting from “gross abuse of power and authority by the State” or from false allegations by citizens, violates a person’s right to life and liberty under Article 21, says the petition, moved on Thursday. “There has been a spurt in false cases. Wrongful prosecution and incarceration of innocent persons with no effective statutory and legal mechanism available... is causing ‘miscarriage of justice’ and has created a black hole in the criminal jurisprudence of our country,” says the petition from Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, an advocate. The petition says: “There are many startling cases which show the gross abuse of power and authority by the State and vexatious complainant(s), which caused absolute ‘miscarriage of justice’ by irreparable damage to right to life, liberty and dignity of innocent citizens in the justice dispensation with no relief given by the courts.” The petition cites how, on January 28 this year, a division bench of Allahabad High Court declared an accused innocent after he had spent 20 years in jail. Vishnu Tiwari had been arrested on September 16, 2000, after being accused of rape and atrocities under the SC/ST Act. While acquitting Tiwari, however, the high court awarded no compensation, the petition says. It has urged the apex court to direct the central and state governments to evolve guidelines for awarding compensation to victims of wrongful prosecution. The petition wants governments to pay compensation even in cases of malicious prosecution by individuals because it is the State’s duty to properly investigate any criminal complaint. Indian law, anyway, has a provision for punishing people who file false cases and forcing them to pay compensation to the victims. The petition underlines that the Law Commission had in 2018 recommended compensation for victims of miscarriages of justice. It complains that the Centre has not implemented it. It has suggested the top court frame the guidelines for compensation and direct the Centre and the states to follow them until the Law Commission recommendations are implemented. The petition has cited the Delhi High Court ruling in Babloo Chauhan vs State Government of NCT of Delhi, which expressed concern at the lack of a legal framework to provide relief to people who are wrongly prosecuted and eventually acquitted after long imprisonment. It was at the behest of this November 30, 2017, ruling that the law panel had gone into the subject and submitted its recommendations on August 30, 2018, the petition says. It recalls that the Supreme Court too had held that compensation can be awarded for violation of Article 21, and that this had led to the award of compensation to some of those wrongly imprisoned. The petition has quoted a Prison Survey of India report that says prisoners awaiting trial continue to outnumber convicts in India’s jails.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Denmark, Norway and Iceland put Astra Covid vaccine on hold ||Denmark, Norway and Iceland on Thursday suspended the use of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine shots following reports of the formation of blood clots in some people who had been vaccinated. A national expert panel in India has begun an exercise to “take a closer look” at the incidence of hospitalisations or deaths after vaccination with Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India by the Serum Institute, an advisor to the panel told The Telegraph on Thursday night. India has not suspended the use of the vaccine. “We’re aware of the temporary suspension by some countries. We’ve initiated an exercise to examine the incidence of hospitalisations or deaths, if any, involving thrombo-embolic (clotting-related) events,” said Narendra Arora, advisor to the national panel on adverse events following immunisation (AEFI). The European medicine regulator EMA said the vaccine’s benefits outweighed its risks and could continue to be administered. Denmark suspended the shots for two weeks after a 60-year-old woman, who was given an AstraZeneca shot from the same batch used in Austria, formed a blood clot and died, Danish health authorities said. Their response was also prompted by reports “of possible serious side effects” from other European countries. “It is currently not possible to conclude whether there is a link. We are acting early, it needs to be thoroughly investigated,” health minister Magnus Heunicke said on Twitter.
The vaccine will be suspended for 14 days in Denmark. “This is a cautionary decision,” Geir Bukholm, director of infection prevention and control at the Norwegian Institute of Public Health (FHI), told a news conference. The FHI did not say how long the suspension would last. “We... await information to see if there is a link between the vaccination and this case with a blood clot,” Bukholm said. Iceland on Thursday suspended jabs with the vaccine as it awaited the results of an investigation by the EMA. Italy said on Thursday it would suspend the use of an AstraZeneca batch. Austria had earlier stopped using a batch of AstraZeneca shots. Some health experts said there was little evidence to suggest the AstraZeneca vaccine should not be administered and that the cases of blood clots corresponded with the rate of such cases in the general population. AstraZeneca told Reuters in a written statement the safety of its vaccine had been extensively studied in human trials and that peer-reviewed data had confirmed it was generally well tolerated. In New Delhi, Arora, the national expert panel member, said the Indian exercise would seek to determine whether there had been any spike in thrombo-embolic events among vaccinated people compared with the natural background rate of such events expected in the same age band as those vaccinated. For instance, if the natural background rates for thrombo-embolic events among people aged 60 to 70 is 4 and the panel finds 3 such events occurred among those within that age band who received vaccinations, these would be considered natural. But suppose the panel detects 6 or 7 events, it could demand further investigations. More than 18 million people in India have received Covishield among the 26 million vaccinated across the country so far. The Union health ministry has said that none of the deaths probed so far has been linked causally to the vaccines. Covaxin The Centre has said Bharat Biotech’s indigenously developed Covaxin is out of the “clinical trial mode” and has been granted the regular restricted emergency use authorisation just like Covishield, adds PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
12-03-2021||India||Designer’s kin blame BJP govt for suppressing suicide investigation||The family of interior designer Anvay Naik, who allegedly committed suicide in 2018, on Thursday accused the previous BJP-led Maharashtra government of suppressing the investigation. Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami and two others were arrested on November 4 last year by Raigad police in connection with the suicide of Naik and his mother over unpaid dues. They were granted bail by the Supreme Court a few days later. Naik’s daughter Adnya and his wife Akshata made the allegation while speaking to reporters at Prabhadevi in central Mumbai. “The previous state government 100 per cent suppressed the case of my father’s suicide and I think there should be an investigation into it,” Adnya said. “The then investigating officer in the case had tried to forcibly take our signature on the case-closing form,” she alleged. Akshata said: “On whose instructions these things were happening? The police should investigate the entire chain behind it. There should be a thorough inquiry of the previous government in connection with the case.” Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said: “We share the family’s grief. However, the apex court has already given its verdict in the Anvay Naik suicide case and cleared the previous BJP-led government from charges of suppressing the investigation.” Akshata said the family had been denied justice. “We are again requesting everyone to give us justice in the case.… One person gets justice within two days and people are transferred only on the basis of suspicion…. Is it that only if you are the richest person of Asia, you will get justice?” Adnya said: “After the arrest of the accused persons, we have been continuously getting threats.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
