13-03-2021||India||SC left with one woman judge is ‘deeply worrying’: Justice D Y Chandrachud||Apex court judge, Justice D Y Chandrachud, on Saturday expressed call for prompt serious introspection with the Supreme Court being left with only one woman judge. He even termed it “deeply worrying”. Justice Chandrachud was speaking at a farewell ceremony organised by the Supreme Court Young Lawyers Forum to honour Justice Indu Malhotra, who was the first woman lawyer to be appointed directly as a judge of the Supreme Court, retires from the apex court on Saturday. “Justice Malhotra’s retirement means that the SC now has only one female judge on the Bench. As an institution, I find that this is a deeply worrying fact and must promptly receive serious introspection,” Justice Chandrachud said. He said that “as an institution whose decision shape and impact lives of everyday Indian, we must do better”. “We must ensure the diversity of our country find reflection in making up of our court. Intrinsically having a more diverse judiciary is an end, a goal in itself and worth pursuing in its own sake. “Instrumentally, having a more diverse judiciary, ensured diversity of perspectives is fairly considered, instills high degree of public confidence,” he said. He maintianed that it was required that stories such as Justice Malhotra become more common place. “As members of legal fraternity we do our bit to ensure that it doesn't remain as hard as it was for Justice Malhotra for women to climb upper echelons of our profession,” he said. Speaking at the occasion, Justice Malhotra said that for a lawyer it was important to conduct yourself with high degree of professionalism. “You must be properly attired, professionally at all times and be punctual in your engagements. One issue I flagged when I was called by women lawyers to Bar room after becoming a judge, I said please don't wear fashionable clothes, which you must keep for the evening and not while you are at work. “You must be professionally dressed as that's how you will be perceived by your clients, your colleagues, and the Bench. Second, you must learn to draft in clear and concise manner,” she said. In her farewell speech on Wednesday, she said that the verdict delivered by the apex court decriminalising consensual gay sex was the “most moving moment” as the emotions that swept the courtroom at that time was quite overwhelming. Justice Malhotra, who took office on April 27, 2018, penned several important verdicts, including her dissenting judgement in the historic Sabarimala Temple case in which she had said judicial review of religious practices should not be done as courts cannot impose their morality or rationality on the form of worship of a deity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
13-03-2021||India||State election commissioners should be independent, says SC||State election commissioners have to be "independent persons" not occupying a post under the Centre or state governments, the Supreme Court has ruled, terming the Goa government's move to give its law secretary the additional charge of the SEC a "mockery" of constitutional mandate. In a significant verdict, the top court also directed if there were any such persons holding the post of SEC in any other state, "such persons must be asked forthwith to step down from such office and the State Government concerned be bound to fulfil the constitutional mandate of Article 243K by appointing only independent persons to this high constitutional office". A three-judge bench, headed by Justice R F Nariman, issued the direction to all states and Union territories while taking recourse of its extraordinary powers under Article 142 of the Constitution that empowers it to pass any order in the interest of justice. The directions were issued to ensure that the constitutional mandate of an independent State Election Commission to conduct elections is "strictly followed in the future", said the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy. The observations and directions were given in the 96-page judgement, penned by Justice Nariman, on a batch of pleas relating to the urban local body polls in Goa. The judgment, uploaded on the apex court's website on Saturday, has upheld the Bombay High Court's verdict of setting aside an order of the municipal administrator on February 4 on granting quota to women and OBC candidates in local urban body polls in five municipal councils in the state. The bench directed the Goa SEC to issue the notification for the urban body polls within 10 days from Friday and complete the poll process by April 30. Justice Nariman extensively dealt with the constitutional scheme pertaining to elections and the SECs. "It is also made clear that henceforth, all State Election Commissioners appointed under Article 243K in the length and breadth of India have to be independent persons who cannot be persons who are occupying a post or office under the Central or any State Government," it held. "The most disturbing feature of these cases is the subversion of the constitutional mandate contained in Article 243K of the Constitution of India. "The State Election Commissioner has to be a person who is independent of the State Government as he is an important constitutional functionary who is to oversee the entire election process in the state qua panchayats and municipalities," Justice Nariman, who wrote the judgement for the bench, said. The importance given to the independence of a SEC is explicit from the provision for his removal from his office which equal to a judge of the high court. "Giving an additional charge of such an important and independent constitutional office to an officer who is directly under the control of the State Government is, in our view, a mockery of the constitutional mandate," the verdict said. It declared that the additional charge given to a law secretary flouted the constitutional mandate and asked the Goa government to "remedy this position by appointing an independent person to be the State Election Commissioner at the earliest". Petitions were filed in the Bombay High Court relating to the elections to 11 municipal councils where terms had expired on November 4 last year and the SEC had fixed polls in April, 2021. The law secretary, who was given additional charge of the SEC on November 3, had postponed the polls due to the pandemic. Pleas were filed in the high court against a change in the Goa Municipalities Act, by which the time frame for issuance of a notification for reservation of wards was stated as being "at least seven days" before the notification for schedule of dates and events of the elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
13-03-2021||India||Six more vaccines coming up in India, says health minister||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday announced that more than six coronavirus vaccines will come up in India. He also said that 1.84 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered to people so far, while 23 crore tests have been conducted. "India has developed two vaccines, which have been given to 71 countries. Many more nations are seeking the vaccines, and these are not little-known nations...Canada, Brazil and other developed countries are using Indian vaccines with a great zeal," he said. "More than half a dozen vaccines are going to come up," he said. "Till Saturday morning, 1.84 crore vaccine shots have been given in the country and 20 lakh people were inoculated yesterday," the minister added. He was speaking while inaugurating the new green campus of the National Institute of Research in Environmental Health near Bhopal. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to create a new India to turn it into a 'vishwa guru' (world leader),” he added. "Respect science. There is a need to end politics over it (vaccine) given that it is a scientific fight not a political one. That is why we should work unitedly," Vardhan said. “The efforts of our scientists are praiseworthy as due to their labour we have achieved all this. Year 2020, apart from being a Covid-19 year, will be remembered as the year of science and scientists,” he added. He said that initially there was only one laboratory in India for Covid-19 testing. "But we have 2,412 testing facilities now," he added. "We were the first in the world to isolate the coronavirus. We isolated its mutation. And our scientists helped the ICMR in making the vaccine. People have praised it (vaccine). Some people tried to create confusion, but truth is unbeatable," he said. Talking about the rising infection cases, the minister said this "disturbing trend" was due to the carelessness and misunderstanding. "People think that as the vaccine has come and all is well now," he said, while urging them to follow the Covid-19 rules for protection against the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
13-03-2021||India||Deboard passengers not wearing masks properly, DGCA tells airlines||Seeking to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols by air travellers, aviation regulator DGCA on Saturday asked airlines to deboard passengers who do not wear their mask "properly" despite repeated warnings. Also, the watchdog has directed airlines to treat a passenger as "unruly" in case the person violates the protocols. The latest directives come against the backdrop of a rising number of coronavirus cases in certain parts of the country even as domestic air traffic is improving. In a circular issued on Saturday, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), has also directed the airport operators to ensure that the passengers wear their mask and maintain social distancing norms at all times during the air travel. The DGCA said it has been noticed that some travellers undertaking air journey do not adhere to "Covid-19 protocols", which essentially involve wearing masks properly -- not below the nose, right from entering the departing airport to exiting from the arriving airport. Observing that some passengers after entering the airport do not wear their mask properly and maintain social distance while being in the airport, the regulator said that some passengers have been noticed not wearing their masks properly while on board the aircraft. "On board the aircraft, in case any passenger does not adhere to wearing a mask properly even after repeated warnings, he/she should be de-boarded, if need be, before departure," the circular said. "In the case of any passenger on board an aircraft refusing to wear a mask or violates the 'Covid-19 Protocol for passengers' even after repeated warnings, during the course of the flight, such passengers may be treated as 'Unruly' passengers, as per the DGCA. The procedure in respect of handling such unruly passengers will be followed by the airline concerned as per the Civil Aviation Requirement (CAR), it added. The circular said that the passengers will wear masks and maintain social distancing norms at all times during air travel, adding the mask shall not be moved below the nose except under exceptional circumstances. Directing the CISF/ police personnel deployed at the entrance of the airport to ensure that no one is allowed to enter the airport without wearing a mask, it said that the chief airport security officer and other supervising officers must ensure this personally. In case any passenger found violating Covid-19 protocols at the airport, they should be handed over to security agencies after proper warnings, the directive said. "If required, they may be dealt as per law," the circular added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
13-03-2021||India||Cut in fuel prices, other benefits feature in DMK poll manifesto||The opposition DMK in Tamil Nadu on Saturday released its party's manifesto for the April 6 Assembly elections in the state, making a slew of promises including free computer tablets with data cards for students and a law to provide 75 percent of jobs in the state to locals. Financial assistance of Rs 25,000 to one lakh persons going on pilgrimage to major Hindu temples, increase in maternity leave period and assistance, cut in fuel prices and steps to ban NEET were the various promises made by the Dravidian party. Releasing the manifesto, DMK President Stalin said if his party was voted to power, first generation graduates will be given preference in government jobs, reservation in private sector will also be insisted and promised subsidies for small farmers. "Tablets with free data will be provided to government school and college students," Stalin told a press conference at party headquarters Anna Arivalayam. If voted, the party will reduce the rates of petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 4 per litre, he said in an apparent reference to tax cuts. Also, a subsidy of Rs 100 towards LPG cylinder will be provided. Steps will be taken to expedite the submission of a committee (Arumughasamy Committee) report formed to probe the circumstances leading to the death of Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in 2016, he said. Further, a law to set aside 75 percent of jobs in industrial houses for locals will be passed if the DMK was voted to power, he added. Promising an allocation of Rs 1000 crore towards renovation and consecration of Hindu temples, Stalin assured to provide Rs 200 crore for churches and mosques. Better water management, supply of clean drinking water, increase in women's reservation in government jobs, hiking old age pension and establishment of 'Kalaignar Unavagam' eateries as part of hunger eradication were the other assurances provided by the DMK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
13-03-2021||India||20 lakh vaccines administered on Friday, highest so far says Centre||The Health Ministry said on Saturday that more than 20 lakh vaccine doses against the coronavirus were administered across the country the previous day, the highest single-day count so far. As many as 16,39,663 beneficiaries -- healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) -- were vaccinated for the first dose and 4,13,874 such people received the second shot. "India recorded a significant milestone in its countrywide Covid19 vaccination drive which started on January 16. More than 20 lakh (20,53,537) vaccine doses were given on Day-56 of the vaccination drive (March 12) through 30,561 sessions," the ministry said in a statement. This is the highest single-day vaccine administration so far, it said. A total of more than 2.82 crore (2,82,18,457) vaccine doses have been administered through 4,86,314 sessions, as per the provisional report. "These include 72,93,575 HCWs (1st dose), 41,94,030 HCWs (2nd dose), 72,35,745 FLWs (1st dose) and 9,48,923 FLWs (2nd dose), 12,54,468 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st dose) and 72,91,716 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years," it said. Eight states constituted 74 per cent of the 20.54 lakh doses administered in the past 24 hours, with Uttar Pradesh topping the list with more than 3.3 lakh vaccine doses. Ten states account for 69 per cent of the second dose vaccinations in India and Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 9.71 per cent -- 4,99,242 -- of the total second dose vaccinations in the country, the ministry said. It added that Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh reported 87.72 per cent of the new cases in the last 24 hours, with Maharashtra accounting for 63.57 per cent of India's total active cases. Twenty states and Union territories have less than 1,000 active cases, the ministry said, and 18 of states/Union territories have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
13-03-2021||India||Covid: over 24,000 cases, highest spike this year||India on Saturday recorded 24,882 fresh Covid-19 infections, the highest so far this year, which took the caseload to 1,13,33,728, according to Union health ministry data. This is also the highest daily rise in the last 83 days. As many as 26,624 new infections were recorded on December 20. The death toll climbed to 1,58,446 with 140 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The country's active caseload increased to 2,02,022, which constitutes 1.74 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate dropped to 96.82 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,09,73,260. The case fatality rate stands at 1.40 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 22,58,39,273 samples had been tested until March 12 including 8,40,635 on Friday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Flag signboards for Jammu and Kashmir schools||The Jammu and Kashmir government has directed the heads of schools run by it to install signboards with the Tricolour in the background, appearing to set up a patriot test for educational institutions in the region. The order issued last month by Gopal Sharma, joint director (planning) at the civil secretariat in the school education department, has designated a junior in his department as the nodal officer to monitor the progress of the initiative. Along with the directive to install signboards, where the details of the schools are to be mentioned, the order seeks to establish a uniform colour scheme for all government school buildings. Progress reports have been sought from all districts on the implementation of the colour code. “Deputy Director Planning, School Education Department, J&K, is designated as nodal officer to monitor adoption of colour shade of grey and white and installation of signboard of standard design in every J&K UT government school with the Tricolour of the national flag in the background,” the order says. Sharma confirmed to The Telegraph that such an order has been released and added that he was yet to receive progress reports from the districts. Valley schools have no tradition of singing the national anthem or hoisting the Tricolour. Jammu and Kashmir had its own constitution, flag and penal code, which were scrapped when its special status was cancelled in 2019. The flag was later removed from the civil secretariat offices in Srinagar and Jammu. The central government had claimed these measures had been undertaken for the full integration of Jammu and Kashmir with India. The fresh directive seems to be a part of that campaign. There is a blanket ban on student activism in Kashmir to prevent pro-azadi sentiments from getting a vent. Kashmir Private Schools Association chairman Ghulam Nabi Var said Jammu and Kashmir was perhaps the first region in the country to ask schools to use the Tricolour as a background for signboards. “I have not heard about any such initiative outside,” Var told this newspaper. “There are already a lot of things happening, like the new education policy that is being implemented (by the Centre). Earlier the purpose of education was to teach students about how to think. Now they are taught what to think.” Var said education should be “politics-neutral”.He said associations representing schools from different parts of the country had assembled this week in Punjab’s Ferozpur to discuss how “to save education”. The Jammu and Kashmir government order has asked schools to give details of the “progress on this activity” on a weekly basis and a deadline of April 30 has been set for the completion of the tasks. “Weekly progress on the said activity must reach the CEO (chief education office) by each Sunday without fail,” reads an official communication issued by a district CEO to the heads of schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Gujarat IPS duo lead CBI director race||Controversial IPS officer Rakesh Asthana and National Investigation Agency chief Y.C. Modi, both considered close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, are among the front-runners for the post of the next CBI director, government sources have told The Telegraph. The country’s premier investigative agency is now headed by interim director Praveen Sinha, a Gujarat-cadre IPS officer like Asthana, after regular director Rishi Kumar Shukla demitted office on February 2 on the expiry of his two-year tenure. The Supreme Court is hearing a writ petition filed by the NGO Common Cause seeking the appointment of a regular CBI director through the high-powered selection committee having the Prime Minister, the Chief Justice of India and the leader of the largest Opposition party or his representative. The petition, filed last week, had pointed out that instead of making a regular appointment to the top CBI post, the Centre had appointed Sinha as an interim director. The court on Friday issued notice to the Centre and posted the matter for hearing after two weeks. The sources said the process to select a new director had started and the department of personnel and training (DoPT) had sought the names of eligible IPS officers belonging to the 1984, 1985 and 1986 batches from the Amit Shah-helmed Union home ministry. Y.C. Modi, a 1984-batch Assam-and-Meghalaya-cadre IPS officer, was part of the Supreme Court-appointed special investigation team (SIT) that probed the 2002 Gujarat riots when Narendra Modi was chief minister. The SIT had given the future Prime Minister a clean chit in the Gulbarg Society massacre in which 69 people had been killed. Asthana, also a 1984-batch IPS officer, had as inspector-general overseen the initial probe into the Godhra train burning that culminated in the riots. Last year the CBI had given a clean chit to Asthana, a former CBI special director, in connection with a bribery scandal in 2018. The case had triggered an unprecedented public feud between Asthana and then CBI director Alok Verma. Both had been benched by the Centre after an unusual midnight raid. Asthana is presently the director-general of the Border Security Force (BSF). A DoPT official said the stakes were high in the race for the CBI top post and lobbying had started. Besides Y.C. Modi and Asthana, the other officers in the fray include Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Keshav Kumar and interim CBI director Sinha. The sources said political considerations were important in the appointment of the CBI director. Candidates for CBI director are shortlisted by the DoPT, which has administrative control over the investigative agency and reports to the Prime Minister’s Office. The names are then sent to the Central Vigilance Commission for clearance. Once approved, the names are sent to the high-powered selection committee. The committee discusses the names and recommends its choice, though the final decision is taken by the Prime Minister-headed appointments committee of the cabinet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Supreme Court of India to scan worship law||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine the constitutional validity of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, which bars litigation on any place of worship for change of its character as it existed on August 15, 1947. Only the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi case, on which the top court ruled in 2019, was exempt from the law. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justice A.S. Bopanna issued notice to the Centre on a petition filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay challenging the validity of the act, which according to him not only offend Articles 14 (equality), 15 (non-discrimination), 21 (life and personal liberty), 25, 26 and 29 (freedom of religion) of the Constitution but also violates the principles of secularism. Senior advocates Vikas Singh and Gopal Sankarnarayan appeared for the petitioner. According to the petition, the legislation that came into force on July 11, 1991, has created an arbitrary and irrational retrospective cutoff date by declaring that changes to the character of places of worship or pilgrimage before the cut-off date of August 15, 1947, cannot be challenged. “No suit or proceeding shall lie in court on disputes against encroachment done by fundamentalist barbaric invaders and law breakers (before the cut-off date),” the petition said. “Thus, the Centre has barred the remedies against illegal encroachment on the places of worship and pilgrimages and now Hindus, Jains, Buddhists and Sikhs cannot file suit or approach a high court…,” it said. “Therefore, they won’t be able to restore their places of worship and pilgrimage, including temples’ endowments,… and illegal barbarian acts of invaders will continue in perpetuity,” the petition claimed. “The injury caused to Hindus, Jains, Buddhists and Sikhs is extremely large because Sections 2, 3, 4 of the Act have taken away the right to approach the court and thus the right to judicial remedy has been closed,” it added. The petition argued that the government cannot take away the right of people to seek legal remedy, nor can it stop courts from issuing writs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Modi must clear air on bribery scandal: Congress||The Centre’s inaction so far on a bribery scandal in spite of an admission by a Swedish bus maker of “misconduct” in India has brought into the spotlight the purported proximity between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and an Indian firm. The Congress on Friday formally said the Prime Minister should clear the air on his links with Siddhi Vinayak Logistics Ltd, a key Indian client and ally of Swedish bus and truck maker Scania that belongs to the Volkswagen stable. Earlier this week, Swedish news channel SVT and two other media outlets had reported after an investigation that Scania had paid bribes to win bus contracts in India in seven states between 2013 and 2016. A Scania spokesperson had revealed that an investigation started by the company in 2017 had shown serious shortcomings by employees, including senior management. “This misconduct included alleged bribery, bribery through business partners and misrepresentation,” the spokesperson told Reuters. Some media reports have suggested a possible link to Union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari. The minister’s office has denied the charge but the Centre has not ordered any probe despite Scania admitting what it described as “misconduct”. So far, the name of the Gujarat-based Siddhi Vinayak Logistics, which had placed a large order for buses with Scania in 2013, has not been mentioned in connection with the bribery scandal. But Siddhi Vinayak Logistics has been probed by the CBI in connection with bank loans. “The Prime Minister should come clean on his links with Siddhi Vinayak Logistics,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said on Friday. “SVVL (Siddhi Vinayak Logistics Ltd) is run by a Surat-based businessman, Rup Chand Baid. This company supplied the customised luxury buses for Modi’s seven-star campaign in 2014,” Khera told a news conference. “SVLL announced a partnership with Scania in 2014. This year was significant for SVLL — it saw Narendra Modi becoming Prime Minister and the company’s worth grew with an annual turnover of Rs 1,500 crore, an annual growth of 80 per cent.” Khera said that when the Bank of Maharashtra asked SVLL to repay its loan in 2014, Baid wrote to the assistant general manager of the bank’s Deccan Gymkhana Branch in Pune, saying: “The undersigned was busy with preparation of very specialised vehicles for 3D campaigning by Honourable Shri Narendrabhai Modi & his team. It took about two months (February & March). During this period, I couldn’t attend business work.” Neither the Centre nor the promoters of Siddhi Vinayak Logistics had responded to the allegations levelled by the Congress till Friday night. This newspaper will publish their versions when they are issued. Khera said: “In a February 2015 report, it was highlighted that SVLL was the Bank of Maharashtra’s largest defaulter. Despite being a defaulter, the fact that the company had friends at the highest echelons of power meant that neither were the loan accounts tagged as NPAs nor were they classified as wilful defaulters. “Yet again, in a letter dated September 16, 2014, Baid showed his proximity with the Prime Minister by forwarding the copy of a letter his company had received from Modi congratulating his company on the observance of ‘Drivers Day’. The company’s website also used to have a photograph of Baid and Modi, which has been taken down as the company was served a liquidation notice on November 19, 2018.” Khera said that SVLL had started a “Chalak se malak” scheme in 2012 under which it sold used trucks to drivers. The Bank of Maharashtra provided loans for this scheme. The bank had a direct exposure of Rs 259 crore to SVLL in addition to an indirect exposure in the form of “small road transport operator finances” of Rs 645 crore. Pre-empting the BJP’s stand that the loan was sanctioned in 2012 before Modi became Prime Minister, Khera said: “An internal probe by the Bank of Maharashtra made this observation, ‘The huge exposure taken by the zonal authorities (Ahmedabad and Surat branches) were without express consent by head office, violating its own credit policy about the exposure to the group defined under credit policy approved by the board. In fact, the finance(s) were made without considering the basic principles of lending, flouting RBI guidelines and credit policy of the bank.’ Also, in 2012, SVLL was not a defaulter and there was no scam.” Khera said the key player in the disbursement of these loans was a general manager of the Bank of Maharashtra. He said the bank official had been suspended for a while before being reinstated because of his links with the RSS. The official is now retired.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Industrial output contracts by 1.6% and retail inflation spirals to 5.03%||The Narendra Modi government suffered a double blow on Friday with industrial output contracting by 1.6 per cent and retail inflation spiralling to a three-month high of 5.03 per cent in February on the back of rising food and fuel prices. Industrial output had risen by 1.6 per cent in December, according to revised estimates. The double whammy meant that the government’s recent assertion of a broad-based economic recovery — bolstered by an unexpected 0.4 per cent growth in real gross domestic product (GDP) in the third quarter (October-December 2020) — has come under strain. The big worry is that the manufacturing sector, which has an over 77 per cent weightage in the index of industrial production (IIP), has contracted again by 2 per cent. Manufacturing had flickered to life in December last year by recording a 2.1 per cent growth. This is actually a revised number that was put out on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Vaccine diplomacy at Quad meet||The first ever summit meeting of the Quad leadership on Friday announced a “Vaccine Initiative” that will pool the individual capacities of the four member countries to expedite global vaccine delivery in an unstated but apparent bid to counter China’s vaccine diplomacy. Addressing the meeting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said: “We are united by our democratic values... Our agenda today — covering areas like vaccines, climate change and emerging technologies — makes the Quad a force for global good... Today’s summit meeting shows that Quad has come of age. It will now remain an important pillar of stability in the region.” Describing the Quad summit as the launch of a joint partnership that is going to boost vaccine manufacturing for global benefit, US President Joe Biden said: “We are renewing our commitment to ensure that our region is governed by international law committed to all the international values and free from coercion... Quad is going to be a vital arena for cooperation in the Indo-Pacific.” Briefing the media after the meeting initiated by Biden was wrapped up with the first joint statement after a Quad meeting, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the Vaccine Initiative entailed a vaccine developed in the US to be manufactured in India with the financial support of Japan and the US. The fourth member country, Australia, will chip in with the last-mile operation and delivery. It will help recipient countries, especially in South East Asia, to administer the vaccines and develop cold chain facilities. While the Vaccine Initiative is the first major deliverable of the Quad, the four leaders, according to Shringla, will also focus on addressing climate change. Asked if the situation along the Line of Actual Control between India and China was discussed during the virtual meeting, Shringla did not respond. India is seeing the Vaccine Initiative as a great opportunity as it would see additional capacity being added to manufacturing with the US and Japanese funding. Also, according to Shringla, it is a recognition of India’s manufacturing capacity in vaccines. China, according to its foreign ministry, has 17 vaccines in clinical trials. China has donated or is donating Covid vaccines to 69 countries and exporting to 43 countries. India has sent the two vaccines manufactured in the country to around 70 countries as part of its Vaccine Maitri project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Congress hits streets with jobs cry||The Congress party’s students’ wing NSUI on Friday launched a “Naukri Do Ya Degree Wapas Lo” (Give jobs or take back degrees) campaign, questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi about his tempting promise of creating two-crore jobs every year at a time unemployment has acquired dangerous dimensions. The NSUI (National Students’ Union of India) took out a “Chhatra Adhikar March” in Delhi to mark the occasion where senior leaders of the Congress highlighted the curse of unemployment, describing the Modi government’s failure as a shocking betrayal. The police lathicharged thousands of students from across the country who wanted to gherao Parliament, prompting Rahul Gandhi to tweet: “Students want jobs. But the government is giving police batons, water guns, anti-national tag and unemployment.” While the students, along with NSUI president Neeraj Kundan, were taken into preventive custody, the party claimed a large number of boys and girls were injured in the unprovoked and brutal lathicharge. The party also ran a social media campaign under the hashtag #StudentsWantJobs, which trended throughout the day with lakhs of tweets. The NSUI has asked the students from across the country to join the campaign by giving a missed call to a particular number. The speakers at the protest recalled how the Modi government refused to even accept the gravity of the situation and never demonstrated any concern for the sufferings of youth, caused by an all-time high unemployment rate, scams and delays in exams and non-recruitment after selection. The government’s decision for lateral entry into the system was described as a sinister conspiracy against lakhs of students preparing for civil services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Supreme Court plea for boards for rape abortions||The Supreme Court on Friday sought the Centre’s response on setting up special medical boards in all district headquarters to deal with cases relating to abortion on rape victims. A bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justice A.S. Bopanna said: “A girl who has been impregnated because of rape, she should know her legal rights and the options that she has. There should be some mechanism for that. We will issue notice.” The court posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks. The bench passed the directions after advocate V.K. Biju, appearing for a 14-year-old rape victim from Haryana, urged the court to form medical boards for dealing with pleas for abortion from rape victims in view of the restrictions imposed by the Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques (PNDT) Act, 1971. During the hearing the counsel sought permission to withdraw the petition filed by the minor as the report submitted in the court by a medical board of the central government had disapproved the plea for abortion of the 26-week foetus. The girl had been raped allegedly by one of her father’s cousins. Biju pleaded that in view of the rising number of such instances being brought before the court, it was necessary that the apex court direct the government to constitute district-level boards with gynaecologists and paediatricians. In September 2017 the top court had permitted two minor rape victims, both aged around 15, to undergo abortion of their 26-week-old foetus, which had crossed the statutory ceiling of 20 weeks, as it posed a grave threat to the victims’ lives. The law prohibits medical termination of pregnancy beyond 20 weeks as per Section 3 of the PNDT Act, 1971. Section 5 of the Act provides for an exception to the 20-week cut-off if there is a danger to the mother’s life. However, doctors in India are reluctant to take risks, fearing legal hassles, prompting victims to move court. Additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, told the court that she intends to place before the bench an affidavit to explain the amendment carried out to the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Bill, 2020, under which the 20-week period has been enhanced to 25 weeks. The bill has been passed by the Lok Sabha and is awaiting the assent of the Rajya Sabha, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Hospital scam stink in Uttar Pradesh||A hundred 42-inch colour television sets that cost Rs 52,096 apiece were shown as bought at Rs 1.2 lakh each. 200 beds that have a market price of Rs 40,415 each were shown as purchased at Rs 2 lakh apiece. 15 diesel generators priced at Rs 65.74 lakh per set were shown as procured at Rs 89.39 lakh each. 15 units of indoor-outdoor light fixtures with a market price of Rs 18.4 crore were shown as bought at Rs 38.30 crore. The alleged anomalies in the purchase of items for the fledgling Super Speciality Cancer Institute and Hospital in Lucknow had been pointed out by the Uttar Pradesh principal accountant-general in a report to the government on February 17 this year. Within two days, the probe into the alleged irregularities was handed over to the same public works department whose agency has been accused of making the purchases at bloated rates. The hospital spread over 77 acres was conceived in 2014 when the Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav was chief minister and inaugurated on October 20, 2020, by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh. The questionable purchases totalling Rs 56.9 crore were made between 2016 and 2020. The Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Limited (UPRNNL), a wing of the PWD that had been assigned to build and set up the hospital, had made the purchases and is to buy 600 more TV sets and more beds. However, after principal accountant-general Jayant Sinha submitted the report to the government on February 17, the investigation was handed over to the PWD, against whose agency the allegation of irregularities has been made. While notifying the inquiry on February 19, Chandra Bhushan, special secretary of the state PWD, set up a probe committee with three officials — the chief engineer (development, UPRNNL), chief architect (PWD) and the finance controller (PWD). “The committee is directed to make available the inquiry report to the government within 15 days,” the notification said. Sources in the PWD said the report was yet to be filed. The Telegraph could not contact Sinha, the principal accountant-general. An email sent to Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari by this newspaper on Friday for his comment on the alleged scam did not elicit an answer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Justice Indu Malhotra on LGBT bench retires ||Justice Indu Malhotra, part of the Supreme Court bench that in 2018 upheld the LGBT community’s unfettered fundamental right to sexual preference, retired on Friday. Justice Malhotra was part of the five-judge bench that had unanimously on September 6, 2018, passed the 495-page judgment upholding the rights of the LGBT community that had challenged IPC Section 377 as being unconstitutional. The section prohibited “sex against the order of nature”. Justice Malhotra had observed that “history owed an apology to these members and their families”. Justice Malhotra had been the sole dissenting judge on a five-judge constitution that had in September 2018 quashed as unconstitutional the centuries-old practice of banning the entry of women of child-bearing age into the Sabarimala temple in Kerala. Justice Malhotra was the first woman advocate to be appointed directly as a Supreme Court judge on April 27, 2018. Speaking at her farewell, Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde said: “…I have seen Justice Indu Malhotra appearing before me as a lawyer. She would not stop the arguing. I asked my colleague why didn’t she stop arguing. I was told she prepares so well, she cannot resist to argue everything about the case….” Justice Malhotra said: “…My thanks to all, I think I have been very blessed to serve on the bench of the Supreme Court and… to have contributed to the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
