14-03-2021||India||Corporates running Union government, claims Tikait||Rakesh Singh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, on Sunday stated the Union government was being run by businessman who were cashing in on hunger by snatching away land. He was addressing a farmers’ rally in Rewa against the Centre’s three agri marketing laws. “A new business to cash in on hunger has started. Humans get hungry two times a day, 700 times a year. When the food grains will be in their control, they will start the hunger business,” Tikait said. He said in places in Rajasthan and Haryana, land was being bought by businessmen for paltry sums, and massive godowns, with storage capacities of 14 lakh metric tons, had come up, after which the Centre’s new farm laws came in. “This means this government at the Centre is not run by a party, but by businessmen. It is not only farmers who are in trouble, the railways are being sold, but the opposition is weak, and young people who should have opposed such moves are sleeping,” Tikait claimed. He asked people to come out and protest at the district level to get the new laws repealed, adding that farmers must sit at the collectorate and ensure their wheat is sold at Rs 1,975 per quintal. Tikait is scheduled to address a farmers’ rally in Jabalpur on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
14-03-2021||India||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: BJP fields Babul from Tollygunge, Locket in Chunchura ||The BJP on Sunday announced its star-studded list of candidates, which included a Union Minister and several MPs, for the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam. The party released names of 112 candidates for Kerala, where it will be contesting in 115 out of 140 Assembly seats, 17 names for Assam and 63 candidates for the third and fourth phase of elections in West Bengal. In West Bengal, the BJP has fielded former chief economic adviser to the government Ashok Lahiri from the Alipurduar seat, Union Minister Babul Supriyo from Tollygunge, and Swapan Dasgupta from the Tarakeswar Assembly segment. Actor-turned-politician and sitting MP Locket Chatterjee has been fielded from Chunchura and another MP Nishit Parmanik from Dinhata. Also, a number of film personalities have been nominated as candidates in the high-stakes battle for West Bengal. A similar trend was visible in Kerala, where the BJP fielded 'metroman' E Sreedharan from Palakkad and former Union Minister KJ Alphons from the Kanjirappally assembly seat. For Tamil Nadu, it announced actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar as its candidate from the Thousand Lights Assembly seat. The BJP's women cell chief Vanathi Srinivasan has been fielded against noted film star Kamal Haasan from Coimbatore South seat. In Assam, Hasinara Khatun has been fielded from Baghbar and Suman Haripriya from Hajo Assembly constituency. Addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters the party general secretary Arun Singh announced the names of candidates and said in all the poll-bound states the environment is in favour of the BJP. The BJP on Sunday announced its star-studded list of candidates, which included a Union Minister and several MPs, for the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam. The party released names of 112 candidates for Kerala, where it will be contesting in 115 out of 140 Assembly seats, 17 names for Assam and 63 candidates for the third and fourth phase of elections in West Bengal. In West Bengal, the BJP has fielded former chief economic adviser to the government Ashok Lahiri from the Alipurduar seat, Union Minister Babul Supriyo from Tollygunge, and Swapan Dasgupta from the Tarakeswar Assembly segment. Actor-turned-politician and sitting MP Locket Chatterjee has been fielded from Chunchura and another MP Nishit Parmanik from Dinhata. Also, a number of film personalities have been nominated as candidates in the high-stakes battle for West Bengal. A similar trend was visible in Kerala, where the BJP fielded 'metroman' E Sreedharan from Palakkad and former Union Minister KJ Alphons from the Kanjirappally assembly seat. For Tamil Nadu, it announced actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar as its candidate from the Thousand Lights Assembly seat. The BJP's women cell chief Vanathi Srinivasan has been fielded against noted film star Kamal Haasan from Coimbatore South seat. In Assam, Hasinara Khatun has been fielded from Baghbar and Suman Haripriya from Hajo Assembly constituency. Addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters the party general secretary Arun Singh announced the names of candidates and said in all the poll-bound states the environment is in favour of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
14-03-2021||India||Quad leaders Modi, Biden, Morrison, Suga join hands to pen down opinion piece||The leaders of the four-nation Quad have reaffirmed that they are striving to ensure that the Indo-Pacific is accessible, dynamic and governed by international law and bedrock principles such as freedom of navigation and peaceful resolution of disputes, and free from coercion, sending a clear message to China which is flexing its muscles in the region and beyond. In an opinion piece in The Washington Post after holding the first Leaders' Summit of Quadrilateral alliance on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, US President Joe Biden, Australian PM Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga asserted that all countries should be able to make their own political choices, free from coercion. They said the governments of India, Japan, US and Australia have worked closely for years, and Friday, for the first time in Quad history, they convened as leaders to advance meaningful cooperation at the highest level. "To strengthen our quest for a region that is open and free, we have agreed to partner to address the challenges presented by new technologies and collaborate to set the norms and standards that govern the innovations of the future," the leaders said. The Quad leaders in the summit on Friday vowed to strive for a "free, open and inclusive" region unconstrained by "coercion . The virtual Quad summit took place as China and India are involved in a military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh since May last year. China is also engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in both the South China Sea and the East China Sea. In the East China Sea, Japan has maritime disputes with China. In the opinion piece after the summit, the leaders said the cooperation, known as the Quad, was born in crisis. It became a diplomatic dialogue in 2007 and was reborn in 2017. "In December 2004, the continental shelf off the coast of Indonesia shifted two metres, creating one of the largest tidal waves in modern history and a nearly unprecedented humanitarian crisis around the Indian Ocean. With millions displaced and hundreds of thousands killed, the Indo-Pacific region sounded a clarion call for help. Together, our four countries answered it," they wrote. Australia, India, Japan and the US, a group of democratic nations dedicated to delivering results through practical cooperation coordinated rapid humanitarian assistance and disaster relief to people in need, they wrote. "Now, in this new age of interconnection and opportunity throughout the Indo-Pacific, we are again summoned to act together in support of a region in need," they said. Since the tsunami, climate change has grown more perilous, new technologies have revolutionised our daily lives, geopolitics have become ever more complex, and a pandemic has devastated the world. "Against this backdrop, we are recommitting to a shared vision for an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, resilient and inclusive. We are striving to ensure that the Indo-Pacific is accessible and dynamic, governed by international law and bedrock principles such as freedom of navigation and peaceful resolution of disputes, and that all countries are able to make their own political choices, free from coercion," they wrote. The four leaders asserted that in recent years, that vision has increasingly been tested and those trials have only strengthened their resolve to reckon with the most urgent of global challenges together. "It is clear that climate change is both a strategic priority and an urgent global challenge, including for the Indo-Pacific region. That's why we will work together and with others to strengthen the Paris agreement, and enhance the climate actions of all nations." On their commitment to fight against the coronavirus pandemic, they said, it is among the greatest risks to health and economic stability in recent history, and the Quad nations must work in partnership to stop it in its tracks. "With an unwavering commitment to the health and safety of our people, we are determined to end the Covid-19 pandemic because no country will be safe so long as the pandemic continues," the four leaders wrote. "Now, we are launching an ambitious effort to help end Covid-19. Together, we pledge to expand and accelerate production in India of safe, accessible and effective vaccines. We will partner at each stage to ensure that vaccines are administered throughout the Indo-Pacific region into 2022." The Quad on Friday finalised a landmark initiative under which huge investments will be made in India to create additional production capacities to roll out a billion coronavirus vaccine doses by 2022 for exports to the Indo-Pacific region, seen as a significant step to counter China's expanding vaccine diplomacy. "We will combine our scientific ingenuity, financing, formidable productive capacity and long history of global-health partnership to surge the supply of life-saving vaccines, in close collaboration with multilateral organizations including the WHO and Covax Facility," they wrote. Emphasising that the Quad nations' foundations of democracy and a commitment to engagement unite them, the four leaders concluded saying, "We know we can?provide for the safety and prosperity of our people at home by confronting global crises together, with purpose?and resolve. We summon from tragedy the strength and resilience to unify and overcome. And we recommit ourselves, once again, to an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, secure and prosperous."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
14-03-2021||India||Take strict action against fake complaints: BJP’s Kapil Mishra to SC||A BJP leader has moved the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Centre for framing guidelines to ensure strict action against fake complainants in criminal cases and for compensating victims of such wrongful prosecutions. The PIL has been filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kapil Mishra in the backdrop of a sensational case in which the Allahabad High Court, on January 28, declared rape convict Vishnu Tiwari innocent, observing that the motive behind the FIR was related to a land dispute. Tiwari was arrested on September 16, 2000 after being booked for rape and atrocities under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and was in jail for 20 years. The PIL, filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey, has also sought "adequate compensation" for Tiwari for his wrongful conviction and life imprisonment in the fake case. "Direct the Centre to fame guidelines and to make a mechanism to take strict action and to prosecute fake complainants as well as to frame guidelines to pay adequate compensation to victims of wrongful prosecutions and implement the recommendations of law commission Report ...on miscarriage of justice," the plea said. The BJP leader has made union ministries of Home Affairs and Law and Justice, the Uttar Pradesh government and the Law Commission as parties to his PIL. It has also sought direct for setting up of a mechanism for speedy disposal of cases pertaining to undertrial prisoners prosecuted in special Acts and to frame guidelines for undertrial prisoners to decide their cases in a time bound manner. "Direct the respondents (Centre and others) to frame rules to release poor persons who are victims of malicious and vague prosecution who are facing jail in the absence of not furnishing the adequate sureties/bonds," it said. Mishra, in his PIL, submitted that the SC/ST law is being misused and abused by filing false and malicious complaints and no action is taken against the culprit in the absence of an effective statutory/legal scheme. "False cases lead to suicides of innocents who are victims of police and prosecutorial misconduct, who lose hope and lives of their families destroyed after years of delayed trials due to the non-effective machinery..., the plea said. The PIL has made the Union ministries of Home Affairs, Law and Justice, the Law Commission and state of Uttar Pradesh as parties.On March 11, a similar plea was filed by BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay seeking a direction to the Centre, all states and Union territories (UTs) to frame and implement guidelines to compensate victims of "wrongful prosecution" through government machineries. Upadhyay urged the apex court to "use its plenary constitutional power to frame guidelines for compensation to victims of wrongful prosecutions and direct the Centre and states to implement them till recommendations of the Law Commission on miscarriage of justice are implemented religiously".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
14-03-2021||India||With over 25,000 Covid-19 cases, India reports highest daily rise in 84 days||India on Sunday recorded 25,320 Covid-19 infections, the highest daily rise in 84 days, taking the case tally to 1,13,59,048, according to Union health ministry data. As many as 26,624 new infections were recorded on December 20. The death toll increased to 1,58,607 on Sunday with 161 new fatalities, the highest in 44 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. The country's active caseload increased to 2,10,544 and constitutes 1.85 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate dropped to 96.75 per cent from 96.82 per cent on Saturday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,09,89,897, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.40 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 22,67,03,641 samples had been tested up to March 13 with 8,64,368 being tested on Saturday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
14-03-2021||India||NIA arrests Mumbai cop for involvement in Ambani bomb scare case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Mumbai Police officer Sachin Waze Saturday night after questioning him for 12 hours over the recovery of an explosive-laden vehicle near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, an agency spokesperson said. Waze was summoned at the agency's Mumbai office at Cumballa Hill in south Mumbai around 11.30 am to record his statement. There was no official update on him throughout the day. The NIA spokesperson came out with a brief statement late Saturday night that he had been "arrested at 23.50 hrs in NIA Case" related to the recovery of gelatin sticks in a vehicle parked near Ambani's house on Carmichael Road on February 25. A threat letter was found as well. The NIA spokesperson said Waze has been arrested allegedly "for his role and involvement in placing an explosives-laden vehicle near Carmichael road" on February 25. The case was handed over to the NIA after the mysterious death of a Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who had claimed that the vehicle had been stolen a week earlier. His body was found in a creek at Thane on March 5. This case is being probed by the Anti-Terror Squad of the Maharashtra Police, but the NIA is likely to take over the case as the agency is mandated by the section 8 of the NIA Act to take over investigation in connected matters. Hiran's wife had claimed that her husband had given the SUV to Waze in November, which the officer returned in the first week of February. During his questioning by the ATS, Waze had denied using the SUV that was in possession of Hiran. Waze had on Friday filed an application seeking pre-arrest bail. His lawyer A M Kalekar had requested the court to grant Waze interim protection from arrest on the ground that he was cooperating in the investigation. Additional public prosecutor Vivek Kadu, however, opposed this and argued that the probe in the case was at a crucial stage. The court, while refusing interim bail, noted that the charges in the case include section 302 (murder), section 201 (destruction of evidence) and 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC which are serious offences. Waze, accused by Hiran's wife of involvement in her husband's suspicious death, was shunted out of the Mumbai crime branch on Wednesday. Waze, who was the crime branch's Assistant Police Inspector, has been transferred to the Citizen Facilitation Centre (CFC) unit of Mumbai police. On February 25, a Scorpio was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai with explosives and a threat letter inside. While recording Waze's statement on Saturday, the NIA called crime branch ACP Nitin Alaknure and ATS' ACP Shripad Kale to share information about the investigation done so far in the cases of recovery of the SUV and the alleged murder of Hiran. Both the officers left after four hours. Waze is also facing a trial on multiple charges, including murder and destruction of evidence, for the alleged custodial death of Khwaja Yunus in the year 2003.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
14-03-2021||India||Congress suffers setback in Kerala||The Congress’s hunt for a strong candidate to wrest the lone Assembly seat represented by the BJP in Kerala appeared to suffer a setback on Saturday with Oommen Chandy declaring he would not be deserting his traditional seat of Puthupally. The former chief minister, however, did not clarify whether he might contest also from Nemom, the seat in Thiruvananthapuram that the BJP’s O. Rajagopal won in 2016. Earlier, several thousand party workers and local people had besieged Chandy’s home in Puthupally, Kottayam, opposing any move to shift him. They chanted slogans such as “We won’t let Oommen Chandy go” as state and district unit leaders huddled inside the house with Chandy. State Mahila Congress president Lathika Subhash, one of Chandy’s diehard supporters, had arrived early to persuade him to stick to Puthupally. A few hours later, Chandy emerged amid the din and declared, amid loud cheers: “The high command yesterday cleared my name for Puthupally.” On whether he might be fielded from Nemom too, he said: “I cannot give a final word on this.” Chandy insisted that neither the high command nor the state leadership had asked him to contest from Nemom. “The uproar witnessed here today was based on a misunderstanding. Nemom has been a subject of serious discussion for several days. There have been reports about who would contest and who wouldn’t,” he said. However, media reports had earlier quoted state leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala as saying Chandy could be fielded from Nemom since the party needed a senior candidate to wrest the seat. Congress sources on Saturday suggested Chandy may have put his foot down. The Congress’s candidate list for the April 6 Assembly polls is likely to be released on Sunday. After several rounds of meetings in Thiruvananthapuram, Chandy and other state leaders had moved to Delhi for discussions with the high command but returned to Kerala on Saturday morning without finalising the full list. Apart from Chandy, those who had been tipped to be fielded from Nemom were party general secretary K.C. Venugopal, Chennithala, and Lok Sabha members Shashi Tharoor and K. Muraleedharan. The constituency is set for a triangular contest. While the CPM has re-nominated the defeated 2016 candidate, V. Sivankutty, the BJP is considering fielding former state president Kummanam Rajasekharan or film actor Suresh Gopi from Nemom. The nonagenarian Rajagopal has opted not to contest polls. Chennithala told reporters: “You won’t be disappointed once the names are announced.” Muraleedharan said: “I’ve not been asked to contest from Nemom (but) will take up any responsibility the high command entrusts to me.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
14-03-2021||India||Caretaker of popular temple in Uttar Pradesh asaults Muslim boy for drinking water at the shrine||Man in blue T-shirt in video clip: Kya naam hai tera? With a trace of a smile, little boy gives a Muslim name. Man in T-shirt: Baap ka naam? Boy gives a Muslim name Man in T-shirt: Mandir mein kya kar raha hai? Unsuspecting boy happily replies: Mandir mein paani peene aaye the. Man in T-shirt rains blows and expletives on the stunned boy who falls to the ground. The assailant then kicks him repeatedly. A caretaker of a temple managed by an erstwhile engineer whose acolytes include a “Hindutva” rabble-rouser allegedly slapped and kicked the boy for drinking water at the shrine, while his fellow caretaker purportedly filmed the assault. Both caretakers, identified by the police as Shringi Nandan Yadav and Swami, were arrested on Friday evening for the atrocity earlier in the day at the popular Dasna Devi Mandir in Dasna, Uttar Pradesh, 50km east of Delhi. In the video posted on a now deleted Instagram handle @hinduektasanghh, the man in the blue T-shirt asks the boy —who police say is aged between 12 and 14 — his name and that of his father. Before that, a voice says: “Badhiya se dono ka chehra aana chahiye (Both the faces should appear clearly).” The child gives the names, both Muslim names. The questioner (identified as Yadav) then asks why the boy has come to the temple. When the boy replies he came to drink water, the man begins to slap him, then twists his arm and pushes him to the ground. He stamps on the child’s face and upper thigh repeatedly as the boy tries to block kicks to his groin with his palm. The man says, as he hits the boy: “(Expletive), paani peene aaya... (another expletive).” As he is beaten, the boy is heard saying again: “I came to drink water, uncle.” Drinking water is offered freely at most places of worship in these parts of north India, irrespective of the faith of the recipient. While many social media users condemned the assault and the bigotry, many others expressed support for the accused and reviled the critics. The temple’s mahant, Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati, is a Moscow-educated engineer who faces a police case for allegedly saying last year that India “will be clean of Islam”. In response to questions from The Telegraph, Narsinghanand said on Saturday night: “The drinking water tap is outside the temple, and no one needs to enter inside to drink water. We have a sign outside that says the entry of Muslims is prohibited…. This boy entered the temple and spat on the idol and urinated on our wall. That is why our people caught him.” But in the clip that was uploaded, the assailant makes none of these charges. In fact, from the manner of the interrogation, it is clear that the attacker wanted to establish the boy’s religion first before beating him up. No mention is made of any desecration which, even if it took place, does not empower anyone to assault another person. The followers of Narsinghanand are said to impart arms training to Hindu youth, and his devotees include Ragini Tiwari who had released inflammatory videos during last year’s communal violence in Delhi. “Two people have been arrested. One who was making the video (identified as Swami) and one who assaulted (the boy). They are in judicial custody,” Ghaziabad superintendent of police (rural areas) Iraj Raja told this newspaper. “Charges of criminal assault, other sections (of the Indian Penal Code) as well as the Information Technology Act, as the video was circulated online, have been invoked.” Raja said the incident took place on Friday afternoon and confirmed the accused were “caretakers of the temple”. He said Yadav lived near the temple. “The boy and his family have not approached the police. They are untraceable,” he added. Fact-checking website AltNews’s co-founder, Mohammed Zubair, tweeted screenshots of the deleted Instagram page that celebrated the assault for making “a terrorist Muslim impotent”. Another post from the @hinduektasanghh sought funds for Yadav to fight the case. Zubair tweeted: “A look at his (Yadav’s) Facebook profile shows he is inspired by hate speeches of Dasna Mandir Mahant Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati.” He shared a video of Yadav where Narsinghanand is seen in the background, as well as videos showing inflammatory speeches by the mahant. Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh tweeted: “A Muslim boy who drank water in the temple was beaten badly. Which Ramayana or knowledge of the Geeta or Vedas is this? Which Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam?” “Vasudhaiva kutumbakam” is an old Sanskrit saying meaning “the whole world is kin”. Lawyer and activist Dushyant tweeted: “Looked hard for Hindu names under this thread condemning the incident. Found a few. A few.” He added: “The child is shocked. He happily shares he went to drink water. He can’t believe he is being beaten for just drinking water. Haven’t his parents told him he is a Muslim living in India? How dare he think that a house of ‘god’ will permit everyone to drink water.” Twitter user Intekhab Alam posted: “During school days used to drink cold water from nearby Mandir and sometimes Parsad too In new India you get this.” He immediately received a reply from a handle named “The Good Brigadier” about an alleged child rape by a Muslim in Mainpuri, Uttar Pradesh. The support for the Dasna atrocity and the bid to raise funds for the accused resemble the aftermath of the lynching of a Malda native, Afrazul Khan, in Udaipur in 2017. Shambhulal Regar, who is still awaiting trial, is accused of hacking Khan to death and burning his body on camera as retaliation for alleged “love jihad”. Regar later uploaded videos from inside the Jodhpur central jail that showed him delivering inflammatory speeches. Regar’s wife received several lakhs in donations, and Regar’s supporters stormed an Udaipur court and hoisted a saffron flag on it to protest his arrest. Regar has allegedly confessed to police that the killing resulted from a case of mistaken identity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
14-03-2021||India||Wear mask properly or don’t fly: DGCA||The civil aviation regulator on Saturday asked airlines and airport operators to ensure passengers wear masks properly, covering their nose and mouth, and follow other Covid protocol. Before departure, a passenger who does not wear the mask properly despite warnings should be deboarded, it said. A passenger refusing to do so on a flight should be treated as “unruly”. According to the rules, “unruly” passengers can be barred from flying for a period from three months to two years. The DGCA circular said the mask should not be moved below the nose except under exceptional circumstances. Any passenger found violating Covid protocol at the airport should be handed over to security agencies after proper warning, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
14-03-2021||India||Toolkit case: I was held guilty by TRP seekers, says Disha Ravi||Climate activist Disha Ravi, whose arrest in the toolkit sedition case had been criticised by a Delhi court as being based on “scanty and sketchy evidence”, has said she was pronounced guilty by “seekers of TRPs”. “It’s no surprise that in the days that followed (my arrest), my autonomy was violated; my photographs were splashed all over the news; my actions were pronounced guilty — not by the court of law, but on flat screens by seekers of TRPs. I sat there unaware of the many abstractions made of me in order to satiate their idea of me,” Disha, 22, tweeted on Saturday in her first public comments after being released on bail on February 23. Delhi police officers had whisked away Disha from her home in Bangalore on February 13 without a transit warrant from a local court. She was charged with sedition for editing and sharing a social media toolkit on mobilising support for the farmers’ strike. The controversy around the toolkit, shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, had been exploited to the hilt by sections of the media and politicians such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi who portrayed it as an international conspiracy to destabilise India. Disha, one of the founding members of the Karnataka chapter of Fridays For Future, originally launched by Thunberg, wrote in the post: “All that is real feels too unreal; Delhi’s famous smog; the cyber police station; Deen Dayal Hospital; Patiala House Court and Tihar Jail. In all the years that someone had asked me where I see myself in 5 years, I would have never answered ‘jail’, but here I was. “I kept asking myself what it felt like to be there at that particular moment of time, but I came back with no answers. I had coerced myself into believing that the only way I would be able to live through this was by tricking myself into thinking that this wasn’t happening to me — the police did not knock on my door on 13 February, 2021, they did not take my phone and laptop, and arrest me, they did not present me at Patiala House Court, the media personnel were not trying to find a place inside the room. “As I stood in that courtroom desperately searching for my lawyers, I came to terms with the fact that I would have to defend myself. I had no idea whether there was legal assistance available; so when the judge asked me if I have anything to say, I decided to speak my mind. Before I knew it, I was sent to 5 days in police custody.” She said she was not provided access to a lawyer when she was produced in court. “At the end of five days (February 19) I was shifted to judicial custody for 3 days. In Tihar, I was aware of every second of every minute of every hour of every day. Locked in my cell, I wondered when it became a crime to think the most basic elements of sustenance on this planet were as mine as theirs,” she said. “I also realised, during my time in custody, that most people knew little or nothing about climate activism or climate justice. My grandparents, who are farmers, indirectly birthed my climate activism. I had to bear witness to how water crisis affected them, but my work was reduced to tree plantation drives and clean-ups — which are important but not the same as struggling for survival. “Climate justice is about intersectional equity. It is about being radically inclusive of all groups of people, so that everyone has access to clean air, food and water. As a dear friend always says, ‘Climate justice isn’t just for the rich and the white.’ It is a fight alongside those who are displaced, whose rivers have been poisoned, whose lands were stolen, who watch their houses get washed away every other season, and those who fight tirelessly for what are basic human rights.” While she thanked everyone who had stood by her, Disha preferred to describe herself as “privileged” since there were those with no legal assistance in seeking bail. “The past few days have been beyond painful, yet I know that I am one of the privileged. I was lucky enough to have excellent pro bono legal assistance but what of all those who do not? What of all those still in jail whose stories are not marketable? What of the marginalised that are not worthy of your screen time? What of those who face the world’s brazen indifference?” she asked, signing off by iterating: “Still fighting for climate justice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||Congress releases letters of dead MP seeking help from PM Modi||The Congress on Saturday suggested that Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar could have been saved had Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah responded to his desperate pleas for help and the parliamentary committee for privileges had taken his suicide threat seriously. Delkar, an Independent MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli serving his seventh term, was found hanging in a Mumbai hotel last month. A purported suicide note had accused top administrative officials in Dadra and Nagar Haveli of harassment. Declaring its resolve not to allow the suicide by a sitting MP be hushed up, the Congress also released copies of letters Delkar had purportedly written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla before taking the drastic step. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant told The Telegraph over the phone from Mumbai: “It is sad that an elected representative could not be saved although he had approached the highest authorities with his tale of woes. We want to know from the Parliament privileges committee whether Delkar had told them that he had only two options — either resign from the Lok Sabha or commit suicide.” Asked if he was suggesting the Prime Minister and the home minister had not acted on purpose, Sawant said: “We want to know what action they took following the letters from the distressed MP. It is clear that an elected representative could not be saved even though his plight was known to the top functionaries of the country. “The Modi government and the BJP have to answer questions. The BJP in Maharashtra hasn’t even expressed condolences over his death. Are all their sympathies reserved for Sushant Singh Rajput? The death of an MP after torture by the administration doesn’t matter to them?” According to the Congress, Delkar had written to Prime Minister Modi first on December 18, 2020, and again on January 31, 2021. He had also written to home minister Shah on December 18 and January 12, apart from sending three letters to Birla on December 18, January 12 and January 21. Delkar committed suicide on February 22. In between, he had also appeared before the parliamentary privileges committee after the Lok Sabha Speaker had forwarded his complaint to them. According to the communications released by the Congress, Delkar had in his first letter to the Prime Minister and the home minister explained how the protocol of informing the local MP was not followed by the Dadra and Nagar Haveli administration during the visit of minister of state for home Nityanand Rai who had inaugurated several important projects. Delkar had purportedly said he was being deliberately kept away from visits of dignitaries and at times his presence was being falsely recorded. He had said his absence at such events had become a topic of discussion among the people and had caused “huge embarrassment and humiliation” to him. Delkar had purportedly requested both the Prime Minister and the home minister to take these incidents seriously and initiate action. In the subsequent letters, Delkar is said to have alleged that the vindictive attitude of the administration had intensified and he had suffered more humiliation after complaining to the central authorities. He wrote to the Prime Minister, according to one of the letters released by the Congress: “I have come to know that they are planning to slap false cases on me and my family members. We are going through extreme mental torture. Kindly understand the gravity of the situation and intervene immediately. Give directions to the local authorities and, if possible, time to meet so that I can narrate my miseries to you.” Describing the developments as a great tragedy, Sawant said at a media conference in Mumbai: “Delkar was persecuted and insulted by BJP leader Praful Khoda Patel and several central administrative officers. He had complained that they were trying to entangle him in crimes that he had no connection with. “Those cases in which chargesheet also had been filed were being reopened. He was threatened with dire consequences and was told that his family would be put in jail. “On February 12, the privileges committee of Parliament heard Delkar’s complaints. Before this committee, Delkar had talked about the kind of pressure he was under. It is learnt that he had even said that he had two options before him: either to resign from Parliament or commit suicide. We demand an explanation from the privileges committee, whether Delkar said so just 10 days before he committed suicide.” Sawant added: “The BJP government in Gujarat could not find out who killed their home minister Haren Pandya and could not punish the culprits but the MVA government (in Maharashtra) would definitely bring all those responsible for the suicide of Mohan Delkar to book and won’t let the situation become similar to Haren Pandya’s.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||Jharkhand migrant worker walks 7 months to get home ||Of the tens of thousands of hapless migrant workers who had set out to walk hundreds of miles home after the lockdown was announced, one reached his village on Saturday. Berjom Bamda Pahadiya arrived home at Amarbitha in Sahebganj district of Jharkhand on March 13 after a seven-month trudge from Delhi, 1,200km away, showing remarkable resilience for a 54-year-old in surviving odds that had felled many a younger man. He had not a paisa on him — his labour contractor in Delhi had not only withheld his entire pay, he had snatched all his money, Pahadiya says. He walked along the railway tracks in his torn rubber slippers, asking his way home — not too successfully perhaps, for he speaks no Hindi and only Santhali, which may partly explain why it took him so long. He had to beg for food and water at villages on the way, again the language barrier coming in the way. He had not eaten for a fortnight, he says, when an NGO worker spotted him at a railway crossing in Dhanbad district on March 11, about 240km from his home. Pahadiya had started his journey late, in August — far later than his peers who had left Delhi on foot in April or on Shramik Special trains in May-June. With the help of an interpreter, he explained to this newspaper that after being robbed and kicked out by his labour contractor, he had spent months on Delhi’s pavements, surviving on food supplied at NGOs’ camps and oblivious that the government was running trains for migrants. He hadn’t the money to pay for a ticket, anyway. Pahadiya had started off for Delhi late, too, for 54 is no age to begin a career as migrant labourer. It was the tall promises made by the “middlemen” —local agents of metro-based labour contractors — that had persuaded this part-time farm labourer to try his luck in Delhi. It was in February last year that Pahadiya left for Delhi on a train with about 10 others from his village. He had been offered “a good salary” —he couldn’t recall exactly how much but a neighbour said it was between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000 a month. “I worked for 20-25 days before the lockdown but the middleman paid me nothing. He just arranged two meals a day and a place for me to stay,” Pahadiya said. “After the lockdown in March, he snatched all the money I had brought from home, about Rs 7,000, as well as my belongings and Aadhaar card.” Thus began his life of a pavement dweller till, one day in August, he decided to set off for home. “I knew no one. I approached some people for help but was refused. So I started walking in August, begging for food and water on the way. I don’t know how many days passed,” Pahadiya said. On March 11, a member of the NGO Roti Bank spotted him at the Mucharaidih railway crossing in Mahuda, Dhanbad district. “One of our members informed us about a poor, hungry man who had walked all the way from Delhi. A few of our members rushed to the spot and gave him food and water,” said Suraj Kumar of Roti Bank, which provides food to the poor by raising money from donors in Dhanbad. “We phoned the local (Mahuda) police station, but the officer-in-charge refused help.” The NGO members decided to pool the money themselves to buy a train or bus ticket for Pahadiya to Sahebganj. They arranged a room for him to spend the rest of the day and the night. “Some of our members uploaded his pictures on social media with an account of his ordeal. A contractor who was about to leave for Sahebganj contacted us and offered to take him to his village,” Kumar said. “We used the money we had raised to give Pahadiya a new pair of trousers and shirt and food.” A member of the NGO accompanied Pahadiya in the contractor’s SUV, which left Mahuda on Friday night and reached Amarbitha on Saturday morning. Sahebganj deputy commissioner Ram Niwas Yadav promised help for Pahadiya and action against the middlemen who dupe villagers. “I shall send a probe team and, if possible, arrest the middlemen,” he said. “I shall also provide government assistance for the duped tribal workers and strengthen the mechanism to ensure middlemen don’t lure villagers to big cities with false promises.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||Odisha govt to promote students till Class VIII without exams||The Odisha government has decided to promote students from Class I to Class VIII to the next class without conducting examinations as their studies were hampered due to the corona pandemic which led to the suspension of classes almost throughout the academic year. Minister, school and mass education, Samir Ranjan Dash on Saturday said: “All students from Class I to Class VIII will be declared as having passed. Due to the Covid-19 situation, they will be given promotion without appearing for the examination. It’s not possible to hold an examination as there were no regular classes during the whole year because of the Covid-19.” Dash said last year, too, the students had been declared as passed and the practice will continue this year. “However, our teachers are taking online classes and ensuring that their studies are not affected,” Dash said. However, examinations for the students of Class IX will be conducted offline this year. “Our teachers are taking the offline classes for students of Class IX, Class X, XI and XII. All of them will appear for the examination off line,” the minister said. In view of the Covid situation, the state government has decided not to reopen schools from April. “All decisions with regard to opening of schools will be taken after June,” Dash said. Meanwhile, the total number of Covid-19 cases has reached 3,38,121 in Odisha with surfacing of 65 new cases. The number of active cases in the state stands at 651 while 3,35,499 patients have recovered from the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||Uproar in Odisha Assembly over BJP MLA ‘suicide attempt’||The Odisha Assembly on Saturday witnessed an uproar over the alleged suicide attempt by a BJP legislator in the House on Friday. Deogarh BJP lawmaker Subhash Chandra Panigrahi on Friday had tried to consume a bottle of sanitiser in a bid to commit suicide when food supplies, consumer welfare and cooperation minister Ranedra Pratap Swain was giving a reply on non-procurement of paddy of farmers from the mandis (wholesale market yards) in the afternoon. The BJP legislators accused the Odisha government of neglecting the problems of farmers. As soon as the Assembly proceedings commenced on Saturday, the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) raised the issue and accused the BJP of lowering the dignity of the House. “The BJP MLA (Panigrahi) has lowered the dignity of the House by threatening to commit suicide. Here the MLAs come to raise issues affecting the common man and not to threaten to kill themselves. We want to know whether it’s his stand or the party’s stand. It should be clarified. We will not let the House run unless and until MLA Panigrahi apologises,” said government chief whip Pramila Mallick. The ruling party MLAs also trooped into the well of the House demanding an apology from Panigrahi. Though the Congress condemned the alleged suicide bid, it protested against BJD ministers and MLAs rushing into the well “Its unfortunate that three ministers trooped into the well of the House and created an uproar. Let the ruling party apologise for its conduct. Until and unless they do so we will not allow the House to run,” said Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati. The BJP legislators too demanded apology from the BJD  for rushing into the well. Normally ruling party members don’t troop into the well of the House. This is an act resorted to by Opposition MLAs to draw attention to major issues or to voice their protest against them. As the MLAs from the BJD, the BJP and the Congress created a hullabaloo in the House demanding an apology from each other, the Speaker adjourned the proceedings till Monday. Panigrahi told The Telegraph: “I will not apologise. Let the Odisha government lift all paddy from the mandis.” On the other hand, the Odisha unit of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) on Friday launched the Kishan Adhikar Yatra from Bhubaneswar condemning the Centre’s refusal to repeal its controversial farm laws. “We don’t encourage things like committing suicide. Its all dramabazi (stunt). If the BJP MLAs are so concerned about the plights of farmers, why are they not putting pressure on the Centre to withdraw its anti-farmer laws?” asked AIKSCC state convener Suresh Panigrahi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||Kashmir BJP leader asks ‘Iran’ to ‘arrest’ UP waqf ex-chief , becomes butt of social media ridicule||Kashmir BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur on Saturday became a butt of social media ridicule after he asked the Iranian government to “arrest” a Shia leader from Uttar Pradesh over his “blasphemous remarks”. Thakur later blamed the blooper on a “typing error” and said his intention was to urge the Indian government to act against Waseem Rizvi, former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Shia waqf board. Social media poured scorn on Thakur. “Ha ha ha ha ha ha. He must be from B J P — Bharatia Jokers Party,” wrote actor poet Bashir Dada. A journalist taunted Thakur, saying he had “dropped a bombshell” by asking “Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps intervention in Uttar Pradesh!” Shia and Sunni groups in Kashmir had on Saturday united to condemn Rizvi, who has filed a public interest plea in the Supreme Court seeking the removal of 26 verses from the Quran that he claims preach terrorism. Kashmir’s Grand Mufti, Nasir-ul Islam, has asked the Centre to arrest Rizvi for “hurting the sentiments of millions of Muslims across the world”. He said the Quran preaches peace, not violence. Senior Shia leaders have accused Rizvi of being an RSS agent bent on dividing Muslims and said he should be ignored. “I don’t believe in takfir (declaring others as infidels) but this person, Wasim (not) Rizvi has brazenly let his belief known and his belief is absolutely not that of a Muslim. He is a known servant of the Sangh and I suggest he should be left alone,” Ruhullah Mehdi, a former minister, tweeted. Amid the outrage against Rizvi, Thakur had emailed a media statement saying: “Rizvi’s remarks are unacceptable and that Quran teaches love, brotherhood and peace, not violence.” He added: “Iran government must act quickly against Rizvi and arrest him for his blasphemous remarks and hurting the religious sentiments of billions of Muslims across the globe. “I demand that he should be taken to task and reprimanded by Iran government. There is no place for people like Rizvi in Islam.” He later regretted the “inconvenience” and “typing error”, but did not explain why the same typo had occurred twice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||Quad summit discusses India-China standoff||US national security adviser Jack Sullivan has said the situation along the Line of Actual Control between India and China was discussed at the first Quad summit, hinting that it could also come up during his meeting next week with the Chinese at Anchorage, Alaska. Asked if US tariffs and export controls targeting China will be part of the talks, Sullivan said the meeting “is our effort to communicate clearly to the Chinese government how the United States intends to proceed at a strategic level, what we believe our fundamental interests and values are, and what our concerns with their activities are — whether it’s on Hong Kong, or Xinjiang, or in the Taiwan Strait — or, frankly, the issues that we heard today from our Quad partners: their coercion of Australia, …their aggression on the border with India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
