15-03-2021||India||Shopian encounter: 2 terrorist killed in an encounter||Fresh firing erupted on Monday between militants and security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir where a top commander of Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit was among two ultras killed in the operation that entered its third day, police said. “Fresh contact has been established with the third terrorist at Rawalpora in Shopian,” a police officer said. Earlier in the day, Inspector General of Police Kashmir zone Vijay Kumar said the security forces achieved a major breakthrough by eliminating a top commander of Jaish who was operating under the nom de guerre of Sajad Afghan. Vilayat Hussain Lone alias Sajjad Afghani, one of the most wanted militants in Kashmir, was killed in fresh exchange of firing with security forces on Monday. One militant identified as Jahangir Ahmad Wani of Lashkar-e-Toiba was killed in the firefight on Sunday. Kumar congratulated the security forces for eliminating Afghani. According to police records, Afghani was active since September 2018 and part of a group involved in executing a series of attacks on security forces and civilians. He was also involved in attacks on security establishments and brutal killings of civilians branding them as police or security forces informers. “Several terror crime cases were registered against him including a case pertaining to terrorising the people so as to keep them away from panchayat polls including blazing a panchayat ghar at Kanji-ullar,” a police spokesperson said. He said Afghani was also involved in the case pertaining to barging into the houses of police personnel, abducting and killing constable Nisar Ahmad, follower Firdous Ahmad and SPO Kulwant Singh. The other cases he was involved in included killings of civilians Tanveer Ahmad Dar, Suhail Ahmad Ganai and SPO Khusboo Jan. Giving details of the operation, the spokesperson said security forces launched an operation on Saturday night based on a specific input generated by Shopian Police regarding presence of terrorists in Rawalpora village. “During the search operation, as the presence of terrorists got ascertained they were given opportunity to surrender, however, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter,” the spokesperson said. Arms and ammunition including US-made M4 Carbine rifle and other incriminating material have been recovered from the site of encounter so far, the spokesperson said. “During the encounter, three houses caught fire while a group of miscreants tried to disrupt the operation and created law and order problem near the encounter site during which some of them were injured,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
15-03-2021||India||BJP demands Gehlot’s resignation over phone tapping allegations||On Monday BJP demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on moral grounds after his government replied to a question in the state Assembly that it taps phones in the interest of public safety and order. Though the reply did not say it tapped phones of Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat and supporters of former deputy CM Sachin Pilot after a rebellion in the Congress last year, the BJP linked it with the episode and demanded for a CBI probe. The Congress has denied the allegations with its chief whip in the state Assembly Mahesh Joshi saying they did not tap phone of any MLA or MP. The reactions came after the state government replied to a question asked by BJP MLA Kalicharan in the state Assembly last year. In the session called on August 14 by the Gehlot government for a floor test after the rebellion by Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs, Kalicharan had asked, “Is it true that phone tapping cases have come up in the last days? If yes, under which law and by whose orders?” In its reply given recently, the Home Department stated that telephones are intercepted in the interest of public safety and order. The telephones are intercepted under the provision of Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, and Section 419 (A) of the Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Rules, 2007, and Section 69 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 after approval by a competent officer, according to the reply. The department further states, Interception cases are reviewed by the chief secretary. All cases up to the month of November 2020 have been reviewed. Neither the MLA asked details about any particular person whose phone was tapped nor did the government gave any specific information about it. However on Monday, the BJP attacked the government over the issue and demanded Gehlot's resignation, accusing him of misleading the public. Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat in a series of tweets accused the Congress of using government machinery to contain rebellion inside the party by tapping phones. BJP's Rajasthan chief Satish Poonia demanded a CBI inquiry into the matter. This is what the BJP had said in July last year – ‘Emergency is going on in Rajasthan’. The Gehlot government denied it at the time, and is now accepting that the phones were tapped. This is a violation of privacy, the murder of democracy, Shekhawat tweeted. There is a question from the public that why was phone tapping done using government machinery to contain the internal rebellion of the Congress Party? Why did the Congress government use the administration in its own interest? This is an illegal process, he said. Shekhawat alleged that the Congress trapped phones of its own MLAs, including a young leader . Insult at peak has been the tradition of the Congress. How can the Rajasthanis trust a government that does not trust its MLAs, he asked. Meanwhile, state BJP chief Satish Poonia alleged that lies were told and facts were tempered with. The chief minister, who holds the home portfolio, is guilty of this, Poonia told reporters here, demanding that the chief minister should resign on moral grounds and the matter should be investigated by the CBI. Trashing the charges, the Congress said it did not tap phone of any MLA or MP. "The government in a reply to the question has mentioned the process of phone interception under the law. After permission from competent authority, it is done. The Rajasthan government has not tapped phone of any MLA or minister," Joshi said. "If Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is so confident that phones were tapped, why he does not give his voice samples. It will prove whether the phone was tapped or not," he said. On the other hand, RLP's Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal said the state government indulged in an illegal act. He alleged phone tapping took place during the rule of Vasundhara Raje-led BJP government also and demanded an inquiry into matter. A controversy over phone tapping had erupted last year after audio clips purportedly having telephonic conversation between Union minister Gajendra Singh and Congress leaders surfaced. Congress leaders of the Ashok Gehlot camp had alleged that BJP leaders were involved in horse trading to topple the state government. The state government had rejected allegations of phone tapping. CM Gehlot had categorically stated in the last session of the Assembly that no illegal tapping of phones of any MLA or MP was done in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
15-03-2021||India||Mumbai police suspends Sachin Waze from service||Mumbai Police on Monday suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Waze following his arrest by the NIA in connection with its probe into the recovery of explosives from a car near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here, an official said. Deputy Commissioner of Police S Chaitanya told reporters that "API Sachin Waze has been placed under suspension by an order of Additional Commissioner of Police Special Branch". The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Waze on late Saturday night in connection with its probe into the recovery of a Scorpio containing 20 gelatin sticks near Ambani's house 'Antilia' in south Mumbai on February 25. Waze (49), credited with eliminating 63 alleged criminals in 'encounters', is also facing heat in the murder case of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the Scorpio. Hiran was found dead in a creek in Thane district on March 5. A Mumbai court on Sunday remanded Waze in the NIA's custody till March 25. Waze was arrested under IPC sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) 465 (forgery), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal with intent to commit forgery), 506(2) (criminal intimidation), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and relevant provisions of the Explosive Substances Act, a police official earlier said. In its remand plea, the NIA submitted statements of witnesses to show Waze's involvement in the case. Waze, a 1990-batch officer of the state cadre, was earlier also suspended in 2004 over his role in the custodial death of a 2002 Ghatkopar blast suspect Khwaja Yunus and was reinstated last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
15-03-2021||India||BSP to contest assembly polls in WB, TN, Kerala, Puducherry on its own: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Monday asserted that her party will contest the assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry on its own, saying the BSP has had a bitter experience of aligning with other parties in the past. She also stated that her party will go alone in the UP assembly elections next year. "We are working internally on the elections. We do not reveal our strategy. The BSP will contest on all the 403 assembly seats in UP, and will perform well. The performance of the party will be good in the panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh," she told reporters at an event to pay tributes to BSP founder Kanshi Ram on his 87th birth anniversary. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said her party has had a bitter experience of aligning with other parties in the past. "The experience of our party forging an alliance with others has not been good. Our party leaders, workers and voters are highly disciplined. This is not the case with other parties of the country. In an alliance, our votes are transferred to the other party, but the votes of the other party are not transferred to us," she said. "This has been a very bad and bitter experience. In future also, we will not forge any alliance with any party," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
15-03-2021||India||'Metro Man' Sreedharan launches campaign, vows to regain lost glory of Palakkad||Launching his campaign, BJP candidate in Palakkad 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan on Monday said the party is fighting the elections on the plank of development and reasserted his claim that the NDA will form the government in Kerala after the April 6 Assembly polls. He attacked the state's ruling LDF, alleging that it was a government hit by corruption, scandals and nepotism. "The (CPI(M)-led) government was not keen on the development of the state. Its main focus was upliftment of the party," said the 88-year-old technocrat, a day after his name was officially declared as the BJP's candidate for Palakkad Assembly constituency. Taking a dig at Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Sreedharan said, "He is a good chief minister for his party but not for the state." Sreedharan alleged that the LDF government did nothing for the development of the state during its five-year rule. He said the CPI(M)-led government did not take any steps for the implementation of NilamburNanjangud line to create a broad gauge rail connection from the town of Nanjangud in Karnataka to Nilambur in Kerala. Nothing has been done to implement a railway line between Guruvayur and Thirunavaya despite getting sanction, he added. The government stopped the preliminary works of light metro projects for ensuring improved transports systems in the cities of Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram. He expressed hope that the BJP-led NDA will win the Assembly polls and a government will be formed under his leadership. Sreedharan said if elected, he would try to regain the lost glory of Palakkad district in rice production. "Once upon a time Palakkad was the largest producer of paddy, popularly called 'Nellara (the rice bowl of the state). Those days have gone by a long time back. That lost glory will be regained," Sreedharan told a news channel. He lamented that Palakkad lacks basic facilities needed for a town. "There are no good higher education facilities in Palakkad barring Victoria College. Improved higher education facilities are required in Palakkad," said Sreedharan who made a surprise entry into politics through the BJP last month. Sitting MLA Shafi Parambil of the Congress and CPI(M)'s C P Pramod are his main rivals in the election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
15-03-2021||India||Nationwide 2-day strike impacts banking services of PSU banks||Banking services such as cash withdrawals, deposits, cheque clearing and business transactions were impacted across the country on Monday, the day one of the PSU bank union's strike, against the proposed privatisation of two more state-owned lenders.

United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions, had given a strike call for March 15 and 16, and claimed that about 10 lakh bank employees and officers of the banks will participate in the strike.

In the Union Budget presented last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) as part of the government's disinvestment plan.

All India Bank Officers Association (AIBOC) General Secretary Sowmya Dutta said the government policies are going to have ill effects on the economy as also it will be reflected in the upcoming polls in some states.

He said nearly all the bank employees have taken part in the two-day strike except for top-level employees.

"All banking services are impacted from cash withdrawals to deposits, business transactions, loan process, cheque clearing, account opening and business transactions," he said.

He said the striking employees have taken out rallies, wherever permitted, across the country, and given a sat-in and if the government does not listen to them they will go for an even bigger, indefinite strike like the one on the lines of ongoing farmers' agitation.

"We are connected with crores of population through our branches, we are educating our customers about the government's ill policies and how it is going to impact them," Dutta said.

Through the Department of Financial Services, the bank unions have also conveyed to the Finance Minister to withdraw her statement from the floor of Parliament about privatisation of the state-owned banks, he added.

All bank employees from the scale I, II and III had a 100 per cent participation across the banking sector in Monday's strike, said a bank official who is not authorised to speak to the media.

"We call them assistant managers, managers and senior managers. At this level, there is 100 per cent participation in the strike and 80-90 per cent branches are headed by them," the official said.

The bigger branches headed by chief managers or AGMs are about 20 per cent, so even if these senior level employees are not taking part in the strike, they alone cannot run the bank, said the official cited above.

Meanwhile, branches of private sector lenders like ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank are open as they are not part of the strike.

The government has already privatised IDBI Bank by selling its majority stake in the lender to LIC in 2019, and has merged 14 public sector banks in the last four years.

According to All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) general secretary CH Venkatachalam, services at branch level; cheque clearance; and government transactions have been affected.

Members of UFBU include All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), National Confederation of Bank Employees (NCBE), All India Bank Officers' Association (AIBOA) and Bank Employees Confederation of India (BEFI).

Others are the Indian National Bank Employees Federation (INBEF), Indian National Bank Officers Congress (INBOC), National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW) and National Organisation of Bank Officers (NOBO).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
15-03-2021||India||India logs 26,291 new Covid infections, highest single-day rise in 85 days||India recorded 26,291 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, its highest single-day spike in 85 days, taking the country's infection tally to 1,13,85,339, according to Union health ministry data.

The death toll due to the disease increased to 1,58,725 with 118 more fatalities being recorded in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed.

Registering an upward trend for five days in a row, the total active caseload has gone up to 2,19,262 which is 1.93 per cent of the total infections in the country, while the recovery rate has dropped to 96.68 per cent, the data stated.

As many as 26,624 infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on December 20.

The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,07,352, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.39 per cent, according to the data.

India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.

According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 22,74,07,413 samples have been tested for COVID-19 up to March 14, including 7,03,772 on Sunday.

The 118 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra, 20 from Punjab and 15 from Kerala, the data showed.

A total of 1,58,725 deaths have so far been reported in the country, including 52,861 from Maharashtra, 12,547 from Tamil Nadu, 12,390 from Karnataka, 10,941 from Delhi, 10,292 from West Bengal, 8,746 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,184 from Andhra Pradesh, it stated.

The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.

"Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
15-03-2021||India||Boy thrashed for drinking temple water terrified, stays in bed: Dad||The father of a Muslim boy who was thrashed allegedly by caretakers of a popular temple near Delhi says his son is “very scared” and just “lies in bed” since Friday’s assault. Two men have been arrested and charged with assaulting the 14-year-old, who was attacked after he said he had come to the Dasna Devi Mandir to drink water. The accused allegedly filmed the assault — the images show a man stamping on the child’s face and upper thigh repeatedly — and uploaded the video on Instagram, boasting that a “Muslim terrorist” had been made “impotent”. “I was at home when all this happened,” the father told The Telegraph from Dasna in Uttar Pradesh, 50km east of Delhi, where the family lives. “He is very scared and he just lies in bed now.” A social worker who has met the boy said the child feared that if he stepped out, he would be beaten again because he is Muslim. The temple's controversial mahant, Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati, had told this newspaper the boy had unnecessarily entered the temple despite the drinking-water tap being outside, and that the shrine had a sign prohibiting entry by Muslims. But the boy’s father said his son had drunk water from the tap outside and was leaving when the alleged attackers called him back. “The tap is at the gate of the temple. He says he drank water from it and was returning home, walking on the road, when two Pandits called him back,” the father said. “They asked him his name and his father’s name. Then they told him they would make a video with him, after which one of them thrashed him while the other recorded it.” The boy has eight siblings who work as rag-pickers and day labourers to support the family as the father is in poor health. On Saturday, the police had said the boy and his family were untraceable. However, after the boy had his statement recorded at Masuri police station in Ghaziabad district, the media were able to contact the family. "After beating him up they (the accused) told him to get out. This happened around (Friday) noon. Two policemen found him and gave him first aid and bandaged his injuries, after which he returned home," the father said. "Yesterday (Saturday) morning the police came to our home. They had his video on WhatsApp. I told them he had injured his head. They took my name and number and returned at 10pm and took me and my son to the police station. "I'm illiterate, so I don't know what they were writing in the police station. They were mainly talking to my son. Then they took us for his medical test, gave us medicines and dropped us home." The family is from Bulandshahr district of Uttar Pradesh. Both accused are in judicial custody. The police say the man who beat the child is Shringi Nandan Yadav. The other accused has been identified as Swami.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
15-03-2021||India||Crimes against women: UP accounts for 14% of the national total||Hundreds of crimes against women are reported every month in Uttar Pradesh, whose chief minister Yogi Adityanath likes to point the finger at other states like Bengal. Uttar Pradesh accounted for 59,853 crimes against women — 14 per cent of the national total — in 2019, the latest National Crime Records Bureau report says. Here’s a look at a few such crimes committed in Uttar Pradesh in the first eight days of this month alone, with several policemen among the accused and a woman police officer among the victims. These incidents show the cops following their tradition of refusing to register cases, casting aspersions on the victim, and even being accused of aiding the murder of the victims’ family members — features seen also in the notorious Unnao and Hathras gang-rape cases. Incidents: A 13-year-old girl is allegedly gang-raped in Ghatampur, Kanpur Rural. Her father is run over by a lorry on March 10 in the presence of police, a day after a death threat from a suspect’s brother. The victim’s brother alleges a policeman pushed his father under the lorry’s wheels. Suspects: Deepu Yadav, son of sub-inspector of police Devendra Yadav, and his friend Raj Kumar aka Golu Yadav are accused of the gang rape. SI Devendra, posted in Banda, is accused of plotting the father’s murder. Threat: While the girl’s brother was travelling to Sajeti police station on March 9, Golu’s elder brother Saurabh allegedly thrashed him and threatened publicly to kill him and his father if they dared register a rape case. Aspersions: The girl’s brother somehow reached the police station but the police didn’t register the case. A cousin of the rape survivor said the Sajeti police had claimed the girl was “immoral”. Kanpur superintendent of police Brijesh Srivastava has denied the allegation. Case status: A gang-rape case was registered on March 10 only after journalists visited the police station. Golu was arrested. Three policemen — inspector Abdul Kalam, sub-inspector Ram Shiromani and constable Adesh Kumar — have been suspended for dereliction of duty. Deepu remains untraced. A murder conspiracy case has been registered against Devendra. Incident: A male police sub-inspector abuses and shoves a woman inspector in full public view in the Civil Lines area of Allahabad. Dinkar allegedly wanted the inspector, his senior, to vacate her rented rooms in the Kotwali area. A video of the incident circulates on social media. Suspect: Sub-inspector Vinod Kumar Dinkar. Case status: Local circle officer Ajit Singh Chauhan says he is unaware of any such incident. The woman inspector had told reporters her own police station (Civil Lines) had rejected her complaint. Allahabad DIG Sarvashresth Tripathi said he had warned both officers of disciplinary action in case of a repeat. He didn’t explain what the woman inspector’s fault was. The video does not show her misbehaving with anyone. Incident: A youth allegedly stabs a married woman to death on a road in Shikarpur, Bulandshahr. Suspect: Vinit Kumar aka Vinesh, a distant relative of the victim. Case status: Vinit has been arrested. The police claim he had an affair with the victim. Incident: A 19-year-old youth allegedly barges into the home of a 45-year-old woman in Haveli Mohalla, Agra, and stabs her and her 15-year-old daughter to death. Suspect: Govind Kumar, a BSc student from the neighbourhood. Case status: Govind arrested on March 10. Incident: An 11-year-old girl is allegedly raped in an agricultural field in Phulpur, Azamgarh district. Suspect: A boy from the girl’s village whose name the police are withholding till they find out whether he is a minor. Case status: Local police inspector Ratnesh Kumar Singh said the suspect was in hiding. Incident: An Anganwadi worker from the Civil Lines area in Badaun alleges gang rape by a sub-inspector and two constables at the local Shekhupur police outpost. She says she had come to complain that four people had arrived at the Anganwadi centre on March 2, thrashed her and left with the record of expenses. She says the policemen told her to come another day and, when she did, took her into a room and gang-raped her. Suspects: A sub-inspector and two constables. Case status: No case has been registered – for gang rape, for assault at the Anganwadi centre or for theft of the expense records. The police are accused of failing to take her for a medical examination or to record her statement. Aspersions: Senior superintendent of police Sankalp Sharma said: “The woman’s husband is an accused in a molestation case. The allegation against the police is baseless. Still, we are probing it.” He did not explain how the husband’s being a molestation accused was relevant to this case. Incident: A professional dancer is allegedly kidnapped, confined in a house in Shahpur, Gorakhpur district, and gang-raped by three men. The accused allegedly upload a video of the incident on social media. Suspects: Real estate agent Ravi Kumar and two friends. Case status: Brajesh Yadav, a police inspector, and constable Dharmendra Kumar were suspended on March 4 for failing to register a case. All three suspects have been arrested. ‘anti-women’ police S.R. Darapuri, a retired IPS officer from Uttar Pradesh, said state police’s tardy “application of the law” encouraged criminals to think they could commit crimes with impunity. “Also, the state police are mostly anti-women. They register cases only under pressure. This sends out the message that checking crimes against women is not a government priority,” he said.D.R. Sahu, a sociology professor at Lucknow University, said it would “take time to change the state’s culture from feudal to democratic”, and urged everyone to work towards this. “However, the good thing is that the women and their families are reporting the crimes these days, undeterred by the social stigma. I believe this will bring about a change in the popular mindset,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
15-03-2021||India||BJP forgets one-poll cry, fields MPs ||The BJP on Sunday fielded six MPs — three each from the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha — to contest the Assembly polls in Bengal and Kerala, upending Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s untiring pitch for simultaneous elections. If these MPs are elected to the Assembly, they will have to quit their Parliament seats, necessitating another round of by-elections. This flies in the face of the BJP’s pitch for simultaneous polls to Parliament and the Assemblies, for which it had coined the tagline “One Nation, One Election”. In Bengal, the BJP has named four MPs as candidates for the state polls — Babul Supriyo, Locket Chatterjee, Nishit Pramanik and Swapan Dasgupta. Barring Dasgupta, all the three are Lok Sabha MPs, elected just over a year ago. Supriyo is also a junior minister in the Modi government. Fresh elections will have to be held in the Lok Sabha seats in the event of victory. In Kerala, two sitting Rajya Sabha MPs have been fielded — K.J. Alphons and Suresh Gopi. Picking MPs to contest Assembly elections has raised questions since none other than Modi has repeatedly argued in favour of elections to the Lok Sabha and the Assemblies being held together for unhindered development and to cut down on unnecessary expenditure. Modi, who had first raised the issue at a party meeting in 2015 and then pressed for it again and again from many public platforms, is a member of the BJP central election committee that finalised the names of the candidates. President Ram Nath Kovind too had pitched for simultaneous elections in his address to Parliament ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, saying frequent elections not only impose a huge burden on human resources but also impede development. The President’s address to Parliament is framed by the government. The Congress and many other parties, however, are opposed to simultaneous polls, terming it an “anti-thesis to democracy” and seeing it as part of Modi’s and the RSS’s plan to gain absolute power. Early this month, the matter led to a ruckus in the Karnataka Assembly when the Speaker and chief minister B.S. Yeddyurappa wanted to have a discussion on “One Nation, One Election”. The Opposition Congress protested vehemently. BJP leaders on Sunday refused to react to the doublespeak on elections. “The MPs are popular faces and we feel when they contest, it generates a favourable atmosphere for the party,” a BJP leader said. The move bolstered the perception that the BJP didn’t have enough credible faces at the state level. Rajya Sabha MP and former Union minister Alphons indicated he had been fielded against his will. “I will follow the directions of the party even though I was not keen to contest at all,” Alphons, fielded from Kanirapally in Kerala, said. The AIADMK on Sunday released its manifesto for the April 6 Assembly elections, promising to urge the Centre to scrap the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act. The AIADMK is an ally of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
15-03-2021||India||Women’s collective in Kerala prods secular parties to be more inclusive||A women’s collective has proposed the names of about 150 women who can be fielded in the upcoming Kerala Assembly elections to prod secular parties to be more inclusive. Names of writers, lawyers, social activists, film stars and transwomen are among those suggested by Sthree Koottayma (women’s collective in Malayalam) in its fight for equal rights. “The names of many women who have done well in their respective areas of activity have been included without their permission since this is more of an awareness campaign to win our rights. The idea is to provide a list so that political parties won’t have the excuse of saying there are not enough women who can be fielded,” social activist and a member of the collective, Aleyamma Vijayan, told The Telegraph on Friday. The social media campaign launched on Friday morning has received a lot of support. “Many people have even started sending more names to be included in the list. This shows that there is no dearth of capable women to contest any kind of election and ensure we are well represented in all elected bodies,” Aleyamma said. The CPM has 12 women among the 84 persons whose names have been announced. “No party will give more than 10 per cent of the seats to women,” Aleyamma said. Among those named by the collective are noted writers Sarah Joseph, K.R. Meera, Khadeeja and Saradakutty, film stars Parvathy Thiruvothu and Rima Kallingal, Kerala Trans Justice Board member Sheetal Shyam and her compatriot Vijaya Mallika, state Mahila Congress president Lathika Subhash, Congress leader Bindu Krishna, former MLA Jameela Prakasham of the Janata Dal Secular and Oleena A.G. of the CPM. Lathika Subhash on Sunday resigned and tonsured her head because she was not nominated. The Congress list of 86 candidates has nine women. “I will continue to suffer humiliation if I don’t take this step at least now. Why should I wait for crumbs? At least now the Congress should be ready to take a position on giving sufficient seats to women,” she said before getting her head shaved in front of the party office in Thiruvananthapuram. Lathika, 56, was not forthcoming about her next move. Aleyamma said only those with “secular credentials” had been included in the list of potential candidates. Sarah Joseph welcomed the idea but cautioned that merely adding numbers in the existing system would not help the cause. “The patriarchy-driven perspective must change to enable women, transgender persons, Dalits and minorities to thrive in the system. Otherwise there’s no point including more women who end up nodding to whatever the patriarchal system says,” she told The Telegraph. “Everyone talks about 33 per cent reservation for women. But even the Congress and the CPM do not implement that. So it’s a good thing that this collective has put forth names of highly capable women,” she said, adding it’s another matter that many women might not like the pulls and pressures of politics. Sheetal Shyam had no idea about her name being included in such a list until this newspaper spoke to her. “It’s a pleasant surprise that they included me in the list. But I am currently not inclined to contest any election,” she said. The Left-leaning Sheetal, however, appreciated the idea. “It’s important to tell the parties that there are enough women who can take the electoral field and even win and do very well, like our own health minister (K.K.) Shailaja Teacher,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
15-03-2021||India||Sachin Waze in NIA custody till March 25 ||Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze was on Sunday remanded in the National Investigation Agency’s custody till March 25 after the NIA claimed in court that he had admitted to his involvement in placing explosives in a car parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence. Assistant inspector Waze, who had led the team that arrested Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami last November, was arrested on Saturday under IPC Sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 465 (forgery), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc, with intent to commit forgery), 506(2) (criminal intimidation), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and the Explosive Substances Act, an official said. Waze’s brother Sudharma said the family learnt of his arrest through the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
15-03-2021||India||Sanjeev Balyan promises statues of local icons as incentive for farmers||Union minister Sanjeev Balyan is promising statues of local icons as an incentive for farmers to call off their protest, reduced to desperation by his unsuccessful efforts so far to carry out his assigned task of breaking the movement. Balyan on Saturday told farmers in the Baraut area of Baghpat district that he would install statues of late leaders Charan Singh and Rajesh Pilot if they worked to ensure the protest at Delhi’s borders was withdrawn. “I shall personally come here to install the statues if you ensure the farmers’ protest is withdrawn,” the minister of state for animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries told a meeting in Ramala. Charan Singh, a former Prime Minister, was a Jat leader and founder of the Lok Dal, parent of the Rashtriya Lok Dal. Baraut is an RLD stronghold. Pilot was a Gurjar leader from the Congress. Jats and Gurjars are dominant farming communities in western Uttar Pradesh. While Balyan claimed the Ramala meeting was a farmers’ rally, local farmers told reporters they were ostracising the BJP and that the small crowd on Saturday was made up only of BJP supporters. “We will attend their rallies if they come to us after resigning from the anti-farmer central government and the BJP,” said Jaiveer Singh, a farmer in Baghpat. Earlier, farmers had lined both sides of the road and shown black flags to Balyan while he was travelling the 20km from Baghpat town to Ramala. The police arrested half-a-dozen farmers and later released them. “Balyan first bullied us, and is now begging before us,” farmer Jaiveer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
15-03-2021||India||Naveen: Stick to rules, avert lockdown ||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday appealed to the people of the state to adhere to Covid-19 guidelines to avoid a lockdown kind of situation in the coming days. His appeal to the people comes in the wake of Covid cases increasing in states like Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. Naveen pointed out how lockdown has been enforced in some areas of Maharashtra because of rising virus cases. In his message to the people, the chief minister said: “The lockdown agony is still fresh in our mind. It has severely hit our socio-economic conditions, social life, education of our children. It has almost affected all sectors. “The normalcy returned to the state because of people’s sacrifice and co-operation. No one wants that lockdown to return. Therefore, the only way to avoid such situations is awareness and following the guidelines. If we stay alert, the lockdown kind of situation will not come up.” Stating that the state will never let the sacrifice of the Covid warriors go in vain, Naveen said: “We have lost many lives in our battle against coronavirus. The tears rolled down from the eyes of the kin of deceased persons are yet to dry up. We will not let all the sacrifice of the Covid warriors to go lost.” Naveen maintained how because of  state’s co-ordinated fight against the corona pandemic, the number of cases have come down. “The risk is yet to be over. Zero infection is our target,” said Naveen, adding that the World Health Organisation has praised Odisha’s battle against the virus. He urged people to come forward and make the vaccination programme a success .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
