16-03-2021||India||Amid bank strike, Nirmala says not all banks will be privatised||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said the interest of all employees of state-owned banks which are likely to be privatised will be protected, even as bank unions observed a two-day strike against the government's privatisation decision. Replying to a query during a press conference, she clarified that public sector presence will continue in the banking space. "...we have announced public enterprise policy based on which we have identified those four areas in which we said government presence, public sector presence will be there, and bare minimum presence is what we have said, in that financial institutions are also there. "Meaning, even in the financial sector we will still have the presence of public sector enterprise...not all of them are going to be privatised," she said. Even for those which are likely to be privatised, Sitharaman said the government will ensure that "these privatised institutions will also continue to function. After the privatisation, we will also have to ensure that the staff or the personnel who are there, their every interest will be protected." In her Budget Speech on February 1, Sitharaman had announced that the government proposes to take up the privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) and one general insurance company in the year 2021-22. This would require legislative amendments and she had proposed to introduce the amendments in the ongoing Budget session of Parliament itself. Nine bank unions are observing a two-day strike opposing the government's policy to privatise lenders. Tuesday was the last day of their strike. At the press conference, the minister referred to amalgamation of PSBs and said the country needs many more lenders of the size of State Bank of India (SBI). She further said the government wants financial institutions to get more liquidity and more people to put money into them to make the entities sustainable. The government wants the staff of these financial institutions to be able to perform their duties, in which they have acquired skill over the decades, and run the banks, the minister added. "So, to immediately quickly conclude saying 'oh every bank is going to be sold off' is not right. "And even whether it is bank or any other privatisation, I want to take this opportunity to tell...that the interest of the workers, interest of those who have put in services over the decades will absolutely be protected. Whether it is their salaries, whether it is their scale, whether it is the pension, it will all be taken care of," she said. The government has merged 14 public sector banks in the last four years. The four strategic sectors in which the government will continue to have its presence, though bare minimum, are -- atomic energy, space and defence; transport and telecommunications; power, petroleum, coal and other minerals; and banking, insurance and financial services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||China to issue visa to Indians who take Chinese Covid vaccine||China has made it mandatory for people coming from India and 19 other nations to get Chinese-made COVID-19 vaccines if they want to travel to this country. "For the purpose of resuming people-to-people exchanges in an orderly manner, starting from 15 March, 2021, the Chinese Embassies and Consulates in India will provide the persons having taken Chinese-made COVID-19 vaccine and holding the Certificates of Vaccination," a notice posted on the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi said. The announcement makes little difference for thousands of Indian students besides professionals working in China and their family members who are stuck in India awaiting Beijing to permit their return as there are no Chinese vaccines available in India. The Chinese Embassy notice did not specify how Indians can access the Chinese-made vaccines in India as they are not available in the country. Over 23,000 Indian students, most of them medical students, besides hundreds of professionals working in China are stuck in India since last year due to coronavirus travel restrictions. Despite repeated representations from the Indian embassy and appeals by the students, China is yet to respond positively. State-run Global Times reported that such notices were put up by Chinese embassies in 20 countries. Asked about the rationale of the regulation to have Chinese vaccines in countries like India where China made vaccines are not available, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a media briefing here on Tuesday that many countries have floated the idea of linking vaccination status with opening up international travels. "Our proposal to facilitate the travel of those who have been inoculated with Chinese vaccines is made after thoroughly considering the safety and efficacy of Chinese vaccines," he said. "We believe this is a meaningful exploration of facilitating international travel once mass vaccination has been achieved. It is not linked to the recognition of Chinese vaccines," he said. When pointed out that would it not be better if China recognised the vaccines endorsed by WHO, which is yet to approve the Chinese vaccines, Zhao said, "China's proposal is a meaningful step. We are trying to facilitate international travel". "This is an arrangement made by the Chinese side unilaterally. It is a different thing from vaccine recognition," he said. The WHO has already approved Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca vaccines. AstraZeneca vaccine is being produced by Serum Institute in Pune in the name of Covishield. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||Maharashtra in beginning of second Covid wave, says central team report||Maharashtra is in the beginning of second COVID-19 wave, a central team report has said, highlighting that there is very limited active effort to track, test, isolate cases and quarantine contacts, and there is no adherence to COVID appropriate behaviour among people in rural and urban areas. Based on the central team report, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written a letter to the Maharashtra government, stating "measures such as night curfews, weekend lockdowns etc. have very limited impact on containing/suppressing the transmission" and urged the state to focus on strict containment strategies, strengthening surveillance and augmenting testing. In a letter to Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, Bhushan said even though the health infrastructure is adequate as of now, the "state should plan for a worse-case scenario with sufficient lead time". The central team which visited the state from March 7-11 inferred in its report that the administrative mechanism should be re-instated to the level witnessed in August-September 2020 to contain/supress COVID transmission. "ln all the districts visited by the central team, the test positivity rate was high, ranging from 51 per cent in Mumbai to 30 per cent in Aurangabad, implying that there are lot many cases that are not being tested and there is high transmission in the community," the report underlined. ln view of limited contact tracing, a large pool of asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic people among contacts are not tracked and tested, the report said and stressed that testing must be considerably enhanced and protocol laid down by ICMR followed. "The absence of rigorous tracing, testing and containment is leading to sustained community transmission," it said. "The case-contact ratio is more than 1:20. Though it appears high, a deep dive into the methodology of contact tracing revealed that the main concept of contact tracing was not clearly understood by field level staff, who were mainly listing the immediate family and neighborhood contacts, for the sake of listing. "The high-risk contacts in workplace settings, social settings and family settings were not investigated and listed," the report highlighted. The report stated that the current case fatality was found to be very high among admitted cases in Government Medical College in Aurangabad and in Vasant Rao Pawar Medical College, Nashik which needs to be investigated in detail, including sending samples for whole genome sequencing, it said. Referring to the findings of the team, Bhushan said that containment strategy needs to be re-introduced, containment zones must be better defined based on contact listing, digital mapping of cases and contacts and should be much larger to include the area of influence of cases/ contacts. "The buffer zones need to be delineated. The perimeter control needs to be strictly enforced. For each containment zone, the Rapid Response Teams should develop an operational plan," he said. Bhushan also stressed on augmenting testing to bring the test positivity rate to less than 5 per cent and strengthening surveillance by active house to house search for active cases/contacts in containment zones (as per the containment plan). Further, passive surveillance for ILI and SARI must be enhanced through health institutions, and involvement of private practitioners. "The Incident Command under the leadership of district collector and municipal commissioner should be actively re-instated with whole of government approach to contain/ suppress the transmission. This should be monitored at the highest level," Bhushan said. For every positive case, at least 20 to 30 close contacts (including family contacts, social contacts' workplace contacts and other casual contacts) need to be promptly traced and tracked and the practice of isolating 80-85 pre cent of active cases kept in home isolation needs to be reviewed, he said in the letter. "Vaccine hesitancy among frontline workers needs to be addressed as their services would be required if the trajectory follows the upward swing as is being witnessed now. The state should also expedite vaccinating those with co-morbidities and elderly," Bhushan stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||PM Modi's principal advisor P K Sinha resigns||P K Sinha, the Principal Advisor to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has resigned, sources said on Tuesday. Sinha, a retired IAS officer of 1977 batch, was appointed as Principal Advisor to the Prime Minister in September 2019, after a brief stint as an officer on special duty (OSD). Sinha was made OSD to the Prime Minister in August 2019, after he had served four years as Cabinet Secretary. According to the order of his appointment, his tenure as Principal Advisor was co-terminus with the term of Prime Minister Modi or until further announcement, whichever earlier. Sinha had also served as Secretary in the Ministry of Power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||Mamata reciting ‘Chandi Path’ shows change of mindset in BJP era: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said his Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee has been forced to take to 'Chandi Path' publicly and visit temples due to the change in people's mindset after the BJP came to power at the Centre. He also criticised Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his visits to temples in poll-bound states. Speaking at an election rally at Balarampur in Purulia district, the star campaigner of the saffron party said, a sect of people was created in the country, before the BJP-led government assumed power at the Centre in 2014, who believed that even visiting temples would pose a threat to their secular credentials. "A change has come... Even Mamata didi has started visiting temples and taken to 'Chandi Path'. Isn't this a change? This is new India. Each and every person has to go to God. "Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also goes to temple during election time. And a priest had to tell him to sit in a correct posture when he (Rahul Gandhi) went there," the UP chief minister said. The 'Chandi Path' is one of the most ancient and complete systems of mantra worship of the divine mother goddess in the Hindu tradition. Adityanath also criticised the Trinamool Congress (TMC) dispensation in Bengal for not implementing various schemes of the central government. Urging the people to vote for the BJP in the approaching Assembly polls in Bengal, Adityanath said, if voted to power, the BJP will punish those behind the "killing of party activists in the state". "This is the land of (Swami) Vivekananda, Rabindranath (Tagore), Syama Prasad (Mookerjee) which has inspired the entire country. But now it is the land of TMC-promoted goons and 'tolabaaj'(extortionists). "I think the days of Mamata didi's government are numbered. The people of the state have made up their mind in voting them out of power. Only 45 days are left for them," he said. The 294 assembly seats in Bengal will go to the polls in eight phases beginning on March 27 and the votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||Maharashtra health minister requests 2.20 crore Covid vaccine doses from Centre||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope has demanded 2.20 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses from the Centre for the ongoing inoculation drive in the state. He requested the Centre to supply 20 lakh doses per week to the state, as per a letter dated March 15 written to Union health minister by Tope, who went to Delhi on Tuesday. "The state is planning to immunise 60-plus age group and 45-plus population with co-morbidities. It needs supply of 2.20 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccine (Covishield and Covaxin) during the next three-and-a-half months. You are requested to supply 20 lakh doses per week to Maharashtra," Tope said in the letter. Maharashtra has been the worst hit by the coronavirus infection in the country. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan recently wrote a letter to Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, expressing disappointment over the state's measures to curb spread of the coronavirus infection. The state does not seem to be serious about controlling the situation, the letter said. A central delegation visited Maharashtra between March 7 and 11 and also discussed the COVID-19 situation with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. On Monday, Maharashtra reported 15,051 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state's caseload to 23,29,464, while 48 fatalities took the death toll to 52,909, according to the health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||Railways will never be privatised and will always remain with govt of India, says Piyush Goyal||Railways Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday asserted that Indian Railways will never be privatised but said private investment should be encouraged for more efficient functioning. Replying to a discussion on Demands for Grants for Railways, Goyal said there has been no death of any passenger due to a rail accident in two years and the railways has been putting enormous focus on passenger safety. He said the country can progress towards high growth and create more employment opportunities only when the public and private sectors work together. "Indian Railways will never be privatised. It is a property of every Indian and will remain so, the minister said, adding that it will remain with the government of India. Goyal said the Modi government has hiked investment in railways to Rs 2.15 lakh crore in 2021-22 fiscal, from Rs 1.5 lakh crore in 2019-20 fiscal. We are focusing on passenger safety. I am happy to say that there has been no passenger death in past two years. The last death due to train accident happened in March 2019," the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation targets inoculating 1 lakh people per day||With an aim to speed up the COVID-19 vaccination drive, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has set a target of inoculating one lakh people in the city every day, BMC officials said on Tuesday. Currently, 40,000 to 45,000 people are being given vaccine shots here in a day at around 85 immunisation centres, including 54 private hospitals, they said. On Monday, 44,683 people received vaccine shots in Mumbai, according to the civic body. During a review meeting last week, BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal set the target of immunising one lakh people per day, specially after the government permitted round-the-clock vaccination in private hospitals, civic officials said. With the addition of new vaccination centres and increasing the number of hours of the immunisation drive every day, the target can be achieved, they said. Highlighting the reasons for speeding up the inoculation process, the civic body in a release last week said there are around 30 lakh senior citizens in Mumbai. Hence, if the target one lakh vaccinations per day is achieved, the entire population of senior citizens could be covered in a month, it said. BMC’s Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani said to achieve the target, they have planned to increase the civic-run vaccination facilities, apart from adding 29 centres in private hospitals. "With the existing centres, we have vaccinated up to 48,000 people in a day. By adding more centres, we can easily cross 75,000 vaccinations per day. Hence, the target of one lakh vaccinations per day can be achieved with some more efforts," Kakani said. According to BMC officials, the civic body had proposed round-the-clock vaccination in private hospitals and the government permitted it, but they are doubtful about the turnout, specially between 9 pm and 7am. When asked about this, Kakani said though they have received the permission for conducting vaccination round-the-clock, their plan is to initially start with two shifts between 7 am and 9 pm. Since the vaccination drive began on January 16 this year, so far 6,47,684 people have been inoculated in Mumbai. These include 2,75,618 people above the age of 60 years, 1,98,711 health care workers, 1,36,288 front-line workers and 37,067 people between the age group of 45 and 59 with co-morbidities, as per the BMC data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||Government 'privatising profit and nationalising loss': Rahul Gandhi||Taking a dig at the government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday alleged that selling public sector banks to "cronies" will compromise the country's financial security. He also accused the government of "privatising profit" and "nationalising loss". "Government of India (GOI) is privatising profit and nationalising loss. Selling PSBs to Modicronies gravely compromises India's financial security," Gandhi tweeted. The Congress leader also expressed solidarity with the protesting bank employees, who are on a two-day strike against alleged privatisation of public sector banks. "I stand in solidarity with the striking bank employees," he said on Twitter. The bank strike, led by nine unions of public sector banks (PSBs) in the country, continued for day-two on Tuesday. Customers will be inconvenienced to get services such as cash withdrawals, deposits, cheque clearances, remittance services. Government transactions related to treasury as well as business transactions will also be impacted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||India records 24,492 new infections, 131 deaths||India recorded 24,492 new COVID-19 cases, registering more than 20,000 cases for the sixth day in a row, taking the infection tally past 1.14 crore, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The total cases in the country rose to 1,14,09,831, while the death toll increased to 1,58,856, with 131 fresh fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a spike in cases for the sixth day in a row, the total active caseload has increased to 2,23,432, which now comprises 1.96 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has further dropped to 96.65 per cent, it said. As many as 26,624 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on December 20. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,27,543, while the case fatality rate dropped to 1.39 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 22,82,80,763 samples have been tested up to March 15, with 8,73,350 samples tested on Monday.  More than 30 lakh people were inoculated against COVID-19 on March 15, the highest in a day so far, taking the total number of vaccine doses administered in the country to 3,29,47,432, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.  The vaccination of beneficiaries aged over 60 has touched 1 crore within 15 days, the ministry said.  Of the total 30,39,394 doses given in a span of 24 hours on March 15, 26,27,099 beneficiaries have been administered the 1st dose and 4,12,295 individuals have been given the 2nd dose, according to the data compiled at 7 am.  Of the cumulative 3,29,47,432 doses which have been administered till now, 2,70,79,484 beneficiaries received the 1st dose and 58,67,948 individuals have taken the 2nd dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||Satyapal Malik pitches for a law on minimum support price||Satyapal Malik, the Meghalaya governor handpicked by the Narendra Modi dispensation, has pitched for a law on the minimum support price and warned the Centre of consequences if the government tries to suppress the farmers’ protest and send them back empty-handed. Malik’s voice holds significance as he belongs to the ruling stable and hails from western Uttar Pradesh, the epicentre of the farm protests along with Punjab and Haryana. “When I saw what was happening in the matter of farmers, I couldn’t stop myself. I spoke and I told both the Prime Minister and home minister that ‘One, don’t send them back empty-handed because the sardars remember it for 300 years. Second, don’t use force against them’,” Malik told a felicitation at a school in Baghpat, western Uttar Pradesh, on Sunday. Malik had studied in the village school. Malik, who joined the BJP in 2004 after stints in the socialist camp and the Congress, was picked as governor of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2018, a move indicative of his proximity to Modi and Shah. It was during his stint as governor that the Centre decided to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Later, he was transferred to Goa and then to Meghalaya. Malik, who had spoken in favour of the protesting farmers earlier too, said he was “ready to go to any extent” for the farmers since he belonged to a farmer family and knew well the problems they faced. Malik warned the Centre against committing the mistake of ignoring the farmers and echoed their demand for a law on the minimum support price, underscoring that “Kisan bahut bure haal me hai desh me”. “Make a law on the MSP and the farmers will be ready for other amendments the government wants,” he said, urging the Centre not to allow the protest to drag on. The governor said the government’s current approach towards the protesting farmers was “wrong”. “This is a wrong approach, to suppress the farmers, insult and send them back,” he said and warned the government that the farmers were not going to leave by themselves and there would be consequences if they were forced out. Malik said he had been trying hard to make the government understand the gravity of the farmers’ protest and resolve the issue. “Yesterday, I met a very big journalist who is a friend of the Prime Minister. I told him that I had tried and now he should make them (the government) understand,” he said. The governor recalled his days as a farmer’s son in the village and assured the villagers that although he lacked the power to force the government to act, he would spare no effort. “I want to assure you that for farmers, I will go to any extent,” he said. “If the country’s farmers and soldiers are dissatisfied, the country can’t survive. Nobody can save the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||Sedition proceedings against former JNU students begins||A Delhi court on Monday began sedition proceedings against former JNU students Kanhaiya Kumar, Umar Khalid and Anirban Bhattacharya five years after they became synonymous with dissent against the ruling BJP and their university captured the public imagination as the fulcrum of this resistance. By Monday the trio had aged beyond their years, with strands of white hair, and the shadow of the case had prevented them pursuing teaching careers despite their having earned PhDs. Kanhaiya is now a national council member of the CPI, Khalid has been in Tihar prison for the past six months on terror charges in connection with a speech linked to the Delhi riots, and Bhattacharya works for a think tank. In court, they stood near one another and Bhattacharya pinched Khalid to lighten the sombre mood, drawing smiles from the former classmates gathered there. While the trio already have bail in the case, the seven other accused — young Kashmiris who were students in 2016 — were granted the relief during the brief proceedings on Monday. The case stems from the events of February 9, 2016, when Khalid, Bhattacharya and others had organised a “poetry reading” session titled “The country without a post office”, after Agha Shahid Ali’s poem of the same name. It was meant to mark the third anniversary of the execution of 2001 Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru. The session was violently disrupted by RSS student arm ABVP, prompting the varsity students’ union, led by Kanhaiya, its then president, to intervene in support of the organisers. Kanhaiya and the rest were accused of chanting “anti-national” slogans. Apart from sedition, the charges the 10 accused face include voluntarily causing hurt, forgery, unlawful assembly, rioting and criminal conspiracy. The police filed the case on complaints from the ABVP and then BJP parliamentarian Maheish Girri, and later transferred it to their anti-terror unit’s special cell. Kanhaiya, Khalid and Bhattacharya spent several weeks in Tihar jail before securing bail and becoming public speakers and activists for free speech and secularism. The same Patiala House Courts where Monday’s hearing took place had seen men wearing black coats attack teachers, journalists and activists on February 15, 2016, and beat up Kanhaiya in the presence of police two days later. All 10 accused were in the court on Monday. They included former JNU students Mujeeb Gattoo and Khalid Bashir Bhat; former Jamia Millia Islamia students Umair Gul (now a university teacher in Pulwama) and Basharat Ali, now a journalist; Aligarh Muslim University student and Gattoo’s brother Muneeb; dentist Aqueeb Hussain; and rights activist Rayees Rasool. Umar Khalid was brought in from Tihar Jail under heavy security, which meant the hearing could begin only at 10.55am, almost an hour behind schedule. As Khalid was rushed in by armed policemen, a journalist from a pro-government TV channel tried to question him in the corridor leading to the courtroom, drawing shouts from the police to move away. Khalid asked the reporter: “For how long will you do paid journalism?” Hearing the policemen’s shouts, many of those in the courtroom rushed to the window, unsure what was happening and fearing a return of the black coats of 2016. None of the 2016 attackers, who allegedly included then BJP MLA O.P. Sharma, has faced prosecution although the violence took place on court premises in a high-security zone near India Gate. Despite the memories of the attack on the court premises in 2016, several teachers were present on Monday. Among them were Moushumi Basu, secretary of the JNU teachers’ association, Kanhaiya’s former PhD guide Subodh Malakar, economist Surajit Majumdar, Delhi University sociologist Satish Deshpande and political scientist Saroj Giri. Kanhaiya arrived on the court premises with 10 bouncers from Haryana who threw a cordon around him. Friends and sympathisers of the accused, lacking faith in the police to protect the defendants, had turned up in numbers while hardly any BJP supporters were present. “In the attendance of this case, we have a majority,” Kanhaiya joked with The Telegraph. A magisterial probe that Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party government had ordered in 2016 had found that several purported videos of the February 9 incident had been doctored. These videos had aired on TV channels and led to mob frenzy and wildcat attacks on JNU students outside the campus. The probe also found that varsity security guards had given false testimonies implicating the students during an internal inquiry by the JNU administration. Then human resource development minister Smriti Irani had read out in Parliament the names of nine non-ABVP students whom the internal probe had found guilty of indiscipline in connection with the February 9, 2016, event. The chargesheet was filed in 2019 and the AAP government granted sanction for prosecution last year. On Monday, the seven Kashmiri accused deposited bail bonds of Rs 25,000 each with equivalent sureties, and chief metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma ordered the chargesheet to be given to the defendants who have to respond by April 7. Following this, the matter will be considered for committal to a sessions court that tries serious offences. Judge Sharma said that requests for exemptions from personal appearance from Kanhaiya — on the CPI’s list of star campaigners for the Bengal polls — would be considered on a day-to-day basis by the sessions court. Sharma allowed Umar Khalid to meet his family for 10 minutes at a holding cell on the court premises. Khalid raised his fist in a salute to his old comrades while being led out at the end of proceedings and court formalities around 11.30am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||Kerala BJP nominee refuses to contest||The BJP’s attempt to field the first MBA graduate from the Paniya tribal community in Mananthavady has failed with the candidate turning down the offer saying he had already told the party he was not keen on contesting. C. Manikandan, 31, who works as a teaching assistant at the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University in Wayanad, and is not even a primary member of the party, refused to take the field after finding his name in the BJP’s list of candidates announced on Sunday for the Assembly elections. “Some local BJP leaders had called me on phone three weeks ago to ask me if I was interested in contesting. But I had clearly told them that I was not inclined to contest as I am not even a BJP sympathiser,” he told The Telegraph on Monday. But the BJP went ahead and included his name in the candidates’ list. However, instead of the original name, the party printed his Facebook name Manikuttan in the list. “At first I thought it was someone else, but later realised they had used my Facebook name,” he said. “I am not even a BJP sympathiser, let alone a member of that party. All I want to do is to pursue my academics.” After finding his name in the list, Manikandan went to a BJP convention in Mananthavady on Sunday evening to meet some local leaders. “I told them what transpired when some leaders had called me earlier and requested them to drop my name from the list,” he said. He named Wayanad district BJP president Saji Sankar and Yuva Morcha leader Akhil Prem among those who met him at the convention on Sunday. “After sometime, (state BJP president) K. Surendran spoke to me on Saji sir’s phone and tried to convince me to contest. But I explained I had no intention of contesting elections,” Manikandan added. In a clear message about his ideology, Manikandan on Monday posted a picture of B.R. Ambedkar on his Facebook page along with a condensed version of the leader’s famous quote: “Even if you hang me upside down from this lamppost, I will not betray my people.” The original quote is: “I shall not deter from my pious duty and betray the just and legitimate interests of my people even if you hang me on the market lamp post in the street.” Faced with the ignominy of a candidate refusing to contest after being named, the BJP scurried to find an alternative. “We are fielding district general secretary P. Mohandas in Mananthavady,” Sankar said on Monday. Asked about the reason to name Manikandan without his permission, Sankar said: “What happened has happened. Now there is no point in talking about it. He was named because he is the first MBA from the Paniya community. Apparently, he was not convinced about contesting.” His Facebook friends posted affirmative comments like “Jai Bhim” and “respect” over his decision not to contest on a BJP ticket. Mananthavady is not the only problem area for the BJP. Pathanamthitta district BJP president Ashokan Kulanada, who was named from Thiruvalla constituency, backed off on Monday citing rebellion triggered by the choice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||BJP MP’s daughter-in-law slits wrist in Lucknow||The daughter-in-law of a BJP parliamentarian slashed her wrist on a Lucknow street on Sunday night hours after releasing a video threatening suicide and blaming her in-laws for refusing to accept her and her husband for abandoning her. Police took Ankita Singh, daughter-in-law of Mohanlalganj MP Kaushal Kishore, to hospital where she is recovering. Kishore’s son Ayush and Ankita had married a year ago without the MP’s consent and begun living in a rented house in Lucknow. But late last month Ayush returned to his parents’ home, accusing Ankita and her brother Adarsh of misbehaving with him. On March 3, Ayush accused Adarsh of shooting him in the right arm, prompting the police to arrest Ankita’s brother. But on March 5, the police registered a case against Ayush accusing him of shooting himself and framing Adarsh. “You have ditched me. I’m going for ever,” Ankita said in Sunday’s video, adding that Ayush, his parents Kishore and Jai Devi (BJP MLA from Malihabad) and his brother Vikas would be responsible for her taking her own life. It led to a search by the police, who found Ankita squatting on a deserted roadside near the MP’s home late at night, sources said. As soon as she saw the police, Ankita allegedly slit her right wrist. Kishore told reporters: “We don’t accept her (Ankita) as our daughter-in-law. The police are probing the case and we need to wait for the truth to come out.” Ayush had released a video on March 7 denying he had shot himself and accusing Ankita of conspiring against him. “I hurt my parents under the influence of this woman (Ankita). I spoiled my life by marrying a woman against my parents’ wishes. I didn’t shoot myself; that day (March 3) I was beaten up first,” he said in the video. Ayush had been admitted to the King George’s Medical University Hospital with his bullet injury but ran away fearing arrest after the police began suspecting him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||Speed up Covid-19 vaccination campaign by 5 times: Expert||India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign has administered over 26 million people their first doses and six million their second doses in the eight weeks since the campaign started. At this pace, it would take nearly two years to cover the 300 million people who make up the four priority population groups — healthcare and frontline workers, people aged 50 years or older and those below 50 with underlying chronic health disorders. Senior health officials have said the government is sure of procuring 660 million doses for the ongoing campaign but have not specified over how long. But two years seems too long a time to vaccinate less than 25 per cent of the country’s population. The US has announced a plan to vaccinate all adults by May this year. India too should set similar goals, says Giridhar Babu, professor of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore, who has many years of experience in control and surveillance of infectious diseases. In this interview to The Telegraph, Babu says vaccines that can be manufactured within India and others willing should be made available at regulated prices to all — as soon as possible. I am concerned about the pace of vaccination so far. It is important to cover at least 10 million people per day to complete vaccinating all the vulnerable people within two or three months. The pace needs to increase by five times its pace so far. Vaccinating children is a most difficult and sensitive process. But the country’s auxiliary nurse-midwives and nurses comprise a large and well-trained workforce. They vaccinate millions of children routinely through outreach sessions without major complications. They can easily cover 2 million doses per day routinely. By expanding participation of private health facilities, it would be possible to cover more than 7 to 10 million doses per day. With current production, this may be a problem. However, there are several other vaccines available internationally. Foreign-made vaccines with arrangements for manufacture within India should be immediately prioritized and scaled up. Russia, for example, has already pledged 100 million doses of the Sputnik V vaccine. An Indian company has signed a pact for its local production and the vaccine is already undergoing clinical trials in India. We need not wait for the companies to approach India. We’re seeing a surge in Covid-19 cases in many states again. Saving the lives of Indians should be the most important goal. We need to invite the other manufacturers to go through the due processes and make their vaccines available to Indians. The vaccines from Moderna and Johnson&Johnson are two other options. India could commission rapid studies to examine safety, immunogenicity, and efficacy for these vaccines too. Yes. The government should act as the assurer of the quality of vaccines while regulating their prices. This could open up vaccination in workplace settings across the country and for all others who can afford them. This should happen immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||Indian army replaces Insas  with Sig Sauer assault rifles||The army has begun replacing its Indian small arms system (Insas) rifles with American Sig Sauer assault rifles, procured recently under fast-track procedures. These American-made rifles are easier to handle and offer better accuracy and a longer range — 600 metres compared with the Insas rifle’s 400 metres — sources said. Officials said the army was supplying the Sig Sauer to its infantry battalions, particularly troops involved in counter-terrorism operations and those on the frontiers with Pakistan and China. “Frontline troops along with soldiers in other infantry commands are being equipped with the newly procured rifles to boost their capability. Several units have started firing practice with the latest weapon,” an army official said. The army recently procured 72,500 Sig Sauer assault rifles from the US, and the Centre has ordered a second batch of 72,500. Indian soldiers have for over two decades mainly used Insas rifles made by the Ordnance Factory Board, amid complaints that they jammed frequently. Another shortcoming was that the Insas rifle’s 5.56mm bullet did not always kill the target in one shot. The Sig Sauer bullet is bigger at 7.26mm. “The Sig Sauer has an effective killing range of 600 metres against around 400 metres for the Insas,” the army official said. “Another advantage is that the Sig Sauer is more accurate and lethal because it has a higher calibre than the Insas.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||CBI registers case against 17 army officers in recruitment scam||The CBI has registered a case against 23 people, including 17 army officers, in a recruitment scam. The agency also conducted searches at 30 locations across several cities on Monday in connection with the case. The agency registered a case on a complaint from the office of additional directorate general, discipline & vigilance, Adjutant General’s Branch, Integrated Headquarters of Ministry Office Defence (Army), New Delhi, against 17 army officers including a lieutenant colonel, a major, a naib subedar and a sepoy besides six private persons and others on the allegations pertaining to bribery and irregularities in recruitment of officers and other ranks through the Service Selection Board (SSB). “Searches were conducted today at 30 places including base hospital, cantonment, other army establishments, civilian areas covering 13 cities like Kapurthala, Bathinda, Delhi, Kaithal, Palwal, Lucknow, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Vishakhapatnam, Jaipur, Guwahati, Jorhat and Chirangon which led to the recovery of several incriminating documents,” the CBI said. The documents so far recovered during the searches are being scrutinised and investigation is continuing, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||Report flags money power in election system in India||A new report by eminent citizens who reviewed the election system in the country has flagged concerns such as the exclusion of vulnerable groups from electoral rolls, money power in polls promoting an economic oligarchy and selective enforcement of the model code of conduct. The Citizens’ Commission on Elections, an NGO, released its second volume of “An Inquiry into India’s Election System” on Monday. The NGO is chaired by former Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur and includes former IAS officers Wajahat Habibullah, Sundar Burra and M.G. Devasahayam, and retired Madras High Court judge Hariparanthaman as well as several academics and journalists. The first volume examined doubts on the integrity of the electronic voting machines and recommended that paper trail machines be redesigned for more transparent verifiability by voters and that the voting machines be independently verified outside the government and the Election Commission. Releasing the second volume, Devasahayam referred to the massive deployment of central forces for the Assembly polls and said: “Democracy is an exercise in freedom. Instead of that, people have been put under fear. But the basics like the level playing field, the democratic principles and public faith above all are not being complied with in the context of elections.” More than 1 lakh central police personnel have been deployed in Bengal. The second volume examines reports of exclusions from voter rolls, criminalisation of politics, ineffective and selective implementation of the model code of conduct that has benefited the BJP, fake news and alleged partisanship of the Election Commission. The commission is yet to respond to the reports. “Earlier the EC was very generous in offering us time, the Chief Election Commissioner (O.P. Rawat) would offer us time, and we would discuss. An air of closed doors has descended around the government,” Habibullah said. The second volume highlights the exclusion of vulnerable and disadvantaged groups from voter rolls, and says the move to link the electors’ photo identity card with Aadhaar “could lead to massive data leak, fraud and theft…” and that “the fast-rising economic oligarchy in the country, threatening India as a welfare state is the direct fallout of this extreme money power in elections” promoted by electoral bonds from anonymous donors. It also highlights a “lack of consistency by the ECI (Election Commission of India) in enforcing the MCC (model code of conduct), the ECI treating the ruling party with kid gloves and the ECI not using its powers under Article 324 of the Constitution.” On fake news, the report finds “procrastination, silence and inaction characterised the ECI’s responses even to serious violations of the MCC, media code and guidelines by the ruling party!” The report and Devasahayam referred to a report by Sweden’s V-Dem Institute that rated India as an “electoral autocracy”. The NGO’s second report says: “The ECI, the ‘engine that drives India’s elections’ seem to have corroded fast and has morphed into an ‘unelected autocracy’. It is maintaining the fig leaf of ‘free and fair elections’ only by deploying a vast array of paramilitary forces, variety of observers and flying squads while losing its essence of level playing field, democracy principles and public faith. In the event, the ECI has drifted away from its constitutional (Article 324) mandate of holding genuinely free and fair election. No wonder then that India is being branded as ‘electoral autocracy’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi: Modi govt cannot build, can only sell ||Rahul Gandhi on Monday suggested the Narendra Modi government knew only to sell, not to build, attacking the Centre’s privatisation drive that he said hurt the public and helped only crony capitalists. “Banana nahin, sirf bechna jaanta hai (Can’t build, knows only to sell),” Rahul tweeted. “India is against privatisation which hurts the public and benefits only the crony capitalists.” Rahul did not name the Prime Minister but the allusion to Modi was clear as he tagged a report that explained how the Centre planned to divest shares in four major airports in Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore and Hyderabad. The plan to monetise the assets gathered steam after Modi declared the “government had no business to be in business”. On Monday, the Congress ran a social media campaign against privatisation, recalling how Modi’s theme song in the run-up to the 2014 general election went: “Saugandh mujhe is mitti ki, desh nahin bikne dunga (I swear by this earth that I won’t let the country be sold).” The Congress has been painting the Modi government as a sales agent with the slogan: “Jo mile bech do (Sell whatever you can lay your hands on).” Congress governments too had divested public sector units in the past but the party opposes the sale of profit-making units such as the LIC, ONGC, BPCL and the like. On Monday, the Congress also highlighted the nature of the acquisition of airports, ports and other assets that it said were creating dangerous monopolies by a handful of industrialists. “They are dedicated to an asset-free India, not Congress-free India. It is incumbent on every citizen to fight against this ‘sell the country’ campaign by the Modi government. People have to choose between Modi bhakti and rashtra bhakti,” party communications chief Randeep Surjewla said. He also issued a statement on privatisation as bank unions began a two-day strike from Monday. “Today the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine bank unions, called for a two-day nationwide strike on March 15 and 16 against the privatisation of public sector banks and retrograde banking reforms,” he said. “We stand in solidarity with 10 lakh bank officials and staff participating in the strike.... There is no rationale for selling state-owned lenders to private lenders — foreign or domestic. This is yet again a desperate attempt to meet the disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore. “Even experts like former RBI governor Dr Raghuram Rajan have... red-flagged it by calling it a ‘colossal mistake’. The whole idea of bank nationalisation, a bold step taken by former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, was to bring banking closer to every Indian. “The aim was to make banks and loans available even for those who do not meddle in High Street finance. PSU banks are not just profit-making ventures; they have been in the past used as vehicles of social reform. “A very large part of our population lives in rural areas and is involved in agriculture. We need public sector banks for outreach and to ensure banking is more accessible to (people) in villages and smaller towns, which aren’t high on the priority list of private lenders. “What we really need is higher accountability of public sector banks and not their outright sale. Public sector banks have been at the forefront of lending to the priority sectors like public infrastructure roads and also rural areas, which need financing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
16-03-2021||India||Death penalty in Batla case||A Delhi court on Monday awarded death penalty to Ariz Khan for the murder of decorated Delhi police inspector Mohan Chand Sharma in connection with the sensational 2008 Batla House encounter case, saying the offence fell under the “rarest of the rare category” warranting the maximum sentence. Additional sessions judge Sandeep Yadav said Ariz be hanged by neck till death. Inspector Sharma of the police’s special cell was killed during the Batla House encounter between the police and alleged terrorists in Jamia Nagar in south Delhi following serial bomb blasts in the national capital in which 39 people died and 159 were injured. The court also imposed a total fine of Rs 11 lakh on Ariz.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
16-03-2021||India||BJP concern on racism in Britain||The issue of racism in the UK — prised open by American actress Meghan Markle’s allegations against the royal family — found an echo in the Rajya Sabha on Monday in what appeared to be the BJP’s eye-for-an-eye response to the discussion in British Parliament on the farmers’ protest last week. Volunteering to respond, external affairs minister S. Jaishankar said the land of Mahatma Gandhi can never turn its eyes away from racism, adding that India would raise the issue when required. This came hours before Jaishankar met British minister of state for the Commonwealth and United Nation, Tariq Ahmad, the Baron of Wimbledon. “Concern for Racism in United Kingdom’’ was raised by BJP MP Ashwini Vaishnaw as a Zero Hour mention. It secured a response from Jaishankar though it is not mandatory for ministers to respond to Zero Hour mentions. Twenty-seven MPs — 20 from the BJP — associated with Vaishnaw’s mention, the others being six from the BJD and one from the NCP. Jaishankar said: “Let me, first of all, commend the member for bringing up such an important issue. I note the sentiments of the House, government does.... As the land of Mahatma Gandhi, we can never ever turn our eyes away from racism….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
