17-03-2021||India||Maharashtra’s one-day Covid-19 count crosses 23,000-mark ||Maharashtra reported as many as 23,179 new cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, which is the highest single-day infection count so far in 2021, a health official said. This is the sixth highest one-day spike of infection cases in the state since the pandemic began last year. With these new cases, Maharashtra's overall infection count rose to 23,70,507, the official said. The state had reported its first COVID-19 case in March last year. The daily number of cases had started rising gradually and in September last year, more than one lakh cases were added in Maharashtra within a span of merely a week. On September 11 last year, the state had reported 24,886 cases, while on September 17, a total of 24,619 cases were added. The third, fourth and fifth highest figures were reported on September 9 (23,816), September 6 (23,350) and September 10 (23,446). The number of new single-day cases started gradually going down by the end of last year, although the count started witnessing an upward trend once against from mid-February this year. With 84 deaths reported on Wednesday, the state's fatality count jumped to 53,080, the official said. As many as 9,138 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the recovery count to 21,63,391. There are 1,52,760 active cases in the state at present. Nagpur city reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases during the day with 2,698, followed by 2,612 in Pune and 2,377 in Mumbai city. Pune division, which comprises civic bodies of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, as well as districts including Pune, Solapur and Satara, reported 5,268 cases during the day, which is the highest for the day across all the divisions in the state. Mumbai's COVID-19 tally increased to 3,49,974 and eight deaths took the fatality count to 11,551. Mumbai division reported 4,811 new cases and 21 deaths, which pushed its overall caseload to 7,71,389 and death toll to 19,995. Nashik division has so far reported at 3,27,190 cases and 5,399 deaths, Pune division 5,71,786 cases and 11,887 deaths, Kolhapur division 1,21,608 cases and 4,092 deaths, Aurangabad division 95,053 cases and 2,127 deaths, Latur division 94,462 cases and 2,576 deaths, Akola division 1,23,095 cases and 1,941 deaths, Nagpur division 2,64,778 cases and 4,971 deaths. With 1,19,973 COVID-19 tests carried out on Wednesday, the overall test count rose to 1,78,35,495. There are 6,71,620 people in home quarantine while 6,738 are in institutional quarantine. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 23,70,507, new cases: 23,179, death toll: 53,080, discharged: 21,63,391, active cases: 1,52,760, people tested so far: 1,78,35,495.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||Mumbai Police Commissioner transferred amid Ambani bomb scare row||Under flak for 'mishandling' of the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambanis house in Mumbai, Maharashtra Government on Wednesday transferred city Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh to the low-key Home Guard. Senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale, holding additional charge of the state Director General of Police (DGP) post, will be the new Mumbai Police Commissioner, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said. Singh's transfer came even as the case of recovery of gelatin sticks near Ambani's residence turned murkier with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) claiming there were "other players" who had been allegedly instructing arrested policeman Sachin Waze. NIA sources said the case had virtually been cracked and soon the "entire conspiracy" behind it would be unravelled. "Big decision of the government. Shri Hemant Nagrale will be the new Mumbai Police Commissioner. Shri Rajnish Seth will have the additional charge of the post of Director General of Police, Maharashtra," tweeted Deshmukh, who met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray earlier in the day. "Shri Sanjay Pandey will have the responsibility of Maharashtra State Security Corporation. Shri Param Bir Singh will have the responsibility of the Home Guard, he added. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government's move follows a series of meetings among the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance leaders. Waze is at the focus of NIA's probe in the recovery of an SUV with explosives near Ambani's house. Arrested in the case on March 13 for his alleged role in the crime, Waze was attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) till recently. He was suspended after NIA arrested him. Singh's transfer follows Monday's talks between Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar, amid reports that Waze stage-managed the bomb scare on instructions from Singh. The NIA team recovered some "incriminating" documents and electronic evidence such as laptop, iPad and mobile phones from Waze's office, an official of the agency said on Tuesday. A black Mercedes car, being used by Waze, was also seized from a parking lot near the CSMT station, and Rs 5 lakh in cash, a note-counting machine, two number plates and some clothes were recovered from it, the official added. The NIA questioned Mumbai crime branch officer Riyazuddin Kazi for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday in connection with its probe into a case related to the recovery of the SUV with explosives. Another assistant police inspector (API) of the crime branch, Prakash Howal, also appeared before the agency here in the afternoon. Kazi had allegedly procured the fake number plates found in the SUV, an official claimed. NIA sources said a letter from the terror outfit Jaish-Ul-Hind, posted on Telegram app, demanding ransom and claiming responsibility for the incident will also be investigated. The Delhi Police's special cell has already taken into custody Tehseen Akhtar, an associate of the Indian Mujahideen who is an expert on fabricating improvised explosive devices. The officials said some evidence has been collected after questioning Akhtar and seizing the mobile instrument used to post the threat letter on Telegram app, and Waze will soon be confronted with these. Meanwhile, the former owner of the Mercedes car which was allegedly used by Waze and seized by the NIA, said he will "fully cooperate" with the probe agency if it approaches him for any information related to the vehicle. Saransh Bhawsar, a resident of Dhule district, told a TV channel that he had sold his vehicle last month through an online portal and claimed he did not know the person who purchased it. Bhawsar said he does not know Waze and heard his name for the first time on Tuesday. Bhawsar said though he does not own the car now, he got phone calls from people who know him after the vehicle was seized by the NIA. Maharashtra minister Jayant Patil said the NIA should complete its probe into the recovery of the explosive-laden SUV then announce the conclusion, instead of disclosing the investigation details in-between. Talking to reporters after a meeting of key state ministers at the Sahyadri Guest House here, the names of those involved are coming to the fore slowly. State textiles minister Aslam Shaikh said action will be taken against "anyone who has committed a mistake" and the state government will not back anybody in such a case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||Made-in-India vaccines given to 72 nations, says Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar told Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that India's reputation as "pharmacy of the world" stands reinforced the way it reached out to nations in the midst of a global crisis and supplied vaccines to 72 nations. Making a statement on "Vaccine Maitri" initative, he said the supply of 'Made-in-India' vaccine to 72 nations after the world was reeling under COVID-19 pandemic prompted global leaders and world citizens extend warmth to India and its citizens. Even as the COVID pandemic was in full fury, there were already global demands of India's pharmaceutical and medical capabilities which could be met largely due to the extraordinary ramp up of India's COVID-related capabilities, Jaishankar said. Talking about low fatality rates and the high recovery rates, he said: "Our reputation as the 'pharmacy of the world' has been reinforced. So indeed has the faith in 'Make in India'. But more than the vaccines, our policies and conduct have emerged as a source of strength for the stressed and vulnerable nations of the world. They can see that there is at least one major nation that truly believes in making vaccines accessible and affordable to others in dire need." He said Vaccine Maitri began in the immediate neighbourhood, starting with the Maldives, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Myanmar, as also Mauritius and Seychelles and thereafter to the Gulf. "Supplying smaller and more vulnerable nations was then the logic of reaching out to regions from Africa to the CARICOM. There was also contracts that our producers have entered into with other nations, either bilaterally or through the Covax initiative. To date, we have supplied 'Made in India' vaccines to 72 nations across geographies," the minister said. He said the House should recognise the enormous feeling for India that its initiative has generated. Jaishankar said there was an external beneficial impact of India's capabilities and it could meet the spiking requirements of hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol and other relevant drugs across the world and added that India's domestic vaccination programme started in January and within a few days, it also started assisting our immediate neighbours. "In fact, we supplied 150 nations with medicines, 82 of them as grants by India. As our own production of masks, PPEs and diagnostic kits grew, we made them available to other nationsl. This generous approach... was also extended to the Vande Bharat Mission. Starting from Wuhan, we brought back nationals of other countries while looking after our own," he said. He said as Indians, "we are all naturally internationalist by virtue of our culture, traditions, heritage and history" and PM Modi's vision has provided an over-arching framework to make India's goodwill meaningful in terms of practical initiatives and activities that reflected in its humanitarian assistance and disaster responses, whether in Yemen, Nepal, Mozambique or Fiji. "In the last few years, India has developed a reputation of being the first and reliable responder in the region," the minister said. "When it came to Africa, we raised the level of our cooperation very substantially ... Our projects, training and presence has today spread widely across that continent. From the Caribbean to the Pacific Islands, the message has been clear that the Prime Minister of India not only has the willingness to engage them personally, but to back that up with concrete development programmes. It is this outlook of human-centric global cooperation that is the driving force of Vaccine Maitri," he said. Jaishankar said the prime minister in his virtual address to the UN General Assembly in September 2020 had declared that India's vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis. "We also offered to enhance cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of vaccines. This approach is not only in keeping with our age-old tradition of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam.... As a prominent nation in an increasingly multi-polar world, the international community has greater expectations of us, and we, in turn, are prepared to demonstrate our willingness to shoulder greater responsibilities," he said. He said as early as 15 March 2020, prime minister took the initiative to hold a meeting of SAARC heads of government to fashion a regional response resulting in SAARC COVID-19 Fund that supported the early exchanges on this issue. "The Ministry of External Affairs conducted 14 e-ITEC courses in partnership with premier institutions like AIIMS and PGI Chandigarh" with 1,131 professional participants in it from 47 countries. Jairam Ramesh (Cong) said he expected the government to recognise the roots of 2014 success to the previous year adding that the FERA was set up in 1973 while there were huge investments in science and technology in public institutes. He said Bharat Biotech's Covaxin was developed in an institute in Hyderabad set up 16 years ago by public funds. Binoy Viswam of CPI said: "We did not become pharmacy of India recently question about vaccine reach to the poor. Anand Sharma (Cong) echoed "We must place the contribution of our institutes built over decades such as ICMR." To these, Jaishankar replied: "You will recall the saying, success has many fathers. Too many fathers claiming success today. .. All of us know the enormous efforts of government in getting vaccine prices lowered, lowest in the world" He also said that he was proud to have taken Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||Engagement process with China 'complex', govt informs Lok Sabha||India on Wednesday said its engagement with China is "complex" and the two countries agreed that the future direction of ties should be built upon respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan also said in the Lok Sabha that India will continue discussions with China to resolve the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh to achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points. His written response came when asked whether India-China relations are being affected due to violation of negotiations made in the past by China and "unfruitful efforts" to cross the LAC again and again. Referring to the eastern Ladakh row, Muraleedharan said the Chinese side, since April/May last year, undertook several attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC in the region and India's armed forces responded to them appropriately. "It has been made clear to the Chinese side that such unilateral attempts are unacceptable. These actions have seriously disturbed the peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the western sector," he said. The government often refers to eastern Ladakh as western sector. "India's engagement with China is complex. The two sides agree that the future direction of India China relations should be built upon respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations," he said on the overall ties. "The two sides have also agreed to manage their differences and not allow differences on any issue to become disputes," Muraleedharan added. On the border row, the minister said the two sides have maintained communication through both diplomatic and military channels to ensure complete disengagement from all friction points and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas. "The two sides were able to reach an agreement on disengagement in the North and South Bank of the Pangong Lake, which has been completed. There are however still some outstanding issues with regard to deployment and patrolling at some other points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh," he said. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in line with the agreement on disengagement last month. "Government will continue discussions with the Chinese side to resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points and restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas at an early date," the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||PM calls for ‘quick, decisive’ steps to check emerging second wave of Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed concern over a rise in Covid-19 cases in parts of the country and called for "quick and decisive" steps to check the "emerging second peak". In a virtual interaction with state chief ministers over the pandemic situation and the ongoing vaccination drive, Modi said in states like Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh the number of Covid cases has seen a rise while nearly 70 districts in the country have have seen an increase in the positivity rate by over 150 per cent of late. "If we do not stop it here, then a condition for a nationwide outbreak may emerge," he said and called for quick and decisive steps to stop it. The confidence brought by India's fight against the pandemic so far should not cause carelessness, he said, and asked chief ministers to take measures, including more testing, enforcement of preventive measures as well as increase in the number of vaccination centres to curb the virus. People should not be put on panic-mode but need to ensure that they get rid of this problem as well, he said. "Test, track and treat" should be taken as seriously now as it has been for over a year since the outbreak, he added. The Prime Minister reiterated that RT-PCR tests should make up for over 70 per cent of overall Coronavirus testing, while noting that states like Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Odisha have been mostly dependent on antigen tests. Modi also spoke against wastage of vaccines and called for more vaccination centres. India has put up a strong fight against the Coronavirus so far, and it is being cited as an example in the world, he said, asserting that the country's recovery rate is over 96 per cent and fatality rate among the lowest. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel skipped Wednesday’s meeting. India on Wednesday recorded 28,903 new Covid-19 cases, the highest one-day spike so far this year, taking the Covid-19 tally to 1,14,38,734. As many as 30,254 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on December 13. Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report a high number of daily Covid-19 cases, accounting for 71.10 per cent of the 28,903 new infections, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. It said 83.91 per cent of the new cases are from Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Maharashtra alone accounts for 61.8 per cent of the daily new cases with 17,864 cases. It is followed by Kerala with 1,970 while Punjab reported 1,463 new cases, the ministry said. Kerala is reporting a consistently declining trend over the last one month. According to health ministry figures, the average number of Covid cases is at an 81-day high. A central eam report on Tuesday said that Maharashtra is on the brink of experiencing a second wave of the infection, highlighting that there is very limited active effort to track, test, isolate cases and quarantine contacts, and there is no adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour among people in rural and urban areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||SC livid at cancellation of 3 crore ration cards||The Supreme Court on Wednesday termed the cancellation of around three crore ration cards by the Centre due to non-linking with Aadhaar card as too serious , and sought response from the Central government and all states on the issue. A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said this matter should not be treated as adversarial as it is too serious a matter. The bench said the matter will be put up for final hearing. At the outset, senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for petitioner Koili Devi, said the petition deals with the larger issue. "We see the problem at hand and I have dealt with this kind of matter in Bombay High Court and I think this matter should be filed before the high court concerned," the CJI said. The bench told Gonsalves that he has sought a very omnibus kind of relief and widened the scope of the matter. Gonsalves persisted with his arguments that it is an important issue as the Centre has cancelled around three crore ration cards. The bench said it will hear the matter on some other day as it is persuaded by Gonsalves that the Central government has cancelled the ration cards. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi said it is a wrong statement made by Gonsalves that the Centre has cancelled the ration cards. "We are asking you (Centre) to respond because of the Aadhaar issue. This is not an adversarial litigation. We will hear it finally. Issue notice returnable in four weeks," the bench said. Lekhi said that notice has already been issued in the matter and Centre's response is there on record. Gonsalves said notice has not been issued on the main plea but on alternative grievance redressal. "The Principal issue is cancellation of three crore ration cards and starvation death," Gonsalves said. On December 9, 2019, the top court had sought responses from all the states over allegations of starvation deaths of people who were deprived of their ration supplies for not having valid Aadhaar cards. Issue notice returnable in four weeks to the respondent States calling upon them to apprise steps they have taken for implementation of the grievances redressal mechanism contained in Sections 14, 15 and 16 of the National Food Security Act, 2013. Notice may be served on the standing counsel for the state, the bench had said. The Centre had earlier said that reports suggest that the deaths were not due to starvation. No one was denied food because of lack of a valid Aadhaar card, it had said. The PIL has been filed by Devi, whose 11-year-old daughter Santoshi of Simdega district in Jharkhand died of starvation on September 28, 2018. Santoshi's sister Gudiya Devi is the joint petitioner in the case. The petition pointed out that Santoshi, who belonged to a poor Dalit family, died as the local authorities had cancelled the ration card of her family since they failed to link it with Aadhaar. It said that subsequently, the family stopped receiving ration from March 2017 and as a result, the entire family had been starving. Even on the day Santoshi died, her mother could only serve her some tea with salt - the only thing the family had in its kitchen, the plea said, adding that Santoshi succumbed to hunger later that night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||Delhi Congress workers stage sit-in over bill giving powers to Lieutenant Governor||Delhi Congress workers led by party president Anil Kumar staged a sit-in at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi on Wednesday against the Centre's bill that seeks to define certain roles and powers of the Lieutenant Governor of the national capital, demanding that the government withdraw it. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was introduced in Lok Sabha by Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy on Monday. "We are protesting against the autocracy of the Centre and the murder of democracy in Delhi through this bill," Kumar said. According to the GNCTD (Amendment) Bill, the "government" in the city would mean the "Lieutenant Governor" in context of any law made by the legislative assembly. The bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the LG before any executive action, and the Assembly would lose its powers to conduct probes into administrative decisions like it is currently investigating Facebook’s alleged role in 2020’s communal riots. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led by its national convener and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will also stage a protest against the bill at Jantar Mantar later in the day. The AAP leader tweeted on Monday: “The Bill says — 1. For Delhi, ‘Govt’ will mean LG. Then what will the elected govt do? 2. All files will go to LG. This is against 4.7.18 Constitution Bench judgement which said that files will not be sent to LG, the elected govt will take all decisions and send a copy of decision to LG.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||BJP MP from Himachal Pradesh Ram Swaroop Sharma passes away||BJP MP from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh Ram Swaroop Sharma died in New Delhi on Wednesday, a spokesperson of the party said here. Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said his body was found hanging from a ceiling fan. He was taken to a hospital where doctors pronounced him dead on arrival. Sixty-two-year-old Sharma had been suffering from various ailments. Prima facie, it appears to be a case of suicide, the police said, adding that no suicide note was found from the spot. An inquiry is underway and the exact cause of his death will be ascertained after a post-mortem examination, the police said. The BJP has cancelled its Parliamentary meeting scheduled for Wednesday following his demise, reported news agency ANI. Lok Sabha was also adjourned till 1pm to pay homage to the sitting MP. Leaders of the party expressed grief over his death. Union home minister Amit Shah wrote on Twitter, “I am deeply distressed by the sudden demise of Shri Ram Swaroop Sharma, BJP MP from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh. In this hour of grief, I express my condolences to his family and pray to God for the peace of the departed soul.” “Shocked to know that Shri. Ram Swaroop Sharma, MP (Mandi, HP) is no more. No words to express my grief. My prayers that his family, friends, followers have the strength and fortitude to bear this loss,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Twitter. Born at Jalpehar village in Mandi district on June 10, 1958, Sharma was a two-time MP. He was elected to the 16th and 17th Lok Sabha from Mandi parliamentary constituency in 2014 and 2019 respectively. According to the police, a call was made to the Police Control Room (PCR) around 7.45 am by his aide after the parliamentarian did not respond to knocks on his door. A police team reached the spot and forced open the door and found Sharma hanging from a ceiling fan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||India records nearly 29,000 Covid-19 cases, highest one-day jump this year||India recorded its highest daily tally of coronavirus cases this year with 28,903 new infections, taking the total Covid-19 tally to 1,14,38,734, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,59,044 with 188 new fatalities, the highest in around two months, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering an increase for the seventh day in a row, the total active caseload has increased to 2,34,406 which now comprises 2.05 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 96.56 per cent, the data stated. As many as 30,254 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on December 13. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,45,284, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.39 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 22,92,49,784 samples have been tested up to March 16 with 9,69,021 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 188 new fatalities include 87 from Maharashtra, 38 from Punjab, 15 from Kerala and 12 from Chhattisgarh. A total of 1,59,044 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,996 from Maharashtra, 12,556 from Tamil Nadu, 12,403 from Karnataka, 10,945 from Delhi, 10,297 from West Bengal, 8,750 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,185 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||High court orders judicial probe into charges of custodial torture of trade unionist||Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday ordered a judicial inquiry into allegations of illegal detention and custodial torture of young trade unionist Shiv Kumar by Haryana police in January. Kumar, 24, is the president of the Majdoor Adhikar Sanghatan and is under trial along with fellow activist Nodeep Kaur for three FIRs alleging extortion and attempt to murder during a protest against erratic wage payments at the Kundli Industrial Area in Haryana on January 12. Justice Avneesh Jhingan issued the order on a petition by Kumar’s father Rajbir, a Dalit farmer in Sonipat district. Kumar told The Telegraph on Tuesday: “I welcome the high court’s order and I hope that an impartial inquiry will give me justice.” Last month Kumar’s medical report, prepared by Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh, on the high court’s orders, had recorded two fractures in his hand and foot and broken nail beds on his toe caused by a “blunt object”, as well as symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder. Medical reports submitted by Haryana police had not revealed these signs of torture. Kumar had alleged torture by cops who were trying to get him to identify other union members involved in the protest. He had alleged that he was illegally confined by the police in Sonipat for days after being abducted from the farmers’ protest site at the Singhu border. The high court said on Tuesday: “Learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner submits that the comparison of the initial MLR (medico-legal report) and the subsequent MLR dated 22nd February, 2021, speaks for itself…. No comment is made on comparison of two sets of medical reports, lest it would affect any further proceedings or inquiry, it would be suffice for this court to say that a probe is required.” Justice Jhingan added: “At this stage, there is nothing before this court to doubt the investigation being carried out by the SIT (formed by the police). However, as there could be an occasion that the conclusion arrived at by the SIT and the inquiry report with regard to two sets of medical reports may cast a shadow on each other.” “Considering the facts and circumstances in entirety, let the district and sessions judge presently posted at Faridabad hold an inquiry with regard to the allegations of illegal detention and custodial torture of Shiv Kumar,” the high court added. Faridabad, like Sonipat, is another Haryana district on Delhi’s southern boundary. The probe by a judge from another district is ordered to ensure there is no conflict of interest. A status report has been called for by May 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||House of Lords: Will Boris Johnson ask Narendra Modi about freedom?||Members of the House of Lords have taken the Narendra Modi government to task in a debate on Monday on “restrictions on freedom”. A crossbencher — meaning he does not align with any party — Lord Harries of Pentregarth asked what representations Britain had made to the government of India “about reports of that government restricting the freedoms of (1) non-governmental organisations, (2) academics, and (3) other groups”. Replying, Lord Goldsmith of Richmond Park, minister of state at the foreign, Commonwealth and development office, said foreign office minister Lord Tariq Ahmed — he has gone to India — “raised concerns about NGOs and human rights activists with the Indian high commissioner”. He went on: “In February, British high commission officials discussed university restrictions with the ministry of external affairs. On 3 March, senior FCDO officials discussed UK parliamentary interest in restrictions on civil society groups in India with the Indian high commissioner.” Harries was not satisfied and persisted: “To give just one of numerous examples, more than 24 Dalit rights activists are in jail on unproven charges, including an 80 year-old poet, Varavara Rao, and an 83 year-old Jesuit priest, Father Stan Swamy. “When the Prime Minister’s proposed visit to India is reinstated, will he draw Mr Modi’s attention to the report of Freedom House published this week, in which India has been downgraded from a democratic, free society to one which is only ‘partly free’?” Goldsmith — he is Zac Goldsmith, Jemima Khan’s younger brother and Imran Khan’s former brother-in-law — replied: “We will continue to engage India on the full range of human rights matters and raise our concerns where we have them — as we do — including at ministerial level.” Lord McConnell of Glenscorrodale, a Labour peer, was also critical: “In my view these reports of restrictions on freedom of expression and organisation in India follow directly from the decision in 2019 to end the autonomy of the people of Kashmir and impose severe restrictions there, locking up political leaders and ending freedom of expression. “Do the government agree that India cannot claim to be the world’s largest democracy if it continues to restrict freedom of expression and freedom to organise? Will the government make representations to India that, if it wants to be part of the democratic nations of the world, it must stick to these values rigidly?” Peers are invariably polite but know how to make their points calmly and forcefully. Baroness Northover, a Tory, also piled in: “The government of India are reported to consider human rights there an internal matter.… lessons from the 20th century in particular show that it is vital that the world pays attention to human rights, even within borders. If so, what representations have been and are being made to the government of India on the forced closure of Amnesty International India and the freezing of its accounts?” Goldsmith replied: “The right to peaceful protest is vital in any democracy and we encourage all states to ensure that their laws are in line with international standards. Any allegation of human rights violations is clearly very concerning and should be addressed.…Lord Ahmad… raised Amnesty International India’s case with the Indian high commissioner on 1 December and FCDO officials have raised our concerns with the Indian High Commission. Just a few weeks before, we requested in our representations that Amnesty’s accounts be unfrozen while the investigation is ongoing. We have noted the important role of NGOs in all democracies.” The Earl of Sandwich, a crossbencher, commented: “Will HMG continue to complain regularly to the Modi government about the imprisonment of journalists and the fear of persecution felt by non-Hindu minorities, Dalit activists, NGOs and all those campaigning against human rights violations?” Labour’s Lord Collins of Highbury said: “The strong relationship with India, built on trust and mutual respect, should give us the confidence to play the role of a critical friend. That means stressing the importance of a free civil society in a democracy. Can the minister say whether the Prime Minister will raise this issue not just through our connections with ministers but with Prime Minister Modi at the G7?” Goldsmith confirmed that Boris Johnson “will visit India shortly. That will be an opportunity to discuss a very wide range of bilateral and multilateral issues directly with the Indian government. Of course, where we have specific concerns, the Prime Minister will raise them directly with the government of India, as you would expect of a close friend and partner.” Modi and the external affairs ministry should be concerned that little by little the Indian government’s reputation is being sullied. Goldsmith set out British government thinking: “India — as the world’s largest and, as I say, one of the oldest democracies — and the UK have a very deep and broad relationship. Our trade and investment partnership is thriving, and we collaborate on defence and security. Together we are a force for good in the world…. We regard ourselves as friends, but as critical friends.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Congress and Aam Aadmi Party protest over new Delhi bill||The Congress and the ruling Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi have begun protests against a new bill, likely to be passed by Parliament, that they fear would make the Delhi government redundant. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, introduced by the Centre in the Lok Sabha on Monday defines the term “government” in any law passed by the Delhi Assembly as the “lieutenant governor”. The LG’s opinion will also be mandatory before any executive action by the elected government, and the Assembly would lose its powers to conduct probes into administrative decisions like it is currently investigating Facebook’s alleged role in 2020’s communal riots. The three major parties of the capital have promised statehood in their manifestos over the last three decades, and the Assembly has passed resolutions to this effect during governments run by the BJP, Congress and the AAP. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had threatened to go on a hunger strike for statehood in 2019. The Congress was first to start protests against the bill on Tuesday — on Jantar Mantar Road. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Anil Kumar said: “It is shocking that the Arvind government kept quiet for over a month after the Union cabinet had given its approval for the introduction of the bill in Parliament on February 3; nor did the Aam Aadmi Party MPs in both Houses of Parliament speak against it.… The Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi has been handed out poetic justice for supporting the Modi government when the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir was snatched away and it was bifurcated into two Union Territories.” After Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood was nullified, Kejriwal — whose Lok Sabha campaign on the Delhi statehood plank failed — had tweeted: “Article 370 scrapped: “We support the govt on its decisions on J&K. We hope this will bring peace and development in the state.” The AAP leader tweeted on Monday: “The Bill says — 1. For Delhi, ‘Govt’ will mean LG. Then what will elected govt do? 2. All files will go to LG. This is against 4.7.18 Constitution Bench judgement which said that files will not be sent to LG, elected govt will take all decisions and send copy of decision to LG.” Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah responded on Twitter: “In spite of AAP’s support for the dismemberment & downgrading of J&K in 2019, we still condemn this assault on the powers of the elected government of Delhi. Delhi deserves to be a full state with all powers exercised by the elected government & not a nominated LG.” AAP MPs protested on the lawns of Parliament House on Tuesday and all MLAs have been called to protest on Jantar Mantar Road — the nearest permissible protest site. Now, the Centre controls the police, public order and land in Delhi. The Supreme Court had ruled in 2018, after a long legal battle, that beyond these subjects, the LG’s prior concurrence to decisions was not required. The president of the BJP’s Delhi unit, Adesh Gupta, said on Monday: “The honourable court, while deciding a dispute between the Delhi government and the Centre in February 2019, had observed that it will be better if the GNCT Delhi Act clarifies the division of administrative work and powers between the two governments. “Today the Centre has abided by the honourable court’s directive…. The situation to bring this bill came because between 2015 and 2019 the Arvind Kejriwal government constantly tried to encroach upon the administrative work area and powers of the LG and finally the February 2019 directive of the honourable Supreme Court left no option with the Centre but to bring the present amendment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Double mutation variant fuels fears||Government researchers have found a coronavirus variant with two worrisome mutations in samples from Maharashtra and started epidemiological detective fieldwork to determine whether it has played any role in the Covid-19 resurgence there or in other states. A 10-lab research consortium has alerted the Union health ministry that a variant with the mutations designated E484Q and L452R makes up about 20 per cent of over 200 coronavirus genomes sequenced from some of Maharashtra’s hardest-hit districts. E484Q is what scientists call an escape mutation that allows the virus to evade some human immune responses. L452R has been shown by researchers at the University of California, San Francisco, to increase infectivity of the virus. Senior scientists with the consortium have asserted that there is no evidence yet to attribute the surge in Maharashtra to the variant but the double mutation among the sequences has amplified suspicions that a more infectious variant capable of evading immune responses might be at play. Epidemiologists at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) — the nodal centre for the Indian SARS-Cov-2 Genomics Consortium — and scientists in partner labs are looking for connections, if any, between the double mutation and infection patterns in Maharashtra or other states. “We’re searching for answers,” a consortium scientist told The Telegraph. “Are fractions of cases with the double mutation increasing over time? Is the double mutation appearing in clusters of cases? Is it associated with rapid infection spread? Is it causing reinfections in previously infected people?” Health authorities have so far attributed Maharashtra’s more than four-fold increase in average daily new cases over the past month — 3,051 on February 15 to 15,051 on March 15 — to laxity in wearing masks and avoiding crowds and poor efforts to test and isolate cases and quarantine contacts. Maharashtra’s second wave alongside rising counts in Gujarat, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab have more than doubled India’s daily new cases from around 11,200 in mid-February to over 23,000 on Tuesday, raising fears of a second nationwide wave. Health experts say whether variants have played a role in the surge or not, it is critical to control the human factors driving the growth. “The solutions remain the same — wearing masks, avoiding crowds, aggressive testing, contact tracing and other containment measures,” one state adviser said. The L452 mutation has been implicated in multiple outbreaks in California where, the consortium’s scientists said, its frequency among sequenced genomes had increased from 0 per cent in September 2020 to over 50 per cent in January 2021. “I think the signals from California and the surge in Maharashtra are enough indications to consider the variant with the double mutation as a likely variant of concern that must be investigated deeper,” said a senior scientist. The NCDC which maintains a nationwide disease surveillance network and the National Centre for Cell Science, Pune, procured samples collected in districts from Maharashtra over the past two months and sequenced the genomes, collaborating with researchers at the CSIR Institute for Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi. Senior epidemiologists have suggested that there is an urgent need to determine who is getting infected in the worst-affected districts. One option would be to simultaneously perform a blood test looking for antibodies while taking throat swabs to diagnose the infection, an epidemiologist said. “In a large sample, if we find infections without antibodies, we’ll know the virus is spreading only among susceptible people. But if we find the virus in some people with antibodies, we’ll know people previously infected are turning up positive,” the expert said. “We need such studies immediately.” While E484Q had turned up in 11 countries and L452R had been detected in 20 countries by mid-February, scientists say this is likely the first time the two have been documented as a double mutation in a variant. The Centre had in December — amid signals of potentially troubling variants emerging in the UK and South Africa — announced that the consortium would sequence coronavirus genomes from 5 per cent of positive samples across the country. The consortium has bolstered sequencing efforts. The NCDC and nine partner labs have collectively sequenced over 7,000 genomes since mid-January, nearly as many as different scientific groups across the country had sequenced from April to December. All viruses, including SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19, acquire genetic mutations over time, most of them random changes that do not benefit the virus in any way. Some mutations, however, might make the virus more infectious or evade immune responses. Over the past six months, variants of concern — either more infectious or capable of evading antibodies — have emerged in the UK, South Africa and Brazil, among other countries. “Even if the E484Q-L452R double mutation variant turns out to be a variant of concern, the numbers for now suggest that 80 per cent sequences sampled are other variants — and public health response doesn’t change in any way,” said the director of one of the consortium’s labs in southern India. A public health expert said the current surge can’t be just “wished away” as large numbers of people are infected. “Rigorous testing, isolation of cases, house-to-house surveillance, and quarantine on contacts can curb the spread,” the expert said. “But it could take three to six weeks, but much will depend on how efficiently these things are done.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi: Won’t step aside||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has said it was difficult to believe the results of the 2019 parliamentary elections in states like Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan, in spite of massive polarisation caused by the surgical strikes in Pakistan and media domination in favour of the BJP. Asked what transformed the political landscape suddenly when the narrative was in favour of the Congress after victories in three states — Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh — Rahul said in a conversation with Brown University professors and students on Tuesday: “Our Chhattisgarh party, and I agree with them for sure, simply cannot explain how we go from a two-thirds majority to two seats. Can’t explain. Very hard to believe something like that happened.” He went on: “Similarly in Rajasthan, after a solid fight, suddenly we get zero seats. It is surprising to me. It is not easy to believe. Now there are a couple of arguments people make. I can see some of those — massive polarisation in north India. But it doesn’t take me to two seats in Chhattisgarh. Media domination, financial domination. It is there. Money spent, the ratio is 1:10. On media, Narendra Modi is 24x7. Institutional support, massive concentration of financial and political power sitting behind this machine.” While Rahul has talked about institutional capture and media domination in the past, he has for the first time argued that the results were still unacceptable in some states. Although he did not refer to his suspicions about electronic voting machine (EVM) on Tuesday, he has said in the past that he is not convinced about their safety and had even asked why the Election Commission of India didn’t allow political parties and experts to check the machines. Rahul once again expressed helplessness about the absence of institutional support and argued that it was a fantasy to think that democracy could work without independent institutions. “Modern India is an ongoing negotiation. Independent institutions guarantee that negotiation. A determined attack on these institutions is going on. I represent a part of that negotiation as other political parties do. But we are not given room for negotiation. As a political player, I need that institutional support,” the Congress MP said. While Rahul’s repeated arguments on these lines have generated appreciation as political observers and Opposition leaders agree with his assessment, many resent his show of helplessness, asserting that concrete political responses and strategies are required instead of theoretical lament.Rahul offered an interpretation of Mahatma Gandhi’s role in the freedom struggle and nation-building and also emphasised the role of politics in the mediation between identities and cultures. He described Mahatma Gandhi as the master negotiator who didn’t have a vested interest. His argument that Gandhi had deployed his “shunyata” in negotiations to achieve results attracted ridicule on social media. “Gandhi, despite being in the middle of negotiation, didn’t have a game of his own. It was as if he didn’t exist,” Rahul had said, meaning that without Gandhi’s detached neutrality, negotiation wouldn’t have been possible in a diverse and complex country like India. Asked about Gandhi giving up power, Rahul said: “If you take the blunt view of power, yes, he gave up. But in a sophisticated view of power, Gandhi didn’t give up his power. He used his power to give India the Constitution.” Asked about dynastic politics and whether he was willing to step aside for a non-Gandhi to lead the Congress, Rahul said: “Why should I step aside when I am defending an idea? I can’t be told that you can’t defend that idea because you are somebody’s son.” Told that the issue was about intra-party democracy, not defending an idea, he said he had been roasted for advocating internal elections. He said he was encouraging new leaders and wondered why the question of internal democracy was not asked of other parties, including the BJP. When Professor Ashutosh Varshney, who anchored the talk, asked him about the downgrading of Indian democracy by two foreign global institutions, Rahul said: “Foreign institutions have their views but we don’t need their stamp. They are much behind the curve. The situation here is much worse. Election is not about simply pushing the button on the EVM. Election is about narrative, debates, institutions. If you control WhatsApp and Facebook, you don’t have to attack the voting system. We have seen Saddam and Gaddafi coming to power.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Adviser to Prime Minister resigns||P.K. Sinha, the principal adviser to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has resigned, sources said on Tuesday. Sinha, a retired IAS officer of 1977 batch, was appointed as principal adviser to the Prime Minister in September 2019, after a brief stint as an officer on special duty (OSD). Sinha was made OSD to the Prime Minister in August 2019, after he had served four years as cabinet secretary. According to the order of his appointment, his tenure as principal adviser was co-terminus with the term of Prime Minister Modi or until further announcement, whichever was earlier. Sinha had also served as secretary in the power ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Kerala Assembly polls: Tariq Anwar admits tussle, predicts win||The upcoming Assembly elections are crucial for the revival of the Congress, which has the highest political stakes in two of the five poll-bound states — Kerala and Assam. Tariq Anwar, the Congress general secretary in charge of Kerala, concedes that groupism is hurting but exudes confidence that the party will snatch power from the Left. He also confronts NCP veteran Sharad Pawar on his prediction of a possible Congress defeat in Assam. Excerpts from the interview: Q: There is a general perception the Left government is coming back in Kerala. Anwar: This perception is erroneous. Those who have presumed there is no anti-incumbency in Kerala are either unaware of the issues and the public sentiment or are  underestimating the Congress. We will form the government. Q: Isn’t the chief minister’s image an advantage for the LDF and the absence of a projected leader a handicap for the Congress-led UDF? Anwar: I don’t know how the image of the chief minister can be good when the main accused in the gold smuggling case says everything was being done at his behest. The central agencies have filed a case. There are several scams. Temporary workers hired by the state government, all CPM workers, have been regularised without any recruitment process by the state public service commission. The youth sees this as injustice as they were not given an opportunity to compete. Q: But the Congress has been alleging that central agencies are executing the vendetta politics of the Narendra Modi government. How does that change in Kerala? Anwar: Because we know how corrupt this government has been. The main accused  is saying something on record. The CPM state secretary’s son is involved. We can’t ignore facts even as there is no denying that Modi has been extremely vindictive and has misused central agencies across India. Q: There is a belief the Congress was engrossed in groupism instead of fighting the Left. Anwar: It is unfortunate that senior Congress leaders in many states are not united. It is perhaps (because) the Congress is a democratic space and allows people to express their views. We don’t crush dissent. But we have tried to resolve issues. What is good is that candidates were not selected on the basis of factional demands.  We went for merit and a clean image. Q: Your ally, the NCP’s Sharad Pawar, has said the BJP will win in Assam. Was this a glimpse of future politics when regional players will corner the Congress on the question of leadership in the Opposition camp? Anwar: I strongly disagree with Pawar. He may not have the correct input. I have been to Assam and we are winning that state.  As far as leadership of the Opposition is concerned, nobody can fight Modi like Rahul does. There is no dispute about it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Glare on more army officers in recruitment scam||The CBI’s probe into the alleged irregularities in recruitment for the armed forces has opened a Pandora’s box in the Indian Army, with sources in the agency on Tuesday saying more serving army officers were suspected to be involved in the scam at several Service Selection Board (SSB) centres. The CBI has so far booked seven army officers, including five lieutenant colonels and two major-rank officers, and jawans apart from six private persons in connection with the scam. “The preliminary probe so far has revealed that the accused had abused their official powers/positions and accepted bribes from candidates who appeared for the review medical exam at Base Hospital in Delhi. Several other army officers are under the scanner,” said an agency official. The bribes, he said, were allegedly paid in lakhs to the accused officers and their relatives and family members through cheques and RTGS for the selection of candidates. “There is sufficient evidence of the accused army officers being the recipients of bribery amounts. It is a big racket and the involvement of more army officers is not being ruled out,” the official said. The CBI, he said, has already shared the names of several other suspects with the army headquarters in Delhi. “The sleuths have stumbled upon several documents that suggest large-scale irregularities in the recruitment scam. We are constantly in touch with officials in the army headquarters,” the official said. The CBI registered a graft case acting on a complaint filed by Brigadier (vigilance) V.K. Purohit from the office of the additional directorate-general, discipline, and the adjutant general’s branch, army headquarters. It was alleged that on February 28, an input was received about the alleged involvement of serving personnel in accepting bribes for the clearance of review medical exams of temporarily rejected officer candidates at Base Hospital, Delhi. “All the accused had facilitated the selection of the candidates at the SSB in exchange for bribes,” another CBI officer said. The agency had on Monday carried out raids at 30 locations across 13 cities, including the Army’s Base Hospital in Delhi Cantonment Area, residences of several accused in Bathinda, Kapurthala, Palwal, Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Visakhapatnam, Jaipur, Guwahati and Jorhat. Sources in the Indian Army said the case was handed over to the CBI since the scope of the investigation involved multiple agencies, including civil entities. “The Indian Army has zero tolerance towards corrupt practices in the recruitment process for the selection of suitable candidates for the armed forces,” an army official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Bihar government bans gatherings on Holi to check virus||The Bihar government has banned gatherings at public places on Holi and has made it mandatory for passengers from Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala to carry Covid-19 negative test reports while entering the state from Wednesday onwards. The directions were issued after a meeting of the crisis management group chaired by chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh in the light of the coronavirus pandemic taking an upward trajectory in several states, particularly in Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala. Singh also directed all 38 district magistrates to inspect Covid care centres and revive them to meet any eventuality. They have been asked to ensure that ventilators and other facilities are in place. A large number of people are expected to return to their native places in Bihar for Holi increasing the risk of spread of the coronavirus. Banning celebrations at public places, including roads and streets, will help curb the spread of the coronavirus. However, people can participate in the festival of colours in their homes. “Passengers from Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala will have to show Covid negative test reports (RT-PCR or rapid antigen) on arrival at airports and railway stations. Travellers who do not carry  negative test reports will be subjected to rapid antigen testing,” principal secretary (health), Pratyaya Amrit, said. He said passengers testing positive for Covid will be sent to isolation centres. The panchayats have also been asked to get people arriving from other states tested for the virus. Sources said that the state government was also considering the closure of schools in view of the spurt in Covid cases across the country. Bihar government’s data places the state in a much better situation in comparison to several other large states with regard to the coronavirus pandemic. According to government statistics, Bihar has recorded 2.63 lakh Covid cases so far, of whom 1,552 have succumbed to the disease. At present there are just 327 active cases in the state and the recovery rate is a whopping 99.29 per cent. The government is also considering strict implementation of the rules regarding physical distancing and wearing of masks at public places and transport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Supreme Court to hold meeting over hybrid hearing||The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to hold a meeting of the Supreme Court Bar Association and a committee of apex court judges, following protests from the Bar over the hybrid format of hearing, which commenced from March 15. Under the hybrid format, lawyers have the option of appearing through the virtual mode or be physically present in the court hall. The Bar wants physical hearings to resume. The apex court registry had recently issued standard operating procedure with regard to the hybrid hearing that formally commenced from Ma­rch 15, but had a very poor response. The SCBA, led by its president, moved the top court qu­estioning the recent decision of the Supreme Court to conduct the hybrid hearing – a decision which the association said was unilaterally taken by the top court on the administrative side without proper consultation and consent of the Bar. SCBA president and senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing before a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R. Su­bhash Reddy argued that most members of the Bar are opposed to the virtual format or hybdrid hearing and wanted restoration of the physical hearing. “Either you follow protocol by the government or follow the court’s protocol. Government permits opening of auditoriums and other public places and the ones who want virtual hearing have taken flights to Goa. If you can take a flight for two hours you can’t argue here?” Singh said. His reference was to several senior lawyers arguing from London, Goa, Mumbai and other places in different courts simultaneously, whereas many other not so privileged lawyers are facing even starvation. However, Justice Kaul said Singh’s argument that the SCBA and representatives of the Bar were not consulted before issuing the SoP on hybrid hearing was incorrect. The bench said it was fact that representatives of the Bar had attended a meeting prior to the decision to hold hybrid hearing. “I have minutes of meetings where representatives of the Bar were present. You said no one was consulted. I find it odd that you say there was no consultation,” Justice Kaul said. Singh submitted that pursuant to the last notification issued by the Disaster Management Authority, auditoriums and several other public places were opened. As such, the court must either follow the DMA rules or frame its own rules after proper consultation with the Bar. “Judges do not even know, what the stand of the Bar, it was not heard while formulating the hybrid hearing SOP... judges pass through sterile route and sit behind glass and you are protected. But for us , we should make rules. “The CJI had also told me how reverse cameras can be put up in courts to reflect physical arguments to the counsels who appear virtually. Today there are 200 VC (virtual court) hearings and 20 physical. How does one lawyer manage both? We want full physical hearing as an association. “The unsuccessful lawyers are at a disadvantage. My convenience cannot be taken as the yardstick. Filing of matters, have gone below 20 to 25 percent. Some lawyers have left profession and are struggling, ” Singh said. Justice Subhash Reddy agreed saying: “We know the problems of the young lawyers but there needs to be balance. Did you see the graph of Covid-19 cases in newspaper today?” he asked. Singh responded saying Delhi has 0.5 percent positivity rate. “Most of the positive cases are due to people not wearing masks and we will ensure we will wear masks and also sanitize hands,” he said. The court later adjourned the hearing saying a meeting of the judges’ committee and the Bar representatives would be conducted to thrash out the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear Modi riot case on April 13||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it would not brook any further adjournments and would take up on April 13 the hearing of the appeal filed by Zakia Jafri, wife of slain former Congress MP Ehsan Jafri, challenging the clean chit given by a special investigation team to Narendra Modi and others in the 2002 post-Godhra riots. The SIT had earlier been directed by the apex court to look into Zakia’s allegation that Modi, the then Gujarat chief minister, some ministers and police officers were behind the larger conspiracy related to the Gulburg Housing Society riots in Ahmedabad in which more than 1,000 people were killed. Ehsan Jafri was among those killed. A three-judge bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheswari and Krishna Murari on Tuesday asserted that the matter would be heard on April 13 after solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Gujarat government, and senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing the SIT, opposed senior counsel Kapil Sibal who sought the adjournment on behalf of Zakia. Sibal wanted the matter to be adjourned till the third week of April as several advocates are busy with the hearing of the Maratha reservation row before a five-judge constitution bench. However, Rohatgi opposed the plea and insisted that the matter be heard on Tuesday itself. He submitted that the matter had been adjourned on a number of occasions. Mehta supported Rohatgi but suggested that the matter be taken up at least next week. Later the senior counsel mutually agreed that the hearing be adjourned to April 13 with no further adjournments. The court passed the following order: “…By consent, list the matter on 13.04.2021. It is made clear that no request for further adjournment will be sought by either side on that day.” The court was dealing with an appeal filed by Zakia challenging the judgment passed by Gujarat High Court on October 5, 2017, dismissing her plea challenging the SIT’s clean chit to Modi and the others. In February last year, the court had adjourned the matter upon a request from Zakia’s counsel. However, the matter did not come up subsequently due to the pandemic and was listed on Tuesday for hearing. Earlier on November 19, 2019, the matter had been adjourned upon a request from the counsel for the petitioner. At that time senior advocate Rohatgi, appearing for the Gujarat government, had complained that the petitioner deliberately wanted to drag the case by seeking frequent adjournments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Denied ticket to ensure state BJP chief victory: Sangh parivar veteran||A Sangh parivar veteran with close ties to the central leadership and the RSS has stunned the BJP in election-bound Kerala by hinting at a deal between his party and the CPM to deny him a ticket and ensure the victory of the state BJP chief in another constituency. R. Balashankar, a member of the BJP central committee on training and former editor of RSS mouthpiece Organiser weekly, suggested that Kerala BJP president K. Surendran might have entered into the deal with the ruling CPM for the Konni seat from where the party chief is contesting. In exchange, Balashankar indicated, the BJP state leadership has fielded weak candidates in Chengannur and Aranmula in south Kerala. The ruling Left Front, led by the CPM, and the Opposition UDF, led by the Congress, are the principal players in Kerala. The BJP has so far managed to win only one seat in the 140-member Assembly but the party can play spoiler in some of the seats. Both the Congress and the CPM accuses each other of seeking the “transfer” of the BJP’s votes to defeat their opponents. Surendran is contesting from Konni, in addition to his traditional seat in north Kerala, on the hope of milking his role as the spearhead of the Sabarimala temple agitation against the entry of women of child-bearing age. The Konni seat falls in Pathanamthitta district in south Kerala where the Sabarimala shrine is located. A Sangh parivar insider for several decades, Balashankar was tipped to be the BJP candidate for his home constituency, Chengannur, in Alappuzha district. But the party fielded district president M.V. Gopakumar. In an emotional outburst, the usually soft-spoken Balashankar told Mathrubhumi news channel on Tuesday that at this rate, the BJP wouldn’t be able to make its mark in Kerala even after 30 years. “It is possible that there was a deal between the CPM and BJP behind this. The deal could be that BJP will ensure CPM victory in Chengannur and Aranmula in exchange of Konni,” said the former convener of the BJP’s national intellectual cell. While all three are sitting seats of the CPM, the BJP is making a big pitch for Konni by fielding Surendran, who is also contesting from Manjeshwar in Kasaragod district. Balashankar claimed complete support from the central leadership of the BJP for his candidature in Chengannur. “Amit Shahji and even Modiji were aware of my candidature.” Surendran refused to get drawn into the issues raised by Balashankar. “I didn’t know if he had tried to contest. But his allegations do not deserve any kind of reaction,” he told reporters. The CPM’s acting state secretary A. Vijayaraghavan dismissed Balashankar’s suggestion of a “deal” with the BJP.  “The Kerala government is the one that adopted a very consistent position against the BJP. It is the CPM that have always had face-offs with the BJP. There is no need to raise such allegations against us,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
17-03-2021||India||Odisha government reminds Union steel ministry on Prime Minister’s medical college offer||Ahead of President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to Odisha, the state government has brought back into focus the issue of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assurance to turn the Ispat General Hospital (IGH) run by Rourkela Steel Plant (RSP) into a medical college with a super-speciality hospital. The President will be visiting the state for two days from March 21 to inaugurate the super-speciality hospital into which IGH has been converted. But that is only part fulfilment of the promise made by the Prime Minister to the people of Rourkela during his visit to the steel city in 2015. The IGH is still far from becoming a medical college. The state government took the opportunity of reminding the union steel ministry headed by Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from Odisha, about Modi’s public assurance of upgrading the IGH into a medical college and super specialty hospital. It is significant to note that the contentious issue is being raised ahead of President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to inaugurate the super speciality Ispat General Hospital in Rourkela. In a letter to Union steel minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, Odisha steel and mines minister Prafulla Kumar Mallik reminded the minister how the IGH was converted into a 200-bedded super specialty hospital but not into a medical college even six years after the Prime Minister’s announcement to this effect. “We are quite disappointed. The people of the state are disappointed. The authorities have failed to convert the hospital into a medical college despite the Prime Minister’s promise in this regard. Besides the Prime Minister, the then Union steel minister Narendra Singh Tomar also assured us to set up a medical college in Rourkela,” Mallik told reporters on Tuesday. On April 1, 2015, Modi during his visit to Rourkela had announced that the IGH would be converted into a medical college and super specialty hospital. The work was being carried out by the RSP. Now the super specialty hospital will be dedicated to the people by President Ram Nath Kovind. Union steel minister Pradhan on Tuesday met the President in Rashtrapati Bhavan and extended an invitation to him to visit Odisha. “Called on Hon President Sh. Ram Nath Kovind today to extend a formal invitation to him for his forthcoming visit to Odisha. Honoured to present him with a traditional handwoven cotton “gamcha” made by dalit artisans from Athamallik town of Angul district in Odisha.# Vocal for Local. Hon. President is scheduled to undertake a two day visit to Odisha on the 21st and 22nd March during which he will attend several programmes and also inaugurate the RSP-run Ispat General Hospital in Rourkela,” Pradhan tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
