18-03-2021||India||Maharashtra reports highest one-day spike since pandemic began||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 25,833 new coronavirus cases, the highest one-day spike since last March when the first coronavirus infection was detected. It took the caseload to 23,96,340, said a health official. With 58 fatalities, the death toll jumped to 53,138. The earlier record was 24,886 cases, reported on September 11 last year. The state is at the beginning of the second COVID-19 wave, a central team report had said earlier this week. On Thursday, 12,764 patients were discharged from hospitals, the highest in single day this year. The total of recoveries now stands at 21,75,565. There are 1,66,353 active cases in the state. Nagpur city on the second consecutive day recorded highest number of new COVID-19 cases at 2,926, followed by 2,877 in Mumbai and 2,791 in Pune city. Pune division comprising civic bodies of Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad as well as districts of Pune, Solapur and Satara reported cumulative 5,583 new cases, highest among the divisions. Mumbai's COVID-19 tally increased to 3,52,851 and eight deaths took the fatality count to 11,559. Mumbai division reported 5,190 new cases and 14 deaths. With 1,21,335 tests carried out on Thursday, the state has so far tested 1,79,56,830 samples for coronavirus. There are 8,13,211 people in home quarantine while 7,079 are in institutional quarantine. Out of 58 deaths, 38 occurred in the last 48 hours and 15 in the last week. Remaing five deaths are from the period before the last week. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 23,96,340, new cases: 25,833, death toll: 53,138, discharged: 21,75,565, active cases: 1,66,353, people tested so far: 1,79,56,830.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
18-03-2021||India||Tying 'rakhi' as bail condition in sexual offence unacceptable, rules SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday termed as wholly unacceptable the Madhya Pradesh High Court order setting 'rakhi' tying as a condition of bail to an accused in a sexual offence case, saying it transforms a molester into a brother, by a judicial mandate. The apex court also issued a slew of directions to be followed by judges while dealing with sexual offence cases, saying certain attitudes such as references to survivors' previous consent, promiscuous behaviour, clothing and so on should "never enter judicial verdict". The top court's judgement came on a plea by nine citizens against the high court verdict imposing bizarre bail condition of 'rakhi' tying on the accused by the victim. They had also sought clear directions to all courts to refrain from imposing irrelevant, freaky or illegal bail conditions . A bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and S Ravindra Bhat set aside the HC verdict and said, "This court...holds that the use of reasoning/language which diminishes the offence and tends to trivialize the survivor, is especially to be avoided under all circumstances. "Using rakhi tying as a condition for bail, transforms a molester into a brother, by a judicial mandate. This is wholly unacceptable, and has the effect of diluting and eroding the offence of sexual harassment. The act perpetrated on the survivor constitutes an offence in law, and is not a minor transgression that can be remedied by way of an apology, rendering community service, tying a rakhi or presenting a gift to the survivor, or even promising to marry her, as the case may be." "The law criminalises outraging the modesty of a woman. Granting bail, subject to such conditions, renders the court susceptible to the charge of re-negotiating and mediating justice between confronting parties in a criminal offence and perpetuating gender stereotypes," said Justice Bhat who wrote the judgement. The apex court also directed the Bar Council of India to work on training and sensitization of judges and lawyers, including public prosecutors. Giving some illustrations, the verdict said the language and reasoning trivializing the survivor should be avoided under all circumstances. "Thus, the following conduct, actions or situations are hereby deemed irrelevant, e.g. -- to say that the survivor had in the past consented to such or similar acts or that she behaved promiscuously, or by her acts or clothing, provoked the alleged action of the accused, that she behaved in a manner unbecoming of chaste or 'Indian' women, or that she had called upon the situation by her behaviour, etc. "These instances are only illustrations of an attitude which should never enter judicial verdicts or orders or be considered relevant while making a judicial decision; they cannot be reasons for granting bail or other such relief, it said. The greatest extent of sensitivity is to be displayed in the judicial approach, language and reasoning adopted by the judge, it said. "Even a solitary instance of such order or utterance in court, reflects adversely on the entire judicial system of the country, undermining the guarantee to fair justice to all, and especially to victims of sexual violence, it said, adding the role of all courts is to make sure that the survivor can rely on their impartiality and neutrality, at every stage in criminal proceedings. "Bail conditions should not mandate, require or permit contact between the accused and the victim and such conditions should seek to protect the complainant from any further harassment by the accused," the bench said in its direction. Where circumstances exist for the court to believe that there might be a potential threat of harassment of the victim, the nature of protection shall be separately considered and appropriate order made, in addition to a direction to the accused not to make any contact with the victim, it said. In all cases where bail is granted, the complainant should immediately be informed that the accused has been granted bail and copy of the bail order made over to him/her within two days, it directed. "Bail conditions and orders should avoid reflecting stereotypical or patriarchal notions about women and their place in society , and must strictly be in accordance with the requirements of law," it said. "In other words, discussion about the dress, behaviour, or past 'conduct' or 'morals' of the prosecutrix, should not enter the verdict granting bail, it said, adding the courts while adjudicating cases involving gender related crimes, should not suggest or entertain any notions towards compromises between the victim and the accused to get married, suggest or mandate mediation between the accused. "Sensitivity should be displayed at all times by judges, who should ensure that there is no traumatization of the prosecutrix, during the proceedings, or anything said during the arguments," it said. "Judges should not use any words that undermine or shake the confidence of the survivor," it said. A huge controversy had erupted and an appeal was filed by lawyer Aparna Bhat after the Madhya Pradesh High Court granted anticipatory bail to a married man in a case related to outraging the modesty of woman. "The applicant along with his wife shall visit the house of the complainant with Rakhi thread/ band on 3rd August, 2020 at 11:00 am with a box of sweets and request the complainant...to tie the Rakhi band to him with the promise to protect her to the best of his ability for all times to come..," it had ordered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||Arun Govil, Lord Ram of TV show Ramayan, joins BJP||Days before assembly polls begin in West Bengal and three other states, actor Arun Govil, who played the role of Lord Ram in the famous TV serial Ramayan, joined the BJP on Thursday, saying his decision was triggered by TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee's "irritation" to the chant of Jai Shri Ram. Govil joined the BJP in the presence of its general secretary Arun Singh and Union Minister Debasree Chaudhuri after the party announced the names of 148 candidates for the West Bengal assembly polls. "West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's irritation to Jai Shri Ram was a trigger point for me to join the BJP. And there is nothing wrong in saying Jai Shri Ram....it is not a slogan, not even a political slogan. It is a way of life for us, it represents our culture and ethos," he told the media at the BJP headquarters here. Govil, who essayed the role of Lord Ram on Ramanand Sagar's superhit 1987 series Ramayan, also said the BJP will give him a "platform" to do his bit to serve the nation. The phrase 'Jai Shri Ram' is being widely used and heard at BJP rallies and events in poll-bound West Bengal, where the party has emerged as the main opponent to the ruling TMC and is aiming to form its government this year. Govil, 63, has acted in films in several languages including Hindi and Bhojpuri. The multi-phased elections to West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry will end on April 29 and the results will be announced on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||Mallya, Nirav and Mehul Choksi all coming back to face law, says Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said that fugitive businessmen Vijaya Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi are "coming back" to India" to face the law. The government is persuing extradition of Mallya and Modi from the UK while Choksi is believed to be in Antigua. Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi are all coming back to face law of the land, Sitharaman said in the Rajya Sabha while replying to a debate on the insurance amendment bill. Mallya, an accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016. Nirav Modi and his maternal uncle Choksi fled the country allegedly after committing fraud in the public sector lender Punjab National Bank. Modi is accused of committing a fraud of USD 2 billion (around Rs 14,500 crore) in the PNB.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||SC puts lawyers ahead of journalists in vaccination priority list||The Supreme Court on Thursday said journalists' work can be done without coming in contact with people unlike lawyers and asked the Centre to consider the legal fraternity's request for priority in Covid-19 vaccination saying their livelihood depends on direct interaction with their clients. The Centre opposed creating a separate class of lawyers and said that though it is not opposed to the legal fraternity members but tomorrow journalists and banking sector employees may also come forward seeking priority in vaccination. A bench of Chief Justice Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked the Centre to consider the request of lawyers for priority in vaccination as their livelihood depends on contact with people and their apprehension of getting the infection is genuine. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre said, "I need to have instructions on this. I don't have anything against the lawyers. Even I am not vaccinated, as I don't fall in the criteria but a vegetable vendor whose livelihood also depends on coming in contact with other peoples, why should he not be given priority in vaccination." Mehta further told the bench, If tomorrow journalists come forward that their livelihood also depends on coming into contact with other people and they are also a separate class and need to be vaccinated on priority. Then what should we do? We cannot create a separate class on the basis of profession? The bench said, We don't know exactly how journalists go about their business but what we do know is that journalists' work can be done even without coming in contact with people unlike lawyers. Mehta also said that then there can be a category of banking people, who will say they need the vaccination on priority as they come in contact with people every day and the list can go on. The bench said that it understands the apprehension expressed by some classes of people but it also appreciates the fact that India is leading in the vaccination drive. There are certain categories of people like lawyers and doctors who need contact for their livelihood. Will the expert committee see that these categories of people are vaccinated, the top court said. Mehta said the expert committee is looking at how vaccination is taking place in the country and it has to take a holistic view of the situation and he will have to seek instructions on the view of the court. The top court was hearing a PIL seeking priority vaccination of lawyers, judges and court staff and two petitions of Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech seeking transfer of cases related to vaccines to the top court. It posted the matter for further hearing next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||Ready to vaccinate all in Delhi in 3 months, says Kejriwal||Asserting that the recent rise in Covid-19 cases in the national capital was not a cause of worry, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced the number of people vaccinated in Delhi each day will be raised from around 40,000 to 1.25 lakh. In the last three days, the number of daily Covid-19 cases in Delhi has increased to over 500, he said, adding that though it was a "negligible" rise, his government has directed officials for stricter tracking, tracing and isolation of cases. Kejriwal said the number of vaccination centres in Delhi will be doubled and they will be open from 9 am to 9 pm. The chief minister, in a press conference, said it did not add up while vaccination was going on cases of viral infection were rising. Appealing to the Centre to open vaccination for all instead of prescribing who were eligible to get it first, Kejriwal asserted that all the people of Delhi can be administered the Covid-19 vaccine in three months if the restrictions were lifted and enough supply of vaccine was ensured. He appealed to the Centre to decentralise vaccination process so that states can carry out immunisation on a war footing. Kejriwal said that due to a decrease in cases, laxity had crept in the system but now measures like using masks will be strictly enforced. The Delhi government is in consultation with experts of its own and the Central government and taking all possible measures to check the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||Government keen to develop own app store, says minister||The government, while encouraging private players to host apps, is equally keen to develop and strengthen its own mobile app store, Parliament was informed on Thursday. India's first indigenously developed app store, ‘Mobile Seva Appstore’, hosts more than 965 live apps from various domains and categories of public services, Minister for Electronics and IT Ravi Shankar Prasad said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha. "While the government encourages private players to host apps, it is equally keen to develop and encourage its own mobile App Store," Prasad said. The response has been good and the government wishes to strengthen it further, he added. The minister was replying to a question on whether in the absence of the country's own digital application store, dependence on Google and Apple for digital services is creating problems in the digital ecosystem and if the ministry would consider having either a single or separate digital store for Government and private apps, for self-reliance. Prasad informed that India is the largest user of mobile apps, and mentioned that the Digital India programme coupled with encouragement being given to Indian innovators to create apps has become a big movement. Citing India App Market Statistics report 2021, he said that around 5 per cent apps on Android are from Indian Apps developers. "The government also noted that there has to be a proper Indian App Store for hosting apps free of cost in the initial stages," he said. Accordingly, the `Mobile Seva App Store' was started which besides hosting Government apps is also encouraging private apps to come on board, he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||Gadkari underlines benefits of vehicle scrapping policy||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said the vehicle scrapping policy will be a "win-win" policy that will help improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollution. Making a statement regarding the vehicle scrapping policy in the Lok Sabha, the Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister said the policy will also lead to an increase in the country's automobile industry turnover to Rs 10 lakh crore from the current Rs 4.5 lakh crore. According to the statement tabled in the Lok Sabha, the "scrap value for the old vehicle given by the scrapping centre, which is approximately 4-6 per cent of the ex-showroom price of a new vehicle". Besides, state governments will be advised to offer a road tax rebate of up to 25 per cent for personal vehicles and up to 15 per cent for commercial vehicles. As per the statement, vehicle manufacturers are also advised for providing a discount of five per cent on the purchase of a new vehicle against the scrapping certificate. Also, the registration fees may also be waived for the purchase of a new vehicle against the scrapping certificate, it added. Noting that the policy will be a "win-win" policy, the minister said it will help improve fuel efficiency, reduce pollution and GST income will also rise due to the purchase of new vehicles. According to him, the policy is aimed at reducing the population of old and defective vehicles, bringing down vehicular air pollutants, improving road and vehicular safety. Besides, it will help in achieving better fuel efficiency, formalising the informal vehicle scrapping industry, and boost the availability of low-cost raw materials for the automotive, steel and electronics industry. With the scrapping of old vehicles, raw materials such as plastic, copper, aluminium, steel and rubber will be recycled. This will bring down the cost component and help the industry become more cost-competitive. The Road Transport and Highway Ministry will publish a draft notification for stakeholders' comments in the next few weeks. The scheme will provide strong incentives to owners of old vehicles to scrap old and unfit vehicles through registered scrapping centres, which will provide the owners with a scrapping certificate. Under the policy, tentatively, rules for fitness tests and scrapping centres are likely to be applicable from October 1, 2021, while scrapping of government and PSU vehicles that are older than 15 years will be from April 1, 2022. The mandatory fitness testing for heavy commercial vehicles is likely to be in force from April 1, 2023, and the same will be in place in a phased manner for other categories from June 1, 2024. The minister said that there are 51 lakh light motor vehicles that are older than 20 years and 34 lakh light motor vehicles that are older than 15 years. Around 17 lakh medium and heavy commercial vehicles are older than 15 years without a valid fitness certificate, he said, adding that older vehicles pollute the environment 10 to 12 times more than fit vehicles. A vehicle failing the fitness test or failing to get a renewal of its registration certificate may be declared as End of Life Vehicle. The ministry has proposed that commercial vehicles be de-registered after 15 years in case of failure to get the fitness certificate. As a disincentive measure, increased fees for fitness certificate and fitness test may be applicable for commercial vehicles 15 years onwards from the date of initial registration, according to the minister. Another proposal is that private vehicles be de-registered after 20 years if found unfit or in case of a failure to renew the registration certificate. As a disincentive measure, increased re-registration fees will be applicable for private vehicles 15 year onwards from the date of initial registration. The ministry will promote the setting up of Registered Vehicle Scrapping Facility (RVSF) and will encourage public and private participation in opening such centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||AirAsia offloads two flyers for not following Covid norms||AirAsia India offloaded two middle seat passengers from its Goa-Mumbai flight on Monday, while IndiGo handed over two flyers to security officials during the last three days for not following the COVID-19 rules in flights, said senior government officials on Thursday. While action was taken against two passengers on the AirAsia India flight for refusing to wear PPE gowns, IndiGo handed over two passengers of its two different flights to security officials at the destination airports for refusing to wear masks, the officials noted. Aviation regulator DGCA had on Saturday asked airlines to de-board passengers who do not wear their masks "properly" despite repeated warnings. The aforesaid incidents came to light after media reported on Wednesday that four passengers were handed over to security agencies on Tuesday for not wearing masks properly onboard Alliance Air's Jammu-Delhi flight despite repeated warnings by the cabin crew. The government officials said on Thursday that a middle seat passenger on IndiGo's Delhi-Goa flight on Monday first created fuss on the issue of wearing PPE gown, and then she kept taking off her mask during the flight even after repeated warnings by the cabin crew. The crew handed her over to the security authorities once the flight landed in Goa, they added. A similar incident happened on Wednesday on IndiGo's Delhi-Hyderabad flight where a passenger refused to wear mask even after repeated warnings by the crew members, they said. The passenger was handed over to the security officials once the flight landed in Hyderabad, they added. The officials also said AirAsia India offloaded two middle seat passengers from Goa-Mumbai flight on Monday for not wearing PPE gowns before take off. When asked, AirAsia India spokesperson confirmed the incident and said, "Despite repeated requests, on observation that two guests refused to comply with the safety protocols laid out by the health and governing bodies, AirAsia India deplaned the guests from its Goa-Mumbai flight. The guests were escorted from the flight for further procedures." "We place safety and security foremost in all aspects of our operations and apologise for any inconvenience caused to other guests," the spokesperson added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||All toll booths to be removed within a year, says Gadkari ||India will do away with toll booths and implement complete GPS-based toll collection within one year, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday. He said 93 per cent of the vehicles pay toll using FASTag, but the remaining 7 per cent have still not taken it despite paying a double toll. "I want to assure the House that within one year all physical toll booths in the country will be removed. It means that toll collection will happen via GPS. The money will be collected based on GPS imaging (on vehicles)," Gadkari said in the Lok Sabha during Question Hour. The minister said he has instructed police inquiry for those vehicles which do not pay toll using FASTags. There are cases of toll theft and GST evasion cases if FASTags are not fitted in vehicles. FASTags, which facilitate electronic payment of fee at toll plazas, was introduced in 2016. From February 16, vehicles without FASTag are required to pay double toll fee at electronic toll plazas across the country. Making the tags compulsory would also help in ensuring that vehicles pass seamlessly through the toll plazas, as the fee payment would be done electronically. Gadkari said new vehicles have FasTags fitted in them, while the government has said it will give free FASTags for old vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||Over 35,000 fresh Covid cases in India, biggest spike in 102 days||India on Thursday recorded 35,871 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise in over 100 days, which took the infection tally to 1,14,74,605, according to Union health ministry data. Registering an increase for the eighth consecutive day, the active caseload reached 2,52,364, which accounts for 2.20 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate further dropped to 96.41 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The death toll increased to 1,59,216 with 172 daily new fatalities, it stated. The single-day spike of 35,871 cases is the highest in 102 days. As many as 36,011 new infections were recorded on December 6. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,63,025, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.39 per cent, according to the data. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 23,03,13,163 samples had been tested up to March 17 with 10,63,379 being tested on Wednesday. The 172 new fatalities include 84 from Maharashtra, 35 from Punjab and 13 from Kerala. So far, 1,59,216 deaths have been reported in the country including 53,080 from Maharashtra, 12,564 from Tamil Nadu, 12,407 from Karnataka, 10,948 from Delhi, 10,298 from West Bengal, 8,751 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,186 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||Bihar governor nominates 12 MLCs||Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan on Wednesday nominated 12 MLCs — six each from the Janata Dal United and the BJP. They all took oath in the Legislative Council later in the day. Building construction department minister Ashok Choudhary, Upendra Kushwaha, Sanjay Singh, Lalan Kumar Saraf, Sanjay Kumar Singh and Ram Vachan Rai were nominated from the JDU. On the other hand, mines and geology minister Janak Ram, Rajendra Prasad Gupta, Devesh Kumar, Pramod Kumar, Ghanshyam Thakur and Nivedita Singh from the BJP were present in the list of nominated MLCs released by the governor’s office. Kushwaha’s name was unexpected and sources said that the move indicated chief minister Nitish Kumar’s plan to induct him as a minister in his cabinet. These 12 seats in the Legislative Council were vacant since May last year. The nominations show that Nitish’s JDU has managed to wrest an equal number of seats compared to the BJP despite being a junior partner in the current National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government. The JDU had managed to win just 43 seats in the Assembly elections held in October–November last year while ally BJP won 74 seats. The JDU’s tally has gone up to 44 since then as the lone Bahujan Samaj Party legislator joined it. The 12 members the governor nominates, usually eminent people from the field of art, science, literature and social service on the recommendation of the state cabinet, were a bone of contention between the JDU and the BJP. While the former wanted to divide them equally, the BJP wanted to get a larger slice. Sources said Nitish moved to get the nominations accepted at a time the BJP is busy preparing for elections in Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The BJP also decided to play safe at this juncture and let Nitish have his say in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||Ruckus in Odisha Assembly over  BJP MLA'a ‘suicide attempt’||The Odisha Assembly on Wednesday failed to transact any business and was adjourned till the post-lunch session as BJP, Congress and BJD MLAs created a ruckus over alleged mismanagement in paddy procurement and the suicide attempt by a lawmaker in the House. The members of the ruling BJD, Opposition BJP and Congress for the fifth day on Wednesday raised slogans in the well making their respective demands as soon as the House assembled for the Question Hour at 10.30am. While the BJD members demanded an unconditional apology from BJP’s Deogarh MLA Subhas Panigrahi for making a suicide bid by attempting to drink sanitiser in the House, the BJP and Congress members sought a statement of assurance from chief minister Naveen Patnaik for lifting of paddy from mandis across the state. Unable to run the proceedings, Speaker S.N. Patro adjourned the House several times till the post-lunch session at 4pm. As soon as the House was adjourned, the ruling party members, including women MLAs marched to the Raj Bhavan and submitted a memorandum to governor Ganeshi Lal seeking his intervention to upkeep the dignity of the House. They alleged that Panigrahi’s act of suicide attempt has brought a bad name for the Assembly as well as the state. Terming Panigrahi’s suicide attempt as “irresponsible”, the BJD members in their memorandum to the governor said: “We bring to the kind notice the shameful, cowardly, illegal criminal, cheap and immoral act of the BJP lawmaker in the August House on March 12.” Noting that Panigrahi had indulged in a shameful act, the BJD said it is the responsibility of a national party like BJP to counsel him, treat him and make him realise his mistake and apologise to the people. “Instead the support being rendered by the state party including their party observer and glorifying this act has shocked the conscience of the people of Odisha. It is an insult to the emotions and suffering of those who have lost their loved ones to this cowardly act,” the memorandum said. Panigrahi should apologise to the people of Odisha and set the precedent for future, the BJD said, adding that politics cannot and should not be done by anyone on the lives and sentiments of people and any act that defeats the human spirit should be condemned by every civilised human being. The BJP leadership and its state in-charge D. Purandeswari on Tuesday said that the party is proud of Panigrahi for being prepared to sacrifice his life for the interest of farmers, who have been a victim of government apathy. BJP’s deputy leader in the Assembly B.C. Sethy said: “Why should Panigrahi apologise? Instead the government should tender an apology for the parliamentary affairs minister and cooperation minister misleading the House by stating that all the paddy of eligible farmers lifted in mandis. There is no question of Panigrahi tendering an apology.” Congress whip Taraprasad Bahinipati who led the party in the agitation in the well by showing placards, however, said that Panigrahi tendering apology or the government making regret is secondary. The government must ensure that the farmers’ paddy was lifted immediately. Earlier attempts by Speaker Patro to resolve the issue through all-party meetings have failed to yield any result. The Opposition is protesting against introduction of token system in the paddy procurement in Odisha as part of which farmers are given a token for a fixed period of time during which they have to sell their grains in mandis. The BJP has alleged that farmers have to wait for a longer period to sell their produce due to which the time limit of the token lapses. Congress Legislature Party leader Narasingha Mishra in a letter to Patnaik said that it was his responsibility to intervene for smooth conduct of the House. Attempts by the Speaker to bring the House in order has failed, he said. In democracy, ruling party is not supposed to create pandemonium in the House demanding action against a member of the opposition party, Mishra said. “If the Speaker feels that, member has committed a breach of privilege, action can be taken against him as per Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Odisha Legislative Assembly,” Mishra said. When the government has already assured the House through the minister for parliamentary affairs to purchase paddy from genuine farmers, the minister in charge of cooperation should not give confusing statements, he said. To give confidence to farmers that their paddy will be purchased, your intervention is a must. I therefore appeal to you to call an all-party meeting to assure that no farmer will suffer while procuring paddy, Mishra wrote in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||Odisha government to sell Lord Jagannath's land||The Odisha government has initiated the process to sell over 35,000 acres of land belonging to Lord Jagannath of Puri. The move is aimed at enhancing the Rs 650 crore corpus fund of the 12th century temple to Rs 1,000 crore by 2023. Making a statement in the Assembly in response to a question by BJP legislator Mohan Majhi, law minister Pratap Jena said: “The process to sell the land has been initiated on the recommendation of a committee formed under the chairmanship of former governor B.D. Sharma. The step to sell 35,272.235 acres of the temple land has been taken with the approval of the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA).” Jena added: “We have so far identified 60,426.943 acres of land belonging to the Shree Jagannath temple. Of this, 395.252 acres is located outside Odisha in states like Bengal, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. Steps are being taken to recover the land and regularise the land records.” According to Jagannath temple officials many devotees had donated land in the name of the Lord as a last wish. But over the years, people have encroached on such land in many areas. While land in the name of Lord Jagannath is spread over 24 districts of Odisha, 395.252 acres have been found in six other states. According to the Jagannath temple’s official records, 17.02 acres is in Andhra Pradesh, while 322.93 acres is in Bengal and 28.218 acres in Maharashtra. Similarly, 25.11 acres is located in Madhya Pradesh, 0.274 acres in Bihar and 1.70 acres in Chhattisgarh. “We are in touch with the respective district collectors to get back these lands. The land will be sold and money earned from this will be put in a fixed deposit in the Lord’s name. We have planned to reach the target of a Rs 1,000 crore corpus in the name of the Lord by 2023,” said a senior temple official. Those in possession of the land in Lord Jagannath’s name for more than 30 years, 20 years and 12 years, will get the opportunity to record it in their names by paying Rs 6 lakh, Rs 9 lakh and Rs 15 lakh per acre respectively. Meanwhile, chairman of the Shree Jagannath Temple Management Committee and Puri King, Gajapati Dibya Singh Deb, has spoken to non-resident Odias and sought their cooperation for the overall development of the shrine. The Odisha government has been working on transforming Puri into a world heritage city at an estimated cost of over Rs 3,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||BJP minister barb at Bihar Speaker over online answers during Question Hour||The Bihar Legislative Assembly witnessed unprecedented scenes on Wednesday after panchayati raj minister and senior BJP leader Samrat Chaudhary rebuked Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha, who then adjourned the House and walked out. Though the adjournment was supposed to end after around 30 minutes at noon, it had to be extended till 2pm because Sinha refused to come to the House and stayed back in his chamber, while several ministers of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) tried to assuage him. The crisis was diffused after Chaudhary apologised in the Assembly. The unthinkable happened in the morning during Question Hour while Chaudhary was replying to a question by a fellow BJP legislator Vinay Bihari. The Speaker, who has been trying to streamline Assembly proceedings to save time spent in reading the answers in the House, sought to know why online answers were not being provided on the Assembly’s website. Chaudhary was adamant that 14 out of 16 questions related to his panchayati raj department have been answered online, but Sinha pointed out that his office had received online answers of only 11 or 69 per cent of them. The minister was unwilling to accept the Speaker’s contention. Sinha then asked Chaudhary to review the matter in his department at which the minister retorted: “Bahut vyakul nahi hona hai (Don’t become restive).” As Chaudhary’s words stunned the Assembly, Sinha asked him to take back his words at which the minister flared up, pointed his index finger at him and said: “Aye! This is not the way. This is not how it is done. Such directions are not given. You cannot give such directions.” Sinha, who also hails from the BJP and is an MLA from Lakhisarai, told Chaudhary that he cannot question the Speaker inside the House and cannot use such words. Sinha then adjourned the proceedings till noon and went to his chamber. Several ministers and senior leaders from the BJP and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) also rushed to placate Sinha. The adjournment was extended till 2pm as no apology came from Chaudhary. However, Chaudhary apologised when the session resumed at 2pm and said that he did not intend to lower the prestige of the Speaker’s position. Senior JDU leader and parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said that the statements of the minister had hurt the honour of the Speaker’s post and such things should not be repeated in future. Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said he was “deeply pained over the way the government was lowering the prestige of the House and the importance of the Speaker’s position. What kind of people have become ministers…” Several other Opposition legislators also attacked the NDA over undermining the legislature, legislative practices and decorum. Speaker Sinha has faced flak from several ministers during the ongoing budget session, who have accused him of being harsh on them while going soft on the Opposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||Congress takes on Centre's tall talk on vaccine diplomacy||Rome was not built in a day. Neither was the “Pharmacy of the World” that is India but the Narendra Modi government is loathe to admit it. At a time the Modi government has been talking up its Covid vaccine diplomacy, the Centre was given a crash course on Wednesday in the Rajya Sabha on how the country became the “Pharmacy of the World”. When Congress member Jairam Ramesh listed these factors, Benoy Viswam of the CPI said: “I would like to remember the late Shrimati Indira Gandhi and the role she played in making India the ‘Pharmacy of the World’. Here, that ideology, that political wisdom of this great country needs a mention.” Which should have set the stage for a gracious response from the government of the day. But Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, the current foreign minister who is among those who benefited most in an India that the Modi government wants to airbrush now, came up with a churlish response: “Success has many fathers. I am delighted to see today so many fathers claiming success.” The minister sidestepped a request from Opposition MPs to recognise, in the continuity in the vaccine diplomacy achievement, also the contributions of Indian scientists, epidemiologists and vaccinologists — and not just the policymaking of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as projected by the government. Jaishankar said: “I take it as a statement that they really want to praise the Vaccine Maitri initiative, except they are going about it in a very roundabout way. So, it is done in good spirit. “I take it once again as a very generous compliment to the government’s efforts from the other side. I also take it, Sir, as a great affirmation of the Make in India programme, which this government has pursued so strongly and with such great focus.” Earlier, in his statement, the minister had said: “More than the vaccines themselves, our policies and conduct have emerged as a source of strength for the stressed and vulnerable nations of the world.” Making his intervention, Ramesh of the Congress detailed the three defining factors behind the success in the pharma industry. He underlined that the adjuvant — the crucial element of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — was developed at the Hyderabad-based Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, a 60-year-old publicly funded organisation. “And, Bharat Biotech itself owes its origin to the department of biotechnology that was established in 1986, and the Technology Development Board that was established in 1996,” Ramesh said. “So, while we pat ourselves in the back for being ‘Pharmacy of the World’ and for being a major vaccine manufacturer, let us recognise that there has been a lot of continuity in these policies and the foundations that have been laid in the past few decades has led to a situation where we can take legitimate pride in our achievements.” Jaishankar said the Made in India vaccines had been supplied to 72 nations. “Even in the midst of a global crisis, the Prime Minister’s initiative of such deep friendship has raised India’s standing and generated great international goodwill for us,” he added. He reminded the House that before delivering the vaccines, India had also met a considerable amount of the world’s demand for hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol and other relevant drugs as the pandemic peaked. “This approach is not only in keeping with our age-old tradition of vasudhaiva kutumbakam... It is also the contemporary outlook of this government to utilise India’s growing capacities for the benefit of humankind. As a prominent nation in an increasingly multi-polar world, the international community has great expectations of us, and we, in turn, are prepared to demonstrate our willingness to shoulder greater responsibilities.” Later, noting the “deep appreciation” of Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute, he took a swipe at the Covaxin doubters. “Many people perhaps don’t wish to remember it now, but I am proud to say I got vaccinated with Covaxin. So, I think, I made my statement that day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||India needs to take first step for improving bilateral relations: Pakistan PM||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Wednesday said India will have to take the first step for improving bilateral relations, indicating that after the August 5, 2019, changes in Jammu and Kashmir, the onus is on New Delhi. This is the first time Imran has spoken publicly after the two countries committed themselves once again to uphold the 2003 ceasefire along the Line of Control on February 24 after two years of almost daily shelling across the contested border. Addressing the Islamabad Security Dialogue, Imran said: “There is basically one issue that is stopping us (from improving relations) at this time. We will try but India must take the first step because after August 5, till they take the first step, unfortunately we cannot move forward.” Reiterating that Kashmir is the only issue between India and Pakistan, Imran said the August 5, 2019, moves of India led to a complete breakdown in relations; adding that it is also holding back regional cooperation and uplift of the region in general. As always, he also flagged Pakistan’s long-standing support for Kashmiris’ right to self-determination||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||Farmers' protest to continue through harvest season||The farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders plan to keep the movement alive during the upcoming harvest season with the help of supporters from other walks of life in an example of building solidarities across professions. With the harvest season upon them, farmers from Punjab and Haryana are under pressure to return to their fields. But Darshan Pal of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said that various unions and groups had already committed to sending people in batches to occupy the protest sites during this period. This is just one instance of the broader coalition sought to be built, against not just the three contentious farm laws but also the labour codes and bank privatisation. It is with this end in view that progressive mass organisations, including trade unions and student associations, participated in a meeting organised by the SKM at the Singhu border on Wednesday to ensure the success of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers on March 26. The farmers’ unions, particularly from Punjab, are up in arms also over a new order from the Food Corporation of India asking peasants to furnish land records for direct transfer of the minimum support price to their bank accounts for the rabi marketing season. The SKM has asked farmers not to provide the documents to the government in a show of non-cooperation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||Bribe items totalling Rs 331.47 crore seized from poll-bound states and UT||Ten days before voting begins, bribe items totalling Rs 331.47 crore have been seized in the four poll-bound states of Tamil Nadu, Bengal, Kerala and Assam and the Union Territory of Puducherry, already eclipsing their cumulative haul before the last elections in 2016. Among the items seized are cash, liquor, drugs, precious metals and gifts. Tamil Nadu tops the list with seizures worth Rs 127.64 crore, followed by Bengal at Rs 112.59 crore. Bengal tops the seizures of drugs, valued at Rs. 47.4 crore, and freebies worth Rs 29.42 crore. The most amount of liquor, worth Rs 17.25, has been seized from Assam. The chief election commissioner had rapped excise officials in Tamil Nadu last month for not seizing enough suspected bribes meant for voters. Indian Revenue Service officer K.G. Anurag was transferred out of the state. The Election Commission said on Wednesday: “After due assessment, 259 Assembly constituencies have been marked as expenditure sensitive constituencies for more focussed vigil…. Distributing cash and gifts during the electoral process is not permitted under the law, e.g., distribution of money, liquor, or any other item disbursed and given to the electors with the intent to influence them. This expenditure comes under the definition of ‘bribery’, which is an offence both under 171B of IPC and under R.P. Act, 1951.” Polls to a Lok Sabha seat in Tamil Nadu had been postponed in 2016 due to the massive seizure of bribe items.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||CPI (Maoist) media release terms citizens march a 'government conspiracy'||A purported media release of the banned CPI (Maoist) on March 12 has termed a march by victims of the conflict between the party and the security forces a “government conspiracy”. However, a journalist who is organising the march saw a glimmer of hope for the talks process in the note that specifically calls for the release of Markam Gopanna, a leader of the CPI (Maoist)’s Peoples Liberation Guerrilla Army who has been behind bars since 2007. The peace march from Dantewada to Raipur in Chhattisgarh by Bastar-based NGO New Peace Process (NPP) was flagged off by Congress leader Arvind Netam on March 12 — the 91st anniversary of the beginning of the Dandi Salt March. It has reached Puri in Kanker district, and is expected to arrive at Raipur on March 23, where a public meeting of victims is planned the following day. The Congress is in power in Chhattisgarh. The release signed by Vikalp, a nom de guerre of the spokesperson of the Maoists’ Dandakaranya special zonal committee, says: “Personally, some people in civil society may have good intentions and we welcome them, but they must be careful of people like Shubhranshu, as a ‘human mask’ of corporate plunder and government repression, under the guise of peace, are covering up corporate loot, the brutality and war by governmental armed forces, and human rights violations in the conflict areas. Shubhranshu’s peace process is a hoax and it’s a part of a government conspiracy.” Shubhranshu Choudhary heads the Bastar-based Bluetooth community radio CGNet Swara, as well as the NPP. Maoists have shunned the former BBC journalist after his 2013 book Lets Call Him Vasu quoted Maoists who claimed that Chhattisgarh-based health activist Binayak Sen, out on bail since 2011, was a courier for the party. The Dandakaranya zone covers a large swathe of forests spread over Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, parts of which are under the parallel administration of the CPI (Maoist). The party said: “If civil society is honest about peace, they should demand that central and state governments should immediately stop the counter-revolutionary suppression.” A litany of woes against multiple projects across India that would require displacement of populations, the farm laws, labour laws and the release of jailed Maoists are part of the suggested causes that civil society should take up. These include “the foisting of new cases despite repeated acquittals of our comrade Markam Gopanna, who has been stripped of his rights under the Constitution, and the laws made by government…” Choudhary, the journalist, pointed out that the Maoist statement specifically calls for the release of Gopanna. “He is in Jagdalpur jail (in Bastar) and under the rhetoric this is an indication that the Maoists are putting forward a condition for talks. This is a good sign and I am happy that they respect the overwhelming majority of local respondents in our survey last year who are in favour of talks. Talks were in the manifesto of the ruling Congress and I hope their government will be creative enough to use this opportunity, as their leader Rajiv Gandhi had done with the Assam Accord,” he told The Telegraph. The Chhattisgarh government has distanced itself from Choudhary’s efforts, and has focused on its own police-led carrot-and-stick initiatives to directly attract Maoists for talks, while also encouraging the surrender of their cadres and increasing trust in the State among the local population. Choudhary added that the fear of the Maoists, who had issued public threats to him and four other journalists last month, has kept most tribals away from the march although they have been generous in offering food to the marchers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||Covid: Narendra Modi expresses concern at spread beyond big cities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday asked states to help stop India’s Covid-19 epidemic’s “emerging second peak” amid sharp rises in daily new cases in 125 districts over the past two weeks. Modi, in a videoconference with the chief ministers of various states, expressed concern about the latest epidemic assessments indicating a 150 per cent or greater rise in cases in 70 districts and 100 to 150 per cent rise in 55 districts. The “confidence” that India gained while battling the coronavirus epidemic during the first wave should not turn into “negligence”, Modi warned amid signals from multiple states that laxity in public health responses are likely contributing to the surge. The Prime Minister called on the states to take “quick and decisive steps” to stop the emerging second peak through the standard public health measures such as efficient testing, tracking and treating and efforts at containment. India’s count of daily new cases has increased from around 11,000 in mid-February to over 28,000 on Wednesday after a steady decline since the peak of the first epidemic wave in mid-September marked by 96,000 daily new cases. The epidemic has grown in at least 12 states — Maharashtra, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan — since March 1 but several states are conducting fewer RT-PCR-based diagnostic tests than required. RT-PCR tests, for instance, make up only 50 per cent tests in Gujarat, 40 per cent in Chandigarh and 34 per cent in Chhattisgarh, and 64 per cent in Delhi. Alternative so-called antigen tests can yield false negative results and miss cases. Modi stressed the need for local health authorities to ensure that RT-PCR tests make up at least 70 per cent of diagnostic tests conducted as recommended by the health ministry. Public health teams sent by the Union health ministry to Maharashtra and other states have also expressed concern that after cases are detected, local health authorities have not been tracing and quarantining their contacts in an efficient manner. “It has been observed that in some cases, contact tracing is confined to members of the household,” a senior health official said. The health ministry has directed states to ensure that for every case at least 20 to 30 contacts are traced and quarantined. The latest assessments by the health ministry suggest that sharpest increases in daily counts over the past two weeks have occurred in tier-2 and tier-3 cities and not in the largest towns or metros that were among the hardest hit in 2020. Some of the highest increases in daily new cases, for instance, have occurred in Nanded (385 per cent) in Maharashtra, Yamunanagar (300 per cent) in Haryana, Ratlam (500 per cent) in Madhya Pradesh and Ropar (256 per cent) in Punjab. In contrast, the rise since March 1 has been 76 per cent in Ahmedabad, 25 per cent in Bangalore and 15 per cent in Gurgaon. “This pattern is in line with forecasts that when it gets an opportunity, the virus will spread into tier-2 and tier-3 towns and rural areas,” a community medicine specialist said. In large cities, the virus has already infected large fractions of people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||Banaras Hindu University denies inviting Nita Ambani as visiting professor||The Centre for Women’s Studies and Development at Banaras Hindu University on Wednesday denied having invited Nita Ambani to be a visiting professor, a day after students posted an image of the purported invitation letter on social media and protested on the campus. The students said they had heard that apart from the wife of Mukesh Ambani, the study centre also planned to invite the wives of industrialists Gautam Adani and Lakshmi Mittal, and questioned their credentials for the post of visiting professor. Ambani and Adani are perceived as close to the ruling BJP. Media reports said Ambani’s Reliance Industries Limited had denied that Nita Ambani had received any such invitation letter from BHU. K.K. Mishra, dean of the BHU social science department under which the women’s study centre functions, too denied any such invite after the department held a meeting on Wednesday afternoon. “The BHU has cleared its stand. The university administration never discussed any such issue and never sent any invitation to any of the wives of the industrialists,” Mishra told The Telegraph over the phone. Asked about the student-circulated WhatsApp image of the purported invitation letter to Nita Ambani, Mishra hung up. Nidhi Sharma, coordinator of the women’s study centre who had attended the afternoon meeting, was more opaque. “We withdraw ourselves from any such controversy. We are withdrawing ourselves,” she told this newspaper. Asked whether she was talking about “withdrawing” the purported invitation letter, Sharma said: “No, I don’t want to speak much. I am not into it.” Asked why the students had protested then, she hung up. The student-circulated document is dated March 12, addressed to Nita Ambani and written on the letterhead of BHU. It carries the purported signatures of Mishra and Sharma. The protesting students have said that only academics or women achievers like Mary Kom should be visiting professors. “We came to know about the invitation to Nita Ambani from a copy of the letter signed by Mishra and Sharma and posted its images on social media,” a student of the history department who was part of Tuesday’s protest said, asking not to be named. “Later, we heard from some of the professors that Lakshmi Mittal’s wife Usha Mittal and Gautam Adani’s wife Priti Adani would also be invited as visiting professors.” Requesting anonymity, a faculty member from the women’s study centre said: “The post of visiting professor is very prestigious and I don’t think these wives of industrialists are qualified for the job.” She added: “We had held a meeting in the department on Women’s Day and discussed many subjects. The dean of social sciences and the coordinator of the study centre were present but nobody told us about such a proposal. We learnt about it only when a group of students organised the protest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||SC issues notices to Centre on cancelled ration cards||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notices to the Centre on a mother’s allegation that her 11-year-old daughter and many others had died of starvation after the government cancelled four crore ration cards, mostly of tribals, for apparent non-linkage to Aadhaar. “The matter is too serious. We have to hear it. We expect you not to treat it as adversarial,” Chief Justice S.A. Bobde told the Centre and gave it four weeks to file its response to Koili Devi’s petition. Additional solicitor-general Aman Lekhi pleaded that beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act are allowed to furnish alternative identity proof if they have no Aadhaar cards, but the court brushed the contention aside. “It’s our order,” said the bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian. Devi’s petition says her daughter Santhoshi Kumari died on September 28, 2017, after the family’s ration card was cancelled on the ground of not being linked to Aadhaar. The petition cites seven other alleged starvation deaths. It says what prevented the Aadhaar linkage was not always the absence of Aadhaar cards but problems with “the technological system based on iris identification, thumb prints... functioning of the Internet in rural and remote areas”. It says ration cards were cancelled “without notice to the famil(ies)”. Devi’s counsel Colin Gonzalves said the Centre was continuing to insist on Aadhaar linkage despite the apex court having laid down, in K.S. Puttaswamy vs Union of India 2019, that Aadhaar can be made mandatory for welfare schemes but not statutory entitlements. “Insistence on Aadhaar and biometric authentication had led to the cancellation of nearly 4 crore ration cards in the country, according to the Union of India. The Union of India casually gives an explanation that these cancelled cards were bogus,” Devi’s petition says. “As usual, government officials come up with excuses like illness, diarrhoea and malaria — in fact anything but lack of food. This cruel exercise deprived millions of Indians living below the poverty line of food and led to starvation deaths in Jharkhand, UP, Odisha, Karnataka, MP, Maharashtra, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and other states.” The petition complains that several states have failed to implement the Food Security Act’s mandate of establishing district and state-level grievance redress mechanisms that are to feature call centres, helplines and nodal officers. Initially, the court had expressed reservations about issuing notices, Justice Bobde saying: “You are asking for an omnibus kind of relief. You should have it investigated by the jurisdictional high court.” He had added: “This kind of thing (petition) will not help us or anybody. If you make an allegation about the entire country, this court cannot go into that.” But Gonzalves said the top court needed to deal with the matter as the Union government and not the states had cancelled the ration cards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||Media in dilemma over disclosing identity of grieving and wronged mother contesting against Pinarayi Vijayan||A grieving and wronged mother’s decision to contest elections in Kerala has landed the media in an unusual dilemma — how to strike a balance between concealing her identity and reporting on her with the intensity that a poll in India demands, while at the same time drawing attention to her story of pain. The mother of two minor girls who committed suicide after being raped by multiple men has decided to contest against chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the upcoming Assembly elections, accusing him and his government of presiding over a botched-up investigation. The media has tied itself in knots on whether to identify her, which would run counter to the law that prohibits the disclosure of any information that would reveal the identity of a victim of sexual abuse who is a minor. If the woman is not identified, then it would mean not drawing attention to her unusual story of grief and helplessness that drove her to challenge the might of the chief minister in the electoral ring. Malayalam television channels have for now been showing blurred visuals of the woman without naming her. She is being referred to as the “mother of the Walayar sisters”. The Telegraph is not publishing the name of the woman, accepting legal opinion against taking editorial decisions that would reveal the identity of her daughters. The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, prohibits the disclosure of any information that could lead to identification of victims who are minors. The woman, who will take CPM veteran Vijayan on as an Independent from the Dharmadom Assembly constituency in Kannur district, told this newspaper that she had no problem in being identified or photographed. “I am not a murderer that I would walk around with my face covered. I haven’t cheated anyone that I would have to conceal my identity,” she said over phone from Palakkad where she was busy collecting necessary documents to file her nomination. The Dalit woman alleged that the state government’s laxity in nailing the culprits and punishing erring police officers who botched up the probe had compelled her to take the decision. The police administration reports to Vijayan who is also the home minister. Her daughters — aged 13 and 9 — were found dead 52 days apart in January and March 2017 at their shanty in the industrial town of Walayar. The children died by hanging, unable to bear the torment of multiple men — known to the family — including a minor, raping them over a period of time. Forensic reports had shown that they had also been subjected to unnatural sex. As the parents are daily wage earners, they had to go out for work frequently, leaving their daughters alone at home. To the horror of an entire state, two years later a special court acquitted the four accused for want of evidence. It led to a massive outpouring of anger in Kerala. The state government in January handed over the case related to the deaths of the siblings to the CBI after Kerala High Court ordered a retrial, observing there had been a “miscarriage of justice” due to “serious lapses” in the investigation. The court also set aside the acquittal of the accused. The aggrieved mother last week tonsured her head in protest against the “denial of justice”. “I am engaged in a fight seeking justice for my daughters. So I want people to know what I am fighting for,” she said. The woman had recently said she had “cried and begged” before the chief minister to ensure the culprits were brought to book. The woman said that in her electoral bid she was open to support from any political force other than the Sangh parivar. While the fourth accused in the case of brutality against the girls, Pradeep Kumar, died by suicide in November 2020, Valiya Madhu and Shibhu have been re-arrested and sent to judicial custody following the reopening of the case. Another accused, Cheriya Madhu, obtained an anticipatory bail after the high court ordered a retrial. The juvenile has not been re-arrested considering his age. Senior lawyer P.V. Surendranath, who practises in the Supreme Court, told this newspaper that the provisions of the Pocso Act would not be violated if the woman was identified without connecting her to the children. “You cannot say she is the mother of the two girls (victims). Otherwise the law does not hinder the publication of the mother’s identity, especially because she is said to be contesting an election.” Advocate K.R. Subhash Chandran, who too handles Pocso cases, said Section 23 (2) of the act clearly states that no information can be published if it leads to revealing the identity of the victim. “No reports in any media shall disclose the identity of a child, including his name, address, photograph, family details, school, neighbourhood or any other particulars which may lead to disclosure of the identity of the child,” states Section 23 (2) of the act. But the law makes an exception in instances allowed by a competent court when “such disclosure is in the interest of the child”. “This is a unique situation where the mother is going to contest an election, which means her identity has to be revealed. Perhaps this kind of a scenario did not come up while drafting the law,” Chandran said. Social activist C.R. Neelakantan, who is assisting the woman, said publicity materials would certainly carry her name and picture. “How can anyone contest an election without telling the voters who you are? Even the ballot papers will have her picture. So there is absolutely no restriction in disclosing her name,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||Kerala Assembly elections 2021: Congress cries voter list ‘fraud’||Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala on Wednesday alleged massive manipulation of the voters’ list with multiple entries for the same person. However, much to his embarrassment, a person he named to prove his allegations said she was a Congress supporter. Chennithala cited the example of a woman named Kumari in Uduma constituency of Kasaragod whose name figures five times in the list with different numbers. “This voter has been added five times with the same name, address and photograph. She has been issued five electoral ID cards,” he said, adding it was not an isolated incident. But Kumari later told reporters that she is a Congress supporter. “I am from a family of Congress supporters. It is the Congress party that helped me get the voters ID,” she told reporters who thronged her modest home in Uduma. “This appears to be some mistake and it is for the officials to rectify it,” Kumari’s husband, Raveendran, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM's 'creepy' message on women in ripped jeans||New Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat has berated women who wear ripped jeans, speaking at a meeting of the state commission for the protection of child rights in Dehradun on Wednesday. “Once I was going to Jaipur by flight. A behenji (sister) sat next to me. I saw she was wearing gumboots. When I looked above, I saw her jeans were ripped at the knees. She had two children with her,” he said. “She told me she managed an NGO. She moves in society. What kind of message was she giving to society? What culture will she impart to the children?” As the video circulated on social media, Twitter users pointed out that there was no doubt about the “creepy” message the chief minister had sent out. More than one woman said he had revealed himself to be someone who “checks out women” in airplanes and asked if there was any hope of a woman victim in Uttarakhand getting justice. Rawat, who became chief minister on March 10, said: “Ripped jeans are a status symbol here.” Historians say that torn or ripped jeans signified the working class in the 1970s but came to symbolise a subculture phenomenon in America in the 1990s, with many considering it a statement of rebellion against established trends. Eventually, it turned into a fashion statement. Suryakant Dhasmana, a Congress politician in Uttarakhand, advised the chief minister not to shoot off his mouth. “He should keep his tongue in check. He should learn not to insult people’s choice of clothes,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath promises justice for BJP workers in Bengal, not UP ||On Tuesday in Purulia, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath breathed fire over the murders of three BJP workers in the Bengal district in 2018 and promised justice to their families. Adityanath has, however, never expressed any concern at the murders of over a dozen Sangh parivar leaders and activists in Uttar Pradesh since he became chief minister in March 2017. When some of the families alleged political motives behind the murders and sought CBI probes, the administration largely ignored them. (While the BJP blames Trinamul for the Purulia murders, Bengal police have not acknowledged any political motives. All three cases are with the CID, and three suspects have been arrested in one of the cases.) Snapshots of a few murders of parivar members in Uttar Pradesh over the past year and a half: Oct. 18, 2020 Dayashankar Gupta, 45, divisional vice-president of the BJP’s Tundla town unit in Firozabad, is shot dead. Motive: Land dispute, say the police. Accused: Neighbour Ishwar Dev Gupta, who the police say hired a contract killer, is arrested with six others. Sept. 17, 2020 Sanjay Singh Bhadauria, 45, a medical doctor and district vice-president of the Hindu Yuva Vahini who ran a small hospital in Bareilly town, is stabbed to death. Motive: A love triangle, say the police, who have ignored Vahini Bareilly president Anuj Pratap Singh’s claims of a political motive. Accused: Two men arrested. One of them, Mohammad Imran, loved the same woman as Bhadauria, the police say. Aug. 11, 2020 Sanjay Khokhar, RSS member and former president of the BJP’s Baghpat unit, is shot dead on his farmland. Motive: Land dispute, the police say. Khokhar’s son Manish met Adityanath, claimed a political murder and demanded a CBI inquiry — all in vain. Accused: Six men — Shravan Khokhar, Sagar Balyan, Sagar Goswami, Nitin Dhankar, Mayank Dollar and Vinit Sharma — arrested. Feb. 2, 2020 Ranjeet Bachchan, Vishwa Hindu Mahasabha president, shot dead by two motorcycle-borne assailants in Hazratganj, Lucknow. Motive: Bachchan had remarried without divorcing his wife, say the police. Accused: Bachchan’s wife Smriti Verma, her friend Deependra, driver Sanjeet Kumar and alleged killer Jitendra Singh arrested. Oct. 18, 2019 Kamlesh Tiwari, leader of the Hindu Mahasabha and national president of the Hindu Samaj Party, murdered in his Lucknow office. Motive: The police say Kamlesh had made anti-Muslim statements, provoking three youths from Gujarat to come and kill him. Kamlesh’s mother Kusuma Devi accused a BJP politician from Mahmoodabad in Sitapur district of killing her son to grab a temple there, but the government dismissed her claims. Accused: Uttar Pradesh police and the Gujarat anti-terrorist squad arrested three men from Surat. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty from Birbhum||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||IAF group captain dies in MiG crash||An Indian Air Force group captain died in an accident while his MiG-21 Bison aircraft was taking off on Wednesday morning. The “fatal accident” involving Group Captain A. Gupta took place when the aircraft was taking off for a combat training mission. The air force did not disclose the location of the airbase, except for saying it was in central India. The news agency PTI put out a picture of the wreckage from Gwalior. “A MiG-21 Bison aircraft of the IAF was involved in a fatal accident this morning while taking off for a combat training mission at an airbase in central India,” the IAF said. “The IAF lost Group Captain A. Gupta in the tragic accident. The IAF expresses deep condolences and stands firmly with the family members. A court of inquiry has been ordered to determine the cause of the accident.” In recent times, the IAF has witnessed a series of crashes involving fighter jets and choppers. A MiG-21 was shot down by Pakistan in an aerial engagement in February 2019. Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman, who was flying the jet, had ejected safely and his parachute had drifted into Pakistan-occupied Kashmir where he had been taken into custody by the Pakistan Army. He was later released. The Soviet-origin Mig-21 Bison is an upgraded version of the Mig-21 aircraft that the IAF began inducting in the 1960s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||BJP MP from Himachal Pradesh found hanging at Delhi residence||A BJP MP from Himachal Pradesh, Ram Swaroop Sharma, was found hanging from a ceiling fan at his residence in Lutyens’ Delhi on Wednesday morning, police said. Prima-facie, it appears that the Mandi MP had committed suicide, police said, adding that no suicide note had been found. News agency PTI reported that Sharma, 62, had been suffering from several ailments. Sharma is the second MP to die allegedly by suicide in less than a month. Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar, an Independent serving his seventh term, was found hanging in a Mumbai hotel on February 22. A purported suicide note written in Gujarati had accused top administrative officials in Dadra and Nagar Haveli and a top politician of harassment. Speaking on the death of Sharma, a Delhi police spokesperson said: “Prima facie it looks like suicide and an inquiry is underway. The exact cause of his death will be known after the post-mortem report.” According to the police, an aide of Sharma called up the police control room around 7.45am on Wednesday after the parliamentarian did not respond to knocks on his door. A police team rushed to the house and forced open the door and found Sharma hanging from the ceiling fan. He was taken to a nearby hospital where doctors pronounced him dead on arrival. Sharma was alone at home as his wife had gone on a pilgrimage. He is also survived by his three sons. Born in 1958 in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi district, Sharma was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 2014. He was re-elected from Mandi in the 2019 general election. Sharma was a member of the standing committee on external affairs and the consultative committee of the ministry. The BJP cancelled its parliamentary meeting scheduled for Wednesday morning after learning about Sharma’s death. The Lok Sabha was adjourned till 1pm after expressing condolences over his death. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to offer his condolences. “Shri Ram Swaroop Sharma was a dedicated leader, who was always committed to solving people’s problems. He worked tirelessly for the betterment of society. Pained by his untimely and unfortunate demise.” Last week the Congress had suggested that Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Delkar could have been saved had Modi, home minister Amit Shah and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla responded to his desperate pleas for help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||Maharashtra government  transfers Mumbai top cop in aftermath of Mukesh Ambani explosives case||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday transferred Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh in the aftermath of the recovery of explosives from a car in front of the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani that led to the arrest of a controversial police officer. Singh, who has been accused of “mishandling” the case, has been posted as the head of the state home guard, home minister Anil Deshmukh said. Senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale, holding additional charge of Maharashtra director-general of police, will be the new Mumbai police commissioner. Deshmukh, who met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray earlier in the day, made the announcement on Twitter amid speculation in the media over Singh’s handling of  the episode of Sachin Waze, the assistant inspector in National Investigation Agency custody after he purportedly admitted to his role in the placing of explosives in front of Ambani’s home. “Big decision of the government. Shri Hemant Nagrale will be the new Mumbai Police Commissioner. Shri Rajnish Seth will have the additional charge of the post of Director General of Police, Maharashtra,” Deshmukh tweeted. “Shri Sanjay Pandey will have the responsibility of Maharashtra State Security Corporation. Shri Param Bir Singh will have the responsibility of the Home Guard,” the home minister added. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government’s move comes in the wake of a series of meetings among leaders of the ruling Shiv Sena- NCP-Congress alliance. Questions have also been raised on the police investigation into the alleged suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar. Waze, arrested in the explosives case on March 13, had been attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit of Mumbai police’s crime branch till recently. He was suspended after the NIA arrested him. The transfer of Singh follows Monday’s talks between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar, amid reports that Waze had stage-managed the bomb scare. The NIA had recovered some “incriminating” documents and electronic evidence such as a laptop, an iPad and mobile phones from Waze’s office, an official of the agency had said on Tuesday. A black Mercedes car, being used by Waze, was also seized from a parking lot near the CSMT station, and Rs 5 lakh in cash, a note-counting machine, two number plates and some clothes were recovered from it, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India|| I will speak even if I am not a governor, says Satyapal Malik||Satyapal Malik, the Meghalaya governor, supported the farmers’ protest and criticised the BJP in a series of provocative comments on Wednesday. Malik also predicts that the BJP might lose support in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana because of the four-month-old agitation outside Delhi's borders, reports NDTV. In an interview with NDTV, the governor said, “Even when a dog dies it is condoled but 250 farmers have died, yet no one expressed condolences.” "If this movement continues like this then in the long term, BJP will lose out in western UP, Rajasthan and Haryana," he said. Malik claimed he had spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah on the protest. "The farmers should not be sent back empty-handed. The government should open talks with them soon," he remarked. When asked whether he was worried at all about his controversial statements as governor, Malik was defiant. "If the government thinks I am harming them then I will step aside. I will speak even if I am not a Governor," he said. "I cannot bear to see the state of these farmers. BJP leaders are unable to leave their villages as people are beating MLAs. Those who want to harm the government, they are the ones who do not want a resolution. My statements will not harm the party - rather the opposite as the farmers will feel that someone is speaking up for them." Malik, who joined the BJP in 2004 after stints in the socialist camp and the Congress, was picked as governor of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2018, a move indicative of his proximity to Modi and Shah. It was during his stint as governor that the Centre decided to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Later, he was transferred to Goa and then to Meghalaya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
