19-03-2021||India||First night flight takes off from Srinagar airport for Delhi||The first ever night flight took off for Delhi from the Srinagar international airport on Friday, officials said. The first night flight from Srinagar was operated by GoAir and it took off from the airport at 7.15 pm for New Delhi, they added. Principal Secretary, Industries and Commerce, Ranjan Prakash Thakur, who was present on the occasion, greeted the crew of the flight and other ground personnel, the officials said. Speaking on the occasion, Thakur said the start of the night flight operations from Srinagar marks the dawn of a new era as it will improve air connectivity to Jammu and Kashmir. He said this significant development will boost the tourism sector of the Union Territory as it will increase the tourist footfall in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
19-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM 'apologises' for ‘ripped jeans’ comment but says wearing torn jeans not right||Facing flak over his "ripped jeans" comment, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday said he apologises for the remark if it has hurt anybody. But at the same time, he repeated his objection to ripped jeans, saying he has no problem with jeans with but wearing "torn" ones is "not right". Referring to his remark made earlier this week, Rawat told the media that he had commented that nowadays children bring a costly jean home and then cut it with a scissor. He had only talked about the environment at home and this applies to him as well, Rawat said. If we inculcate good values and discipline in children, they will never fail in future, the CM added, stressing that he had made the comment at a programme held to keep the children away from intoxicants and other evils. Describing himself as a man from a rural background, Rawat on Friday said whenever his pant was torn in schooldays, he feared that his teacher would scold him. Due to discipline and values, we used to cover it with a patch, he said. Rawat had drawn flak after at an event earlier this week he said youngsters follow strange fashion trends due to a lack of values and consider themselves to be big shots after wearing jeans ripped at the knees. Women also follow such trends. Rawat then went on to describe the attire of a woman who sat next to him on a flight. He described her as wearing boots, jeans ripped at the knees, bangles in her hands and two children travelling with her. He also said she runs an NGO, goes out in society and has two children and wondered what values she would give them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
19-03-2021||India||Delhi records 716 new Covid infections, 4 deaths||Delhi recorded 716 new coronavirus cases on Friday, the highest daily count this year, while four more people died from the pathogen, the Health Department said. The number of active cases rose to 3,165 from 2,924 a day ago and 6.32 lakh people have recovered so far. The positivity rate jumped to 0.93 per cent from 0.76 per cent, according to a bulletin. The 716 new cases took the tally to 6,46,348, while the toll rose to 10,953 with four more deaths, the bulletin said. Delhi had reported 607 and 536 cases on Thursday and Wednesday respectively. The daily count was 425 on Tuesday. A total of 77,352 tests, including 47,078 RT-PCR, were conducted on Thursday and the number of people under home isolation rose to 1,624, it said. Health experts and doctors have attributed the surge in cases to people turning complacent, not following COVID-appropriate behaviour and "assuming all is well now". A total of 585 cases were reported on January 1 and 424 on January 3. The daily count had dropped to 306 on January 11 and risen again to 386 on January 12, according to official figures. The numbers had started to come down in February. On February 26, the month's highest daily count of 256 cases was recorded. Asserting that the recent rise in cases was not a cause for worry, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced on Thursday that the number of people vaccinated in Delhi each day would be raised from around 40,000 to 1.25 lakh. He added that the Delhi government had directed officials for stricter tracking, tracing and isolation of cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
19-03-2021||India||Thrilled to be here in India, says US Defence Secretary on his three-day India visit||Beginning his three-day India visit, US Defence Secretary Lloyd J Austin on Friday said the breadth of Indo-US cooperation reflected the significance of "major defence partnership" as they work together to address the "most pressing" challenges facing the Indo-Pacific region. Austin arrived here as part of his three-nation first overseas tour as the Defence Secretary and the visit is seen as a reflection of the Joe Biden administration's strong commitment to ties with its close allies and partners in the region. Austin visited Japan and South Korea before India. In the evening, Austin called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Thrilled to be here in India. The breadth of cooperation between our two nations reflects the significance of our major defense partnership, as we work together to address the most pressing challenges facing the Indo-Pacific region," he tweeted. Welcoming Austin, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said his visit to India is definitely going to further deepen the cooperation and partnership between two countries. "Looking forward to our meeting tomorrow," Singh tweeted. The US official was received at the Palam airport by senior Indian military officials and diplomats from the American embassy. Ways to further accelerate India-US strategic ties, boosting cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, China's aggressive behaviour in eastern Ladakh, challenge of terrorism and the Afghan peace process are expected to be focus of the talks between Austin and Singh, people familiar with Austin's visit said. They said India's plan to procure around 30 multi-mission armed Predator drones from the US for the three services at an estimated cost of over USD 3 billion is also expected to figure in the talks. The medium-altitude long-endurance (MALE) Predator-B drones, manufactured by US defence major General Atomics, are capable of remaining airborne for around 35 hours and can hunt down targets at land and sea, they said. India's plan to acquire 114 fighter jets at a cost of around USD 18 billion could also figure in the talks as American defence majors --Boeing and Lockheed -Martin-- are eyeing it, the people said. His visit to India came days after the top leadership of the Quad grouping of India, the US, Japan and Australia vowed to expand their cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. Ahead of Austin's visit, Senator Robert Menendez, Chairman of the powerful Senate Foreign Relations Committee, wrote a letter to the US Defence Secretary, urging him to take up with Indian leaders the issue of New Delhi procuring Russian S-400 missile defence system. Though democracy and human rights issues do not come under the domain of the Pentagon, Menendez also urged Austin to raise these concerns with Indian leaders. In October 2018, India signed a USD 5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, notwithstanding a warning from the Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions. Recently, the US imposed sanctions on Turkey under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) for purchase of S-400 missiles from Russia. The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers. The US has been favouring making Quad a security architecture to check China's growing assertiveness. The visit is also taking place at a time when India and China are looking to achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points in eastern Ladakh after completing withdrawal of troops in the North and South banks of Pangong lake areas. Austin and Singh had a telephonic conversation on January 27. The Indo-US defence ties have been on an upswing in the last few years. In June 2016, the US had designated India a "Major Defence Partner". The two countries have also inked key defence and security pacts over the past few years, including the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provides for deeper cooperation. The two sides have also signed COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India. In October last year, India and the US sealed the BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement) agreement to further boost bilateral defence ties. The pact provides for sharing of high-end military technology, logistics and geospatial maps between the two countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
19-03-2021||India||Maharashtra logs 25,681 new Covid cases, 70 deaths||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 25,681 new COVID-19 cases, the second-highest one-day rise since the pandemic began last year, a health official said. The caseload in the state crossed the 24 lakh-mark to rise to 24,22,021. With 70 fatalities, the death toll reached 53,208, the official said. On Thursday, Maharashtra had set a new record of daily rise with 25,833 new infections being reported. On Friday, 14,400 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the total recoveries to 21,89,965. There are 1,77,560 active cases now. Mumbai recorded 3,063 new cases (3,062 as per the city's civic body), followed by 2,872 in Pune city and 2,617 in Nagpur city. Mumbai's COVID-19 tally increased to 3,55,914 while 10 deaths took the fatality count to 11,569, as per the state government's data. Mumbai division reported 5,737 new cases and 19 deaths, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,82,316 and the death toll to 20,028. With 1,27,147 tests carried out on Friday, the state has so far tested 1,80,83,977 samples for coronavirus. There are 8,67,333 people in home quarantine while 7,848 are in institutional quarantine. Out of 70 deaths, 43 occurred in the last 48 hours and 15 in the last week. Rest 12 deaths are from the period before the last week. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 24,22,021, new cases: 25,681, death toll: 53,208, discharged: 21,89,965, active cases: 1,77,560, people tested so far: 1,80,83,977.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
19-03-2021||India||ISRO to set up Space Technology Incubation Centre at NIT-Rourkela||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) will establish a 'Space Technology Incubation Centre' (S-TIC) at the National Institute of Technology in Rourkela to carry out research and product development in space technology and applications, officials said on Friday. The ISRO and NIT signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Thursday for setting up the centre which will enable start-ups to build applications and products that could be used in future space missions. "Space technology-related research and the products from the S-TIC will be utilised in future space missions and will help nation building through Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan' in space technology and applications domain," said ISRO Chairman K Sivan. "Students and research scholars will execute real projects given by ISRO of NIT-Rourkela taking guidance from expert faculties, mentors from ISRO and relevant industries," he said. As per the MoU, NIT-Rourkela will provide its state-of-the-art laboratories, facilities and expert faculties to meet these objectives. The upcoming centre will promote startups, capacity-building, innovations and research in space technology in Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand besides the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Animesh Biswas, Director, NIT-Rourkela, said, "We thank ISRO Chairman and Director of CBPO (Capacity Building Programme Office) for selecting NIT, Rourkela in the eastern region for setting up of S-TIC. NIT-Rourkela's sponsored research and industrial consultancy is one among the best in the country. ISRO's support will further enhance our research infrastructure". ISRO will provide an annual grant-in-aid of Rs 2 crore for a period of up to two years to NIT-Rourkela as seed money for setting up the S-TIC. The seed money would be utilised for facility augmentation to carry out the research projects and product development taken from ISRO. NIT-Rourkela will provide the required infrastructure inside its academic campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
19-03-2021||India||Lockdown is an option, says Uddhav amid Covid surge||A day after Maharashtra witnessed the highest one-day spike of 25,833 COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said lockdown is an option but he trusts people to follow the norms on their own. Talking to reporters in Nandurbar, Thackeray also appealed to people to get vaccinated against the virus without fear. The COVID-19 situation has become grimmer as the number of new cases on Thursday crossed the earlier highest rise which was recorded in September, he conceded. "I see lockdown as an option going ahead. But I trust people of the state to cooperate (and follow the COVID-19 norms voluntarily) like the last time," he said. When the pandemic began last year, there was nothing to fight the virus with, Thackeray said. "But now at least we have vaccines as a shield. The priority now is to ensure that everyone is vaccinated. People should come forward to take the vaccine," he said. The Union government has assured that there would be no shortage of vaccines, he said. There have been a few instances where a person caught infection after vaccination, but such cases are not "life-threatening", the chief minister said. "Everyone should get vaccinated without fear," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Covid hits India’s middle class harder, swells poverty more than in China||The human cost of the Covid-19 pandemic in terms of lost livelihoods keeps rising. But India experienced the biggest fall in its middle class and a much sharper increase in poverty than neighbouring China due to the economic downturn caused by the virus, a new study by the Washington-based Pew Institute says. Some 32 million Indians tumbled out of the middle class and another 75 million plunged into poverty, defined as earning less than $2 a day, last year due to the pandemic-induced economic slide. That’s because while India fell into a deep recession in 2020, China, where the virus originated, was able to head off a contraction. India and China, combined, account for almost one-third of the world’s population so what happens in these two countries “will have a substantial effect on changes in the distribution of income at the global level,” says senior study researcher Rakesh Kochhar who wrote the Pew report. As a consequence of China’s faster economic rebound, only 10 million Chinese fell out of the middle class, just a tiny share of the 504 million who were middle class ahead of the pandemic, the study estimates. Some 30 million Chinese were forced into the low-income ranks, earning between $2-and-$10 a day, bringing the total number of people in that category to 641 million. The fact that large numbers of people in India were pushed into poverty triggered by job losses is backed by the rise in the spike in numbers of people who took part in MNREGS, the rural employment programme. More than 100 million people from 70 million households participated in the scheme between April 1, 2020 and mid-February, 2021. Reflecting the slide into poverty for many millions of Indians, in June 2020, when lakhs of workers had returned to their homes in rural India, there was an 80 per cent rise in the people who applied for MNREGS. Even when the economy began to pick up in November, the number applying for MNREGS was 47 per cent higher than in the same year-ago month. The rural employment scheme entitles people to a maximum of 100 days of employment in a year. In China, by contrast, the report says, “poverty was virtually unchanged.” The contrast in how living standards have evolved in India and China amid the pandemic is starker in the context of where they stood prior to the pandemic,” says Kochhar. There have always been conflicting calculations about the true size of India’s middle-class with calculations by economists and analysts putting the figure in a wide range of 80 million to 600 million people. The Pew report goes with more conservative estimates of India’s middle-class total. It reckons about 99 million people were expected to be part of the Indian middle class by 2020 and that the middle-class numbers have now been slashed by a third to 66 million. Pew counts people earning between $10 and $20 daily as being part of what it calls the middle-income tier. The Pew study divides people into five groups: poor, low income, middle income, upper-middle-income and high income. It says the poor survive on less than $2 daily and low-income people survive on between $2-$10. Anyone who earns between $20 and $50 daily is reckoned to be part of the upper-middle-income group. The report says, “all dollar figures are expressed in 2011 prices and purchasing power parity dollars”. According to the report, around 500 million people in China belonged to the middle-income group before the pandemic and this number is down only slightly now. India’s economy is forecast to contract by 8 per cent in the latest financial year to March, according to the latest official figures. But analysts expect India’s growth to expand by at least 12 per cent in the next financial year thanks to the low base effect. China, meanwhile, was the only major country to experience economic expansion in the last calendar year, squeezing out 2.3 per cent growth. It’s projecting growth of “over 6 per cent” this year. The Pew report notes the pandemic has reversed the strides made in reducing poverty in India. In India between 2011 and 2019 the number of poor is estimated to have fallen to 78 million from 340 million. Because economic growth in China remained positive, even if slower than anticipated, the limited impact on its middle class helped to cushion the effect on the global middle class.  In China, there had been a sizable addition of 247 million people to the middle-income tier from 2011 to 2019. The upper-middle-income population had nearly quadrupled, from 60 million to 234 million. Importantly, China accounted for 37 per cent of the global middle-income population heading into 2020. Globally, the research centre found that the ranks of the middle income and upper middle income slid by 90 million people to just under 2.5 billion last year. Given that India and China also account for more than a third of the global population, “the course of the pandemic in these two countries – and how each recovers – will have a substantial effect on changes in the distribution of income at the global level,” concludes Kochhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Every vaccine doesn't require universal immunisation, says Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said the COVID-19 vaccination drive will be extended in the coming days and asserted that there should not be any misconceptions about the two Indian vaccines being administered in the country. During the Question Hour in Lok Sabha, Vardhan said India has vaccinated 3.5 to 4 crore people so far and side effects of the vaccines have been recorded at 0.000432 per cent. "Every vaccine doesn't require universal immunisation and all these priority groups whom we are vaccinating today like healthcare staff first and then senior citizens and people aged between 45 and 59 years, it will be extended in the coming days all these are based on experts' opinion. "Not only Indian experts, but we have also consulted WHO guidelines regarding priority groups," he said. Serum Institute's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin have been currently approved for restricted emergency use in India. Replying to a question by NCP MP Supriya Sule on whether the government is aiming at universal immunisation of COVID-19 vaccine, Vardhan said it is not scientifically necessary to administer the vaccine to each and every person in the country. "Not each and every person in the world will be vaccinated. The prioritisation process is a dynamic process. "The behaviour of the virus is also dynamic. All things are based on scientific facts, scrutiny and vision of the overall scientific and health community," he said. The minister said under India's present universal immunization programme, free vaccines are provided against 12 vaccine-preventable diseases, including Diphtheria, Pertussis, Tetanus, Polio, Measles, Rubella, severe form of Childhood Tuberculosis, Hepatitis B and Meningitis, among others. Replying to a question by Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu about the fear in people that the COVID-19 vaccine will harm them in the future, Vardhan asserted that taking vaccines is the way to get rid of vaccine-preventable diseases. "We got victory over polio and chickenpox due to the vaccination," he said. There are detailed pre-clinical and clinical trials, which get thoroughly studied by the experts before a vaccine gets the nod, the minister said, adding that "There should not be any misconception regarding the COVID-19 vaccines and the people should avail themselves the facilities given by the government get themselves vaccinated." Vardhan further noted that there is a well-defined group of experts called the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC)). "What you are seeing today is the hard work of the people in the ministry and this group, which was set up by the prime minister in August. "Since then, they have been working closely regarding all scientific developments related to this," he said. The minister also pointed out that the Subject Expert Committee has cleared two Indian vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) after examining the data provided by these companies. Data provided by two Indian companies were also examined by the World Health Organisation, he added. Replying to questions on Thalassemia, Vardhan, "Not a single thalassemia patient was deprived of blood during the COVID-19 pandemic period," he noted and said blood is provided free of cost to these patients. Thalassemia major and the severe form of Thalassemia Intermedia (TI) constitute the major burden of disease and both are commonly managed by regular lifelong blood transfusions and iron chelation. These syndromes are caused by inheritance of abnormal (beta) thalassemia genes from both parents or abnormal beta-thalassemia gene from one parent and abnormal variant haemoglobin gene (HbE, HbD) from the other parent. The minister said in the last one year, 75 medical colleges have been sanctioned by the government. "A total of 30,000 Health and Wellness centres were opened under the Ayushman Bharat scheme in the last one year during the COVID-19 pandemic period," he said. Vardhan also said during the last six years 24,000 new postgraduate medical seats have been created.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Private offices, theatres to operate at 50 per cent capacity till March 31 in Maharashtra||In light of the rising number of coronavirus cases, the Maharashtra government on Friday imposed restrictions on drama theatres and auditoriums in the state, asking them to operate only at 50 per cent of their capacity till March 31. Similarly, private offices, except those related to health and other essential services, will be allowed to function only at 50 per cent of their capacity, a government notification issued on Friday said. In the case of government and semi-government offices, the head of the office will take a decision regarding staff attendance and ensure adherence to COVID-19 protocols. The order comes a day after the state saw a single-day rise of 25,833 coronavirus cases, the highest daily surge since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. As per the notification, drama halls and auditoriums will not be used for religious, political, cultural and social gatherings. If the order is violated, the drama theatres and auditoriums concerned will have to remain closed for a period until the COVID-19 pandemic stays notified as a disaster by the central government, it said. Violations shall attract penalties under the law for the owner of the premises. On March 15, the state government had notified that cinema halls, hotels, restaurants and offices, except those related to health and essential services, will function at 50 per cent of their capacity. But Friday's order has included drama theatres and auditoriums as well. The order, however, allowed the manufacturing sector to function at full capacity, but advised that the workforce be reduced to ensure adequate social distancing on the production floor. For the purpose of maintaining social distancing, manufacturing units may be allowed to increase working shifts as approved by local authorities. No entry will be allowed without proper wearing of masks, temperature measuring devices to be used to ensure no one with fever gets an entry, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Railways infrastructure will never be privatised, says Goyal||The government on Friday said in Rajya Sabha that railways infrastructure will never be privatised but it plans to monetise its assets to generate resources to boost growth. Railways Minister Piyush Goyal also said that passenger train operations taken up through Public Private Partnership (PPP) is targeted to bring a total investment of about Rs 30,000 crore. The Ministry of Railways plans to monetise assets including through Eastern and Western Dedicated Freight Corridors after commissioning, induction of 150 modern rakes through PPP, station redevelopment through PPP, railway land parcels, multi-functional complexes (MFC), railway colonies, hill railways and stadiums, Goyal said during the Question Hour. "Asset monetisation would help in generating more resources towards infrastructure creation. Passenger train operations taken up through Public Private Partnership (PPP) is targeted to bring a total investment of about ? 30,000 crore," Goyal said. Replying to a supplementary asked by Jairam Ramesh of the Congress, Goyal said he felt the Opposition member was not able to understand the difference between privatisation and monetisation. "When you privatise, you sell off the assets permanently and it no more remains a part of the government ownership. In the railways, the plan is to monetise in terms of how it will generate resources, further investment and growth. The infrastructure of Indian Railways will never be privatised," Goyal said. The Railways Minister said dedicated freight corridors are a separate corporate entity and the railways is supporting them. "The Railways is supporting but is not the owner of tracks that the DFC is laying If we raise funds by leasing them, giving them out to private sector to use in the interim period we are doing a service to the nation," the minister said. The Ministry of Railways is committed towards enhancing the pace of infrastructure development, which is vital for the national economy as a whole, he said. The railways would always be a key economic driver in the strategy of investment-led economic growth, he said. The minister said assets monetisation involves various transaction processes, and the investment expected depends on the outcome of bidding process open to public and private sectors. "Therefore, the actual investment expected from private and public sectors cannot be ascertained as of now," he added. Goyal said modern train is the need of the day, and the railways has got historic Rs 2.15 lakh crore allotment under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. If a road is built, everyone uses it, similarly if a pipeline is built by GAIL and they only use it, it will be misused, he said. "Similarly, if new rail tracks are laid and private people are invited and encouraged to operate there, it will be run by locopilots, there will be caterers, so it will generate employment and not lead to job losses," he said. In reply to a supplementary raised by the leader of the opposition in the Upper House Mallikarjun Kharge about a proposal to merge three divisions of Gulbarga in Karnataka, Goyal said the Railways Board did not find it feasible. He said proposals made by Zonal Managers are sent to the Board for a holistic view with an all-India perspective. He, however, added that he will discuss the issue with Kharge separately. In a reply to another supplementary, he said for seven routes dedicated to semi-high speed passenger corridors, the government is talking to state governments and added that there has been good response from the Uttar Pradesh government which is cooperating on the Delhi-Varanasi route, mostly elevated along the highways. He said under PM Modi's leadership instead of just haphazard announcements, which he alleged used to be the case earlier, committed plans are being made and it is being ensured that the rail infra is augmented in the entire country instead of just a few places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Should world leaders be subject to same rules as others, asks Twitter||Twitter has sought public opinion on whether world leaders should be subject to the same set of rules as others on the microblogging platform and appropriate enforcement action in case of violation of norms by them. Twitter said it is "reviewing" approach to world leaders as it wants its policies to remain relevant to the ever-changing nature of political discourse on the platform, and protect the health of the public conversation. "Generally, we want to hear from the public on whether or not they believe world leaders should be subject to the same rules as others on Twitter. And, should a world leader violate a rule, what type of enforcement action is appropriate," the microblogging platform said in a blogpost. Towards this, starting Friday, Twitter will seek responses to a public survey that would help define the policy framework. The survey will close on April 12. The questionnaire will be available in 14 languages -- Hindi, English, Arabic, Chinese, Farsi, French, Indonesian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Tagalog, and Urdu. Twitter informed that it is in the process of consulting with a range of human rights experts, civil society organisations, and academics worldwide whose feedback would be reflected in forthcoming changes to the policy framework. "We want to serve the public conversation and allow the public to hear from and engage with leaders around the world. Ultimately, our aim is to have a policy that appropriately balances fundamental human rights and considers the global context in which we operate," it said. Twitter, Facebook and other platforms globally have come under lens for the manner of treatment of accounts of global leaders, and politicians. It is pertinent to mention here that Twitter had banned Donald Trump's account in January, citing "risk of incitement of violence" after the US Capitol Hill siege.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Delhi HC refuses to stay summons issued to Mehbooba Mufti by ED||The Delhi High Court on Friday refused to stay summons issued to former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh said they are not granting any relief to the PDP leader. The court asked the ED to file a short note of submission along with compilation of judgements relied upon by them before the next date on April 16. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the ED, said Mufti just has to appear before the officials. The ED, which had earlier summoned Mufti for March 15, has not been issued summons for March 22. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister has been summoned for March 22. Senior advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, representing Mufti, urged the court to ask ED not to insist for her personal presence as was done earlier. To this, the bench said, "We are not giving any stay. We are not granting any relief." Mufti has sought quashing of summons issued to her by the ED in a money laundering case. She has also sought to declare section 50 (power of ED officer to record statement) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act as void and inoperative, being unfairly discriminatory, bereft of safeguards, and violative of Article 20(3) of the Constitution. She has also sought an interim stay on the summons until the question of law in relation to constitutionality of Section 50 of the Act is decided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Shiv Sena questions NIA probe in Ambani bomb scare case||Two days after Param Bir Singh was shunted out from the post of Mumbai police commissioner, the Shiv Sena on Friday defended him saying that his transfer does not make him a criminal, and alleged that a "particular lobby in Delhi" was upset with him as the TRP scam came to light during his tenure. The ruling party in Maharashtra also questioned the move of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) taking over the probe into the explosives-laden SUV found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house last month, saying that the agency generally investigates terrorism-related cases, but there was no terror angle involved in this episode. The Maharashtra government on Wednesday transferred Singh, who was under fire over handling of the Ambani-SUV case, and appointed senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale in his place. "A vehicle containing 20 gelatin sticks was found on Mumbai's Carmichael Road, which has triggered blasts in the state politics and administration in the last few days. Param Bir Singh was removed as Mumbai police commissioner and senior officer Hemant Nagrale was appointed in his place. These are not routine transfers," the Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana'. The explosives-laden SUV found near Ambani's house and the suspicious death of Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the vehicle, are worrisome. The opposition BJP has raised some questions over it, but while the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) was probing the Hiran death case, the NIA took over the investigation (into the vehicle found near Ambani's house), it said. Hope its motive is not to malign the state government, it added. "The NIA generally probes terrorism-related cases. But there is no terror angle involved in this case and still it stepped in. However, the outcome of the agency's probe into the terror attacks of Uri, Pathankot and Pulwama is still a mystery. The 20 gelatin sticks found in Mumbai appears to be a big challenge for the NIA," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. It said that Param Bir Singh had taken over as Mumbai police chief during the difficult time of the coronavirus pandemic and boosted the morale of the police force. "During his tenure, the television rating points (TRP) scam came to light. A particular lobby in Delhi was upset with him over that," it said. Now, Singh has been transferred, but it does not make him a criminal, the party added. It also accused the opposition of politicising the death of Hiran and lowering the morale of the state police. "At least considering the prevailing situation, no one should commit such a sin. If the opposition feels it can gain power through such means, it is wrong," the Sena said. The opposition seeks to know the political bosses in the Hiran case, it said, adding that they should themselves find it out. "There are no political bosses in such cases. This is not the culture of Maharashtra," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||India records 39,726 new Covid cases, highest spike in 110 days||India saw 39,726 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, the highest single day rise recorded so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,15,14,331, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. Registering an increase for the ninth day in a row, the total active caseload has reached 2,71,282, which now comprises 2.36 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 96.26 per cent, the data stated. The daily rise in infections (39,726) was the highest recorded in 110 days, while the death toll increased to 1,59,370 with 154 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 41,810 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 29. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,83,679, while the case fatality rate has further declined to 1.38 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to ICMR, 23,13,70,546 samples have been tested up to March 18 with 10,57,383 samples being tested on Thursday. The 154 new fatalities include 58 from Maharashtra, 32 from Punjab and 15 from Kerala. A total of 1,59,370 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 53,138 from Maharashtra, 12,573 from Tamil Nadu, 12,415 from Karnataka, 10,949 from Delhi, 10,300 from West Bengal, 8,753 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,186 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||‘Political liability’ upheaval  in Ashoka University||The resignation of political scientist Pratap Bhanu Mehta and economist Arvind Subramanian as teachers of Ashoka University prompted a students’ sit-in at the elite private and liberal varsity on Thursday afternoon amid allegations the management had yielded to “external pressure”. Mehta, who has been sharply critical of the Narendra Modi government and the BJP in his newspaper columns, put in his papers on Monday saying the institution’s founders had made it clear to him that he was a “political liability”. Subramanian, former chief economic adviser to the Modi government, resigned two days later as professor of economics at the university, located at Sonipat in Haryana near Delhi’s northern boundary. Regretting the way Mehta was “compelled to leave”, Subramanian said it was “ominously” disturbing that “even Ashoka — with its private status and backing by private capital — can no longer provide a space for academic expression and freedom”. In an online meeting with the university administration on Thursday evening, some 1,400 students and teachers urged it to encourage both academics to stay. A student who had attended the meeting said no explanation or assurance had come so far from vice-chancellor Malabika Sarkar, who earlier headed Presidency University in Calcutta. The founders of Ashoka University did not accept the demand from students and alumni that they attend the meeting. A student told this newspaper that at the end of the meeting, several students chanted: “Not My Ashoka!” Mehta said in his resignation letter: “After a meeting with founders it has become abundantly clear to me that my association with the university may be considered a political liability. My public writing in support of a politics that tries to honour constitutional values of freedom and equal respect for all citizens is perceived to carry risks for the university.” Contacted by The Telegraph, he declined comment on his resignation but denied claims — by Right-wing Twitterati — that it was linked to Sweden’s Varieties of Democracy Institute downgrading India’s rating to “electoral autocracy” in its Democracy Report 2020. “I am not on their advisory board since 2007,” Mehta said. A student-run campus newspaper, The Edict, cited an unnamed source on Wednesday to say: “The resignation of Professor Pratap Bhanu Mehta was endorsed by the founders of the university. This endorsement, according to a senior faculty member with whom our source spoke, was motivated by an understanding that if Prof. Mehta resigned, the university’s efforts to acquire a new plot of land to expand the campus would get much smoother. “Additionally, formal recognition for the fourth-year postgraduate diploma, Ashoka Scholars’ Programme, was also hinted at being part of the deal.” Historian Ramachandra Guha, who teaches at the similarly elite and liberal Krea University in Sri City, Andhra Pradesh, tweeted: “In its journey thus far, Ashoka University had shown much promise. They may have frittered all that away by the spinelessness of their trustees, who have chosen to crawl when asked to bend.” Neither Sarkar nor chancellor Rudrangshu Mukherjee have responded to queries emailed by this newspaper. The university’s founders include individuals and companies such as the Central Square Foundation’s Ashish Dhawan, Deutsche Bank, Citibank, Bajaj Group, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and Havells. Subramanian’s resignation letter said: “However, the circumstances involving the ‘resignation’ of Professor Pratap Bhanu Mehta, who is not just a dear friend but a truly inspirational national figure, have devastated me. I am acutely aware of the broader context in which Ashoka and its trustees have to operate, and have so far admired the university for having navigated it so well. “But that someone of such integrity and eminence, who embodied the vision underlying Ashoka, felt compelled to leave is troubling. That even Ashoka — with its private status and backing by private capital — can no longer provide a space for academic expression and freedom is ominously disturbing. Above all, that the university’s commitment to fight for and sustain the Ashoka vision is now open to question makes it difficult for me to continue being part of Ashoka.” Subramanian will remain a part of the university till the end of the academic year in May, but Mehta has requested to be relieved immediately. Neither attended Thursday’s online meeting. The Ashoka University Student Government and the varsity’s Alumni Council had issued a statement in the morning demanding transparency from the trustees and asking that Mehta be offered his position again and that his resignation be made public with his consent. “We express our unconditional support to Professor Mehta who always taught us to be critical of the structures we live around and question what is taken for granted,” the statement said. “The events that have transpired point to a failure on the chancellor and vice-chancellor’s part in protecting the university faculty from external pressures, and more importantly, also point to the failure of the founders to ensure the same. “We are also concerned about the larger implications this has on the freedom of speech for Ashoka’s students and faculty. This is not the first time that professors have come under fire for their opinions and/ or their course content. We are worried about the support they will have in the future, whether it will force them to self-censor, and what this means for the quality of our education.” The university faculty issued a statement requesting Mehta to withdraw his resignation. “Even more troubling is the possibility that our university may have acceded to pressure to remove Professor Mehta or to request, and accept, his resignation,” it said. “This would fly against the principles of academic freedom on which Ashoka University has been set up — and which Professor Mehta, in his time as vice-chancellor and university professor, has so scrupulously fought to defend. It would also set a chilling precedent for future removals of faculty, curtailing our sense of who we are as researchers and teachers.” Author Amitav Ghosh tweeted: “It is deeply troubling that @pbmehta had to resign from one of India’s leading private universities because of his ‘support of a politics that tries to honour constitutional values of freedom and equal respect for all citizens, is perceived to carry risks for the university’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||SC issues important directives on sexual violence cases||The Supreme Court on Thursday told the country’s courts not to comment on the conduct or character of victims of alleged sexual violence, nor to condone or dilute such offences by mandating mediation or marriage or setting trivial bail conditions such as apologies, rakhi-tying or gifts. The bench passed several directives, including one on gender sensitisation programmes for judges, public prosecutors and law students. It deplored a Madhya Pradesh High Court order that had granted bail to a molestation accused after having him tie a rakhi on the alleged victim and give her Rs 11,000, her child Rs 5,000 and the family a box of sweets. “Using rakhi-tying as a condition for bail transforms a molester into a brother by a judicial mandate. This is wholly unacceptable, and has the effect of diluting and eroding the offence of sexual harassment,” the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and S. Ravindra Bhat said. It asked the courts to avoid reasoning or language that diminished the offence and trivialised the survivor’s grievance. In this context, the bench said, the following claims would be irrelevant to the assessment of the gravity of the alleged offence and the rationale for granting bail: ⚫ Claims that the survivor had in the past consented to such or similar acts; ⚫ Claims that she had behaved promiscuously; ⚫ Claims that she had by her acts or clothing provoked the alleged action of the accused; ⚫ Claims that she had behaved in a manner unbecoming of a chaste “Indian” woman; ⚫ Claims that she had brought the situation upon herself by her behaviour. The bail conditions imposed by the high court had prompted activist advocate Aparna Bhat and others to challenge the order before the apex court. The high court order comes at a time Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde has been enmeshed in controversy for asking a rape accused whether he would marry the alleged victim. Justice Bobde later alleged “misreporting”, saying he had only asked a question and not ordered the accused to marry the girl. Writing Thursday’s apex court judgment, Justice Bhat said: “The act perpetrated on the survivor constitutes an offence in law, and is not a minor transgression that can be remedied by way of an apology, rendering community service, tying a rakhi or presenting a gift to the survivor, or even promising to marry her....” The judgment forbade imposing conditions that it said implicitly condoned or diminished the harm caused by the accused and potentially exposed the alleged victim to secondary trauma, such as: ⚫ Requiring or permitting the accused to get in touch with the alleged victim; ⚫ Mandating mediation processes for non-compoundable offences (those where the law does not allow the two parties to enter into a compromise); ⚫ Suggesting or encouraging marriage between the alleged victim and the accused; ⚫ Mandating community service as part of the bail conditions; ⚫ Requiring one or more apologies from the accused. “The law does not permit or countenance such conduct, where the survivor can potentially be traumatised many times over or be led into some kind of non-voluntary acceptance, or be compelled by the circumstances to accept and condone behaviour what is a serious offence,” Justice Bhat said. The bench listed these dos and don’ts for courts hearing cases of gender crime: ⚫ The bail conditions should not mandate, require or permit contact between the accused and the alleged victim; they should seek to protect the alleged victim from any harassment by the accused; ⚫ If the court feels there’s a threat of harassment of the alleged victim, it should separately consider the nature of protection and pass an appropriate order in addition to directing the accused not to make any contact with the alleged victim; ⚫ Whenever bail is granted, the alleged victim should immediately be informed and given a copy of the bail order within two days; ⚫ The bail conditions and orders must not reflect stereotypical or patriarchal notions about women and their place in society, and must adhere to the requirements of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Sensitivity “Sensitivity should be displayed at all times by judges, who should ensure that there is no traumatisation of the prosecutrix during the proceedings or anything said during the arguments, and judges especially should not use any words, spoken or written, that would undermine or shake the confidence of the survivor in the fairness or impartiality of the court,” the judgment said. It asked the National Judicial Academy to evolve a curriculum to conduct gender sensitisation programmes for judges, and directed the Bar Council of India to include in the all-India Bar exam a chapter on gender sensitisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||Meghalaya governor: Can quit but will back farmers||Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik asserted on Thursday that he was ready to step down but would not stop speaking in favour of the agitating farmers. He said he was talking “unofficially” to the farmers and the government to press for an early solution to the stalemate over the contentious agriculture laws, adding that there was a growing understanding in the two sides that a resolution needed to be found at the earliest. “If the government thinks and tells me that I am harming, then I will not take even a minute to step down,” Malik told NDTV, exhibiting defiance over his repeated comments slamming the central government over the farmers’ protest. Malik, whose earlier stints had been in Jammu and Kashmir and Goa, had been asked if he was scared that he could face action for speaking against the government as a governor. “I will speak even if I’m not a governor,” Malik said. Malik, who hails from western Uttar Pradesh and had been handpicked by the Narendra Modi dispensation for gubernatorial assignments, had recently pitched for a law on minimum support price and warned the Centre of consequences if it tried to act tough with the protesting farmers. He said during Thursday’s interview that the death of protesting farmers at Delhi’s borders had pained him and he couldn’t stop himself from speaking. “Even when a dog dies it is condoled but 250 farmers have died on (Delhi’s) borders, yet no one has expressed condolences,” Malik said. He said he wanted the farmers’ issue to be resolved in the interest of the BJP. He even warned of electoral consequences for the party, flagging raging anger among the peasants. “If this movement continues like this, then in the long term the BJP will lose out in western Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana,” he said. “My statements won’t harm the party, rather the opposite as the farmers will feel that someone is speaking up for them,” Malik said, adding that those who did not want the issue to be resolved were harming the government. He said there was considerable anger among the farmers, and BJP MLAs were scared to leave their villages. He claimed that since he himself hailed from a farmer family, he was aware of the ground situation. Malik, however, said he was optimistic the deadlock would be resolved soon, claiming that both the farmers’ union leaders and the government were ready to adopt a reasonable approach. “The union leaders don’t want to stretch the protest and the government too wants to resolve the issue. So I am hopeful,” Malik said. “I am talking unofficially to both sides, pressing for an early solution. There is a growing understanding within the farmer community that a solution needs to be found at the earliest, as well as the government,” Malik said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||SC to hear plea on stopping Rohingya deportation from J&K||The Supreme Court will take up on March 25 a plea to stop the alleged imminent deportation of hundreds of Rohingya Muslims from Jammu and Kashmir. The plea by Samiullah Khan, a Rohingya, has argued that if deported the refugees could face “genocide” in Myanmar, their country of origin. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde posted the matter for hearing to next Thursday upon a request from the petitioner’s advocate, Prashant Bhushan. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta said he had no objection. While making an oral plea for urgent listing, Bhushan told the bench that if the deportation was not stayed immediately by the court, the Rohingya Muslims would be expelled. “The detention is illegal and if they are deported then they face genocide. We have filed an application,” Bhushan told the court. The application has cited news reports to plead that since March 7 this year, 150-170 Rohingya refugees in Jammu have been illegally detained at the Jammu sub-jail that has been converted into a holding centre. He reminded the court that Myanmar was now back in the hands of the military junta. Mehta said the statement made by Bhushan was “wrong” on merits but he had no objection to urgent listing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||Odisha: CM assured that paddy of farmers will be lifted from mandis, claim BJP MLAs||There was high drama on the streets of the Odisha capital on Thursday as BJP legislators marched towards Naveen Nivas, the chief minister’s residence, followed by the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) lawmakers. The two parties are locked in a stalemate in the Assembly since BJP legislator Subhas Panigrahi allegedly attempted to commit suicide in the House on March 12 by consuming sanitiser to protest against the state government’s failure to buy paddy brought by farmers to the mandis. While BJD legislators have been stalling the Assembly proceedings demanding an apology from Panigrahi for having lowered the dignity of the House, the BJP continues to insist that the government lift all paddy from the mandis. The BJP has also taken exception to the chief minister’s continued absence in the Assembly. The Congress too has accused the government of failing to procure the paddy of farmers. The Assembly failed to transact any business for the sixth consecutive day on Thursday with the BJD insisting on Panigrahi’s apology and the BJP demanding lifting of paddy and questioning Naveen’s continued absence in the House. Soon after the House was adjourned by Speaker Surya Naryan Patro, the BJP legislators set off for Naveen Nivas on foot in search of the “missing” chief minister. The ruling BJD legislators followed them on the pretext of guiding them to the chief minister’s residence while they continued to insist on an apology from Panigrahi. The BJP maintained that its legislator had done nothing wrong as he was only trying to highlight the farmers’ problems and the failure of the government. The BJP lawmakers claimed that they were searching for the chief minister who turns up at all the programmes of his party but remains absent in the Assembly. “We tried to meet the leader of the House in the Assembly and at the Lok Seva Bhawan (state secretariat). We could not find him there. So we went to Naveen Nivas in the hope of finding him there and discussing with him the issue of farmers’ plight,” said BJP legislator Mohan Majhi. The entire 2km route from the Assembly to Naveen Nivas was jampacked with police and activists of the ruling BJD and the BJP, which is the principal Opposition party. Police had a tough time handling the situation as the lawmakers of both the parties marched to the chief minister’s residence. The situation turned tense as soon as the BJP legislators reached Naveen Nivas and sat on a dharna demanding that the chief minister should come out to talk to them. Though ministers, including Bikram Keshari Arukh, Samir Ranjan Das, Tukuni Sahu and government chief whip Pramilla Mallick pleaded with the BJP leaders to go inside Naveen Nivas for a discussion, the Opposition leaders refused to oblige and continued to demand that the chief minister should come out and meet them. As the drama continued, pressure mounted on the government to resolve the stalemate. Finally the chief minister came out of Naveen Nivas and requested the leader of Opposition Pradipta Naik and other BJP legislators to come to his house for a discussion. The BJP lawmakers were given a warm welcome. After the meeting, Naik said: “The chief minister assured us that paddy of farmers will be lifted from the mandis. Besides, he assured to take steps to end the ongoing stalemate in the House. Following his assurance, we decided to leave.” Naik said they also urged the chief minister to come to the Assembly and sit in his chamber. The BJD legislators, on the other hand, said the chief minister had shown the character of a true statesman by coming out of his residence to meet the agitating BJP lawmakers. “It was a fruitful discussion. We are hopeful of normalcy being restored in the House,” said parliamentary affairs minister Arukh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||National Security Guards team reviews Puri temple security||An expert team of the National Security Guards (NSG) on Thursday flew drones around the 12th century Shree Jagannath temple in Puri to review the security around the shrine. The three member team has been camping in the Odisha pilgrim town for the last two days to examine the security of the temple. Earlier the team had conducted a recce of the world-famous shrine. Security officials of the Jagannath temple briefed the NSG team about the traditional practices observed by the local police and other security agencies. The NSG team also visited the 13th century Sun temple at Konark and examined the security arrangements there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||Assembly polls: Supreme Court to hear plea to stay electoral bonds||The Supreme Court will take up on March 24 a plea by an NGO to stay the issue of electoral bonds from April 1 ahead of the Assembly elections in Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry. A bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian listed the matter for next Wednesday after advocate Prashant Bhushan appearing for the Association for Democratic Rights, the NGO, insisted on an urgent hearing. “New bonds are set to be issued from April 1 for the coming elections. We need our case to be heard urgently. The Election Commission had already said that these bonds allow illegal funds to be diverted to shell companies,” Bhushan told the bench on Wednesday. He mentioned the EC had said these bonds were detrimental to the Indian democracy. In its application, the NGO had urged the apex court to direct the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India “not to open any further window for sale of electoral bonds under the Electoral Bond Scheme, 2018” as it apprehended that it would otherwise lead to an increase in illegal political funds during the upcoming elections. According to the organisation, the ruling party has received more than 60 per cent of the total electoral bonds issued till date. The NGO claimed that so far more than Rs 6,500-crore worth of electoral bonds had been sold with the majority of donations going to the ruling party. It said almost 99 per cent of the bonds purchased were of Rs 1 crore and Rs 10 lakh denominations, which showed that it was not individual citizens but large corporations that were buying them with a view to receive kickbacks from the government. “There is a serious apprehension that any further sale of electoral bonds before the upcoming state elections in Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies. Thus, the petitioner seeks that no further opening of window for the sale of electoral bonds be allowed during the pendency of the instant writ petition,” the application, jointly filed through advocates Bhushan and Neha Rathi, stated. The NGO had earlier on September 4, 2017, filed a PIL citing alleged corruption and subversion of democracy through illicit and foreign funding of political parties and lack of transparency in the accounts of all parties. In that plea, it had urged the apex court to strike down certain amendments made through Finance Act, 2017, and Finance Act, 2016, both passed as money bills, and which according to the NGO had “opened doors to unlimited political donations, even from foreign companies and thereby legitimising electoral corruption at a huge scale, while at the same time ensuring complete non-transparency in political funding”. According to the NGO, the Electoral Bond Scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies, which could have serious repercussions on the Indian democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||Kerala: BJP’s lone MLA claims Congress helped him win in 2016||The BJP’s lone lawmaker in Kerala has claimed the Congress helped him win the Nemom Assembly seat in 2016, handing ammunition to the ruling Left which is being accused of a deal with the BJP over three seats for the April 6 state elections. O. Rajagopal told the pro-Left Kairali TV on Thursday the Congress had supported him in 2016 because it knew it was going to lose the election anyway and wanted the state to have a lawmaker from the party that governed the country. “A lot of Congress supporters voted for me,” the 91-year-old, whose victory in 2016 made him the first BJP candidate to win an Assembly or Lok Sabha election from Kerala, said. “They (the Congress) were anyway (going to be) the main Opposition party and one seat wouldn’t have made any difference,” Rajagopal, who is not contesting this time, added. “So (they would have thought) a man named Rajagopal has been trying for a long time and it’s good to have in the state Assembly a person from the party that rules India.” Rajagopal said senior Congress leaders knew about the arrangement. He absolved the Left of having helped him: “No, the communists won’t do that. They wanted power.” Rajagopal has made back-to-back claims about secret Congress support for BJP candidates since a Sangh parivar veteran, peeved at being denied a nomination, on Tuesday alleged a Left-BJP deal over three seats, embarrassing the ruling front. On Wednesday, Rajagopal had told another TV channel that the Congress, its ally Indian Union Muslim League and the BJP had worked together to defeat Left candidates in the 1991 Assembly polls. The Congress had wrested power from the Left in that election, winning 90 of the state’s 140 seats. Rajagopal did not say how many seats the 1991 understanding covered but said it helped the BJP win votes in several constituencies and eventually aided its growth in the state. “There was a time when we thought: why waste our votes since we were not going to win? So we wanted to defeat the communists (by joining hands with the Congress and the IUML). Now the BJP has grown,” he said. On Tuesday, R. Balashankar, a parivar insider with close ties to the BJP central leadership and the RSS, had alleged a BJP-CPM deal to help state BJP president K. Surendran win the Konni seat. He alleged the BJP had in exchange fielded weak candidates from Chengannur and Aranmula. Balashankar is understood to have been disappointed at being denied nomination from Chengannur. Balashankar’s allegation has put the CPM in a spot, with speculation already swirling about a secret Left-BJP understanding over many seats. While the CPM has denied the allegation, the UDF has used it to attack the ruling front. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday seized on Rajagopal’s claims and hit out at the media. “Many of you are pretending not to have heard what Rajagopal said. This is not news for many media outlets,” he told a questioner at a news conference in Malappuram. “He’s the person who benefited from Congress votes in Nemom, and said they (the BJP) had an understanding with the Congress.” Vijayan dismissed Balashankar’s allegation of a CPM-BJP understanding at Konni. “The last time we defeated the current BJP president in Konni,” he said. The CPM had won a by-election from Konni in 2019, pushing Surendran to third position.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||Covid: India’s need delays supplying Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine to UK||India is delaying supplying the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine to the UK because the doses are needed at home to tackle rising Covid cases and is not seeking to punish Britain for the recent debate held by its MPs on the farmers’ dispute, media reports have said. A Daily Telegraph report confirmed there would be a delay in Britain receiving 5 million doses of the vaccine from the Serum Institute of India but added: “British MPs’ criticism of the Indian government’s alleged use of force against peacefully protesting farmers was not behind the delay, according to a source, with exports to other countries also being held.” In Britain over 25 million people have received their first dose but the speed of the vaccination rollout may be affected if the Indian supply does not arrive soon. The Daily Mail’s headline — “India ‘blocks UK jabs’” — was not calculated to improve relations between London and Delhi. The paper said: “The UK was expecting 10 million doses of the Oxford-made vaccine from the Serum Institute of India, the world’s biggest vaccine maker, but the company has only delivered five million so far.” It summed up: “A row is developing over Britain’s vaccine shortage that will see first doses mostly halted in April as the UK points the finger at India and accuses it of delaying a shipment of AstraZeneca jabs.” The trouble began on Wednesday with the “shocking” disclosure that the National Health Service had asked doctors to stop offering vaccination to people under 50 next month because of a problem with supplies. At first, the entire media assumed this was because supplies from the European Union were being blocked because of a row over a number of issues with the UK. But then in the early hours of Thursday, the BBC broke the news that the anticipated shortage had nothing to do with the EU, but with India. “Covid vaccine: India shortfall behind UK’s supply delay,” it said. The BBC reported: “An expected reduction in the UK’s Covid vaccine supply in April is partly due to a delay in a delivery from India of five million Oxford-AstraZeneca doses. The shipment, produced by the Serum Institute of India, has been held up by four weeks, the BBC has been told.” The BBC got a statement from Serum Institute: “Five million doses had been delivered a few weeks ago to the UK and we will try to supply more later, based on the current situation and the requirement for the government immunisation programme in India.” The chief executive of the Serum Institute, Adar Poonawalla, who has had a flattering press in Britain — until now — both for his good looks and his socially conscious policies, is clearly angry he is being blamed for a delay that is not his fault. In an interview on Thursday with The Daily Telegraph, he hit back: “We have supplied 5 million doses to the UK. I don’t know what are they (his detractors in the British media) talking about.” He confirmed that a shipment of 5 million doses “was supplied to AstraZeneca and they gave it to the UK few weeks ago, I think. There was media coverage of it.” As for the other half, “it is solely dependent on India. It has nothing to do with the SII. It is to do with the Indian government allowing more doses to the UK.” He emphasised that “there is no stipulated contract period and time in which I am supposed to deliver these doses. I am helping as I can and when I can AstraZeneca and the UK to supply these doses. “There is no vaccine shortage. There was never a commitment to supplying doses to the UK in any stipulated time. We just said we would offer our help. India has allowed 5 million doses to go to the UK. The balance doses will be decided to be given to the UK at an appropriate time by the Indian government. While balancing India and all its needs at the same time. “This clarifies the point that we are not delayed at all giving anything to the UK because there was nothing stipulated that in any finite amount of time were we supposed to deliver 10 million doses. And of course, don’t forget we are primarily supplying the CoVax to poorer nations as they are the ones who have not got the doses. So there is really no question of any delay to the UK from Serum Institute.” In a separate interview with Bloomberg, Poonawalla said he was waiting for a directive from a “cautious” Indian government and did not want to anger New Delhi, which was requesting more vaccine doses than the SII had initially allocated. “We had to dedicate a lot of our capacity, which was not originally planned for India. We’re trying to balance it out as much as possible, but again for the first few months we have been directed to prioritise supplies to India and certain other countries that have a high disease burden,” said Poonawalla. The Indian government had objected to a group of British MPs debating the farmers’ dispute and press freedom in India. This debate did not take place in the House of Commons but in a committee room in Portcullis House, an overflow building which is not part of the Palace of Westminster. It may be the debate was fast-tracked but that was a decision made not by the British government but the “petitions’ committee”. This organises debate on petitions that attract more than 100,000 signatures from members of the public. The accusation that the MPs were engaging in “vote bank politics” is also not entirely accurate. It was, in fact, the other way round. The MPs had pressure put on them mainly by their Punjabi constituents with links to India’s farming communities. Boris Johnson and Narendra Modi are expected to sort out bilateral issues when the British Prime Minister flies to India on April 26. “I am delighted to announce that I will visit India next month to strengthen our friendship with the world’s biggest democracy,” Johnson said. Even though he suffered a critical bout of Covid last year, the 56-year-old has had to wait his turn for a vaccine. Johnson is mindful that several European countries have paused the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine over blood clot fears even though the regulatory authorities and the WHO have declared it as safe. Not to miss the chance of a photo opportunity and make a political point, Johnson has announced: “I think perhaps the best thing I can say about the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine programme is that I finally got news that I’m going to have my own jab... very shortly I’m pleased to discover. It will certainly be Oxford/AstraZeneca that I will be having.” Health secretary Matt Hancock said vaccine supply was “always lumpy, but were on course”, while the communities secretary, Robert Jenrick, asked by the BBC if India was to blame, replied diplomatically: “It would not be right to pin blame on any one manufacturer, they are working incredibly hard.… It is to be expected there will be some ups and downs. A number of global manufacturers are experiencing issues.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||Lucknow University witnesses campus fury at shorts ‘ban’ ||A notice at Lucknow University’s Tilak Girls’ Hostel banning boarders from wearing “shorts or dresses above knee length” triggered a student protest on Thursday, but campus authorities claimed it was a “fake” circular. The notice, handwritten on one half of an A4 sheet and put up on Wednesday evening, bore no signature. But students said many official hostel notices were unsigned. The notice was removed on Thursday after students began mobilising support to organise a sit-in and many of them gathered outside the university’s administrative building. Bhuvaneshwari Bhardwaj, provost of the girls’ hostel, said: “We have not issued any such notice. Somebody played mischief. There is no signature of any official on the so-called notice and it is not on any letterhead.” Nalini Pandey, chief provost of the hostel administration, said: “We never discussed any such issue. It was a fake notice.” A student said on the condition of anonymity: “Most notices put up on the notice board are written on white sheets without any signature. So, we believed it and decided to oppose it. But the university administration has assured us they wouldn’t ever restrict our right to dress as we like.” An image of the purported notice circulating on social media reads: “No girl should roam outside their respective blocks in shorts or dresses above knee length. Coming outside in spaghetti or vulgar tops is also not allowed. If any girl found violating rules shall be liable for fine of Rs 100.” Below the text is written “Provost, Tilak Hall” but there is no signature. The university’s All India Student Association unit, affiliated to the CPIML Liberation, condemned the “anti-women and derogatory notice”. Tirath under fire Tirath Singh Rawat, chief minister of neighbouring Uttarakhand, too faced flak on Thursday after allegedly criticising women who wear torn jeans. Students and women burnt effigies of the BJP chief minister in Dehradun and Haridwar and asked him to apologise. Rawat had told an event that sometime ago, a woman travelling with two children and wearing “jeans ripped at the knees” had sat next to him on a flight. "She told me she managed an NGO.... What kind of message was she giving to society? What culture will she teach to the children?" he had said. Criticised widely on social media, Tirath has issued neither a clarification nor an apology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||Farmers launch ‘MSP loot calculator’||The protesting farmers have launched an “MSP loot calculator” to counter the Centre’s narrative on the minimum support price for crops, using official data to show how the farming community is being paid way below the rates announced by the government. The “calculator” is an initiative of the Jai Kisan Andolan, a constituent of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha that is spearheading the farmers’ movement across the country. It is primarily aimed at the middle class which, the protesters feel, is buying into the government’s narrative that farmers are receiving the MSP and so their movement is unjustified. Announcing the calculator’s launch at a news conference, the Andolan’s Yogendra Yadav cited data relating to the daily procurement and modal price of the Bengal gram in all the mandis as published on agmark.net — a government website — between March 1 and 15. Yadav said the MSP had been fixed at Rs 5,100 per quintal but the farmers received an average price of Rs 4,663 — a loss of Rs 437 a quintal. Similar data will be released daily across social media platforms to show that the Bengal gram story repeats itself with most of the 22 other crops for which MSPs are announced. This “loot”, Yadav said, is not new. “Farmers were (robbed of) Rs 884 crore in 2020-21 for their gram crop; they got Rs 800 less than the MSP,” he said. “In 2019-20, the farmers were robbed of Rs 957 crore. This trend continues every year as the government has not made any arrangement for the purchase of gram.” The already agitated farmers are now up in arms against the new specifications proposed by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for procurement of food grains for the central pool. An FCI committee on Monday recommended a reduction in the moisture content and foreign matter — and in slightly damaged grains and shrivelled and broken grains — in the food grains procured for the central pool, arguing this would improve shelf life and marketability. The SKM deliberated on these proposals along with the requirement of furnishing land records for the direct transfer of procurement payment into bank accounts. It termed these moves by the FCI an “attack on the ongoing movement, and on Punjab which is in the forefront of the struggle”. Since the FCI procures wheat and rice at MSP for the central pool, Punjab and then Haryana will be affected the most by these proposals. The 32 Punjab farmer unions have decided that the state’s farmers will refuse to submit land-record-related papers in a mark of solidarity with the many farmers who only till the land and do not have ownership documents to show. They have appealed to the farmers of Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and other states to also refuse to furnish these documents to the FCI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Centre mulling above-45 vaccine||The Centre’s advisers are discussing a proposal to offer Covid-19 vaccines to people 45 years or older amid fears of a second nationwide wave and demands from health experts and state authorities to widen vaccination coverage. A proposal to extend the vaccination campaign to all people above 45 years is “under consideration in addition to coverage for elderly and those not elderly but living with comorbidities (chronic illnesses),” an adviser to the Centre told The Telegraph. The vaccination campaign is currently open to people 60 years or older and to those between 45 and 60 with certain chronic illnesses, but seeks to eventually cover about 300 million people above 50 years and those below 50 with chronic illnesses. The epidemic’s resurgence — marked by over 35,000 new cases nationwide on Thursday, the highest in over three months, after steady rising counts since early February — have prompted calls on the Centre from Delhi and other states to expand vaccine coverage. But experts guiding the Centre on vaccination strategy have cautioned that any expansion plan would need to synchronise a triad of factors — vaccine supply, the country’s capacity to deliver them and their quick uptake. The vaccination campaign has picked up momentum after it opened up for priority groups from the general population since March 1, but advisers underline that the current pace of the campaign is still below expectations. On Thursday, for example, vaccination centres across India had collectively administered around 1.78 million doses up to 7pm. “Given the number of the vaccination centres active and the amount of vaccines supplied, the number administered could have been twice higher,” a senior doctor and adviser to the government told this newspaper. Health experts also caution that a plan to expand vaccination to 45 years or lower would significantly increase demand for doses at a time when India is relying on two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin, both also pledged to global markets. Neither health officials nor vaccine makers have specified how many doses of the two vaccines — Covishield from the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin from Bharat Biotech — are available to the government each month. A Serum executive had indicated to The Telegraph last year that the company could supply up to 50 million doses a month by March, while a Bharat official told a webinar earlier this month the company could supply about 40 million doses a month. At a supply of 90 million doses a month, the campaign could take six months, experts said. “Trying to do too much too quickly might compromise on the efficiency and quality of the vaccination campaign,” an adviser to a state government said. Maharashtra Maharashtra, and Mumbai and Nashik registered their highest-ever coronavirus case counts on Thursday. Maharashtra reported 25,833 cases and 58 deaths. Mumbai clocked 2,877 cases while Nashik registered 2,421 cases. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked divisional commissioners to ensure that restrictions announced to curb the spread of the virus are implemented strictly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
19-03-2021||India||Rajasthan State Textbook Board, owner of publishing house booked for hurting religious sentiments||The Rajasthan State Textbook Board and the owner of a publishing house have been booked for hurting religious sentiments over a reference to Islamist terrorism in a political science textbook, police said on Thursday. The FIR against the board and Mohseen Rashid Khan, the owner of Sanjeev Passbook Publication, was registered on Wednesday, they said. A chapter in the political science textbook in Hindi, “Terrorism, Criminalisation of Politics and Corruption”,  made a controversial reference. The textbook was published in 2018 under the former BJP government and is no longer in circulation. Convenor of the political science textbook Bhanwar Singh Rathore, who was an associate professor with a government college in Jodhpur and wrote this portion, died in September 2020. The case against the Rajasthan State Textbook Board and the owner of Sanjeev Passbook Publication has been registered under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 295A (hurting religious sentiments) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the police said. “We registered the FIR on the basis of a complaint lodged by Muslim community leaders late on Wednesday. They objected to the text comparing Islam with terrorism,” station house officer (SHO), Lalkothi, Surendra Singh said. The office of Sanjeev Passbook Publication was vandalised on Wednesday by a group of people miffed over the content of the textbook. Three people were arrested in connection with the incident, the police said. Manager of Sanjeev Passbook Publication Vijay Shukla said after the matter came to light, the books were recalled from the market and destroyed. He added that the publishing house has apologised in writing, but it continues to receive threat calls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
