20-03-2021||India||Over 800 Covid cases in Delhi for first time this year||Delhi reported over 800 Covid-19 cases for the first time this year on Saturday as the positivity rate breached the 1 per cent-mark after over two months, while two more fatalities pushed the death toll to 10,955, as per data shared by the health department. The number of active cases rose to 3,409 from 3,165 a day ago, according to the latest health bulletin. The new 813 cases pushed the infection tally to 6,47,161, of whom over 6.32 lakh people have recovered till date. On Friday, the city had recorded 716 cases while the count on Thursday was 607 and 536 on Wednesday. The two new fatalities took the toll to 10,955, while the positivity rate rose to 1.07 per cent from 0.93 per cent on Friday, the bulletin said. Delhi had recorded 425 cases on Tuesday. The cases have been steadily rising over the last few days. The positivity rate had been hovering below the 1 per cent-mark for over two months. A total of 77,888 tests, including 46,292 RT-PCR and 29,596 rapid antigen, were conducted on Friday, while the number of people under home isolation on Saturday rose to 1,722 from 1,624 a day ago, the bulletin said. Health experts and doctors have attributed this sudden rise in COVID-19 cases to people turning complacent, not following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and assuming all is well now. A total of 585 cases were reported on January 1 and 424 on January 3. The daily count had dropped to 306 on January 11 and risen again to 386 on January 12, according to official figures. The numbers had started to come down in February. On February 26, the month's highest daily count of 256 cases was recorded. Asserting that the recent rise in COVID-19 cases in the national capital was not a cause for worry, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said Thursday the city government had directed officials for stricter tracking, tracing and isolation of cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Elevating US-India partnership priority of Biden administration, says defence secy||Elevating the US-India defence partnership is a priority of the Biden administration, US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin said on Saturday as he described the relationship between the two countries as a "stronghold" of a free and open Indo-Pacific. After holding wide-ranging talks with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Austin said India is an increasingly important partner amid rapidly shifting international dynamics and Washington was committed to a "forward-looking" defence partnership with New Delhi as a central pillar of its approach to the region. Austin arrived here on Friday on a three-day visit as part of his three-nation first overseas tour that signalled the Biden administration's strong commitment to its relations with its close allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region. "I reaffirmed our commitment to a comprehensive and forward-looking defence partnership with India as a central pillar of our approach to the region," he said in a media statement in presence of Singh. "As the world faces a global pandemic and growing challenges to an open and stable international system, the US-India relationship is a stronghold of a free and open Indo-Pacific region," he said. The US Defence Secretary said as the Indo-Pacific region faces challenges to a free and open regional order, cooperation among like-minded countries is imperative to securing the shared vision for the future. "We discussed opportunities to elevate the US-India Major Defence Partnership...a priority of the Biden-Harris Administration through regional security cooperation, military-to-military interactions, and defence trade," Austin said. "In addition, we are continuing to advance new areas of collaboration, including information-sharing, logistics cooperation, artificial intelligence; and cooperation in new domains such as space and cyber," he added. Austin also described his talks with Singh as a "productive" discussion on a number of security issues which are important to the two countries. "As the Indo-Pacific region faces acute transnational challenges, such as climate change, and challenges to a free and open regional order, cooperation among like-minded countries is imperative to securing our shared vision for the future," he said. "Despite today's challenging security environment, the partnership between the US and India, the world's two largest democracies, remains resilient and strong and we will seek every opportunity to build upon this major partnership," he added. About his visit, Austin said he wanted to convey the Biden administration's message of the US's strong commitment to its allies and partners. "India, in particular, is an increasingly important partner amid today's rapidly shifting international dynamics," he added. In his statement, Austin also referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's comments that India stands for "freedom of navigation and overflight, unimpeded lawful commerce, and adherence to international law". "This is a resounding affirmation of our shared vision for regional security in the Indo-Pacific. And it's clear that the importance of this partnership, and its impact to the international rules-based order will only grow in the years ahead," he said. He said there was a discussion on engagement with like-minded partners through multilateral groupings such as the Quad and ASEAN. The 10-nation ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) is a key stakeholder in the Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Centre asks Bobde to recommend next CJI as his tenure nears end||With a little over a month left before Chief Justice of India SA Bobde retires, the government has started the process of appointment of the next CJI, asking the incumbent to recommend his successor, sources said Saturday. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad Friday sent a letter to Justice Bobde, who is set to retire on April 23, seeking his recommendation, the sources said. As per the Memorandum of Procedure governing the appointment of members of the higher judiciary, "appointment to the office of the Chief Justice of India should be of the senior-most judge of the Supreme Court considered fit to hold the office". It stipulates that the Law Minister would, at an appropriate time, seek the recommendation of the outgoing Chief Justice of India for the appointment of the next CJI. Under this process, after receipt of the recommendation of the CJI, the Law Minister puts it before the Prime Minister who advises the President on the matter of appointment. "Whenever there is any doubt about the fitness of the senior-most Judge to hold the office of the Chief Justice of India, consultation with other Judges...would be made for appointment of the next Chief Justice of India," the document states. Justice NV Ramana is the senior-most judge in the top court after the CJI. Born on August 27, 1957, Justice Ramana has a tenure till August 26, 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Doorstep ration delivery scheme to have no name, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the doorstep ration delivery scheme of his government would not have any name, a day after the Centre red flagged 'Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna' which was scheduled to start from March 25. "We will accept all conditions of the Centre but will not allow any obstruction in implementation of the scheme," Kejriwal asserted in a press conference. The Centre on Friday asked the Delhi government not to implement the 'Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna' saying it is "not permissible" to use subsidised foodgrain allotted under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) for a state scheme. The chief minister said a letter from the Centre on Friday noon informed that the doorstep delivery of ration scheme cannot be named 'Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna'. "Perhaps they had objection over Mujhya Mantri word. We are not doing this for credit or to polish our names. So now the scheme will have no name. There will be a Cabinet meeting on Monday and its proposal will be sent to the Centre," he said. Kejriwal claimed it was very important for him to ensure ration delivery to poor people by removing ration mafia from the public distribution system. "We dreamt of this scheme for 20-22 years and I was personally preparing for it for last 2-3 years, so our hearts sank after receiving Centre's objection but now we will not let any obstruction come in its way and accept all their conditions." He said the doorstep delivery of ration was a revolutionary scheme in view of powerful mafia active in the field and hoped the scheme without any name would satisfy the Centre and it would have no objection now. Kejriwal was scheduled to launch the scheme with doorstep delivery of ration to 100 households in northeast Delhi's Seemapuri on March 25. The central government, however, said it would have no objection if the Delhi government came out with a separate scheme without mixing the elements of the NFSA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine can provide protection for 8 months, says AIIMS director||The Covid-19 vaccine should be able to give good protection from the infection for eight to ten months, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria said on Saturday. He also said that no major side-effect of the vaccine has been recorded. The Covid-19 vaccine should be able to give good protection from the infection for eight to ten months and maybe, even more, Guleria said at an event organised by the IPS (Central) Association. He said the biggest reason for the surge in cases is that people feel the pandemic is over and they are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. "There are multiple reasons for the surge, but the main reason is that there is a change in people's attitude and they feel the pandemic is over. People should still restrict non-essential travel for some more time," the official asserted. NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said the chain of transmission has to be stopped and for that vaccine is one tool but another is containment and surveillance strategy. "Not following Covid-19 behaviour and laxity is a major reason for the surge," he said. Responding to a question on vaccinating more people, Paul said the issue is vaccines are limited and that is why prioritisation has been done. "If we had unlimited supply, we would open the vaccination for everyone. That is the reason, not everyone, is getting vaccinated. Most countries in the world are not able to go beyond priority groups because of this reason," he said. The NITI Aayog member also said that the highest mortality was seen among people with co-morbidities and older age groups. "These people must not delay taking the vaccine. So the message is that they need it more than others. That is the reason they have been prioritised for getting the Covid-19 vaccine," he said. Talking about the effectiveness of the available Covid-19 vaccines, Covaxin and Covishield, Guleria said, "If we look at the two vaccines, they produce equal antibodies and are very robust. We should take the vaccine available to us because both are equally effective in terms of efficacy and long-term protection. Over four crore people in the country have been vaccinated against the disease till now. Under the current phase of the vaccination drive, people above 60 years of age and those in the 45-59 years age bracket with co-morbidities, are being vaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Shatabdi fire probe: Railway mulls severe penalty for smoking in trains||The railways is set to get cracking against those found smoking in trains and is mulling severe penalties, even arrest, for damaging public property after an initial probe in the recent fire in a coach of the Shatabdi Express, a senior official said on Saturday. Officials in the know said that the initial report has found that cigarette or bidi butts were thrown into the dustbin of one of the toilets which were filled with soiled tissue paper. This led to a fire in the S5 coach of the New Delhi-Dehradun Shatabdi Special. The incident happened on March 13 near Raiwala in Uttarakhand. Section 167 of the Railways Act specifies that anyone found smoking in a compartment despite prohibition or objection from a co-passenger is liable for a fine of up to Rs 100. Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal in a meeting with Railway Board members and general managers of zones asked them to take proactive steps towards sensitising passengers against smoking in trains and also urged that erring passengers need to be deterred from causing risks to others by smoking in trains. "The railways will crackdown on smoking in trains. The fire most likely started in one of the toilets and initial investigations revealed that the fire was in all probability caused by simmering cigarettes/ beedi thrown in the dustbin. The continuous air flow in a fast moving train would have fanned it. "We are contemplating severe penalties. In some cases, even arrests can be made for causing damage to public railway property and risking the lives of others to deter irresponsible and errant persons," a senior officer said. The official refused to come on record as the investigation into the incident is still underway. The fire, the officer said was so damaging that the interior of the toilet was completely charred and the floor was cracked. Officers said that a passenger has also provided a written statement to the four- member probe team stating that the smoke detector in coach went off when the fire started. "A bigger tragedy was averted by the swift response of the train crew as the coach was detached soon. "But we can't let the guard down. So much effort has been made to prevent such incidents. Irresponsible passengers can not be allowed to risk the lives of others," DJ Narain, Spokesperson, Railways, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Rajnath discusses expansion of ties with US counterpart Austin Lloyd||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his American counterpart Lloyd Austin on Saturday held wide-ranging talks focusing on further expansion of bilateral strategic ties, evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region and challenges of terrorism. India is the third destination of Austin's three-nation first overseas tour, and the visit is seen as a reflection of the Joe Biden administration's strong commitment to its relations with its close allies and partners in the region. On Saturday morning, Austin visited the National War Memorial and paid tributes to India's fallen heroes. Before the talks, he was given a guard of honour at the Vigyan Bhavan complex. The US defence secretary called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and held talks with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval hours after his arrival in Delhi on Friday. In his meeting with Modi, he conveyed the Biden administration's strong desire to further deepen strategic ties with India to address the pressing challenges facing the Indo-Pacific. Almost all key issues of mutual concerns, including China's aggressive behaviour in the region, are learnt to have figured in the deliberations between Austin and Doval. "Thrilled to be here in India. The breadth of cooperation between our two nations reflects the significance of our major defense partnership, as we work together to address the most pressing challenges facing the Indo-Pacific region," Austin tweeted on Friday. People familiar with the US official's visit said earlier that India's plan to procure around 30 multi-mission armed Predator drones from the US for the three services at an estimated cost of over USD 3 billion is expected to figure in Austin-Singh talks. The Indo-US defence ties have been on an upswing in the last few years. In June 2016, the US had designated India a "Major Defence Partner". The two countries have also inked key defence and security pacts over the past few years, including the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use of each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provides for deeper cooperation. The two sides have also signed COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||India, France working on third joint satellite mission, says ISRO chief ||India and France are working on their third joint satellite mission, even as the bilateral space collaboration is entering into multiple domains, including human spaceflight programme, ISRO Chairman K Sivan said. Sivan, also Secretary in the Department of Space, said many French companies are keen to tap into opportunities thrown up by recent reforms injected into the space sector by the Government. "France is the biggest partner of India in space", he said at the DST (Department of Science and Technology) Golden Jubilee Discourse on 'unlocking India's space potential - geospatial data & mapping', an event presented on virtual mode by the National Council for Science and Technology Communication and 'Vigyan Prasar' on Friday. According to ISRO officials, ISRO and French space agency CNES (Centre National dEtudes Spatiales) have undertaken two joint missions 'Megha-Tropiques', which was launched in 2011, and 'Saral-Altika' in 2013. "Currently, we are working for the third one (mission)", Sivan said. Officials said ISRO and CNES have completed the feasibility study to realise the earth observation satellite mission with thermal infrared imager, TRISHNA (Thermal infraRed Imaging Satellite for High resolution Natural resource Assessment) and are working towards finalising an implementing arrangement for the joint development. Sivan said India is also working with France on joint experiments and accommodation of scientific instruments in space missions. "Indo-French space collaboration is expanding into multiple domains including space exploration and human space flight programme," he said. ISRO officials said the two space agencies have also finalised all interface control documents for accommodating CNES's 'ARGOS' instrument in ISROs OCEANSAT-3 satellite. ARGOS instrument has been delivered at Bengaluru for integration with the satellite. "Discussions on establishing 'NavIC' (an independent regional navigation satellite system developed and maintained by India) reference station in France and CNES 'Scintillation' receivers in India are also progressing well", they said. ISRO-CNES HSP (Human Space Programme) Working Group had a number of discussions on medical aspects of human spaceflight and was finalising an implementation arrangement to formalise cooperation in the field of space medicine, it was noted. Sivan said with the recent reforms initiated by the government in the space sector, the Indo-French space cooperation is expected to grow further involving industries, academia and research institutes. He said many French companies want to "make use of" reforms in the sector and "they are going to involve". So, the reforms would not only strengthen space cooperation at government-to-government level but industry- to-industry interaction is going to get a "fresh relook" in the changed environment, Sivan added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||India adds nearly 41,000 Covid-19 cases, tally surges to 1.15 crores||India saw 40,953 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, the highest single-day rise recorded in 111 days, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,15,55,284, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. Registering an increase for the tenth day in a row, the total active caseload has reached 2,88,394, which now comprises 2.49 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 96.12 per cent, the data stated. The daily rise in infections (40,953) was the highest recorded in 111 days, while the death toll increased to 1,59,558 with 188 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. On November 29, 41,810 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,11,07,332, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.38 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to ICMR, 23,24,31,517 samples have been tested up to March 19 with 10,60,971 samples being tested on Friday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Covid spread to small towns poses death rate risk||The resurgence of India’s Covid-19 epidemic and its spread into small towns may challenge the efforts to hold down the death rate, which is now 0.6 per cent or almost a third of the value during the first wave, experts said. The counts of active Covid-19 patients rose in 19 of India’s 20 most populous states on Friday, with the country recording over 39,700 new cases nationwide, but the monthly mortality rate was the lowest since the start of the pandemic. The case fatality rate (CFR) — the fraction of deaths among lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases — has steadily declined from about 1.7 per cent in July to 1.3 in December, 0.8 in February and 0.59 in March. Health officials and doctors have attributed this month-by-month decline in the CFR to improvements in clinical management — aided by the falling counts of patients — since the epidemic’s first peak in mid-September. But the past two weeks have revealed the sharpest increases in daily case counts in small towns — a 500 per cent increase at Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh, 385 per cent at Nanded in Maharashtra, and 300 per cent at Yamunanagar in Haryana. “It’s not over. We’re now better prepared than last year but we need to really brace ourselves for another peak,” Nitin Gupta, assistant professor of infectious diseases at the Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, told The Telegraph. Experts have predicted that the infection will grow fastest in the small towns, where the proportions of the population susceptible to the virus are higher than those in cities where large fractions of people have already been infected. “The low CFR is encouraging, but health systems in small towns will need to have the capacity to manage the surges they are facing,” said Oommen John, a senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. Surajpur in Chhattisgarh, Karnal in Haryana, Mehsana in Gujrat, Bidar in Karnataka, and Solan and Una in Himachal Pradesh are among 70 districts across 16 states where the daily counts have increased by more than 150 per cent over the past two weeks. Health officials say that in some of these districts, the baseline numbers are low and there are still opportunities to curb the spread through standard public health measures — aggressive testing and isolation of cases, quarantining of contacts and surveillance. “But if the counts continue to grow unabated, local health systems in some places may not be equipped to (carry out) appropriate triage (identifying which patients are to be prioritised for urgent treatment) and manage cases,” John said. Health experts are worried that this might raise the CFR. Medical researchers are also concerned that the CFR could increase if more infectious variants of the coronavirus circulate and drive the epidemic’s current growth, although there is no epidemiological evidence for this yet. Genome-sequencing efforts have revealed a variant with a double mutation in about 20 per cent of the samples in Maharashtra — the state with the sharpest rise in cases. Lab studies suggest that one mutation may allow the virus to evade immune responses, while the other makes it more infectious. “A more infectious variant — even if it does not increase the severity of the disease — can increase the number of deaths, simply by increasing the number of infected people,” said a senior medical researcher involved in the sequencing efforts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Number of India’s poor ‘doubles’ ; middle class shrinks by a third in 2020||India’s middle class is estimated to have shrunk by a third in 2020 and the number of the country’s poor more than doubled because of the pandemic-triggered recession, a report released by the Washington-based non-profit Pew Research said on Thursday. As a result of the downturn, India’s middle class shrank by over 32 million from the number it may have reached if there were no pandemic. This accounts for 60 per cent of the global retreat in the number of people in the middle-income tier (with daily incomes between $10 and $20, or Rs 725 and Rs 1,450). Before the pandemic, it was estimated that 99 million people in India would belong to the global middle class in 2020. This number, according to Pew, is now estimated to be near 66 million. The number of the poor in India (with daily incomes of $2 or less, that is, Rs 145 or less) is estimated to have risen by 75 million because of the Covid-induced recession. This too accounts for nearly 60 per cent of the global increase in poverty. The report notes that the demand for work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme has been the highest since its inception.  The number of the poor in India is expected to have reached 134 million, more than double the 59 million estimated before the recession. Since India and China together account for a third of the world’s population, Pew Research studied both countries together. It found that while India “plunged into a deep recession”, China was able to “forestall a contraction”. Before the pandemic, the World Bank had estimated almost equal growth in real GDP in India (5.8 per cent) and China (5.9 per cent) in 2020. A year on, this has been revised downward to minus 9.6 per cent for India and 2 per cent for China, the report notes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||Antilia car scare: Sharad Pawar steps in||Maharashtra’s political leadership has moved to ensure the case relating to the security scare near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s Mumbai home doesn’t scar the state’s coalition government. Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Friday summoned Maharashtra home minister and party colleague Anil Deshmukh to Delhi to discuss the subject, triggering speculation about his fate. Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had been removed a few days ago. Although sources indicated that Pawar was unlikely to sack Deshmukh, the final decision would be taken after the NCP veteran met Shiv Sena chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday night or Saturday. An explosives-laden car was found parked near Ambani’s home in February. Days later an auto parts dealer, Mansukh Hiren, who had reported the car stolen, was found dead in a creek in neighbouring Thane. Last week, the Union home ministry handed the explosives case to the National Investigation Agency, provoking Uddhav to say there was “something fishy” about the Centre’s move. Pawar and Deshmukh returned to Mumbai on Friday evening. After the meeting, Deshmukh said: “I met Sharad Pawarji at his residence in Delhi and had discussions on the Antilia (Ambani’s home) case. I also informed him that the state government was extending full cooperation to the NIA and that lawful actions would be taken based on the findings.” NCP sources said Pawar had indicated there won’t be any changes in the government anytime soon. Deshmukh later told reporters: “Whoever is guilty will be punished. But (as long as) the NIA does not complete the probe, I would not be able to comment. Necessary action will be taken by the state government after the NIA completes its probe.” Ruling allies Sena, NCP and the Congress believe that removing the home minister would worsen matters amid criticism of the police’s handling of two recent deaths: of Hiren and Mohan Delkar, Independent MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli who committed suicide in a Mumbai hotel. What has aggravated the situation is the suspicion over the role of assistant sub-inspector Sachin Waze, who has been arrested by the NIA, and his purported links with the Sena. The ruling coalition is worried at the NIA intervention and wants to distance itself from Waze’s actions. Former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis has mounted pressure on the state government, arguing the political leadership cannot insulate itself from the actions of its police. Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut has defended Uddhav saying he had acted decisively after realising the mistakes committed by the police. But Raut had to admit that “what happened should not have happened”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||Union ministry questions Global Hunger Index Report 2020||The Narendra Modi government has finally realised the importance of data, thanks to the “foreign hand”. The Union agriculture and farmers’ welfare ministry has asked the NGO behind the Global Hunger Index for the data on the basis of which India has been ranked 94 among 107 countries surveyed last year. The ministry has officially questioned the Global Hunger Index Report 2020 that placed India way behind several countries in the neighbourhood and recorded an increase in the prevalence of child wasting in 2015-19 compared to 2010-14. The “Government of India has raised concerns of the country with Welthungerlife regarding appropriateness, accuracy and representativeness of data used for calculation of level of hunger in India,” agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha. Welthungerlife, the German aid organisation, and the NGO Concern Worldwide bring out the Global Hunger Index. The Indian government’s sudden interest in accurate data stands in sharp contrast to its response when 108 social scientists had said in 2019 that Indian statistical institutions “have however come under a cloud for being influenced and indeed even controlled by political considerations”. The social scientists had issued the statement in March 2019 when controversy was dogging the Union government over the revision of GDP figures and a decision to withhold employment data. The statement had appealed to academics to raise their voice against the tendency “to suppress uncomfortable data”. The Modi government had then responded with ridicule, describing the social scientists as “purported economists” and “compulsive contrarians”. Among the signatories to the social scientists’ statement were Esther Duflo and Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, who would win the Nobel for economics later that year. Two years down the line, left red-faced by a surfeit of adverse international reports, the Union government has acknowledged the value of data. In the written reply circulated, minister Tomar said: “As per the Global Hunger Index Report 2020 published by Concern Worldwide and Welthungerlife, with a score of 27.2, India is ranked at 94 out of 107. However, as per the GHI Report 2019, India had scored 30.3 and was ranked 102 out of 117. This shows improvement towards reducing hunger in the country as the GHI score has reduced from 30.3 to 27.2 during the period 2019 to 2020.” Tomar added that the government had raised its concerns with Welthungerlife. Dissatisfied with the written reply to his starred question, a kind that allows supplementary questions, Sanjay Singh of the AAP underscored that the government was saying the situation had improved based on the numbers of 2019 and 2020 alone, but India had fallen sharply in the GHI since 2014. “In 2014, our rank was 55. It went down to 80 in 2015, 97 in 2016, 100 in 2017, 103 in 2018, 102 in 2019 and 94 in 2020. Why is this happening when we are among the 10 largest food producing countries?” Singh asked. Standing in for Tomar, minister of state for agriculture Parshottam Rupala replied that India had asked the NGO for the data on the basis of which the hunger index had drawn its conclusions. Rupala said such reports should not be taken too seriously. Further, he said, India is a country where stray litter too are fed sweets. “This is our tradition,” he said. Rupala’s response was in line with the manner in which external affairs minister S. Jaishankar had dismissed the recent reports of Freedom House and V-Dem that downgraded democracy in India. Jaishankar had contended that the government did not need the approval of “a set of self-appointed custodians of the world”. On Thursday, minister of state for electronics and information technology Sanjay Dhotre had said in writing that the department did not have “such authentic information”, asked by Anand Sharma of the Congress “whether the government is aware of reports that India is among the most frequent implementers of Internet shutdowns in the world and the largest democracy to frequently do so”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||Yogi govt’s 4th anniversary marked by massive online protests||The Yogi Adityanath government’s fourth anniversary in power was marked by a massive online campaign protesting unemployment, lawlessness and rising crimes against women. In the morning the publicity team of chief minister Adityanath had started a hashtag campaign called “Yogiji_ke_4_saal_bemisal” on Twitter,  playing up the BJP’s claim of him being the best chief minister in the country. Soon, the social media site was flooded with messages countering the claims. The Opposition parties joined in, with hashtags such as “4saalUPbehaal” and “4SaalChaupatHuaHaal” trending. Many Twitter users referred to the Hathras tragedy in which a Dalit teenager had been brutalised and murdered and her body cremated by police against the wishes of her parents. One wrote: “Such images were unheard & unseen in the India we knew, but our sheer misfortune that we witnessed its unfolding in Hathras, that’s what BJP gave to UP.” Congress leader Gaurav Pandhi wrote: “In last 4 yrs Uttar Pradesh has seen: 1) Rise in crime against women 2) Highest unemployment 3) Atrocities against Dalits & Muslims 4) Annihilation of Brahmins 5) Institutionalisation of mafia 6) Collapse of law & order….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: FIR against Enforcement Directorate team ||Kerala police have booked a group of Enforcement Directorate officials on the charge of “applying mental pressure” on gold-smuggling accused Swapna Suresh to falsely implicate chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The crime branch on Wednesday filed an FIR on the basis of an audio clip in which a woman suggests that ED officials had tried to force her to name Vijayan. Police sources said Swapna had confirmed to crime branch investigators that the voice was hers. The accused ED officials are understood to be based in Kerala but the FIR, filed in Ernakulam, does not name them or say how many they are. It says Swapna faced the coercion during her ED interrogation on August 12 and 13 last year. Swapna is a key accused in the smuggling of 30kg gold, valued at Rs 14.82 crore, in diplomatic baggage addressed to the attaché of the UAE consulate general in Thiruvananthapuram in July 2020. A former secretary with the consul general, Swapna had allegedly used her connections with local authorities to help smuggle the contraband from Dubai. Arrested soon after, she has been in the custody of the various central agencies probing the case or in judicial custody. The 35-second clip was leaked to the media on November 19 last year. It’s not clear who the woman in the tape was talking to, or where and when, nor who recorded it or leaked it. “What my lawyer told me today is that the statement submitted before the court states that I had gone to the UAE with (suspended IAS officer) Sivasankar in October and did financial negotiations for the CM,” the woman says. M. Sivasankar, then secretary at the chief minister’s office, was among those arrested in the case. He has since been granted bail. “They (the investigators) are asking me to ratify that (statement in court) to make me an approver. When I said I would never do that, I was told they would come to jail and force me again,” the woman in the audio says. The accused ED officials have been booked on the charges of framing people with incorrect documents, fabricating evidence, giving false evidence, abetment and criminal conspiracy. Conviction can bring a jail term of up to seven years. The crime branch has been probing the tape’s authenticity, the leak and the veracity of the woman’s allegation following a legal opinion from the state director-general of prosecution. Two policemen deployed for Swapna’s security during the ED interrogation have given written submissions to the police saying they overheard an ED official named Radhakrishnan pressuring Swapna to name the chief minister. Another prime accused in the case, Sandeep Nair, recently submitted a handwritten letter to a sessions judge in Ernakulam alleging coercion by a “Mr Radhakrishnan”. “Investigating officer from this agency (ED), Mr Radhakrishnan, told me they won’t oppose my bail plea if I named the Kerala chief minister, some ministers and the son of a senior leader,” Nair, who is in judicial custody, alleged in the letter. Nair, a BJP worker, said he had been offered a good lawyer and a promise not to oppose his bail application. He alleged harassment in ED custody saying he had been deprived of sleep and “threatened” several times. The FIR comes at a time the Congress and the BJP have been using the charges against Sivasankar to point a finger at Vijayan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||Plea in SC on EVM  symbols ||The Supreme Court on Friday directed a petitioner to serve a copy to the attorney-general, the country’s highest law officer, of a plea for replacing party symbols on EVMs with candidates’ name, age and education qualifications to prevent the rising criminalisation of politics. “List the matter after one week to enable the petitioner to serve a copy of this writ petition upon the learned attorney-general of India,” a bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said in a written order. The court can issue such an order if it feels the AG’s help will be needed to resolve an important issue. The bench briefly heard senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the petitioner Ashwini Kumar Upadhyaya who has earned the sobriquet “PIL man of India” for having filed 100 public interest litigation petitions on various issues. Upadhyaya has sought an appropriate writ order or direction to the Election Commission of India to use the “name, age, educational qualification and photograph” of the candidates on EVMs to provide an equal opportunity to nominees and weed out “corruption, criminalisation, casteism, communalism, regionalism, linguism and nepotism, the seven menaces of our democracy”. According to the petition, when the framers of the Constitution opted for the parliamentary system of democracy based on adult franchise, they had not bargained for the “law-breakers becoming law-makers”. Upadhyaya said that according to data collected by the NGO Association for Democratic Rights, 43 per cent of MPs had criminal cases against them. “Many MPs are facing serious criminal charges like rape, murder, kidnapping, extortion, fraud and theft and still they not only participate in law-making but also interfere in police investigations to perpetrate their criminal empire,” the petition said. According to the PIL, ballots and EVMs without the symbols of political parties have the following benefits: ⚫ It will help electors to vote and support intelligent, diligent and honest candidates, which is not possible in today’s scenario. ⚫ It will not only weed out casteism and communalism from our democracy but also control the use of black money and benami transaction in elections. ⚫ It will control dictatorship of party bosses in ticket distribution and force them to nominate those who religiously work for people’s welfare. ⚫ Democracy will be free from the grip of political party bosses. ⚫ It will control nepotism and favouritism, one of the gravest menaces to democracy. ⚫ Parties will be forced to give tickets to local candidates rather than parachuting nominees. ⚫ Ballots and EVMs without party symbols will not only control the criminalisation of politics but also keep a check on middlemen and political brokers. ⚫ It will allow social activists, educationists, jurists, intellectuals and public welfare-spirited, honest people to enter politics and work for the betterment of society. ⚫ The entry of honest and diligent people in Parliament and Assemblies will lead to the framing of better laws for people’s welfare. ⚫ Intelligent, diligent and honest MPs will utilise MPLAD funds effectively. ⚫ Efficiency of Parliament and Assemblies will increase 10 times. ⚫ It will control regionalism and linguism, which have become a serious threat to the democratic political system. ⚫ Reforms in elections, police, judiciary, education, administration, industry, agriculture, labour, tax and Constitution can be done within a year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||CBI runs graft checks on govt offices||The CBI on Friday conducted surprise checks as part of its preventive vigilance exercise to unearth possible wrongdoing across 30 departments of the central government covering 25 states and Union Territories. “The surprise checks have been undertaken in conjunction with the vigilance wing of concerned central government departments/ organisations at various locations across different states and Union Territories…. The joint surprise checks were conducted in more than 25 states and Union Territories,” the agency said in a statement. The checks are being conducted at places that are “prone to corruptible practices” while rendering services or implementing projects of the Centre, the CBI said. The cites and towns where the checks were conducted included Howrah, Shillong, Agartala, Tezpur, Guwahati, Imphal, Port Blair, Agra, Goa, Meerut, Allahabad, Gorakhpur, Ahmedabad, Jammu, Hardwar, Chandigarh, Coimbatore, Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore and Hyderabad. The departments covered during the checks included the Food Corporation of India, railways, General Reserve Engineer Force, NIT Manipur, Andaman Public Works Department, Ordinance Factory, CSD godown, North Coal Fields Ltd, Indian Oil Corporation, Directorate of Light House & Light Ship, Defence Estate Office, Inland Container Depot, SECL, NTPC Western Region-2 and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||SC stalls plea against anti-CAA resolutions||The Supreme Court on Friday desisted from entertaining a petition that questioned state Assemblies’ right to pass resolutions denouncing central legislation such as the Citizenship Amendment Act, saying it didn’t “want to create more problems than solving”. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde made the oral observation while asking senior advocate Soumya Chakraborty, appearing for Rajasthan-based NGO Samta Andolan Samiti, to research the subject more deeply and come back with a modified petition. It said there was currently no authoritative pronouncement on state legislative assemblies’ jurisdiction in such matters. “There must be precedent. Check up and tell us. Do some research and let us know. We don’t want to create more problems than solving,” the bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said. However, the bench underlined that the resolutions did not ask people to disobey the law and wondered whether Assemblies could not even express their opinion. “Create more problems” seemed an allusion to the widespread protests the citizenship amendment had triggered and the crises currently affecting the country, from the pandemic to the farmer protests. The Assemblies of Kerala, Bengal, Punjab and Rajasthan had passed resolutions demanding repeal of the CAA. In its petition, the NGO has assailed these Assemblies, singling out the Bengal House for passing another resolution recently denouncing the new farm laws. The petition says the Assembly resolutions “were intended to incite unrest and disaffection among the citizens of the said states and beyond”. Chakraborty argued that under Article 194 of the Constitution, the state Assemblies had no locus or jurisdiction to pass laws or comment on subjects that fell within the Centre’s jurisdiction. He said the citizenship amendment was one such subject and read out from the Kerala resolution. Justice Bobde asked: “Why can’t such a resolution be passed? This is the opinion of members of Kerala Assembly. They have not asked the people to disobey the law. They have only requested Parliament to abrogate the law.” He added: “It is only an opinion expressed by the Kerala legislative assembly which has no force of law. Don’t they have jurisdiction to express their opinion? They are not disobeying any law.” More than 60 petitions challenging the new citizenship act are already pending before the apex court, which has issued notices. But the matter has not come up for the past one year because of the pandemic-induced restrictions on the functioning of the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||Mutton back on Valley plate after months||Meat-loving Kashmiris can once again tuck into their favourite mutton dishes, which are making a comeback to the menu after a months-long deadlock between the government and the sellers over price that had fuelled concerns that it could be a ploy to impose vegetarianism on the Valley. Kashmir had been facing an acute mutton shortage after the government unilaterally fixed the rate in November at Rs 480 per kg without offal, Rs 70 to Rs 120 less than what meat sellers had been charging. The sellers shut their shops and a series of negotiations with the government failed to resolve the impasse. The breakthrough came on Thursday with the government agreeing to raise the price. As the shops had remained shut, many dealers had been selling meat secretly at exorbitant rates but the delicacy had remained out of reach for most people all these months. Kashmiris are voracious meat eaters. Around 22 lakh sheep are slaughtered annually in Kashmir, the bulk of which — 15.5 lakh — come from outside. Meat sellers had said they had lost hundreds of crores because of the deadlock. The government has now fixed the prices at Rs 535 per kg without offal and Rs 490 with offal. Subsequently, many meat shops reopened across the Valley on Friday but many more remained shut because of a dearth of livestock. Official sources said the government was keen to project a “people-friendly” image as many Kashmiris are fond of meat and were angry over the exorbitant prices of their favourite dish. But the move, coming amidst heightened fears that Delhi was hell bent on changing the Muslim-majority character of Jammu and Kashmir, has not completely alleviated the concerns. “Such fears were there because their (the government’s) sincerity is doubtful…. There is no question that it (imposing vegetarianism) can happen,” Grand Mufti Nasir-ul-Islam told The Telegraph. The Mufti said the fact that the administration could not solve the impasse for months also pointed to the absence of governance in Kashmir. “If there was such an issue, why was the civil society not involved?” he asked. In January, BJP-friendly film director Vivek Agnihotri, who was in the Valley to shoot a film on Kashmiri Pandits, had stirred a row when he introduced Twitterverse to what he called “vegetarian wazwan”, with an apparent threat to change Kashmiris’ food habits. For many Kashmiris, “vegetarian wazwan” sounded like a “cultural invasion”. Wazwan, a multi-course spread, is all about meat, so much so that the vegetable dishes that are part of it are immersed in mutton gravy before being served to guests. In Kashmir, people from all faiths — Muslims, Pandits and Sikhs — relish the wazwan. Agnihotri had posted pictures showing his team eating vegetarian dishes at a Srinagar hotel. “Nobody knows how to make a vegetarian wazwan in Kashmir. But I am here to bring about change,” wrote Agnihotri, whose upcoming film The Kashmir Files is based on the “unreported story of the most tragic and gut-wrenching genocide of Kashmiri Hindus”. Khazir Muhammad Regoo, the president of the Retail Mutton Dealers’ Association, said they had agreed to the new rates, although he regretted that the government’s “stubbornness” had dragged the issue on for months. “The Valley consumes meat worth around Rs 4 crore to Rs 5 crore per day. Some people had been buying meat in the black market but the daily inflow of sheep from outside had reduced by around 90 per cent,” Regoo said. He said wholesale dealers were averse to selling meat to retailers and had been directly selling to consumers at their godowns, the reason many shops remained shut on Friday. A wholesaler, however, said they were running short of supplies due to the stalemate and it would take a few days for things to return to normal. Earlier, the government and the mutton dealers had set up committees that surveyed markets outside Kashmir to ascertain the latter’s claims that they were having to buy meat at exorbitant prices from outstation dealers. The government on Friday sealed some shops that were allegedly selling meat at higher rates. The director of food and civil supplies, Bashir Ahmad Khan, warned of action against violations such as deviation from the government rate list, weight fraud and poor quality. The actions would include “lodging of FIR and sealing of their shops as and when required”, Khan said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||Newborns share machines, face risk of infections in Bihar govt hospitals||Physical distancing is the rule everywhere in the Covid era, except at the neonatal intensive care units of Bihar government hospitals where severely ill newborns and premature babies share life-saving machines against all medical norms. That’s because only a few of the phototherapy machines and radiant warmers are functional at these hospitals and the government has been dragging its feet in repairing or replacing the inoperative ones, doctors and health officials said. When Sita Devi gave birth to a boy about a week ago at the Sasaram district hospital, around 150km southwest of Patna, her joy was short-lived. The doctors at the hospital said the newborn had various complications and must spend a few days in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). Sita Devi’s anxiety grew when she learnt that at the NICU, the boy was sharing phototherapy machines and radiant warmers with two other newborns — a strict no-no under medical guidelines because it multiplies the chances of infection. Phototherapy is used to treat jaundice in newborns while radiant warmers are beds that maintain babies’ body temperature. “I asked the doctors not to have him share the machines with other babies as he might catch an infection, but my request fell on deaf ears,” Sita Devi’s father Monuji Pandey, a resident of Kothuan village in Rohtas, told The Telegraph on Friday. “We are common people with no power: what could we have done? We are just enduring everything and hoping he would be well soon.” Doctors and health officials said the same situation prevailed in government hospitals across the state, from Purnea, Kishanganj and Darbhanga to Madhubani, Sitamarhi, East Champaran and Gopalganj. Dr Sudhir Kumar, civil surgeon of Rohtas district where Sasaram falls, accepted that newborns were sharing these life-saving machines at the district hospital and that “it cannot be called proper from any angle because it can lead to infections”. “But what can we do? The machines keep developing faults. Repair takes time and the patient load keeps increasing. We try to manage the situation somehow and keep the babies safe,” he said. The Sasaram hospital’s manager, Sanjeev Madhukar, said the phototherapy machines and radiant warmers cost Rs 60,000 to Rs 65,000 each. He said the hospital had received six phototherapy machines and six radiant warmers in 2011-12 but half of them were now defunct. He said initially when they developed snags, the hospital got mechanics from Patna to repair them but they had become “irreparable” some eight to nine months ago. “We requisitioned the Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited for more machines around two months ago but have not yet received a response,” Madhukar said. He did not explain why the requisitions had not been made earlier, before any machine had become completely defunct. “Two to three infants have to share a single machine” at the East Champaran district hospital, a government doctor posted in the district said, asking not to be identified. “Some of the babies catch infections and die. Some become so ill that the development of their body and brain suffer. The situation could have been averted with just a little attention from the government.” Kishanganj civil surgeon Shreenandan accepted that several phototherapy machines and radiant warmers in his district were unusable and babies had to share the functional ones. Purnea civil surgeon S.K. Verma acknowledged the machine-sharing but avoided mentioning a specific reason, saying “there are more babies than machines available”. Gopalganj civil surgeon Yogendra Mathur said: “You are talking about these machines? Our paediatric department doesn’t even have chairs for doctors or examination tables for patients.” He said he was trying to sort things out. Bihar government statistics show that the neonatal mortality rate is 25 per 1,000 live births in the state compared with the national average of 23. A call to state health minister Mangal Pandey on early Friday evening was received by an aide who promised to ring back with the minister on the line. The call had not come till late in the night. A call to health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||For how many generations will reservations continue: Supreme Court||For how many generations would reservations in jobs and education continue, the Supreme Court sought to know during the Maratha quota case hearing on Friday and raised concerns over resultant inequality in case the overall 50 per cent limit was to be removed. A five-judge Constitution bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan was vehemently told by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Maharashtra, that the Mandal judgement on capping the quota needed a re-look in changed circumstances. He said the courts should leave it to states to fix reservation quotas in view of the changed circumstances and the Mandal judgement was premised on census of 1931. Arguing in favour of the Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas, Rohatgi referred to various aspects of the Mandal judgement, also known as Indra Sawhney case, and said the Centre's decision to grant 10 per cent quota to people from economically weaker section also breached the 50 per cent cap. If there is no 50 per cent or no limit, as you are suggesting, what is the concept of equality then. We will ultimately have to deal with it. What is your reflection on that... What about the resultant inequality. How many generations will you continue, observed the bench, which also comprised Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat. Rohatgi said there were many reasons for the re-look of the Mandal judgment which was premised on the census of 1931 and moreover, the population has increased many fold and reached to 135 crore. The bench said 70 years have passed since independence and the states have been carrying on so many beneficial schemes and can we accept that no development has taken place that no backward caste has moved forward. It also observed that the purpose of reviewing the Mandal judgement was that those who have come out from backwardness must be eliminated. Yes, we have moved forward. But it is not that backward classes have gone down from 50 to 20 per cent. We still have starvation deaths in this country... I am not trying to say that Indra Sawhney is completely wrong, throw it in the dustbin. I am raising issues that 30 years have gone by, the law has changed, the population has grown, backward persons may also have increased, Rohatgi said. He referred to amendments made in the Constitution and said they are the indicators that the country has not reached anywhere near the emancipation it required for its backwards classes. The fact of the matter is Parliament should know what is going on in the country. If Parliament knows it is more than 50 per cent and has given 10 per cent to a class of economically backward section, no warrant from court should say it cannot go over 50 per cent, he argued. When a number of states have reservations exceeding 50 per cent and in this situation, it cannot be said that this is not a burning issue and does not require a relook after 30 years, he said. The arguments in the case remained inconclusive and would resume on Monday. On Thursday, Attorney General K K Venugopal had told the apex court that the 102nd amendment to the Constitution does not deprive state legislatures to enact law determining the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) and conferring benefits on them. The 102nd Constitution amendment Act of 2018 inserted Articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the National Commission for Backward Class (NCBC), and 342A dealing with power of the President to notify a particular caste as SEBC as also of Parliament to change the list. On Wednesday, the top court was told that Marathas have been dominant socially and politically as almost 40 per cent of MPs and MLAs of Maharashtra are from this community and the entire hypothesis that they have been left behind, faced historical injustice is completely flawed. The top court has been hearing a clutch of cases challenging the Bombay High Court verdict which upheld the grant of quota to Marathas in admissions and government jobs in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
