21-03-2021||India||8 kids die in 2 separate incidents in Rajasthan||In two separate incidents in Rajasthan, eight children died, police said on Sunday. In a tragic incident, five children were suffocated to death after they jumped into a grain storage container while playing at Himmatasar village in Bikaner district on Sunday. According to police, the container was almost empty and the children jumped into it one after another while playing. Accidentally the container got closed thereby, trapping the kids inside. Sevaram (4), Ravina (7), Radha (5), Poonam (8) and Mali were rushed to a government hospital where doctors declared them brought dead, SP (Bikaner) Priti Chandra said. When the mother of the kids came home, and couldn’t find them, she began searching for them. When she opened the container she found the kids trapped inside it, she said. In the other incident, three children were killed and one injured when a portion of the soil caved in on them while they were playing in Jhunjhunu district Saturday evening. They were immediately rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared three of them dead on arrival, police said. The deceased have been identified as Prince and Suresh, both 7-year-old, and Sona (10), police said. The injured boy is under treatment, they said. The bodies were handed over to family members after post-mortem. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot condoled the tragic deaths of the children. He said the deaths were heart-wrenching, and prayed for the departed soul and wished speedy recovery of the injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
21-03-2021||India||Mumbai reports 3,779 fresh Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra sees over 30,000 on Sunday||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 30,535 fresh COVID-19 cases, the highest rise in a single day, the state health department said. Mumbai reported 3,779 fresh COVID-19 cases in the day – the highest single-day spike since the pandemic began in December 2019 and the second consecutive day with over 3,000 new cases – while ten patients succumbed to the viral infection. With this, the state's overall tally of the infections mounted to 24,79,682 while 99 fatalities pushed the toll to 53,399, it said. The fresh spike in cases came just three days after Maharashtra recorded its highest rise in a single day at 25,833. The previous highest spike was 24,896 in September 2020. A statement from the Health department said 11,314 patients were discharged during the day, taking the overall count of recoveries in Maharashtra to 22,14,867. The overall growth in new Covid cases in the city (for the week ending Saturday) has risen to 0.63 per cent and the case fatality rate to 2.15 per cent, according to data from the government. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat and Haryana are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, according to the Union Health Ministry. According to experts, the biggest reason for the surge in cases is that people feel the pandemic is over and they are not following COVID-appropriate behaviour. "There are multiple reasons for the surge, but the main reason is that there is change in people's attitude and they feel coronavirus is over. People should still restrict non-essential travel for some more time," AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said. Dr V K Paul, NITI Aayog member (Health) said to remain free of this virus, it is very important that COVID-appropriate behaviour, containment strategy, readiness from the health infrastructure point of view as well as vaccination has to be brought in to fight the pandemic. He advised that in districts where COVID-19 cases are seemingly on the rise, vaccination of eligible individuals should be intensified and prioritised. States and UTs showing an upsurge in daily new cases and with a high caseload of active cases have been advised by the Centre to improve testing in districts reporting reduction in testing and increase the overall share of RT-PCR tests (more than 70 pc), especially in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing in line with the Test Track and Treat' strategy of the government. They have also been advised to carry out an average close contact tracing of minimum of 20 persons per positive case (in the first 72 hours) along with isolation and early treatment of the serious cases as per clinical protocol. They have been asked to limit the gathering in public places along with promoting COVID-appropriate behaviour through communication and enforcement and accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher cases. Accelerating the pace of vaccination has also been stressed upon, officials stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
21-03-2021||India||Rajasthan imposes night curfew in 8 cities from Monday||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Rajasthan government has decided to impose night curfew in eight cities from 11 pm to 5 am and ordered closure of markets by 10 pm from Monday. The state government has made it mandatory for those visiting Rajasthan from other states to carry a COVID-19 negative test report along with them from March 25 onwards. In case passengers travel to the desert without having a negative test report, they will be quarantined for 15 days, mentioned the official statement. Arrangements for passengers to be examined at airports, bus stands and railway stations are also being made. The decisions were taken during a review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. The night curfew will be imposed in Ajmer, Bhilwara, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Udaipur, Sagwada (Dungarpur) and Kushalgarh (Banswara) from 11 pm to 5 am. The night curfew will not be applicable to those factories which have continuous production and have a system of night shifts. Also, IT companies, restaurants, medical shops, offices-related to essential and emergency services, wedding ceremonies, medical institutes, bus stands, railway stations and airports will be exempted from the night curfew. A total of 476 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Rajasthan on Sunday, while two more people succumbed to the disease. Of the new cases, a maximum of 86 cases were reported from Jaipur, among others. At present, there are 3,585 active cases in Rajasthan. CM Gehlot directed officials for strict implementation of coronavirus-related protocols and to allow a limited number of people in ceremonies and programmes. In the review meeting, the chief minister said COVID-19 cases are increasing rapidly in many countries of the world as well as in many states of India. In Rajasthan also, the daily count has suddenly increased in the last few days. In such a situation, it is necessary to take some steps to save the lives of people from the second wave of COVID-19, the statement quoting Gehlot said. The government has made RT-PCR negative report (not older than 72 hours) mandatory for all passengers coming to Rajasthan from March 25. All district collectors have also been asked to restart the institutional quarantine facilities in their districts. The system of mini-containment zones will be implemented again, according to the statement. “Wherever there are more than five positive cases, that cluster or apartment will be declared as a contention zone,” it said. Primary schools will remain closed till further orders. In the classes above primary and in colleges, educational activities will be conducted with the COVID-19 protocol. Only with the written consent of parents, children will be able to come to educational institutions. Not more than 50 per cent of the students will be present in the class at a time. In cities with more than one lakh population, a maximum of 200 people will be allowed in public events at open spaces, according to the statement. The chief minister appealed to the people to avoid going to crowded places during festivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
21-03-2021||India||Uddhav to decide on Deshmukh's fate, says Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Sunday said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will decide the fate of Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who is facing corruption allegations by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh. Pawar's comments came during a media briefing at Delhi amid speculation in state political circles that Maharashtra may soon have a new home minister. The allegations leveled by Singh against Dehsmukh are serious and require an in-depth probe, Pawar said.
Singh has claimed Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels.
Pawar suggested that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a decision in this matter and also action against Deshmukh.
Pawar said neither Thackeray nor Deshmukh were responsible for reinstatement of police officer Sachin Waze in the police force last year.
The NCP chief said he has spoken to Thackeray regarding Singh's letter.
"I would suggest Thackeray to seek former IPS officer Julio Ribeiro's help for looking into the claims made by Param Bir Singh," he said. It was not clear if Ribeiro is willing to be roped in.
"We will take a decision on Deshmukh by tomorrow," he said. Deshmukh's side also needs to be heard before taking any decision, he added.
Pawar said Singh had complained to him aboutpolitical interference in police department. He said Singh had spoken of reports about his transfer, saying it would be an injustice to him.
Pawar said Singh made the allegations after his transfer on March 17 to the Home Guards.
There is no impact on the MVA government because of Singh's allegations, Pawar said. Efforts are on to destabilise the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra but they will prove futile, he added.
In the eight-page letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh alleged that Deshmukh used to call police officers to his official residence and give them a "collection target" from bars, restaurants and other establishments.
Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut admitted that the allegations made by Singh against Deshmukh and about the Waze case have tainted the image of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state.
Raut saio all the MVA allies need to introspect if their feet are on the ground.
Former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said Pawar was trying to save the Maha Vikas Aghadi government amid allegations of corruption leveled by Singh against Deshmukh.
"How were important postings and cases given to Waze without the knowledge of the chief minister and the home minister?" Fadnavis told reporters in Nagpur.
Waze is in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his alleged role in placing an explosives- laden SUV outside the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani last month.
The NIA is also probing the alleged murder of Thane- based businessman Mansukh Hiran who was in possession of that SUV.
"As the architect of the MVA government, Pawar is trying to save it, Fadnavis said and reiterated his demand for resignation of Deshmukh and a court-monitored probe into the allegations made by Singh.
"Waze (a former encounter specialist who was suspended after the alleged custodial death of bomb blast suspect Khwaja Yunis in 2003) was reinstated by a committee headed by Param Bir Singh. But how is it possible that he got important cases and postings without the knowledge of the CM and the home minister?" Fadnavis said.
Former MP Sanjay Nirupam said his Congress party must take a stand on Singh's claim that Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels.
Meanwhile, BJP workers on Sunday staged demonstrations in various parts of the state demanding Deshmukh's resignation over Singh's letter.
BJP workers led by former state energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule staged protests at Sanvidhan square in Nagpur and raised slogans against the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.
A demonstration was organised by BJP Yuva Morcha wokers outside Deshmukh's residence in Nagpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
21-03-2021||India||Centre should help finding truth, Raj Thackeray says on Ambani bomb scare case||MNS chief Raj Thackeray on Sunday sought Centre's intervention in unearthing the truth behind the explosives-laden car found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here last month. Addressing a press conference, Thackeray alleged that the Maharashtra government was incapable of shedding light on several basic points in the case. "The explosives case doesn't revolve only around (former Mumbai police commissioner) Param Bir Singh and (suspended Mumbai police officer) Sachin Waze. Police placing the explosives or being asked to do so is not a small thing," he said. The Centre should help in finding out the truth in the case. The basic issue of who placed the explosives-laden vehicle and on whose instructions it was done needs to be found out, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief said. "The basic issue should not be forgotten, otherwise this case will go the same way as actor Sushant Singh Rajput's (death) case," he said. Thackeray said it seems very unlikely that the vehicle with explosives was parked near Ambani's house by Waze without being asked to do so. The vehicle was found near Ambani's multi-storey residence 'Antilia' in south Mumbai on February 25. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) last week arrested Waze in connection with the case. He was later suspended by the government. Param Bir Singh, who was under flak over handling of the bomb scare episode, was transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner on Wednesday. On Saturday, he wrote a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore per month from bars and hotels. Thackeray asked why there is no clarity yet from the state government as to why Param Bir Singh was shunted out. "Was it because he is linked to the placing of the vehicle? And if Singh is involved, why didn't the state government take action against him instead of just a transfer?" he asked. Thackeray said the source of the gelatin sticks in the vehicle has also not been revealed yet. He said Mukesh Ambani and Uddhav Thackeray share an extremely warm relationship. Thackeray also raised question marks over the threat letter found in the vehicle, saying, "Is it so easy to extort money from Ambani?" "Will the police on their own dare to try to extort money from an industrialist, who shares very warm relations with the chief minister," he asked. He reiterated his demand for resignation of Anil Deshmukh for ensuring free and fair probe over the allegations against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
21-03-2021||India||Second wave of coronavirus has begun, next three months crucial: Karnataka Health Minister||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Sunday said the second wave of coronavirus has begun and sought people's cooperation to contain the disease. "We are at the beginning of the second wave of coronavirus. Let us all join hands to control it because the next three months are crucial for us," Sudhakar told reporters here as the coronavirus cases started shooting up. He said he would discuss with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa about the COVID-19 situation and measures to be taken. He said the state Technical Advisory Committee on coronavirus has given clear guidelines to the government stating that people would be in for a trouble if certain activities were not controlled. "We all will be responsible for the aftermath if the government and people do not respond to experts' report," Sudhakar said. To a question whether election-related activities would be among those needed to be under check, Sudhakar sought to know, "Can any activity be an excuse for coronavirus? Will it spare VIPs, political parties or religious congregations?" The Minister underlined the need for an all-party meeting in view of the coronavirus situation since the byelections were round the corner and all the political parties would take part in it. Sudhakar's warning came as the cases in Karnataka shot upto 1,798 with seven deaths and Bengaluru urban district alone contributed 1,186 cases, including five deaths, on Saturday. The Chief Minister too had appealed to the people to exercise caution as coronavirus was on the rise at an alarming proportion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
21-03-2021||India||Five states account for over 83 per cent of new infections: Government||As India witnessed the highest daily tally of COVID-19 cases this year, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday that Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh account for 83.14 per cent of the new infections. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 27,126. It is followed by Punjab with 2,578 while Kerala reported 2,078 new cases. Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh reported 1,798, 1,565 and 1, 308 infections in a day. India recorded 43,846 new coronavirus cases in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,15,99,130. Besides 197 deaths were reported in a span 24 hours, the ministry said adding six states account for 86.8 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (92). Punjab follows with 38 daily deaths. Kerala reported 15 deaths. Delhi reported over 800 coronavirus cases for the first time this year on Saturday, while two more people succumbed to the pathogen. The active cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) rose to 3,409 from 3,165 a day ago. The positivity rate breached the 1 per cent-mark after over two months, according to a bulletin. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat and Haryana are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, according to the ministry. India's total active caseload was recorded over 3.09 lakh (3,09,087) comprising 2.66 per cent of the total infections. A net rise of 20,693 cases recorded from the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. According to experts, the biggest reason for the surge in cases is that people feel the pandemic is over and they are not following COVID-appropriate behaviour. "There are multiple reasons for the surge, but the main reason is that there is change in people's attitude and they feel coronavirus is over. People should still restrict non-essential travel for some more time," AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said. Dr V K Paul, NITI Aayog member (Health) said to remain free of this virus, it is very important that COVID-appropriate behaviour, containment strategy, readiness from the health infrastructure point of view as well as vaccination has to be brought in to fight the pandemic. He advised that in districts where COVID-19 cases are seemingly on the rise, vaccination of eligible individuals should be intensified and prioritised. States and UTs showing an upsurge in daily new cases and with a high caseload of active cases have been advised by the Centre to improve testing in districts reporting reduction in testing and increase the overall share of RT-PCR tests (more than 70 pc), especially in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing in line with the Test Track and Treat' strategy of the government. They have also been advised to carry out an average close contact tracing of minimum of 20 persons per positive case (in the first 72 hours) along with isolation and early treatment of the serious cases as per clinical protocol. They have been asked to focus on surveillance and stringent containment of those areas in selected districts which are seeing cluster of cases and focus on clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths and that they should also follow up on sending samples for genome testing to track virus variants of concern, officials said. All states and UTs have been tagged to 10 national labs under the INSACOG consortium with National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as the nodal institute. They have been asked to limit the gathering in public places along with promoting COVID-appropriate behaviour through communication and enforcement and accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher cases. Accelerating the pace of vaccination has also been stressed upon, officials stated. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,11,30,288 on Sunday. Seventeen states and UTs have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are Rajasthan, Assam, Goa, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Jharkhand, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Puducherry, Daman and Diu & Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Nagaland, Tripura, Ladakh (UT), Manipur, Mizoram, A&N Islands and Arunachal Pradesh. Besides, over 4.4 crore (4,46,03,841) vaccine doses have been administered through 7,25,138 sessions, as per the provisional report till Sunday 7 am. These include 77,79,985 HCWs (1st dose), 48,77,356 HCWs (2nd dose), 80,84,311 FLWs (1st dose) and 26,01,298 FLWs (2nd Dose), 36,33,473 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 1,76,27,418 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. As on Day-64 of the vaccination drive (March 20), more than 25 lakh (25,40,449) vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 22,83,157 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 38,669 sessions for 1st dose and 2,57,292 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
21-03-2021||India||Param Bir's allegations against Anil Deshmukh serious, says Sharad Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Sunday said the allegations leveled by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh are serious and require an in-depth probe. Singh has claimed Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels. Talking to reporters in Delhi, Pawar suggested that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a decision in this matter and also action against Deshmukh. Pawar said neither the chief minister nor the state home minister were responsible for reinstatement of police officer Sachin Waze in the police force last year. The NCP chief said he has spoken to Thackeray regarding Singh's letter. "I would suggest to Uddhav Thackeray to seek former IPS officer Julio Ribeiro's help for looking into the claims made by Param Bir Singh," he added. Pawar said Singh made the allegations after his transfer on March 17 to the Home Guards. The NCP supremo said there is no impact on the MVA government because of Singh's allegations. Efforts are on to destabilise the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra but they will prove futile, he added. In the eight-page letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh alleged that Deshmukh used to call police officers to his official residence and give them a "collection target" from bars, restaurants and other establishments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
21-03-2021||India||Ashoka University accepts ‘lapses’ over resignations of Mehta, Subramanian||Ashoka University on Sunday acknowledged "lapses in institutional processes" and expressed "deep regret" at the recent events surrounding the resignations of political commentator Pratap Bhanu Mehta and noted economist Arvind Subramanian from its faculty. Meanwhile, Mehta wrote a letter to students, urging them to not "press" for his return asserting that the circumstances that led to his resignation will not change in the foreseeable future. The university in Haryana's Sonipat became the centre of a controversy earlier this week, when Mehta, who had resigned as its vice chancellor two years back, chose to step down as professor, saying that the founders made it "abundantly clear" that his association with the institution was a "political liability". Subramanian, the former chief economic advisor to the government, had resigned from the university two days later in solidarity with Mehta. "The Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor and the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Ashoka University express deep regret at the recent events surrounding the resignations of Prof. Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Prof. Arvind Subramanian who have been extraordinary colleagues and faculty members at Ashoka University," the university said in a statement. "The University has been privileged to have been led, guided and counselled by Pratap first as  Vice Chancellor and then as senior faculty. He has worked closely with the faculty and founders  over the years to take the University into a position of being rightly acknowledged as a great  centre of learning, teaching and research," it added. "Arvind brought eminence, stature, fresh ideas and energy to the University. He is one of the  premier thinkers about the Indian and the global economy. He leaves a void that will be hard to  fill," the statement further noted. "We acknowledge that there have been some lapses in institutional processes which we will work  to rectify in consultation with all stakeholders. This will reaffirm our commitment to academic  autonomy and freedom which have always been at the core of the Ashoka University ideals," the institution said. "Pratap and Arvind would like to emphasize that Ashoka University is one of the most important  projects in Indian higher education. They are sad to be leaving Ashoka, especially its  outstanding students and faculty. They continue to believe strongly that Ashoka University  should embody a liberal vision and commitment to academic freedom and autonomy. And they  remain lifelong friends and well-wishers of the institution and are committed to its success  wherever they are," the statement from the university concludes, adding that the two professors will remain "available for advice and consultation to the university in the future". The students have called for a two-day boycott of classes from Monday in protest over the developments. Mehta, however, said he wants to close this chapter. "The underlying circumstances that led to the resignation will not change for the foreseeable future, in my case, at any rate. So I must close this chapter. I urge you not to press on this matter. I know you will be disappointed. But if I may exercise one last bit of professorial discretion: your mission is larger than the fate of two Professors, Mehta said in his letter addressed to the students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||NCP leaders to meet Pawar on Sunday over claims against Anil Deshmukh||Against the backdrop of former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh's allegations against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, state Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and NCP's state unit president Jayant Patil are scheduled to meet party supremo Sharad Pawar in Delhi on Sunday. Patil gave this information, but said that the meeting was planned three days ago and it is aimed at discussing issues related to the Pandharpur Assembly bypoll scheduled next month. Param Bir Singh, in his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday, has alleged that Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore every month from bars and hotels, a charge the minister has denied. Deshmukh belongs to the NCP. Talking to PTI, Jayant Patil, who is also the state Water Resources Minister, said that the Delhi visit was planned three days ago. "The Pandharpur Assembly bypoll is scheduled next month. Ajit dada and I decided to meet party workers in Solapur district to know their views over the selection of candidate and the party strategy, and then meet Pawar saheb in Delhi with the feedback before returning to Mumbai," he said. "Accordingly, both of us are in Pandharpur to discuss issues related to the bypoll with party workers. We will then go to Delhi (to meet Pawar)," he said. The Pandharpur bypoll is scheduled to be held on April 17. It was necessitated due to the death of NCP MLA Bharat Bhalke last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Covid: India registers highest one-day jump this year with 43,846 cases||India saw 43,846 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single-day rise recorded so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,15,99,130, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. Registering an increase for the 11th day in a row, the total active caseload has increased to 3,09,087, which now comprises 2.66 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.96 per cent, the data stated. The daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 115 days. The death toll increased to 1,59,755 with 197 daily new fatalities, the highest in 97 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 44,489 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 26. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,11,30,288, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.38 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 23,35,65,119 samples have been tested up to March 20 with 11,33,602 samples being tested on Saturday. The 197 new fatalities include 92 from Maharashtra, 38 from Punjab, 15 from Kerala and 11 from Chhattisgarh. A total of 1,59,755 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 53,300 from Maharashtra, 12,590 from Tamil Nadu, 12,432 from Karnataka, 10,955 from Delhi, 10,303 from West Bengal, 8,758 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,189 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||US secretary of defence Lloyd Austin mentions human rights at India talks ||US secretary of defence Lloyd Austin on Saturday said he had discussed violations of human rights in India during his meetings with ministers here, adding that partners ought to be able to have such conversations. There was no official word from India on the matter but sources said the subject of democracy and human rights did come up during Austin’s meeting with external affairs minister S. Jaishankar. Responding to the question whether he had raised the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Austin told a group of journalists that he had not but he had done so with other members of the cabinet. “We have to remember that India is our partner, a partner whose partnership we value. And I think partners need to be able to have those kinds of discussions. And certainly, we feel comfortable in doing that. And you can have those discussions in a very meaningful way and still make progress,” Austin said in response. According to sources on the Indian side, the secretary had said that “as the two largest democracies in the world, human rights and values are important to us and we will lead with these values”. Jaishankar is said to have agreed and emphasised that a strong relationship between the two democracies was not only important for both countries but for the rest of the world. Whether specifics were discussed is not clear. Bob Menendez, who heads the US Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, had asked Austin to specifically raise democracy and human rights concerns in his discussions with the Indian government. In a letter to Austin, the senator – who represents New Jersey which has a sizeable Indian diaspora – said: “I would like to see the US-India partnership grow, but we must acknowledge that the partnership is strongest when based on shared democratic values and the Indian government has been trending away from those values.” Referring to the Freedom House report that recently downgraded India from “free” to “partly free”, Menendez said: “The Indian government’s ongoing crackdown on farmers peacefully protesting new farming laws and corresponding intimidation of journalists and government critics only underscores the deteriorating situation of democracy in India.” The other issues he had flagged in the letter include the “rising anti-Muslim sentiment and related government actions like the Citizenship Amendment Act”, the suppression of political dialogue and arrest of political opponents following the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir, and the use of sedition laws to persecute political opponents. Asked if the issues flagged by Menendez were raised by him during his discussions on human rights and democracy with Indian ministers, Austin replied: “You’ve heard President (Joe) Biden say that human rights and rule of law are important to the United States of America. We always lead with our values. As a democracy, that’s pretty important to us. India is a democratic country and you treasure your values as well. There are a number of things that we can and will work on together.” Austin is the first senior member of the Biden administration to visit India since the inauguration two months ago. However, there have been several high-level virtual meetings between the two governments, including the Quad summit last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Global pressure piles on Ashoka University||Scholars from around the world have questioned Ashoka University’s role in the departure of political scientist Pratap Bhanu Mehta and at least one academic has urged the university to make public “whatever policies or pressures” that “forced” his resignation. Mehta had resigned from Ashoka University on Monday while saying the varsity’s founders had made it clear to him he was a “political liability”. More than 150 academics, including Canadian philosopher Charles Taylor, Cambridge political philosopher John Dunn, British-Ghanaian philosopher Kwame Anthony Appiah, Columbia University president Lee C. Bollinger and Oxford international relations professor Rosemary Foot have signed a statement that questions the role of Ashoka’s trustees and administrators in the matter. “A prominent critic of the current Indian government and defender of academic freedom, he (Mehta) had become a target for his writings. It seems that Ashoka’s trustees, who should have treated defending him as their institutional duty, instead all but forced his resignation,” the statement said. Columbia Sanskrit scholar Sheldon Pollock — who was a consultant for the founding of the university in 2013 — said in a statement: “With the resignation of Prof. Mehta, the university’s foremost scholar and public intellectual, my respect for the institution has been seriously tested. “I have great admiration for the chancellor of the university, Rudrangshu Mukherjee, and for many of the trustees.” Pollock said: “I call upon them to provide a full, public accounting of whatever policies or pressures brought about the circumstances that forced Prof. Mehta’s resignation, and to offer an unequivocal, public repudiation of them. If this is not done, and done soon, the stain on the university will be indelible, and the support of its most fervent admirers permanently lost.” Former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian also quit the varsity as professor of economics this week in solidarity with Mehta, who is being seen as a victim of intolerance against his newspaper columns criticising the ruling BJP. Class boycott Late on Friday night, the university’s students called for a class boycott on Monday and Tuesday to press for Mehta’s return. The Ashoka University Student Government released a charter of demands at midnight that sought: “1. A public acknowledgement by the founders on Professor Mehta’s statement that he felt that he was a ‘political liability’ as well as assuring the Ashokan community that Professor Mehta will be given a public unconditional offer letter. “2. An open meeting organised by the founders with the student body. “3. The divesting of administrative powers and roles from founders of the university to the elected representatives of faculty, students and administration. We must create a body with both members of the faculty and student body to serve as a medium to discuss matters with the founders and the administration.” Announcing the boycott of classes — currently being held mostly online — the statement added: “If these demands are not met by Tuesday, we will be organising a separate movement demanding that the vice-chancellor resign.” Earlier this week, students had staged a sit-in against the exit of the two academics. A class boycott — for a day — had only happened once before in the university, during the protests against the new citizenship regime in 2019. Vice-chancellor Malabika Sarkar, chancellor Mukherjee and the chairman of the board of trustees, Ashish Dhawan, have not responded to queries from this newspaper. A student leader on the campus said the students were withholding their names in their statements to protect individuals from being harassed by the varsity administration. “We are seeing a mobilisation of students like never before and that’s why we have pushed for greater control of academic stakeholders in the management, without which things won’t change,” the student leader said. Talks are on for support from students’ unions in other varsities. The CPIML-Liberation’s All India Students Association as well as the SFI has issued a statement supporting the Ashoka students and teachers who are resisting the perceived crackdown on dissent. In a letter to the students, English professor Jonathan Gil Harris has asked them to make sure that “anger doesn’t degenerate simply into a desire to punish” and that the founders are keen to meet the students. He said: “But it’s clear now that there needs to be a complete firewall between founders and faculty on matters of hiring, dismissal, and judgements of (for example) the quality and content of a faculty’s writing.” In 2016, a professor and two other staff members had resigned after signing a student petition calling for a plebiscite in Kashmir. FCRA licence A Union home ministry source confirmed that a licence to receive funds from abroad under the Foreign Contributions Regulatory Act, 2010, had been granted this month to a company called Reimagining Higher Education Foundation (RHEF), whose directors are among Ashoka University’s founders and which is setting up Plaksha University in Mohali, Punjab. The timing of the clearance has prompted fingers to be raised at Ashoka, but there is nothing to suggest the licence was given out of turn. On Saturday, The Economic Times reported that the RHEF had been upgraded from a “prior permission” grantee to an FCRA licensee, and that four of the firm’s five directors are part of the Ashoka leadership. Two of them — Ashish Gupta, MD of the competitive exam coaching firm Jamboree Education, and Vineet Gupta, CEO of data analytics firm Benori Knowledge Solutions — are also trustees of Ashoka University. Neither responded to queries from this newspaper. Former diplomat K.C. Singh tweeted: “Saw a report in one of the newspapers that #AshokaUniversity has been given FCRA clearance for setting up a new campus at Mohali, Punjab. If true, explains the whole @pbmehta episode as MHA gives that clearance.” Former Union minister Ashwani Kumar said: “The trustees of the premier educational institution are clearly the principal villains, in not standing up to those who wanted Mehta to pay the price for his intellectual integrity…. This is the moment for academia and public intellectuals to collectively fight for their space as keepers of national conscience and to remind the powers that be that the power of their pen will not be captive to the lure of wealth or to the brute power of a muscular State.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Fire breaks out at Singhu farmer tent||A fire broke out in a tent at Delhi’s Singhu border where farmers have been protesting the government’s controversial agriculture laws, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Saturday. Sukhwinder Singh, a protester, said the incident took place around 10am near an under-construction flyover where the tent had been put up. However, there was no official word about the incident from police or the fire department. The tent was completely burnt, the SKM, the umbrella outfit spearheading the agitation, said. A man was injured while trying to extinguish the blaze. The tent was burnt after a cylinder caught fire, the SKM said. There were 10 to 12 people inside the tent when the fire broke out. Five mobile phones, 20 mattresses, 20 chairs and dry rations were destroyed, the SKM said, adding that a fire tender from Kundli doused the blaze. Hundreds of farmers are camping at Delhi’s borders at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri since November demanding repeal of the Centre’s three contentious farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||India-US push for defence and security partnership||India and the US on Saturday called for deepening of defence and security cooperation to meet “today’s and tomorrow’s challenges”, amid increasing Chinese aggression in the Indo-Pacific region. Visiting US defence secretary Lloyd Austin, after bilateral talks with defence minister Rajnath Singh, described the partnership with India as a “central pillar” of the American policy for the Indo-Pacific. “India, in particular, is an increasingly important partner amid today’s rapidly shifting international dynamics. And I reaffirmed our commitment to a comprehensive and forward-looking defence partnership with India as a central pillar of our approach to the region,” Austin said while reading out his statement at Vigyan Bhavan after the talks. Austin said that as the Indo-Pacific region faced acute transnational challenges such as climate change and the need to ensure a free and open regional order, cooperation among like-minded countries was imperative to securing the shared vision for the future. “Despite today’s challenging security environment, the partnership between the United States and India… the world’s two largest democracies… remains resilient and strong,” he said. Austin’s is the first visit by a top member of US President Joe Biden’s administration to India as part of the efforts to forge an alliance of countries seeking to push back against China’s increasing assertiveness in the region. He had visited Japan and South Korea before arriving in India. Austin had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his arrival on Friday and held talks with national security adviser Ajit Doval. Responding to a query whether the US had ever believed over the past year that a war between India and China was imminent in view of the border standoff in Ladakh, Austin said: “To my knowledge, we have never considered that India and China were on the threshold of war.” The Indian and Chinese armies have been involved in a border face-off in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Twenty Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troopers were killed in a fierce clash in the Galwan Valley last June. Asked what India and US could do together to counter the Chinese aggression in the Indo-Pacific, Austin said: “Working together with like-minded countries is the way to check any aggression in any region.” In his statement the defence secretary said: “We discussed opportunities to elevate the US-India Major Defence Partnership… a priority of the Biden-Harris administration through regional security cooperation, military-to-military interactions and defence trade. “In addition, we are continuing to advance new areas of collaboration, including: information-sharing, logistics cooperation, artificial intelligence; and cooperation in new domains such as space and cyber.” Austin said he and Rajnath discussed engagement with like-minded partners through multilateral groupings such as the Quad and Asean. “And I am confident that, together, we can build a partnership fit for today’s and tomorrow’s challenges,” Austin said. In his statement Rajnath said: “Our discussions today focussed on our wide-ranging defence cooperation and expanding military-to-military engagement across services, information sharing, cooperation in emerging sectors of defence, and mutual logistics support.” “We reviewed the wide gamut of bilateral and multilateral exercises and agreed to pursue enhanced cooperation with the US Indo-Pacific Command, Central Command and Africa Command. Acknowledging that we have in place the foundational agreements, LEMOA, COMCASA and BECA, we discussed steps to be taken to realise their full potential for mutual benefit.” Rajnath also urged US industry to invest in India’s defence sector and take advantage of liberalised foreign direct investment (FDI) policies. “India is committed to further consolidate our robust defence partnership with the United States,” the defence minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Opposition parties cry foul on farm report||Opposition parties were left scrambling for an explanation after a parliamentary panel in which they had representation green-signalled one of the three contentious farm laws in a report tabled in Parliament on Friday. In the report tabled in the Lok Sabha, the Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution recommended that the government “implement the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, in letter and spirit, and without… hindrances so that the farmers and other stakeholders of farming sector in this country receive the benefits intended under the said Act”. A day later, the Congress and Trinamul Congress, which has the chairmanship of the committee, said the report was a misrepresentation and evidence of the BJP’s “dirty tricks department in action ”. Saptagiri Sankar Ulaka, a Congress member of the panel, wrote to the Lok Sabha Speaker on Saturday, dissociating himself from the panel’s report on “Price Rise of Essential Commodities — Causes and Effects”. In his letter, Ulaka said the draft report of the committee was sent by email on Wednesday evening at 7pm and adopted the following morning between 10am and 10.30am under acting chairman Ajay Misra Teni. “I was not present when the report was adopted as the meeting was called at a short notice of merely 15 hours,” Ulaka said. The minutes of the meeting say Ulaka was present but it is possible that he was not there when the report was adopted. The Telegraph tried to contact him but could not reach him. Referring in particular to the recommendation of the panel “to implement the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, in letter and spirit”, Ulaka said in the letter, “I completely dissociate myself with this recommendation, and record my dissent to the report in line with the stand expressed by the Congress Party” in and outside Parliament. Ulaka said he had opposed the three farm laws at the meeting of the committee on December 16, 2020, but there is no reference to this in the report. As per rules, dissent notes are submitted to the committee before the report is finalised. Such dissent notes are tabled along with the report. Flagging the letter, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh said: “MPs of the Congress party DID NOT ask for implementation of the Essential Commodities Act. The standing committee report is a misrepresentation!” Two other Congress MPs who are on the panel have also written to the Speaker to record their dissent. Trinamul’s Derek O’Brien responded: “This is the BJP’s cheap ‘n dirty tricks department in action. Con job was done when Chairman of #Parliament Committee was not at meeting. @aitc position on #FarmLaws and Essential Commodities Act well documented. Withdraw draconian laws #FarmersProtest.” Trinamul is under particular attack because the panel is headed by its senior leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay, who was not present on Friday. Other Opposition parties represented in the panel include the National Conference, Shiv Sena, NCP, Aam Aadmi Party and the Samajwadi Party. Some of their representatives were present at the meeting. While the BJP would have been able to push through the report even if all Opposition MPs were present and protested,  the report would have recorded their dissent. Fauzia Khan of the NCP who did attend the meeting told this newspaper: “Well, the copy of the report was handed to us but there was no discussion on it and we had to rush to Parliament, so we did not get an opportunity to read the contents.” Upset with the panel report, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella outfit of protesting farmer unions, urged the committee to withdraw the recommendations. “It is entirely disgraceful that many parties which have been claiming support to the farmers’ agitation for repeal of the three farm laws have voted for the implementation of the ECAA. This exposes a wider consensus amongst these parties on these laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Dattatreya Hosabale elected as general secretary of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh||Dattatreya Hosabale, seen as close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was on Saturday elected sarkaryavah (general secretary) of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh for the next three years. Sangh parivar sources said Modi had tried to get Hosabale elected to the post since assuming power in 2014 and had now succeeded after failing in 2015 and 2018. Although the sarkaryavah is the second in command after the RSS chief or sarsanghchalak, he practically runs the organisation as the executive head. The sarsanghchalak is the ideological head, functioning as “philosopher and guide”. Hosabale, a 65-year-old native of Karnataka, was elected at the triennial meeting of the Sangh’s highest decision-making body, the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha, in Bangalore. In the wider Sangh parivar, Hosabale’s elevation is being seen as Modi tightening his grip over the ideological parent that is known to exert influence on the affairs of the BJP and its government. Modi has already seen off his fierce critic Praveen Togadia, who was ousted as international president of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad in an election in 2018. Till now, certain RSS lobbies had been able to thwart Modi’s efforts to get Hosabale elected Sangh general secretary, arguing the ideological parent needed freedom from political interference. This line of argument had allowed the outgoing general secretary, Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi, 73, to hold on to the post for four consecutive three-year terms since 2009. However, after Modi led the BJP to an overwhelming victory in the 2019 general election, it became virtually impossible to block his choice, Sangh sources said. Modi is now being seen as the undisputed leader not only of the BJP and the government but of the entire Sangh parivar, emerging as its “ideological mentor and guide”, a senior Sangh official said. Unlike Atal Bihari Vajpayee whose reign as Prime Minister was marked by battles of attrition with the Sangh, Modi has succeeded in keeping the parent body happy and gradually gain sway over it. Indeed, by fulfilling the Sangh’s longstanding ideological commitments, such as those on the Ram temple and Article 370, Modi has in the eyes of many risen above the ideological parent. The RSS nowadays rarely criticises any government decision it does not like. For instance, sources said, the Sangh feels the government has failed to handle the farmers’ protest well but doesn’t dare say so. At the Bangalore meeting, the Sangh’s official position was that “anti-national and antisocial” elements were not allowing the farmers’ movement to end. Many in the Sangh and the BJP, however, said that Hosabale had earned the post given his talent, and that his organisational skills would be crucial to the party’s expansion efforts in the south. “Dattatreyaji hails from Karnataka and can speak Hindi, English, Sanskrit, Kannada and Tamil fluently. These skills are needed if the Sangh and the BJP are to expand their influence in south India,” a BJP leader said. He underlined that the current BJP general secretary (organisation), B.L. Santosh, too was from Karnataka. The BJP is keen to spread its influence beyond Karnataka to other southern states such as Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Hosabale, a former student of English literature, is known for his ability to articulate the Sangh’s ideological positions to the western world and had mentored RSS groups operating in America and Britain. He is also regarded as a staunch backer of the government’s policies under Modi, such as the National Register of Citizens and the Citizenship Amendment Act, and has strong views on religious conversions. “In India secularism has been about minority appeasement and it has been anti-Hindu,” Hosabale had said in the past. He had, however, backed the #MeToo movement. As the new sarkaryavah, Hosabale will be in charge when Modi seeks re-election in 2024. Being only 65, he is expected to get at least a second term and helm the RSS when the organisation celebrates its centenary in 2025.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Ram Madhav sent back to Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh||Ram Madhav, the high profile BJP leader, was on Saturday shunted back to the RSS as a member of the executive working committee. Madhav was dropped as the BJP general secretary in September last year when new party chief J.P. Nadda announced his team. He had come to the BJP from the RSS and was rewarded with a key organisational post as one of the general secretaries of the party under Amit Shah. As the BJP general secretary, Madhav had straddled as a party minder for the northeastern states as well as Jammu & Kashmir. His high profile nature and interventions, however, was learnt to have annoyed the then party boss Amit Shah. Party insiders said Madhav had spoilt his case further by entering into a factional feud with Himanta Biswa Sharma who had crossed over from the Congress and was regarded as an “asset” by Shah. Both Madhav and Sarma wanted total control over the Northeast. Madhav’s return to the RSS reflected the BJP’s firmness to sideline anyone trying to act independently. Despite his seniority, Madhav was not considered for a Rajya Sabha berth that was given to many junior leaders and new entrants. “Ram Madhav now has to start afresh and toil in the RSS before he can make it to the BJP again, and nobody knows when his time will come,” a BJP leader said, accusing him of being “too ambitious”. Now Madhav would be part of the Akhil Bharatiya Karyakarini or the executive working body of the RSS under Hosabale, a Modi loyalist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Covid-19 cases on rise in eight states ||India’s health ministry reported over 40,000 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, raising the count of patients by over 17,000 in a single day after a week during which the spread of the virus was the fastest since August. The 40,953 lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases, over 25,000 in Maharashtra alone, documented till 8am on Saturday increased the number of patients under medical supervision to over 288,000 from around 271,000 a day earlier, the health ministry said. The daily new cases are rising in eight states — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Delhi and Haryana — the ministry said. In Kerala, the epidemic has shrunk with the seven-day average of daily new cases down from over 4,400 a month ago to about 1,800 on Saturday. Six states — Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh — make up 84 per cent of the new cases. “Except in Kerala, we see exponential growth back in almost all the 16 states that have the largest numbers of active cases,” said Sitabhra Sinha, a senior scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who has been tracking the epidemic’s course over the past year. Sinha’s calculations show that the effective reproductive number or R — a measure of the speed of transmission of the virus — for India as a whole has increased to 1.19, the highest since August. Any value above 1 represents an exponential growth. The R value was 1.08 during August-September, declined to 0.88 during the second half of October, rose to 0.93 between November 9 and February 17, rose further to 1.08 between February 14 and March 11, and then to 1.19 between March 10 and 17. “Five among our major metros also show exponential growth with R values greater than 1,” Sinha told The Telegraph. Pune has the highest R with 1.36, followed by Mumbai with 1.28 and Chennai with 1.20. Calcutta’s R value was 1.05 between March 12 and 17, rising from 0.76 during December-January. Sinha’s calculations do not cover the smaller towns where health authorities have recorded the sharpest rises in daily new cases since early March. “Small towns or districts at times show large fluctuations in numbers that make statistical inferences difficult,” Sinha said. India’s Covid-19 epidemic curve displays the start of a second wave, which some epidemiologists had believed was unlikely while others had said was inevitable once the virus began spreading among pools of susceptible people in the smaller towns. Experts said the current wave’s peak and duration would depend on the efficiency of the measures to curb the spread of the virus. “The size of the peak will depend on whether people adhere to the protocols to protect themselves and on the efficiency of the containment measures,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
21-03-2021||India||'Unsigned letter in the name of Param Bir Singh is being verified'||An unsigned letter in the name of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and addressed to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is being verified, a statement from the chief minister’s office said. The letter, which was emailed to the chief minister’s secretariat in the afternoon, accuses home minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption. The home department is trying to contact Singh and the  sender’s email address is being verified because Singh’s email address in official records was different, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
21-03-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik revisits pakhal lunch||Odisha on Saturday observed Pakhal Divas with most people in the state eating the dish called pakhal (water rice) to beat the summer heat. Even chief minister Naveen Patnaik admitted that pakhal was his favourite food and shared a picture of him having the delicacy along with former President late Pranab Mukherjee, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, veteran BJP leader L.K. Advani and CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury in 2018. The picture was taken when these leaders had visited Bhubaneswar for the release of The Tall Man Biju Patnaik, a book on Naveen’s father, and had lunch with him at Naveen Nivas. Sharing the picture on his Twitter handle, Naveen tweeted: “It is always a pleasure to relish Odia cuisine, especially my favourite pakhal, which I have a special liking for. Remember fondly the appreciation of guests from outside the state and country whenever we served them pakhal. Wishing you all a happy Pakhal Divas.” Traditionally pakhal is prepared by keeping leftover rice in an earthen pot with some water and a small amount of curd or lemon added to it. The rice gets fermented after seven to eight hours and turns into pakhal. It is relished most during the months of March, April, May, June and mid-July when the mercury soars. To beat the scorching summer, the rice after being cooked is cooled in a bowl of water. “No one can think of life without pakhal during summer. It has been a tradition since generations. But the dish got a national and international identity only a few years ago,” said Uma Patnaik, a roadside vendor. “One can get a sumptuous lunch comprising pakhal and other items at Rs 100. The water in the fermented rice is known as torani and keeps the body cool and prevents sunstroke. People who toil in the sun have pakhal as it replenishes the salt and water lost by the body. Even at the Shree Jagannath temple in Puri, pakhal is served to the Lord,” said Raja Prasad Mohanty, a small businessman. While people mostly eat pakhal with various kinds of fried items, including fish, the poor have it just with onion and it tastes just as good. “It’s a poor man’s delight,” said Madhusmita Pradhan, a foodie.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
