22-03-2021||India||Maharashtra sees drop in daily count with 24,645 new Covid cases on Monday||A day after Maharashtra reported highest single-day spike since the outbreak of COVID-19, the state on Monday saw a drop in daily count, recording 24,645 new cases. While the caseload increased to 25,04,327, the state also reported 58 deaths due to COVID-19, taking the death toll to 53,457. On Sunday, the state had reported 30,535 cases, while on Saturday 27,126 infections were recorded. On March 18, the state had reported 25,833 cases. The earlier high was 24,896, recorded in September. On Monday, 19,463 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recovered persons to 22,34,330. Among cities, Mumbai reported highest 3,262 fresh cases. The country's financial capital has till now recorded 3,65,937 cases and 11,596 deaths. Out of the total 24,645 new cases reported in Maharashtra on Monday, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) which includes areas surrounding Mumbai too, accounted for 6,212 cases. The total number of cases reported in the MMR so far is 8,01,195 and death toll is 20,075. The Pune circle -- which covers Pune, Solapur and Satara districts, reported 4,737 new cases and five new deaths during the day. In the Nagpur circle, a total of 4,231 fresh cases were reported. The state's recovery rate is 89. 22 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.13 per cent, the health department said. Currently, 10,63,077 people are in home quarantine and 11,092 in institutional quarantine in the state. The number of active cases in the state increased to 2,15,241 on Monday from 2,10,120 a day earlier. With 1,05,830 new tests on Monday, the number of samples tested for coronavirus so far in the state increased to 1,84,62,030, the government said. Maharashtra's COVID-19 tally is as follows: Positive cases: 25,04,327; new cases 24,645; total deaths: 53,457; discharged 22,34,330; active cases: 2,15,241; people tested so far: 1,84,62,030.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||Centre's Delhi Bill passed in Lok Sabha amid opposition, setback for AAP govt||A bill that accords more to the Centre over Delhi was passed by by Lok Sabha on Monday amidst strong opposition from the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party which said that the legislation is "unconstitutional". The bill, which seeks to make it clear that the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor", is now a step closer to becoming a law, a definite set back to the Arvind Kejriwal government. It will now be placed before Rajya Sabha. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 had become necessary as there have been ambiguity in certain issues related to the functioning of the Delhi government and several cases were also filed in courts. "Please do not say that it is a political bill. It is being brought to end ambiguity in certain issues as Delhi is a Union Territory. It will end certain confusion or technicality and enhance the efficiency of the administration," he said. According to the bill, the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor". The bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before any executive action. Delhi's ruling Aam Aadmi Party has opposed the bill. Chief Minister Kejriwal had even urged the central government to take back the bill and said the AAP dispensation was ready to fall at the Modi government's feet for its withdrawal. Reddy said there has been a cordial relation between the central and Delhi governments since 1996 and all differences were resolved through discussions. However, since 2015, some issues have come up and cases were filed before the Delhi High Court, which also gave certain rulings. Reddy said the court had also ruled that the L-G should be informed on executive issues of the city government. He said when the GNCTD Act was enacted in 1991 by the then Congress government, Delhi had been made a UT with an assembly with "limited legislative powers". "We did not do that. It was a Congress government which piloted the Act then," he said. Reddy said the LG is an administrator so he has the right to know the day-to-day affairs. "We have not snatched any power from the Delhi government nor we have given any additional power to the LG," he said. He strongly objected to some Opposition members' reference that the "Modi government is dictatorial" and said the NDA government has not done anything wrong or new but just ended ambiguity and brought clarity on the Delhi government. Participating in the debate, Congress member Manish Tewari said the bill is "unconstitutional" as it encroached upon the powers of the city government. AAP member Bhagwant Mann also strongly opposed the bill and demanded its roll back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||Pawar rules out resignation of Maharashtra home minister over ex-top cop's claims||Corruption allegations levelled by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh pertain to a period when the latter was hospitalised and hence the question of his resignation does not arise, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said on Monday. “We got information that Deshmukh was hospitalised at that time in Nagpur. The allegation (of Singh) pertains to exactly the same period when he was in the hospital. There is a hospital certificate," Pawar told reporters in Delhi. In his eight-page letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh on Saturday claimed Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels. Singh had also alleged in the letter that Deshmukh had called Mumbai police API Sachin Waze around mid-February at the minister's official residence and told him to collect Rs 100 crore a month. Deshmukh had rubbished the charges the same day. Deshmukh was admitted to a Nagpur hospital between February 5 and February 15 after testing positive for COVID-19 and was being analysed from February 15 to February 27, Pawar said during the media briefing. The NCP chief also read out a certificate from the hospital in this regard. "All (state) government records also say that for the entire three weeks, he (Deshmukh) was not in Bombay (Mumbai). He was in Nagpur, which is his home town. That's why in such a situation, the question (of seeking resignation) does not arise," Pawar said. The former Union minister also said that there is no substance in the BJP's demand that Deshmukh should step down till the time allegations against him are probed. Referring to Singh's letter, Pawar also wondered why the IPS officer took a month to level the allegation if he had the information that Deshmukh had called Waze around mid- February and asked him to collect funds. The NCP president said the main case pertains to an explosives-laden vehicle being taken near industrialist Mukesh Ambanis residence. Pawar said the ATS has arrested two persons in connection with the death of businessmen Mansukh Hiran, whose vehicle was used to carry the explosives. "The main case was that and I think the Bombay ATS is going in the right direction," he said. Earlier in the day, former Mumbai Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh moved to the Supreme Court seeking direction for immediate "unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair" CBI probe into alleged corrupt malpractices of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Singh, a 1988 batch IPS officer also sought quashing of the order transferring him from the post of Mumbai CP alleging it to be arbitrary and illegal. As an interim relief, Singh sought stay of the operation of his transfer order and direction to the state government, the Centre and the CBI to immediately take in its custody the CCTV footage from the residence of Deshmukh. "The Petitioner has invoked writ jurisdiction of this Court to seek unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair investigation in the corrupt malpractices of Anil Deshmukh, the Home Minister of Government of Maharashtra, before the evidences are destroyed," he said in his plea. Deshmukh had been holding meetings in February 2021 at his residence with police officers including Sachin Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai and Sanjay Patil, ACP Social Service Branch, Mumbai, bypassing their seniors and had instructed them that he had a target to accumulate Rs 100 crore every month and had directed to collect money from various establishments and other sources, Singh alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||BJP demands resignation of MVA govt, seeks CBI inquiry into allegations against Anil Deshmukh||The BJP on Monday demanded resignation of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government headed by Uddhav Thackeray in the wake of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh's claim that the state's Home Minister Anil Deshmukh set a Rs 100-crore collection target for the police every month, and sought a CBI inquiry into the allegation.  Raising the issue during Zero Hour in Lok Sabha amidst protests by the Shiv Sena and the NCP, BJP member Manoj Kotak said that according to Singh's letter to the chief minister, the state's home minister had asked suspended Assistant Police Inspector (API) Sachin Waze to collect Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants in the metropolis every month.  Kotak said the letter reflected that those who are in the government were using officials in collecting money but the chief minister so far has not uttered a single word on the issue.  "It is a serious matter. The home minister should resign, the Maharashtra government should resign and there should be a CBI inquiry into the whole issue," he said.  BJP member Rakesh Singh that the issue is so serious that it can't be termed a state subject as it has a national implication.  Singh said that the former police commissioner's letter showed that the top functionaries of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government were involved in collecting huge amounts of money through illegal means.  "The allegation against the state home minister was made by none other than the former police commissioner. What was the compulsion of the chief minister to defend an API-rank official, who was in suspension for 16 years, in a press conference," he asked.  Singh claimed that a senior politician from the state had changed his stand after telling that it was a serious matter and there should be an inquiry into it.  "What is the fear. Is there any fear of spilling the beans about those who get cut. If Rs 100 crore collected from Mumbai alone, what would be the figure for the entire Maharashtra," he asked.  He demanded that the MVA government should immediately resign and there should be an impartial inquiry into it.  Another BJP member Kapil Patil said that it was not for the first that such a letter has been written by a senior police officer and even a DGP-rank officer had written a similar letter in the past.  "A senior leader had said that it is a serious matter but he changed his tune overnight. What is the fear? Fear of spilling the beans?" he asked.  However, Shiv Sena member Vinayak Raut strongly defended the MVA government and claimed that the BJP has been hatching a conspiracy to defame the Shiv Sena-Congress-NCP dispensation for the last 14 months so that a BJP government can be installed in Mumbai.  "The issue is nothing but part of BJP's big conspiracy," he claimed.  Raut alleged the former Mumbai police commissioner who wrote the sensational letter was the "most corrupt police officer".  The Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress part of the MVA government in Maharashtra.  Congress leader in Lok Sabha Ravneet Singh Bittu claimed that the central agencies were being used against opposition ruled states for one or the other pretext.  "Why such things are happening in opposition ruled states. It is not only in Maharashtra but across the country that the central agencies are being used to destabilise the opposition ruled government," he alleged.  Independent MP from Maharashtra Navneet Rana claimed that the present chief minister had spoken to the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for reinstatement of Waze when he was under suspension.  "The then chief minister had flatly refused. But when the current chief minister took charge, the first decision he took was to reinstate Vaze. Because of the chief minister such things are happening in Maharahstra," she asked.  BJP member Poonam Mahajan said if Rs 100 crore is collected every month from Mumbai, for five years the amount would be Rs 6,000 crore.  Mahajan said the NCP leader's statement convey that no one will resign even if they take illegal money.  Meanwhile, NCP member Supriya Sule accused the treasury benches of rigging the 'zero-hour' saying that while eight members from one side were allowed to speak on the Maharashtra issue, no one from the other side was given the chance.  Participating in the discussion on the Insurance Amendment Bill, she said, "It is a black day for democracy."  She said those who do not create disruptions or enter the well of the House should not be penalised for following the rules and their voices should not be curbed.  Sule also wondered how could the BJP speak with so much ill-will against its former and long-term ally Shiv Sena and its leader Uddhav Thackeray.  The Maharashtra government on March 17 transferred Singh and appointed senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale as the new commissioner of Mumbai Police.  Days after he was shunted out, Singh wrote a letter to Thackeray alleging that the state home minister had asked Sachin Waze, currently in custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), and other police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly, including Rs 50 crore to Rs 60 crore from bars and restaurants in Mumbai.  Deshmukh had denied these allegations.  The NIA is probing Waze's alleged role in placing an explosives-laden SUV outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence on February 25.  The SUV was in possession of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was found dead at a creek near Mumbai. The case related to the death of Hiran was also handed over to the NIA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||No bike rallies in poll-going seats 72 hours before V-day, rules EC||The Election Commission on Monday banned 'bike rallies' 72 hours before the date of polling and on the polling day in all election-going constituencies amid reports that "anti-social elements" use motor bikes to intimidate voters. In a directive issued to chief electoral officers of poll-bound West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry, the poll body pointed out that it has been brought to its notice that "in some places bikes are used by anti-social elements to intimidate the voters before the poll day and/or on poll day." After considering the reports, the Commission has decided that "bike rallies shall not be allowed at any place 72 hours before date of poll or on the poll day in all poll-going constituencies," the directive said. The EC also asked its chief electoral officers to inform all stakeholders concerned, including candidates, political parties and the Commission's observers, to ensure strict compliance of the directions. Elections to the five assemblies will begin on March 27 and the counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||PM Modi launches 'Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Catch the Rain' campaign on World Water Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched 'Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Catch the Rain' campaign for conserving water and stressed that every penny of MGNREGA funds be spent on rainwater conservation till the monsoon arrives. Addressing an event at the virtual launch of the campaign on World Water Day, Modi said it is a matter of concern that majority of rainwater in India gets wasted. He said the more the rainwater is conserved, the less will be the dependence on groundwater. The prime minister urged that every penny of MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) funds be spent on rainwater conservation till the monsoon arrives. The event was also attended by a number of panches and sarpanches from across the country. Participating through virtual mode, some of them also shared their experiences towards water conservation. The prime minister said India's self-sufficiency is dependent on its water resources and water connectivity, and its fast-paced development is not possible without effective water conservation. He also urged the people to use water judiciously. The 'Catch the Rain' campaign will be undertaken across the country, in both rural and urban areas. It will be implemented from March 22 to November 30 - the pre-monsoon and monsoon period in the country. The campaign aims to take water conservation at grass-root level through people's participation. It is intended to nudge all stakeholders to create rainwater harvesting structures suitable to the climatic conditions and subsoil strata, to ensure proper storage of rainwater.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||Ex-Mumbai police chief moves SC, seeks CBI probe against Deshmukh||Former Mumbai Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh moved the Supreme Court on Monday seeking direction for immediate "unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair" CBI probe into alleged corrupt malpractices of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Singh, a 1988 batch IPS officer also sought quashing of the order transferring him from the post of Mumbai CP alleging it to be arbitrary and illegal. As an interim relief, Singh sought stay of the operation of his transfer order and direction to the state government, the Centre and the CBI to immediately take in its custody the CCTV footage from the residence of Deshmukh. The Petitioner has invoked writ jurisdiction of this Court to seek unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair investigation in the corrupt malpractices of Anil Deshmukh, the Home Minister of Government of Maharashtra, before the evidences are destroyed, he said in his plea. Deshmukh had been holding meetings in February, 2021 at his residence with police officers including Sachin Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai and Sanjay Patil, ACP Social Service Branch, Mumbai, bypassing their seniors and had instructed them that he had a target to accumulate Rs 100 crore every month and had directed to collect money from various establishments and other sources, Singh alleged. He said it is reliably learnt that on or about August 24-25, 2020, one Rashmi Shukla, Commissioner Intelligence, State Intelligence Department, had brought to the notice of the Director General of Police, who in turn brought it to the knowledge of the state's Additional Chief Secretary Home Department, about corrupt malpractices in postings / transfers by Deshmukh based on telephonic interception. She was shunted out rather than taking any firm action against said Anil Deshmukh , he said. Deshmukh had been interfering in various investigations and was instructing the police officers to conduct the same in a particular manner as desired by him, Singh added. Such act of Deshmukh in abuse of the official position of the Home Minister, whether in calling and directly instructing the police officers of lower rank such as Vaze or Patil for his malicious intent of extorting money from establishments across Mumbai and from other sources or whether in interfering in the investigations & directing the same to be conducted in a particular manner, or whether indulging in corrupt malpractices in posting /transfers of officers, cannot be countenanced or justified in any democratic State , he said. Singh said that fair CBI investigation is thus warranted in each of such acts of Deshmukh in abuse of the official position of the Home Minister and added that he has brought the corrupt practices in the knowledge of the senior leaders and the Chief Minister of the state immediately. He said that thereafter, on March 17, by a notification of the Maharashtra government he was transferred from the post of the Police Commissioner of Mumbai to the Home Guard department in an arbitrary and illegal manner without the completion of the minimum fixed tenure of two years. The said transfer was maliciously effected purportedly under Section 22 N(2) of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951 with the reason that the transfer was necessitated by administrative exigencies , he said in his plea. The senior police officer further said that it is a settled law that the orders have to stand on the reasons contained in the same and no reasons can be supplemented later. Referring to the February 25, incident of Antilia, residence of businessman Mukesh Ambani, where a car with explosives was found leading to a bomb scare, Singh said that he believes that the reason for the transfer noted by the state government in its file is to ensure a free and fair investigation in the case. He said that the said case is being now investigated by the NIA, and Sachin Vaze, officer of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai has been arrested for custodial interrogation by NIA. All necessary assistance had been rendered by petitioner's office and his officers for the conduct of a free and fair investigation by the ATS and the NIA into the Antilia incident. It is not even case of NIA that the petitioner had in any manner obstructed in free and fair investigation by NIA , he said. Singh said that such transfer in the said circumstances is for reasons smeared with malice , when there is no iota of material or evidence -far from proof- found or even imputed against the him and is solely based on conjectures, surmises and pure speculation. He further said that having made such startling revelations he apprehends further malicious and coercive actions at the instance of disgruntled Home Minister in abuse of his powers. He said that Deshmukh while mechanically denying the contents of the letter dated March 20, submitted to the Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, has issued a press release threatening to initiate defamation proceedings against him. He sought directions to safeguard him from any further coercive steps apprehended in the retaliation for laying bare the corrupt malpractices of Deshmukh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||BJP ensured peace and development in Assam: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday said BJP has ensured peace and development in Assam during the last five years and alleged that this was in contrast to violence and instability during the Congress rule. Addressing the first of three election rallies in Assam during the day, Shah alleged that five years ago when Congress was in power, there was agitation, violence, bomb blasts, deaths and curfews were common. "Aatankwad ka nanga naach charo aur chal rahi thi (there was the naked dance of insurgency was going on all around). "Rahul Gandhi talks of protecting Assam's 'asmita' (pride and identity), but today I want to ask him publicly - will Congress do it with AIUDF Chief Badruddin Ajmal on his lap?" he said. "If by chance Ajmal comes to power, will Assam be safe from infiltrators? Do people want more infiltrators to come into the state?" he asked. He also accused the Congress of a policy of divide and rule, while stating that BJP's policy is 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas'. The Congress has created a rift between Assamese and Bengalis, plains and hills and Upper and Lower Assam, while the "BJP has taken all smaller communities together and bonded them through development," Shah claimed. "This is an election for people to decide whether they want peace and development....This is an election for not electing MLAs or a Chief Minister but to ensure that development continues and Assam's pride and glory is further enhanced," he said. He further asserted that it was evident from the enthusiasm of the people that the BJP was going to form the government for a second consecutive term in Assam. Besides Jonai, Shah will also address an election rally at Majuli from where Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal is contesting for a second consecutive term, and at Udalguri. He is also scheduled to attend a meeting of party workers at Guwahati in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2 pm amid uproar over Maharashtra issue||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 2 pm on Monday amid uproar over corruption allegations in Maharashtra. As soon as the Question Hour began, treasury bench members raised the Maharashtra issue with Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the Chair, asking them to allow the proceedings. Amid the din, he asked members to ask supplementaries. However, as soon as Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi answered supplementaries, the Chair Asked Chaya Verma (Cong) to proceed to the next question. However, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar raised the Maharashtra issue referring to the alleged corruption in the state. The chair then adjourned the House till 2 pm amid the uproar. The protests were in connection with former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh's claim that Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels in Mumbai. Singh, who was transferred to the low-key Home Guards on March 17 following the arrest of police officer Sachin Waze in the case related to the bomb scare near Mukesh Ambani's house Antilia, in a letter to the Maharashtra chief minister had claimed that he was made a scapegoat. In the eight-page letter, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh used to call police officers to his official residence and give them a "collection target" from bars, restaurants and other establishments. The Maharashtra Chief Minister's Office, in a release on Saturday, said Singh's "unsigned letter" was not sent from his official email ID and efforts were on to contact him to verify it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||Stan Swamy's bail plea rejected in Elgar Parishad case||A special NIA court here on Monday rejected the bail plea filed by tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Additional sessions court judge Judge DE Kothalikar rejected bail pleas of 83-year-old Swamy on merits as well as on medical grounds. Swamy, a Jesuit priest and activist, was arrested from Ranchi in October, 2020, and has since been lodged at the Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. As per his lawyers, Swamy is suffering from Parkinson's disease and he has lost the ability to hear from both his ears. He also suffers from several other ailments. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had opposed Swamy's bail plea saying probe had revealed that Swamy was a staunch supporter of organisations such as 'Vistapan Virodhi Jan Vikas Andolan' and 'People's Union for Civil Liberties', which were working as "fronts of the CPI (Maoist)". Swamy's lawyer Sharif Shaikh had argued that the NIA had failed to establish Swamy's connection to the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||Mayawati slams Yogi govt over Hathras incident||BSP chief Mayawati on Monday targeted the Yogi Adityanath government over the Hathras gangrape case, saying new facts emerging in the matter have raise serious questions on the working of the state government. Her remarks come in the backdrop of the Allahabad High Court directing the Hathras district judge and CRPF Inspector General, central sector, to inquire whether the prosecution witness and the lawyers of the Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and died due to injuries were threatened before a special judge during the trial on March 5. In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said the difficulties faced by the family of the Hathras gangrape victim in getting justice are well known, but the new facts in this regard revealed in the court have once again raise serious questions on working of the state government in ensuring justice to the victim. The high court taking cognisance of new facts in the Hathras case and ordering an inquiry into threats to witnesses and other issues has put the UP government in the dock and the people have been forced to think as to how victims will get justice,"' she said. "Is the common perception that criminals rule in UP and it is very difficult to get justice wrong," she asked. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". Directing the special judge (SC/ST Act) Hathras to conduct in-camera proceedings of the trial henceforth, the bench had warned that if any person tried to disturb the trial or attempted to threaten the life, liberty and property of the victim's family and the witnesses in any manner, it would take very serious action, including initiating contempt proceedings. The bench was hearing an application moved by the victim's brother who alleged that on March 5 that a mob, which included some lawyers, created a ruckus in the trial court and threatened the lawyer and two witnesses who had come to depose in the court on that date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||India logs 46,951 fresh Covid cases, 212 casualties in a day||India added 90,797 cases of coronavirus in two days with 46,951 new infections being recorded in a span of 24 hours, the highest so far this year, taking the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,16,46,081, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. Registering an increase for the 12th day in a row, the total active caseload has increased to 3,34,646, which now comprises 2.87 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has further dropped to 95.75 per cent, the data stated. The daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 130 days, while the death toll increased to 1,59,967 with 212 daily new fatalities, the highest in 72 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 47,905 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 12. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,11,51,468 and the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.37 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 23,44,45,774 samples have been tested up to March 21 with 8,80,655 samples being tested on Sunday. The 212 new fatalities include 99 from Maharashtra, 44 from Punjab, 13 from Kerala and 10 from Chhattisgarh. A total of 1,59,967 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 53,399 from Maharashtra, 12,599 from Tamil Nadu, 12,434 from Karnataka, 10,956 from Delhi, 10,306 from West Bengal, 8,759 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,189 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||Covid alert over Kumbh Mela||The daily observed counts of new Covid-19 cases among pilgrims and residents at the ongoing Kumbh Mela in Haridwar could rapidly rise into a surge, India’s health ministry warned on Sunday, also expressing concern that the site had inadequate testing facilities. The ministry said a central public health team that had visited the Kumbh Mela had noted that 10 to 20 pilgrims and 10 to 20 residents were testing positive every day in Haridwar, where about a million people are expected to congregate for dips in the Ganga daily up to April 30. “This positivity rate has the potential to rapidly turn into an upsurge in cases given the expected footfall during the Kumbh,” the health ministry said, citing the teams’ concerns, which Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has conveyed to the Uttarakhand chief secretary. The health ministry had earlier this year asked the state to augment its facilities and adopt steps to curb the spread of Covid-19 through the Kumbh, where about five million people are expected on four auspicious days — April 12, 14, 21 and 27. The ministry has told Uttarakhand the daily testing numbers in Haridwar — 5,000 PCR tests and 50,000 of the less reliable antigen tests — are not enough to “effectively offset” the huge expected pilgrim footfall and asked it to increase its testing capacities. Health officials are concerned that any surge in Covid-19 cases through the congregations at the Kumbh could overwhelm healthcare facilities in the Haridwar-Rishikesh-Dehradun area, which has around 2,800 hospital beds. The health ministry had in January guidelines for the Kumbh Mela asked the Uttarakhand government to ensure that only pilgrims who carry negative PCR test reports, obtained within 72 hours before their arrival in Haridwar, are allowed into the Kumbh. But public health experts say the daily case counts detected by the central health team during their visit earlier this month suggest that Covid-positive pilgrims had arrived in Haridwar despite those guidelines. Officials and experts are worried that the Kumbh congregations have the potential to turn into super-spreader events, where a few infected people rapidly spread the virus to large numbers of others. “It would be extremely challenging to do contact-tracing after such a mass gathering,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. The Haridwar Kumbh Mela, which started on February 27, comes at a time India's Covid-19 epidemic is headed towards a second peak. Health authorities on Sunday recorded 43,846 new Covid-19 cases nationwide, the highest daily count this year and nearly half the average of 93,000 cases witnessed during the peak of the first wave in September last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||Joint statement by Ashoka University and profs who quit||A joint statement released around 1.30am on Sunday by Ashoka University’s management and two eminent academics who have quit amid allegations of curbs on free expression attempted to put a lid on the controversy. While reaffirming their affinity with the varsity, the professors — BJP critic Pratap Bhanu Mehta and former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian — have not withdrawn their resignations. The students too are set to continue with their two-day class boycott from Monday over the lack of transparency in the university’s functioning. The tone of the joint statement, whose signatories included Mehta and Subramanian, marked a departure from that of the resignation letters of the two professors. It read: “The chancellor (Rudrangshu Mukherjee), vice-chancellor (Malabika Sarkar) and the chairman (Ashish Dhawan) of the board of trustees of Ashoka University (all co-signatories) express deep regret at the recent events surrounding the resignations of Prof. Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Prof. Arvind Subramanian who have been extraordinary colleagues and faculty members at Ashoka University.… We acknowledge that there have been some lapses in institutional processes which we will work to rectify in consultation with all stakeholders.” It added: “Pratap and Arvind would like to emphasise that Ashoka University is one of the most important projects in Indian higher education. They are sad to be leaving Ashoka, especially its outstanding students and faculty. They continue to believe strongly that Ashoka University should embody a liberal vision and commitment to academic freedom and autonomy. And they remain lifelong friends and well-wishers of the institution and are committed to its success wherever they are. They remain available for advice and consultation to the university in the future.” Mehta had said in his resignation letter on March 15: “After a meeting with founders it has become abundantly clear to me that my association with the university may be considered a political liability. My public writing in support of a politics that tries to honour constitutional values of freedom and equal respect for all citizens is perceived to carry risks for the university.” Subramanian had said in his resignation letter two days later: “That even Ashoka — with its private status and backing by private capital — can no longer provide a space for academic expression and freedom is ominously disturbing.” A little before the joint statement was issued, Mehta had emailed students and faculty addressing them as “Dear Superheroes”. The letter was an acknowledgement of the agitation the students have announced demanding a divestment of powers from those who fund the university to elected student and faculty representatives and the administrators who run the institution. Mehta’s email said: “Ashoka as an institution stands indicted before your bracing moral clarity and deep political wisdom. Your protests instantly grasped what we, your elders, failed to adequately understand. Your protest was not about two individuals. It was about Ashoka’s institutional integrity. But it was also about the dark and ominous shadows that loom over India(n) democracy. “As we worry about Ashoka, you also reminded us that the challenges we face pale in comparison with what our academic colleagues in universities elsewhere in India face. You connected the dots. Your protest was focussed on Ashoka. But it was about values larger than Ashoka.” The email added: “So what can we, those who let you down, say to you? The first thing I will say is this. In all candour, this episode will be seen to have hurt Ashoka’s reputation. But in a larger sense Ashoka’s reputation will be enhanced, not by what the university did but what you did…. “I hope the trustees and faculty will work with you to secure your renewed trust and confidence. With your guidance they will be able to secure the institutional autonomy and freedom Ashoka needs. You embody the courage, reasonableness and understanding of democratic values that will take the university forward. I request you to work with them to make Ashoka a success.” Mehta also said: “The underlying circumstances that led to the resignation will not change for the foreseeable future, in my case, at any rate. So I must close this chapter. I urge you not to press on this matter. I know you will be disappointed. But if I may exercise one last bit of professorial discretion: your mission is larger than the fate of two professors.” Mukherjee and Dhawan too wrote long letters to the varsity community. The flurry of letters comes a day before the start of the class boycott that the Ashoka University Student Government has called against the resignations, which it has attributed to “a gross violation of academic freedoms”. On Saturday it had been reported that four of the university’s founders had obtained a licence from the Union home ministry to receive foreign funds to start another university in Chandigarh. The administration was already being accused by students of having forced Mehta out to pave the way for easier land acquisition and the recognition of a course. Dhawan, three other founders and Sarkar met students and alumni online on Sunday. Besides denying allegations of foul play and underhand deals with the government, Dhawan stressed that Mehta had not been asked to quit. A source who attended the meetings told The Telegraph: “The founders said there were conversations about whether his writings could be misconstrued as the views of Ashoka. They did not ask students to call off the strike.” Dhawan said in his letter: “I deeply regret any lapses that led to this situation — this was not something we had anticipated or planned…. As we move forward, there are certain things that need to change. For one, the last few days have taught us it is really important for us to build an open line of communication and also listen to you.” Mukherjee asserted the founders “have never interfered with academic freedom” while interpreting this as freedom for the faculty to decide curricula and the methods of teaching and assessment. Neither Mehta nor Subramanian has alleged interference over these matters. The eminent historian and chancellor said: “Today when the founders are being attacked for trying to compromise and curtail academic autonomy and freedom of expression, I find it necessary as chancellor, and given my association with Ashoka from its inception, to state unambiguously that the founders have never interfered with academic freedom: faculty members have been left free to construct their own courses, follow their own methods of teaching and their own methods of assessment. They have also been left free to carry out their own research and publications.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||JNU meet on entrance exam ||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) will on Monday discuss a proposal to take part in the government-conceived Central University Common Entrance Examination by discontinuing its own test for admission. The Academic Council chaired by in-charge vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar will take up the matter at a time around 20 members have questioned the 2018 decision to outsource the JNU Entrance Examination to the National Testing Agency (NTA). The National Education Policy has recommended a common entrance exam for admission to central universities. The old central universities conduct their own entrance tests. Around a dozen new central universities admit students through a common exam. The education ministry wants all central universities to participate in the common entrance test in the coming academic session itself. The Academic Council and Executive Council of each university have to pass a proposal on joining the common entrance exam plan. After the JNU Academic Council meets on Monday, the Executive Council will discuss the matter on March 26. The JNU Teachers’ Association on Sunday questioned the authority of the in-charge VC to hold a meeting of the Academic Council on such a crucial issue. The JNU statute is silent on the powers of an in-charge VC. Kumar completed his tenure in January, and is now officiating as VC till a regular appointment is made. The JNUTA called Kumar’s decision to hold the meeting an “abuse” of power. “The continuation of Prof. Jagadesh Kumar as the VC as per the order of the MoE is not an extension of his term and places him only in a position of an interim administrator until the appointment of a new VC. Implicit in this arrangement is the understanding he will not indulge in exercising powers in this interim period that are otherwise part of the official duties of a regular VC,” the JNUTA said in a statement. JNUTA secretary Mousumi Basu said she had written to the education ministry and the University Grants Commission, the higher education regulator, asking them to clarify if the in-charge VC enjoys all the powers of a regular VC. The Telegraph sent an email and made phone calls to VC Kumar to ask about the teachers questioning his authority to hold the meeting but received no reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||Tag of ‘largest illiberal democracy’ on India||India was derided as “the world’s largest illiberal democracy under Narendra Modi” during a festival of ideas organised by the Financial Times in London and watched by an influential cross-section of its readers in over 100 countries. The comment came during an exchange between Edward Luce, once the Financial Times’ South Asia bureau chief based in Delhi and author of In Spite of the Gods: The Strange Rise of Modern India (2007), and the author and journalist Fareed Zakaria, who was the recipient of the Padma Bhushan in 2010. The FT Digital Festival Spring Edition, from March 18-20, managed 60 sessions and brought together “over 100 of the world’s brightest minds for an epic three days of talks, tastings, performances and demonstrations”. Speakers included Nobel Laureates Venkatraman Ramakrishnan and Kazuo Ishiguro; former Bank of England governor Mark Carney; the married Turkish origin scientists behind the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine, Özlem Türeci and Ugur Sahin; Financial Times editor Roula Khalaf, the first woman to hold the post; China expert Rana Mitter of Oxford University; historian Simon Schama; and Martin Wolf, the Financial Times (usually very pro-India) chief economics commentator. In the concluding session on Saturday, which discussed, “Can Biden’s America regain world leadership?”, Luce, now the Financial Times’ US national editor and columnist, reminded viewers that although Zakaria had lived in America for over 40 years, he was “born and raised in what was then called Bombay”. “And India is of course a much bigger power than it was when you left,” he began. “It is also just about able to claim it is the world’s largest democracy — I would argue (it is) the world’s largest illiberal democracy under Narendra Modi,” added Luce, setting the tone of his exchange with Zakaria. He suggested that world’s 10 acknowledged leading liberal democracies, including notably the US, “would have to criticise it (Modi’s government) for turning non-Hindu citizens gradually into second class citizens. Yet India is critical as a counterbalance to China. How does Biden thread his needle through that one?” Zakaria, who is considered a foreign affairs expert, was equally critical of the Indian Prime Minister. “So far the Biden administration has seemed to essentially ignore the decay of democracy in India,” he said. “I think it’d be very hard to find much discussion of it.” “Let me give you one example. There is an enormous amount of attention on how the Chinese government is treating Muslims in Xinjiang, the Uyghurs — correctly so, properly so. What the Chinese are doing is appalling, (it) is probably a crime against humanity. “Where there’s very little attention to (is) how the Indian government is treating Muslims in Kashmir, which is also appalling. If you look at what has happened to Kashmir — and in some ways this goes back to before Modi — but over the last 40 years, Kashmir has essentially been ruled by martial law.” He went on: “The rule of law does not apply; democracy does not apply; the habeas corpus does not apply. And that’s just one example.” Zakaria added: “I think that the tragedy of what is going on in India — and it is a tragedy — is that Hinduism, by its nature, is a very pluralistic, open, accommodating religion. It may be the most accommodating religion in the world. To be a Hindu, you can believe in one God, you can believe in 300, you can believe it is absolutely necessary to be a vegetarian not to kill God’s creatures, you can absolutely believe that it’s entirely alright to eat meat. “It is so synchronistic and open — in its core, there is such a sense of tolerance and non-violence that it’s a tragedy that Hindu nationalism — which is really a kind of imported European weaponised conception of Hinduism — has begun to dominate the country.” “And you’re absolutely right,” Zakaria agreed with Luce. “Muslims in India have already become second class citizens. And I think it’s fair to say it’s not just Muslims; it is happening to the small number of Christians as well. It’s happening to other religions. “What you’re seeing is India behaving in ways that are typical of autocracies, expelling foreign journalists, expelling or harassing in some way or the other NGOs.” Zakaria went back to the past: “The great pride of India, even in the 1960s and ’70s, even when it was very poor, was that it was very open and had a vibrant free press — the Rockefeller and Ford Foundations were welcomed and honoured. “And now what you see is a country that behaves more like Putin’s Russia, Erdogan’s Turkey, with the kind of deep suspicion of independent media, deep suspicion of NGOs: people are locked up, jailed, questioned, intimidated. These are some of the softer elements that have gone as well.” Zakaria then dealt with the question Luce had raised: “And to your point, the democratic 10, or whatever you call them, it’s only going to have meaning if it has deep moral legitimacy, because ultimately, these countries don’t all share strategic interests in common. “Many of them have very different attitudes towards geopolitical issues, but they could have a shared conception about democracy and the great threat to democracy right now is illiberal democracy. “We’re not seeing a lot of coups: what we’re mostly seeing is the degradation of democracy from within — what is happening in Hungary, what is happening in Turkey, what happened in Russia. People forget now, but then 2000 in Russia was actually a democracy. So it’s that which has to be criticised, which has to be judged which has to be shored up against. And what do you do in India (when it) is one of the key perpetrators of the problem rather than the solution to it?” It is not known whether anyone sent in a question or comment challenging the characterisation of Modi advanced by Luce and Zakaria. Luce moved on to the rest of the discussion with a cryptic: “It’s a very good question. And I’m sure we’ll return to it another time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||Pressure on Modi govt on Sri Lanka human rights situation||The Narendra Modi government faced pressure from both electoral ally and foe on Sunday to vote for the UNHRC resolution voicing concern over the “deteriorating human rights situation” in Sri Lanka, after Colombo claimed India had promised support during Tuesday’s vote. Referring to the claim by Sri Lanka foreign secretary Jayanath Colombage, DMK chief M.K. Stalin said this had shocked all Tamils. “The Government of India should never take any stance that means injustice for Sri Lankan Tamils,” he said, adding that the Prime Minister should take steps for a probe by the International Court of Justice into Sri Lanka’s actions. Stalin claimed New Delhi had over the past decade always voted against Colombo in the matter of Sri Lanka’s rights record. This is only partially correct. During the seven times the matter came up since the end of the Sri Lankan civil war, India has voted once with Colombo, twice against it and abstained once. During the abstention, India had argued that the resolution did not take into account the reconciliation measures Sri Lanka had adopted. The last three resolutions were adopted without a vote as the Sri Lankan government had co-sponsored them. The PMK, a BJP ally in the AIADMK-led coalition for the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, too has demanded that India vote in favour of the UNHRC resolution. The resolution urges Colombo to undertake a thorough and impartial investigation and, if necessary, prosecution relating to all the allegations of gross human rights violations and serious breaches of international humanitarian law. There has been no official word from the external affairs ministry on how India will vote on Tuesday. When the damning report of the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights was presented to the UNHRC last month, India’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva had referred to New Delhi’s consistent position supporting Sri Lanka’s unity and territorial integrity. The official had also called for the full implementation of the 13th Amendment conceived in the India-Lanka Accord of 1987, which provides for power-sharing with provincial councils.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||Mumbai allies sniff plot in top cop charges||Maharashtra’s ruling combine sees in former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s allegations a larger conspiracy to destabilise the state government but hasn’t ruled out sacrificing home minister Anil Deshmukh in this political battle. Singh, recently removed as Mumbai police chief in the aftermath of the discovery of a car with explosives near Mukesh Ambani’s Mumbai home, has accused Deshmukh of setting the city police a target of collecting Rs 100 crore per month through extortion. All the three ruling allies — the NCP, Shiv Sena and the Congress — seem to have closed ranks, suspecting a deeper political motive. However, they are dealing separately with the question of “image crisis” and will meet on Monday to decide on NCP politician Deshmukh’s continuance. While NCP veteran Sharad Pawar has made it clear that removing or retaining a minister is the chief minister’s prerogative, he has said his party would offer its views on Monday after hearing Deshmukh. Pawar has summoned Maharashtra NCP chief R.R. Patil and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, also the legislature party leader, to Delhi for discussions. Sena chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, said to be image-conscious, had removed Sena minister Sanjay Rathod after he was accused of links with a woman who committed suicide. Sources, however, said Uddhav was aware of the possibility that the sacked police chief was playing a deeper game. Congress leaders declined to discuss the issue publicly as the NCP and Uddhav were tackling it, but hinted at a conspiracy. Pawar, who has acknowledged that “all alternatives, including the removal of the home minister” are on the table as the allegation is serious, has stressed that the former police commissioner has hit back only after being removed. “The allegation that the home minister instructed collection of Rs 100 crore per month is serious. But there is no information about actual collection and handing over of the money to the home minister or his staff. This is an allegation,” Pawar told a news conference. “The former police commissioner made the wild allegation after the government decided to transfer him. There are allegations against the home minister and there are allegations against the former police commissioner.” He added: “I have been told that Sachin Waze, the sub-inspector who was suspended 16 years ago, was reinstated by the (then) police commissioner (Singh), not by the chief minister or the home minister. And soon after his reinstatement, the (then) police commissioner gave him a sensitive assignment.” Waze has been arrested in connection with the purported murder of Mansukh Hiren, an auto dealer who was once in possession of the car found near Ambani’s home and was found dead in a creek in Thane this month. Admitting serious lapses by the Mumbai police, Pawar said: “The wife of Mansukh Hiren... has blamed Waze for his death. The government made a conscious decision to remove Singh as police chief. He did not want to register a case in the suicide of seven-term MP Mohan Delkar, saying Dadra and Nagar Haveli police should investigate. That was wrong when he committed suicide in Mumbai. “My suggestion is that the allegations made by the former police commissioner should be investigated by Julio Ribeiro, the former (Mumbai) police commissioner, who has a very high reputation.” Asked if Rs 100 crore can be collected through extortion in Mumbai in a month, Pawar said: “Talk to any officer in Mumbai, they will laugh.” He said any effort to topple the state government would fail and flagged the Delhi visits by state BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis and Singh before the controversy broke. Many NCP and Sena leaders suspect Singh of acting in collusion with Fadnavis and accuse him of playing a double-game while he was Mumbai police chief. They allege that even the TRP case against Arnab Goswami was weakened. The Congress chose to accuse the BJP of hypocrisy and corruption instead of directly dealing with Singh’s allegations. Party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi flagged yet another high court stricture against Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa and wondered why Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union home minister Amit Shah hadn’t uttered a word on the subject.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||Kobad Ghandy revisits years in jail||Ten years in jail could either cripple one’s mind and body, or remove its clutter and give one unique insights into life behind and outside the bars. Kobad Ghandy, the 74year old activist who spent a decade in seven jails of six states, experienced the latter. Londoneducated Ghandy, from a wealthy family in Mumbai, is a living relic of an era of intellectual churning and youth angst that swept India from the late 60s. Several courts have acquitted him on charges of being a member of the banned CPI(Maoist). In 2016, a Delhi court acquitted him of terrorism charges but held him guilty of cheating and forgery for using fake identities. He was released in 2019, and lives with his sister in Mumbai still attending court hearings in several states and coping with multiple ailments. In an interview over email about his recent book Fractured Freedom: A Prison Memoir, Ghandy spoke about his evolved views on socialism, his late wife and activist Anuradha’s critique of communism and caste, and his time in jails. Academic and fellow activist Anuradha died in a Mumbai hospital in 2008 of complications caused by falciparum malaria. Also suspected of being a Naxalite, she was wanted by police at the time of her death. Q. Could you please explain the nature of your and Anuradha’s activism in the years preceding your arrest? Are there any misgivings you have with electoral democracy and what is your view on how these problems can be resolved? Ghandy: In Maharashtra, Anu and I mostly lived and worked amongst Dalits. We also did a lot of trade union work amongst workers. In the 1970s when we were in Mumbai, we worked in the Dalit bastis and we were part of the Dalit Panther movement. Also, amongst the unorganised workers. After the Emergency we initiated the formation of the CPDR and the civil liberties movement in Maharashtra by the formation of the Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights (CPDR).  In 1982, we shifted to Nagpur and after a couple of years settling in, moved to the biggest Dalit basti in Maharashtra, Indora. In Nagpur, while Anu taught sociology to postgraduate students in the university we also worked extensively amongst the working class and Dalits of Vidarbha. Anu became a mass leader much in demand to address public meetings all over the region. Taking up the caste/Dalit question was not acceptable to the Marxist/Naxalite circles which saw it as a diversion from the ‘class’ struggle. Right from the time of the Panther movement in 1993, we wrote article after article that it is incumbent for Marxists and revolutionaries to take up the caste question which is a specificity of the Indian situation. But initially there was much resistance. We wrote internally within the group and also our articles were printed in English (like in Frontier) and Marathi (like Satyashodak Marxsvad). Finally, it was Anu’s magnus opus over 100page analysis which was printed posthumously in the book Scripting the Change which has given the most extensive analysis of the caste/Dalit issue from a Marxist/revolutionary point of view. The important points are: (a) no democratisation of the socioeconomic system is possible in India without the annihilation of the caste system, which is intrinsically undemocratic and hierarchical. (b) there are probably three reasons why the Marxists in India of all hues (including the Naxals) did not give sufficient attention to the caste/Dalit question though all maintain the stage of revolution in India is democratic: (i) the Indian Marxists have tended to be very dogmatic taking mechanically from the Soviet of Chinese experiences (ii) The leadership came mostly from the uppercastes, which in itself was not a problem as generally Marxist leaders anywhere  are mostly from intellectual background; but the problem lay in that the subtle impact of their subconscious mind, programmed chiefly in childhood, were not able to change radically by the mere change in ideology. This obviously reflected in subtle forms of caste, patriarchal and other such feelings; and (iii) the practical problem; that the bulk of the cadres and masses under their influence would be from OBC or higher caste with their biases; so it would be convenient to brush the caste issue under the carpet while mobilising them on economic issues and for votes. Q: Which was the worst prison you had to live in, and why? Is there any prison that you have fond memories of or which was better than the rest? Ghandy: The worst prison was Tihar where in fact I spent the longest time as there the legal process too was the worst — the single case dragged on for nearly 7 years in a fasttrack court even though I had very fair judges and an excellent team of top lawyers!!! For details you could see in the book: in the living conditions and the regular transfers; the mulaqaat (visitation) system which was demeaning and tiring for any visitor and the transport system (to court and hospital) where I was de facto locked within a cage in the police van with three levels of gates all locked from the outside in spite of twenty AK47 wielding cops. All other jails had none of this. Though in Surat and Patiala, I was there for barely a month the best was Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam which were more like hostels where Naxalites are given the status of political prisoner. (His book mentions a report of his failing health in this paper that led to his transfer from Tenughat SubDivisional Jail to Loknayak Jaiprakash Narayan Central Jail, Hazaribagh, where access to health care was easier.) Q: Who were the most interesting people you met in prison? Did you and them have any impact on each other's political views? How did your worldview evolve during your incarceration? Ghandy: The most interesting was (Parliament attack convict, executed in 2013) Afzal Guru as he was wellread and introduced me to subjects that I knew little about like Rumi, Islam etc. Also there was Sudheendra Kulkarni (a former aide to PM Vajpayee), but he was there very briefly. Besides these, there were the dons of North India in Tihar and Jharkhand jails who were interesting, the aides (Narayan) Ganju and (Popular Liberation Front of India guerrilla Bajiram) Mahto (who was killed in a gun battle with police in 2019) in Jharkhand (Hazaribagh) jail and some tribal inmates who gave me a picture of the state and its long history of tribal revolts; and there was the alleged tribal leader (Chadda Bhushanam of the CPI(Maoist)) in Visakhapatnam jail from that area who gave me a picture of the Odisha movement. Q. The rise of Hindutva nationalism has also led to the unity of hitherto disparate political dispensations, like the alliances of Congress with communist parties including the CPIMLLiberation? As a Marxian economist how do you view this new found unity, and what advice would you have, if any, for revolutionary (ML) school of communism in India? Ghandy: Whichever party is in power they are following the neoliberal agenda in their economic policies, basically dictated by the International Monetary Fund, World Economic Forum, and the US ‘thinktanks’. It is not a coincidence that the bulk of our financial advisors and think tanks are linked to US universities. As I mention in my book these polices are highly antinational and lead to a huge drain of the wealth of our country to the West. Over and above this, all top corporates, politicians, bureaucrats, etc. transfer both legally and illegally massive amount of wealth to tax havens abroad. (Vijay) Mallya, Nirav Modi, arms dealers in the list are only the tip of the iceberg. That is why only a genuine swadeshi policy (not a fake one) which prevents this massive drain (if calculated it may be more than in British times) there is no question of the development of our country. Add to that the loot of the crony capitalists of the Adani, Ambani types, real estate mafia, financial bloodsuckers, not to mention the gigantic NPAs of the banks - how can our country develop? Today it is not the question of the rich vs the poor but the question of a handful of top corporates/financial blood-suckers and their huge retinue of hangers-on (in politics, bureaucracy, police, etc) versus the rest of the Indian people. We need a Bajaj-type entrepreneurship not the crony capitalist types nor those surviving off fraud, govt. doles/gifts and foreign funds. On a one-acre farm a family of five can comfortably survive then why are the bulk of our peasants so deep in debt and starving and committing suicide? Q. In your book, you have mentioned that, “The goalposts have to be changed from fighting inequality to happiness for all.” Can you explain this? Is this your rejection of the basic tenets of Marxism-Leninism? Ghandy: I have clarified that giving the necessities of life is the starting point to happiness. But what I am maintaining is that it cannot be restricted to a mere economic demand and has to go beyond. In fact, what I mention is the essence of Marx’s utopia, which I have quoted. I have clearly shown in the book that capitalism have only brought horrors for the people (worse are to come) while a form of socialism is the only answer. If one seizes the wealth of the 3,300 billionaires of the world, for example, and also that of the illegal wealth in tax haven one can veritably build a paradise on earth rather witness the destruction of millions and wrecking of nature. The entire third section of the book is devoted to a vision of the future drawing lessons from my half century of activism. I ask the question as to why when I came to communism in the late -1960s half the world was moving in that direction and just in my life time when the situation is much worse no such alternative exists? To answer that question, I say that into the project for radical change we must incorporate threes aspects: happiness, freedom and democracy and a new value system based on the Anuradha model of simplicity and naturalness. Q. In a recent interview you mentioned the diverse nature of Maoists you observed in Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. Is armed struggle towards establishing a socialist society now a lost cause? Ghandy: I don’t know enough to speak on the issue. But whatever is the form of struggle we find the communist on the back-burner everywhere. Not only in India but also worldwide. Also, we must remember that the successful armed revolutions took place during the world wars where violence had reached unprecedented levels between sections of the ruling classes. Why even the first communist revolution – the Paris Commune – took place amidst the Franco-Prussian war. So, we have to take all experiences including Cuba, Latin America and elsewhere as well as those of Russia and China. The fact is that the capitalist existing system is already resulting in horrors for the masses; an alternative is urgently needed. Just see what the head of the World Economic Forum, (Klaus) Schwab, has written in his latest books – it is a blue-print for a 1984 and worse. His Great Reset formulation protects the billionaires, says robots will take over production and people must survive on the mercy of the governments. It seems the concept of Universal Basic Income which governments are trying to push through is part of his Great Reset formula. Q: How has life been on the outside? Any Rip Van Winkle like experiences that you would like to share? How emotionally difficult has it been for you to reconnect with your family, the Zoroastrian community, and Mumbai—which you had been distant from for several decades? Ghandy: It has no doubt been difficult adjusting back but I have been surprised by the type of support I have been getting from the Parsi community as also my Doon School class mates. Actually, both Anu’s and my parents fully supported our activities and Anu’s brother’s family and my sister’s family have been supportive all through the incarceration and now even after release. With no home to turn to, it is my sister and her husband in whose house I stay in Mumbai and it was my sister-in-law who showed me the ropes to settle back into society helping with getting my documentation. I have been very fortunate. Also, some old friends have been very helpful in correcting and improving this book. Q: It must have been difficult to de-class yourself when you returned from London to do activism in India. Was it also difficult to be accepted by the people you lived and worked amongst? Any advice to those who wish to de-class themselves for political reasons? Ghandy: It is no doubt that de-classing and living in a basti was difficult and travelling by cycle and bus in the hot Nagpur heat was not easy to adjust to, but then both of us would have found that living an ordinary middle-class life and talking of revolution a bit hypocritical. By giving our full to the movement and the poor, I have been able to more easily draw the conclusions I have in the third section. If we had participated half-heartedly one could not have authoritatively made the same comments. Of course, there is no question of now returning to grass roots work as my health would not take it given my age, 74. And after all, in all professions one retires at a particular age. Besides, I feel I have more to give by conceptualising my lengthy experiences from which, maybe, future generations can gain. As far as acceptance from the people I think if one is sincere poor people accept you for what you are. It was not difficult. Lately I went back after 40 years to the slum from which I started in Worli, Mayanagar. Even after so long the youth of that time was so warm telling the journalists that it was I who awakened them. I am just thinking that I had then just returned from London, would have hardly known any Hindi, let alone Marathi, but their warmth was very touching.  As far as what the young generation needs to learn, the entire third section of the book is geared to them, to partake in the project for change with the lessons I have outlined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
