23-03-2021||India||Bihar police bill passed by Assembly amid unprecedented chaos||Unprecedented chaos erupted inside the Bihar assembly on Tuesday when police was called inside to assist the marshals in evicting unruly opposition members who tried to physically prevent the Speaker from taking his Chair.

Sources in the five-party Grand Alliance said on condition of anonymity that there were instructions from "leadership" that the House must not be allowed to function on the penultimate day of the month-long budget session.

The bone of contention was Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, which the Nitish Kumar government has introduced in a bid to give its police more teeth, deemed necessary in view of the increasingly complex security needs of the state which has been witnessing rapid economic growth.

The opposition, however, termed it as a "black" legislation, taking strong exception to provisions that empower the Special Armed Police, previously known as the Bihar Military Police, to conduct searches and arrests without producing a warrant.

The Bill was, nonetheless, passed by the assembly late in the evening, well past the stipulated time, amid a "walkout" by opposition MLAs who squatted outside the building and raised slogans, slighted by the manner in which they were ousted from the hall by the men in uniform.

Things had come to the pass after the Speaker was thwarted from taking his seat by a handful of women legislators of the RJD who had clambered on to the podium even as many other MLAs created ruckus in the well, threw away the chair of the Vidhan Sabha secretary and prevented staff from bringing in another piece of furniture.

Tempers flared up in the treasury benches as well. The normally affable cabinet minister Ashok Choudhary was seen getting physical with an RJD MLA who tried to snatch away the papers from BJPs Prem Kumar, who occupied the chair while Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha took his time to recover from the shock over the turn of events during the day.

Sinha had around 3 P.M. adjourned proceedings till 4.30 P.M., for the umpteenth time during the day.

He was held hostage inside his chamber by opposition legislators who surrounded it from all sides preventing his exit.

Top officials of the district and police administration had to contend with an RJD procession led by Tejashwi Yadav earlier in the day, taken out in protest against the bill and rising unemployment, which resulted in injuries to many protesters and police officials as stones were hurled and lathi charge use of water cannons was ordered.

The Dak Bungalow crossing, where the protestors clashed with the police upon being prevented from marching to the assembly, witnessed lawlessness as vehicles parked by the roadside were vandalized and many journalists covering the event also suffered injuries.

The officials were summoned to the Vidhan Sabha premises in the afternoon to rope in police personnel for helping the marshals who were far outnumbered by the legislators laying siege to the Speakers chamber.

A few MLAs of the RJD and its ally CPI(M) fell unconscious outside the Vidhan Sabha premises where they were dumped by the security personnel. Later, they alleged that they were "severely beaten up".

Another RJD MLA appeared before the camera with his hand wrapped in plaster and declared "members of the ruling coalition broke my arm in presence of the Chief Minister who chose to look away".

Disturbing images of some legislators being pulled by the hair and kicked and male police personnel dragging a female MLA have also gone viral on the social media.

Tejashwi Yadav, who was inside the Vidhan Sabha premises in the afternoon, having spent the first half leading the procession and courting arrest, tweeted angrily "Nitish Kumar, if you are indeed a man, get us shot instead of getting us beaten up".

It was a day of uncharacteristic anger shown by the cool- headed young leader who was seen engaged in an angry spat with an Additional SP in the evening after the police was done with helping the marshals in eviction of problematic opposition legislators.

Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who witnessed many of the unsavoury incidents with distaste, said "there seem to be many new legislators who need to be trained in parliamentary behaviour.

"Had the opposition allowed the House to run, the government would have addressed its concerns. But, that opportunity was frittered away".

The Speaker, visibly shattered by the utter chaos of which he happened to be at the receiving end, said before winding up, "many unfortunate things have happened. This cannot be allowed to recur.

"Action will be taken against those members who might have indulged in vandalism on the floor of the House"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
23-03-2021||India||Suspension of scheduled international passenger flights extended till April 30||The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till April 30, Indian aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Tuesday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the DGCA added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with 27 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA circular also said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
23-03-2021||India||Enhance RT-PCR tests, Centre tells states in fresh guidelines||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in some parts of the country, the Centre on Tuesday asked all states and union territories to enhance proportion of RT-PCR tests, strictly enforce test-track-treat protocol and speed up the pace of vaccination to cover all priority groups. Issuing fresh guidelines for April, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said keeping in view the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases, the new positive cases, detected as a result of intensive testing, need to be isolated or quarantined at the earliest and provided timely treatment. The state governments and UT administrations should strictly enforce the test-track-treat protocol in all parts of the country, ensure observance of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour by everyone and scale up the vaccination drive to cover all the target groups, the guidelines said. All contacts have to be traced at the earliest, and similarly isolated and quarantined, it said. The Home Ministry said based on the positive cases and tracking of their contacts, containment zones shall be carefully demarcated by the district authorities at the micro level taking into consideration the guidelines prescribed by the Union Health Ministry. The states and UTs where the proportion of RT-PCR tests is less should rapidly increase it to reach the prescribed level of 70 per cent or more of total tests. The authorities, based on their assessment of the situation, may impose local restrictions at district or sub-district and city or ward level, with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19, the guidelines said. The ministry said the government of India has launched the world's largest vaccination drive against Covid-19. While the vaccination drive is proceeding smoothly, the pace is uneven across different states and UTs and, the slow pace of vaccination in some states and UTs is a "matter of concern", it said. The guidelines said that the vaccination against Covid-19, in the present scenario, is critical to break the chain of transmission and hence all state and UT governments should rapidly step up the pace of vaccination to cover all priority groups in an expeditious manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
23-03-2021||India||Centre opens up vaccination drive, all above 45 can get jabs from April 1 ||All people above 45 years of age can get vaccinated against Covid-19 from April 1, the Centre said on Tuesday amid a surge in cases in several states. "I appeal to every citizen who is 45 or above to register for vaccination," Union minister Prakash Javadekar said, announcing the expansion of the drive that started in January. According to the minister, 4.85 crore people had received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine and 80 lakh have received the second dose. More than 32.53 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine were administered on March 22, which is the highest single-day vaccination so far, taking the total number of people inoculated to over 4.8 crore, the health ministry said. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated and vaccination of the frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination commenced on March 1 for those who are over 60 years and for people aged 45 and above with specific comorbid conditions. Tuesday’s decision, taken by the cabinet on the basis of the advice of the Coronavirus Task Force and experts, comes on a day the  health ministry said the doubling time of Covid-19 cases in India had decreased from 504.4 days on March 1 to 202.3 days on March 23. Six states _ Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu _ have reported a surge in daily new cases and together account for 80.90 per cent of the new infections reported in a day. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 24,645 (60.53 per cent). It is followed by Punjab with 2,299 cases and Gujarat with 1,640 new cases. Ten states -- Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan -- are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new Covid-19 cases, the ministry said. India's total active caseload is rising after touching its lowest mark in mid-February, the ministry highlighted. It increased to 3.45 lakh (3,45,377) on Tuesday, a net rise of 10,731 cases recorded from the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Three states -- Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab -- accounted for 75.15 per cent of total active cases in the country. Maharashtra alone accounted for 62.71 per cent of the total active cases in India. The doubling time decreased from 504.4 days on March 1 to 202.3 days on March 23. India's cumulative recoveries surged to 1,11,81,253, with 29,785 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Besides, 199 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Fourteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Jammu and Kashmir, Goa, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland. Javadekar was asked on Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh's appeal to the Centre to widen the scope of vaccinations to younger people, given the spike in cases of the UK variant in his state. The Union Minister said he was "not a health expert and did not know the nuances of the UK variant".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
23-03-2021||India||Vaccination for all above 45 years from April 1||From April 1, all people above 45 years of age are entitled to get COVID-19 vaccine, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said on Tuesday. Briefing reporters on the decisions taken by the Union Cabinet, he said even people without comorbidity and above the age of 45 years, can get vaccinated. "I appeal to every citizen who is 45 or above to register for vaccination," Prakash said, announcing the expansion of the drive that started in January. According to the minister, 4.85 crore people have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine and 80 lakh have received the second dose. Javadekar was asked on Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's appeal to the centre to widen the scope of vaccinations to younger people, given the spike in cases of the UK variant in his state. The Union Minister said he was "not a health expert and did not know the nuances of the UK variant". The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated and vaccination of the frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination commenced on March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specific comorbid conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
23-03-2021||India||81 per cent of 401 samples tested positive for UK variant of coronavirus: Amarinder||Eighty-one per cent of the 401 samples sent by the government for genome sequencing have tested positive for the UK variant of Covid-19, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Tuesday. Expressing concern over the Covid-19 situation, the chief minister urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to widen the vaccination ambit to cover those younger than 60 as the mutant has been found to be infecting young people more, an official statement quoting him said. Amarinder Singh also appealed to people to get themselves vaccinated and stressed the need for the Central government to urgently open up vaccination for a larger section of the population. “The process needs to be expedited,” he said, pointing to the fact that experts had found the existing Covishield vaccine to be equally effective against the UK variant - B.1.1.7. It was essential to vaccinate more and more people to break the chain of transmission, he said. The health ministry on Tuesday said that the doubling time of Covid-19 cases in India has decreased from 504.4 days on March 1 to 202.3 days on March 23, highlighting that six states have reported a surge in daily new cases and together account for 80.90 per cent of the new infections reported in a day. Punjab is one among these six states which account for 80 per cent of cases, and among 10 states showing an upward trajectory of the infection. The state reported 2,319 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally to 2,15,409, while 58 fatalities pushed the death toll to 6,382.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
23-03-2021||India||India emerged stronger despite facing odds during pandemic, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told BJP MPs on Tuesday that despite facing odds such as tension at borders, cyclones and earthquakes during the coronavirus pandemic, India emerged stronger and the entire world realised its potential, said Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal. Addressing the BJP parliamentary party meeting, Modi said he relished all these challenges during the pandemic and the country also overcame them. "Sharing his experiences of the pandemic, Modi told MPs that during the period, the country was not only facing the challenge of the virus, but on others fronts as well. There were tensions on the LAC, cyclones, earthquakes and then there was locust swarm attack but despite all these odds, India emerged stronger and the entire world realised its potential," he said. Meghwal said the prime minister also mentioned that he has been holding public office for more than two decades, first as the chief minister of a state and now as the prime minister, and he has never taken a day off. Besides Modi, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also addressed the BJP parliamentary party meeting. Jaishankar asserted that India's stature rose in the world during the pandemic because of its medical diplomacy of providing antibiotics and testing kits to other nations earlier and for its vaccine diplomacy later, Meghwal said. The external affairs minister also shared details of the Centre's Vande Bharat mission of bringing back stranded Indians from abroad, Meghwal said. Giving a presentation on the Union Budget to the party MPs, Sitharman emphasised that despite the economic impact of coronavirus pandemic the government did not impose any additional tax on the public and came with a comprehensive budget for all, Meghwal said. The prime minister also emphasised on the need for MPs to regularly attend Parliament, sources said. Modi also cited the panchayat elections in Pali, the constituency of BJP MP PP Chaudhary, saying the party won more than 90 per cent seats amid protests on farm laws as he and the party clearly put forward the benefits of these laws to the people and sought votes, the sources said. He also underlined to party MPs that the government's intent behind bringing these farm laws is good and those who are opposing it now will applaud these legislations later, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
23-03-2021||India||SC stays pending proceedings in HCs to regulate OTT platforms||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed proceedings pending before several high courts across the country on pleas related to regulation of over-the-top (OTT) platforms. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud was told by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that despite the apex court's earlier order issuing notice on the transfer plea filed by the Centre to club all such petitions filed in various high courts, the Punjab and Haryana High Court is proceeding in the matter pending there. The bench observed that notice on transfer petition means that proceedings going on have to stay. Mehta said several fresh petitions are being filed in different high courts on the issue. Then we will stay proceedings before all high courts and hear the matter in second week after the Holi break, the bench said. The top court had earlier issued notice on a transfer petition filed by the Centre seeking to club all petitions filed in various high courts on the issue of regulating OTT platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
23-03-2021||India||Doubling time of Covid-19 cases decreases to 202.3 days from 504.4 days||The doubling time of Covid-19 cases in India has decreased from 504.4 days on March 1 to 202.3 days on March 23, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday, highlighting that six states have reported a surge in daily new cases and together account for 80.90 per cent of the new infections reported in a day. Meanwhile, more than 32.53 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine were administered on March 22, which is the highest single-day vaccination so far, taking the total number of people inoculated to over 4.8 crore. Six states -- Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu -- collectively account for 80.90 per cent of the 40,715 infections reported in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 24,645 (60.53 per cent). It is followed by Punjab with 2,299 cases and Gujarat with 1,640 new cases. Ten states -- Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan -- are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new Covid-19 cases, the ministry said. India's total active caseload is rising after touching its lowest mark in mid-February, the ministry highlighted. It increased to 3.45 lakh (3,45,377) on Tuesday, a net rise of 10,731 cases recorded from the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Three states -- Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab -- accounted for 75.15 per cent of total active cases in the country. Maharashtra alone accounted for 62.71 per cent of the total active cases in India. The doubling time decreased from 504.4 days on March 1 to 202.3 days on March 23. Over 4.8 crore (4,84,94,594) vaccine doses have been administered through 7,84,612 sessions, as per the provisional report till Tuesday 7 am. The first dose administration crossed 4 crore mark on Tuesday (4,06,31,153). The 4,84,94,594 people include 78,59,579 HCWs (first dose), 49,59,964 HCWs (second dose), 82,42,127 FLWs (first dose) and 29,03,477 FLWs (second dose), 42,98,310 beneficiaries aged more than 45 to 60 specific co-morbidities (first dose) and more than 2 crore ( 2,02,31,137) beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. As on day 66 of the vaccination drive (March 22), more than 32 lakh (32,53,095) vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 29,03,030 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 48,345 sessions for the first dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 3,50,065 HCWs and FLWs received the second dose of the vaccine. India's cumulative recoveries surged to 1,11,81,253, with 29,785 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Besides, 199 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states accounted for 80.4 per cent of the daily deaths, with Maharashtra and Punjab each reporting 58 casualties. Kerala and Chhattisgarh followed with 12 deaths each. Fourteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Jammu and Kashmir, Goa, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
23-03-2021||India||India records 40,715 Covid-19 cases, 199 deaths in a day||India recorded 40,715 coronavirus cases in a day, taking the nationwide infection tally to 1,16,86,796, while the active caseload at 3,45,377 registered an increase for the 13th day in a row, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The active caseload now comprises 2.96 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.67 per cent, the ministry data updated at 8 am stated. The Covid-19 death toll of the country increased to 1,60,166, with 199 daily new fatalities, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,11,81,253, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.37 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on -November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 23,54,13,233 samples have been tested till March 22, with 9,67,459 samples tested on Monday. Out of the 199 fresh fatalities, 58 each were reported from Maharashtra and Punjab, 12 each from Kerala and Chhattisgarh, and 10 each from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,60,166 deaths due to the disease have been reported so far in the country, including 53,457 from Maharashtra, 12,609 from Tamil Nadu, 12,444 from Karnataka, 10,963 from Delhi, 10,308 from West Bengal, 8,759 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,191 from Andhra Pradesh, the ministry said. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||Covishield dosing window widened between 6-8 weeks||India’s health ministry on Monday asked the states to administer the second doses of Covishield between six and eight weeks after the first dose, citing evidence for greater protective efficacy associated with the longer gap than the current four-to-six-week gap. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a note sent to the states, said the ministry had accepted recommendations from two national expert panels to revise the dosing gap for Covishield, AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine produced in India. “Keeping the existing scientific evidence in view, it appears that protection is enhanced if the second dose of Covishield is administered between 6-8 weeks, but not later than the stipulated period 8 weeks,” Bhushan wrote. A health ministry official said the longer interval would be implemented immediately. The official’s statement implies that  that recipients who get their first doses of Covishield from Tuesday onward would need to return for their second doses between six and eight weeks later. Recipients currently awaiting their second dose would also need to wait longer and take it between six and eight weeks from the date they had taken the first dose. AstraZeneca had on February 3 announced that a study in the UK, South Africa and Brazil had found that the vaccine’s efficacy increased to 82 per cent after an inter-dose interval of 12 weeks or longer compared with about 55 per cent with an interval shorter than six weeks. “The data shows a better response with a longer interval,” said Gagandeep Kang, professor of clinical microbiology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “The question is whether lengthening the gap improves performance even more than we know now. We will not know until we measure this,” Kang added. Kang said another open question was whether a longer gap would lead to better long-term protection. The ministry’s decision to increase the dosing interval for Covishield follows reviews of emerging evidence and recommendations by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation and the National Expert group on Covid-19 Vaccine Administration. India had till Monday evening administered over 47 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to recipients across the country, featuring around 42.8 million doses of Covishield and 4.2 million doses of Covaxin, a home-grown vaccine. The revised interval does not apply to Covaxin, whose dosing interval is 28 days. AstraZeneca on Monday released interim results of its vaccine’s clinical trial in the US that have shown that the vaccine is 79 per cent effective in preventing symptomatic Covid-19 and 100 per cent effective in preventing severe disease and hospitalisation. The US trial, which involved around 32,000 participants, had adopted a protocol where the two doses were administered at a four-week interval. A few European countries had earlier this month temporarily suspended the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine while probing concerns about blood clots in some recipients. The World Health Organisation has, however, said there is no causal link between the vaccine and the clots and that the vaccine’s benefits outweigh any risks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||UGC drafts undergraduate history syllabus: mythology drives ‘Idea of Bharat’||The University Grants Commission has come out with a draft undergraduate history syllabus that some teachers and students said attempted “saffronisation and distortion” by playing up the Vedic period and Hindu religious texts and diminishing the importance of Muslim rule. This is the first time the higher education regulator is attempting to draw up a full-fledged history syllabus instead of issuing general guidelines, academics said. The commission had in the past suggested that individual universities would be allowed only “20 to 30 per cent deviation” from any syllabus it framed. The commission put up the draft Learning Outcome-based Curriculum Framework on BA (history) on its website on February 15 and sought feedback by February 28. ⚫ The first paper of history (honours) in Delhi University (DU) now covers pre-historic times and the early historic period. But the first paper in the new syllabus is on the “Idea of Bharat”, and includes topics such as “Eternity of Synonyms Bharat” and religious literature like the Vedas, Vedangas, Upanishads, Smritis and Puranas. Jeetendra Meena, assistant professor of history at DU’s Shyam Lal College, said the new syllabus glorified religious literature and dropped ancient secular literature such as Kautilya’s Arthashastra, the poems of Kalidas and the ayurvedic text Charak Samhita. “Religious characters and mythological concepts have been given importance,” he said. A third-year history student at St Stephen's College, Delhi, said the new syllabus had introduced uncritical glorification of ancient Indian civilisation by equating it with “eternity”. “History is about understanding the processes of continuity and change. Nothing is eternal in history. To say something is eternal is against the principles of historical research," the student said. ⚫ In the draft syllabus, the third paper, "From Earliest Times to 550 CE", includes features of the "Indus-Saraswati Civilisation" and its continuity, fall and survival. The Saraswati is mentioned in the Vedas but its provenance is disputed. The Sangh parivar insists that the Saraswati existed and symbolised continuity from the Harappan era to later Hindu periods, in contradistinction to the theory of the Aryan invasion. "No such term as the 'Saraswati civilisation', which has been introduced here, existed before," Meena said. "We study the Harappan civilisation. Now the 'Indus-Saraswati civilisation' has replaced it in the draft syllabus. With this term, they have attempted to establish continuity," the St Stephen's student said. ⚫ The 12th paper, on "Cultural Heritage of India", includes topics such as "Ramayana and Mahabharat: Tradition of cultural heritage". The St Stephen's student said some class discussion of the two epics did take place under the current DU syllabus, but the new syllabus's formal coverage of the two books under a separate head sounded ominous. "There's nothing wrong with the teaching of the Ramayana and the Mahabharata as 'sources' of history, but to uncritically valorise them for their own sake will be problematic," the student said. ⚫ The existing DU syllabus has three papers, taught over three semesters, devoted to the period from the 13th century to the 18th. But the new syllabus has just one paper, the seventh, covering this period, reducing the importance of Muslim rule. "Mughal history has in a way been sidelined," Meena said. ⚫ The new syllabus uses the word "invasion" in connection with several Muslim rulers such as Babar - a term the current DU syllabus shuns. "In the draft syllabus, the term 'invasion' has been used only in the case of Muslim rulers, not even against the East India Company," Meena said. ⚫ The seventh paper in cludes topics such as "Hindu society: caste and occupational groups, lifestyle, education, customs and traditions" and "Muslim society: Divisions and occupational groups, lifestyle, education, customs and traditions". "The effort is to suggest a division in terms of Hindu and Muslim society in the mediaeval period," Meena said. "Earlier, we studied how all communities have co-existed and have variously interacted over time. They cannot be studied in isolation." ⚫ Works by several prominent historians have been dropped from the reading lists, such as R.S. Sharma's book on ancient India and Irfan Habib's book on mediaeval India. On the other hand, books by little-known authors, some of them believed to be pro-Sangh, have been included. ⚫ The existing DU history paper that covers the period from 1857 to 1950 features references to Dalit politics, which are absent from the new syllabus. The draft syllabus describes the 1857 uprising against the British as the "First War of Independence", a term coined by Sangh ideologue Vinayak Damodar Savarkar. However, it makes no mention of the uprisings that took place before 1857, such as the Sanyasi Rebellion in Bengal, Paika Rebellion in Odisha and the Polygar Rebellion in Tamil Nadu. The new syllabus is also silent on the 1905 partition of Bengal and the resistance to it. ⚫ Leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Vallabhbhai Patel and Bhim Rao Ambedkar receive less attention compared with the current syllabuses, and there is little content on the spread of communalism in the early 20th century. RSS ideologue Sri Prakash Singh, who teaches political science at DU, defended the changes. "Previously Mughal history occupied too much space. It's not being sidelined but a course correction is being made. There was less content on the kings of south India and other parts. Now they are getting space," Singh said. On the allegation of the glorification of mythology, Singh said: "Oral history is a recognised tool for historical research. These narratives were being ignored but people believe in these narratives." An email and a text message brought no response from UGC chairman D.P. Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||Neither Amma nor Karuna, but ‘so many in the field’ ||As the day temperatures soar, young Kalpana is sweating it out selling fruits piled up into a cone in an aluminium vessel along the highway just outside Chennai. A graduate and a Dalit from a village near Panruti, 150km from Chennai, Kalpana commutes every day to sell guavas in the state capital’s sprawling suburbs. Her women’s self-help group forks out Rs 500 daily to have the fruits transported in a minivan, and at sundown Kalpana returns home with her day’s earnings. “(Narendra) Modi and the BJP have no idea of Tamil Nadu realities,” Kalpana fumed on Sunday, castigating the “cultural imposition from the north” and underlining the lingering after-effects of the 2016 demonetisation that crushed the vast cash-based informal sector. “I’m qualified and should not be doing this job now,” she said. Kalpana always wanted a government job but, barring Covid-time fill-ins, the state administration has virtually frozen recruitments for the past four years. Which is why she is angry not just with the Modi government but also with the AIADMK government of Edappadi K. Palaniswami. “At least (DMK leader) M.K. Stalin learnt politics from his late father M. Karunanidhi,” Kalpana added. Nearby, an elderly Mariamma was selling flowers. “For long years, we used to see only two symbols, of the DMK and the AIADMK. But now there are too many in the field,” she sighed, making her scepticism plain. “As long as Jayalalithaa Amma was there, she would reach out to women and the poor like her predecessor M.G. Ramachandran. But we can’t say that now.” After a pause, she added, “Nobody came to our rescue when the coronavirus broke out....” “The prices of essentials, including petrol and diesel, have gone through the roof. But you can never tell what will happen as long as Modi is at the Centre,” Senthil, an auto-rickshaw driver in small town Kumbakonam, sounded uneasy. The April 6 polls will be the first Assembly election in Tamil Nadu since the deaths of Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa, whose rivalry had dominated state politics for nearly three decades. Segments of the urban middle class, the core constituency of the AIADMK-BJP alliance, are unhappy too. “Chief minister Palaniswami’s performance has exceeded expectations in the last two years, yet the AIADMK’s strike rate in its western bastion of the OBC Gounders (which accounts for 58 of the state’s 234 constituencies) will be less than 50 per cent this time,” said Sathish, an IT professional in Coimbatore. “The younger voters are looking up to Kamal Haasan.” The three new farm laws will definitely go against the AIADMK for being “yoked to the BJP on all major policy matters”, said Perundurai Periyasamy, a CPI leader from the western “Kongu” belt. Purushottaman, panchayat president at Thulasendhrapuram, the ancestral village of US Vice-President Kamala Harris in Tiruvarur district, cautioned against jumping to conclusions. “It’s a tough, multi-party contest this time, and caste is not the only issue. The trend is in favour of the DMK-Congress alliance. But with competitive populism gripping both sides — the ruling party’s offer of free washing machines to housewives being the latest sop — the mood among the neutral voters can change,” he said over the phone. V. Durai Manickkam, president of the CPI farmer body Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, 60 of whose members participated in the farmers’ protests on Delhi’s borders for a week, slammed the “anti-people” farm laws. Seeking to court the minorities, the AIADMK has in its poll manifesto done an about-turn and promised to press the Centre to repeal the Citizenship Amendment Act. After much haggling, the BJP has been given 20 seats while ally PMK will be contesting 23, mostly in its northern stronghold. The DMK has managed to keep its formidable 2019 Lok Sabha poll alliance intact with the Congress, CPI, CPM, the Vaiko-led MDMK, IUML and the VCL, led by Dalit MP Thol Thirumavalavan, among others. Stalin has presented a clear “vision document” for Tamil Nadu’s growth over the next 10 years. “We have carefully avoided freebies in our poll manifesto and focused on need-based, direct income-support schemes,” said DMK parliamentarian T.K.S. Elangovan. Four more combinations make the contest six-cornered. Kamal Haasan, actor and founder-president of the Makkal Neethi Maiyam, spearheads an alliance with the All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi — led by fellow actors Sarath Kumar and Radhika — and the Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi of educationist Pachamuthu. As Kamal Haasan takes on a BJP senior, Vanathi Sreenivasan, from Coimbatore South, he is aghast that both the DMK and the AIADMK have “hijacked” his party’s poll promise of a monthly cash assistance for housewives. The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, led by V.K. Sasikala’s nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran and contesting from Kovilpatti in the south, leads a fourth front. Sasikala, recently freed from prison after serving a sentence for corruption, has tactically stepped aside from politics for the time being. Dhinakaran has allied with the DMDK of actor Vijayakanth, who has quit the AIADMK-BJP alliance, and tied up with Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM in three seats. Actor-director Seeman’s Naam Tamizhar Katchi, a Tamil nationalist group, and the Dalit party Puthiya Tamizhagam, headed by K. Krishnasamy, complete the field.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||Pawar dismisses possibility of Anil Deshmukh’s resignation||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Monday toughened his stance, ruling out the possibility of Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s resignation and dismissing the entire conspiracy as an attempt to divert attention from the real issue of planting explosives near Mukesh Ambani’s residence. Though the other ally, the Congress, was guarded in its response, arguing that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take the final decision in the light of clarifications by Deshmukh and the NCP chief, Pawar shed the ambiguity he demonstrated on Sunday and firmly said that “question doesn’t arise,” about the home minister’s resignation. Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut also showed aggressive intent saying: “If somebody is conspiring to get President’s rule imposed in Maharashtra, let me warn them that they will get charred in this political fire.” Pawar said at a news conference in Delhi: “Anil Deshmukh was hospitalised on February 5 due to Covid and was discharged on February 15. He was advised home quarantine till February 27 and he stayed in his Nagpur home. The former Mumbai police commissioner (Param Bir Singh) said in his letter the meeting (in which he allegedly instructed the police officer to collect Rs 100 crore per month) took place in mid-February. I have the hospital’s documents showing Deshmukh was not in Mumbai at that time.” BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya created a flutter in the middle of Pawar’s news conference by tweeting a video of Deshmukh’s media interaction on February 15, saying this is how lies fall flat. Though Pawar could not effectively handle this bolt from the blue, Deshmukh issued a video statement saying: “I was discharged from the hospital on February 15. Mediapersons were waiting at the hospital to talk to me. I sat there as I felt weak and answered their questions. Then I left for home.” Pawar emphasised that the crux of the matter was who planted explosives in the jeep near Ambani’s residence and how was Hiren (the owner of the vehicle) murdered. He also referred to the investigation by the Mumbai ATS which was looking into other aspects like some people seen getting down from that vehicle and fleeing in an Innova car. “The vague allegation against the home minister was made only to divert attention from the ATS investigation,” he added. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who has been hyperactive in the case, gave a different argument, saying that the meeting in question when the Rs 100-crore instruction was delivered happened in February-end. Though he initially tweeted about Deshmukh’s news conference on February 15, he soon followed up with another tweet saying: “It seems Sharad Pawar ji is not briefed properly on Parambir Singh letter. In this letter only, the SMS evidence (texts between Param Bir Singh and fellow officers) shows that the meeting date was mentioned as end of February. Now who is diverting issue?” The letter, however, mentions mid-February. Congress in-charge of Maharashtra, H.K. Patil, said in a statement that he discussed the issues with senior leaders Balasaheb Thorat and Ashok Chavan and asked them to meet the chief minister. Referring to the clarifications given by Pawar on Sunday, which said even resignation of the home minister was possible, Patil said the core group of the ruling coalition will meet and deliberate on the issue. While the Congress is clearly moving cautiously, some leaders privately admitted this issue could take nasty turns as Singh had moved the Supreme Court in this case and hence there was no need to rule out the resignation of the home minister. Singh on Monday filed a petition before the Supreme Court seeking quashing of his transfer to the home guard department and also demanded a CBI inquiry into the “corrupt malpractices” of Deshmukh. Fearing destruction of evidence, Singh repeated the charges he made against Deshmukh in the letter to the chief minister and also accused him of interfering in police investigations. He said in his petition that the home minister was pressurising him to implicate BJP leaders in the suicide case of Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||BJP corners Uddhav Thackeray government in Lok Sabha||The BJP on Monday sought to corner the Uddhav Thackeray government by repeatedly raising in the Lok Sabha the extortion allegations that former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh has levelled against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. BJP member Rajendra Agarwal, who was presiding over the House in the absence of the Covid-infected Speaker Om Birla, allowed five BJP members to raise the subject one by one during Zero Hour. As they demanded the resignation of Maharashtra’s Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government, Sena and Congress MPs protested, accusing the BJP of plotting to topple the state government. The BJP’s Mumbai Northeast MP, Manoj Kotak, raised the issue first. He referred to Param Bir’s allegation that Deshmukh had instructed the now arrested Mumbai assistant police inspector Sachin Waze to collect Rs 100 crore every month from bars and restaurants. “This is a very serious matter. It shows that those in the government were using officials to extort money from businessmen,” Kotak said. “The home minister should resign, the Maharashtra government should resign and there should be a CBI probe.” Agarwal then allowed another BJP member, Rakesh Singh from Madhya Pradesh, to raise the same subject. “What was the compulsion of the chief minister to defend an API-rank official?” Singh asked, seeking to accuse Uddhav of involvement in corruption. He said the issue had national implications and demanded the state government’s resignation. Singh and another BJP member who spoke after him, Kapil Patil, targeted NCP chief Sharad Pawar although they did not name him since he is not a member of the House. After these three BJP members, Sena House leader Vinayak Raut was called to speak. He asserted that the controversy was part of a BJP design to defame and destabilise the Maharashtra government. “For the last 14 months, they (the BJP) have been hatching a conspiracy. Even the central government is trying to destabilise the (Maharashtra) government,” Raut said. He termed Param Bir the “most corrupt police officer”. The Congress’s new House leader, Ravneet Singh Bittu, said the allegations against Deshmukh were serious, but he also questioned the Centre’s intention and accused it of trying to topple the Maharashtra government. “Why do central agencies interfere in Opposition-ruled states only?” he asked, opposing the BJP demand for a CBI probe. “Maharashtra will not accept central agency interference. You want to topple the Maharashtra government after MP (Madhya Pradesh).” Two more BJP members – P.P. Chaudhary and Poonam Mahajan -- were later allowed to raise Param Bir’s allegations. They too demanded the resignation of the Maharashtra government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||Assembly polls 2021: EC issues ad to back EVMs||The Election Commission of India on Monday published full-page advertisements in leading dailies as well as tweeted a graphic of poll results since 2004 to bolster credentials of the electronic voting machines. The uncharacteristic blitz came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a dig at Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s fears of EVM’s being rigged. Former chief election commissioner S.Y. Quraishi, who weathered a storm of EVM skepticism during his tenure, said it was better to allay concerns through traditional means of outreach like news conferences. The EC’s full-page ads on Monday list the various parties that won the highest number of seats in 127 Assembly polls and four Lok Sabha elections which were conducted with EVMs since 2004. In large fonts, the ad says that 325 crore voters have used EVMs since 2004, and 98 crore voters have used voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines too since 2017. R.K. Laxman’s Common Man character says: “I am an empowered voter,” in the advertisement, with the slogan: “Pride of Indian Democracy EVM & VVPAT.” The logical fallacy in the statement is that the EC has counted the total number of votes cast and not the number of voters. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, almost 61.47 crore people voted. The ad does not touch upon the most serious doubt over the machines, that is bureaucrat Kannan Gopinathan’s claim in 2019 that paper trail machines were vulnerable to being used as Trojan horses to rig the voting machines. The outreach came a day after the Prime Minister told a rally in Bankura on Sunday: “Didi is alleging EVM rigging and manipulation; and this even before elections have begun. She is sensing imminent defeat and is readying an excuse already.” Modi’s statement was preceded by Mamata’s charge that the “BJP goons will try to rig EVMs”, and her party’s demand for a 100 per cent tally of VVPATs with corresponding EVMs — in effect a return to paper ballot. This demand was echoed by CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury in a letter to chief election commissioner Sunil Arora on Monday in which he cited a recent report on EVMs by a group of former civil servants, academics and journalists, headed by former Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur. The Supreme Court had rejected demands of a 50 per cent paper trail count in 2019. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also said at a meeting in Thoothukudi last month: “I don’t believe EVMs are cent per cent secure as they are not accessible and are kept out of the reach of political parties.” The first volume of the NGO, Citizens’ Commission on Elections, report released in January reiterated Gopinathan’s claim, and says: “Due to the absence of End-to-End (E2E) verifiability, the present EVM/VVPAT system is not verifiable and therefore is unfit for democratic elections. It recommends that “The electronic voting system should be redesigned to be software and hardware independent in order to be verifiable or auditable.” Quraishi was CEC in 2012 when the BJP released G.V.L. Narasimha Rao’s book on EVMs titled Democracy at Risk, and when Subramanian Swamy, now a BJP MP, moved court to introduce the paper trail — which the SC ordered the following year. Quraishi told The Telegraph: “We were always open to the media, called news conferences on the issues and held all-party meetings to explain EVMs to them. Chief electoral officers (of states and Union Territories) placed ads on how to use an EVM, but the EC did not advertise for support for EVMs. I have said repeatedly that the best response to criticism is to quickly call a news conference, repeatedly if required, and address the concerns.” He added: “The EC’s argument that different parties have won through EVMs is valid, but did not require an ad. This ad does not even answer Kannan’s objections. A news conference could have been called with technical experts who could have been asked to defend EVMs. We need to take people along because once public trust fades, even ads or news conferences won’t work. The public trusts the EC enough that if we accept our mistakes, they will not suspect us of covering anything up.” Quraishi has questioned the silence of the EC’s technical experts from IITs, which the poll panel had called an “attempt to sully their reputation”, and said it was impractical for them to go public at every instance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||Gandhi Peace Prize for Sheikh Mujibur Rahman||The Narendra Modi government on Monday conferred the Gandhi Peace Prize on Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, ahead of the Prime Minister’s Bangladesh visit that coincides with the first phase of polling in Bengal. On March 27, the first day of voting in Bengal, Prime Minister Modi is scheduled to pay obeisance at Orakandi in Bangladesh, the birthplace of Harichand Thakur, founder of the Matua sect that the BJP is wooing in these elections. The Prime Minister will reach Bangladesh on March 26 for the two-day visit. On Monday, he tweeted: “Gandhi Peace Prize 2020 has been conferred on Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, one of the greatest leaders of our subcontinent. Year 2020 marked the birth centenary of Bangabandhu.” “Bangabandhu’s vision continues to light the India-Bangladesh friendship,” Modi said in another tweet. “I had the privilege of honouring his memory during my previous Bangladesh visit and will again pay homage to him, alongside PM Hasina, during the #MujibBarsho celebrations,” he added. Conferring the award on Bangabandhu is seen as an effort to strike a chord with the people of Bangladesh, given the fears that the Prime Minister could be accused of using a foreign country for electoral gains back home. Santanu Thakur, the Bongaon MP and a leader of the Matua community, is scheduled to accompany Modi on his visit to Orakandi where Harichand Thakur was born on March 11, 1812. The Matua Dalits migrated from Bangladesh during and after the Partition and have a decisive presence in nearly 40 of Bengal’s 294 Assembly constituencies. The promise in the BJP’s Bengal manifesto to implement the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) is aimed at wooing this community. The Bangladesh government issued a statement to acknowledge “with deep gratitude” India’s decision to confer the Gandhi Peace Prize on Mujibur Rahman, “posthumously for the first time”. “It is an honour for Bangladesh and its people for the Father of the Nation to be bestowed with this prestigious award,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||India- China likely to hold 11th round of talks this week||India and China are likely to hold the 11th round of military talks later this week to discuss disengagement of troops from the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh, sources in the defence ministry said on Monday. The armies of the two countries had disengaged last month from the south and north banks of Pangong Tso Lake. A ground assessment by the Indian security establishment earlier this month had suggested that the Chinese army was continuing to strengthen its position at Ladakh’s Depsang Plains, where the Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines, amid the ongoing dialogue for disengagement from all friction points. Sources said the disengagement at the Depsang Plains was going to be a serious challenge as the Chinese troops have continued to cut off the Indian Army’s access to five traditional patrolling points at the Depsang Plains — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff in May last year. The Depsang Plains is strategically very crucial for the Indian Army.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||Kovind donates Rs 1 lakh to Puri Jagannath Temple||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday donated Rs 1 lakh to the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration after offering his prayers to Lord Jagannath at the 12th Century shrine in Puri. Chief administrator of the SJTA Dr Krishan Kumar said: “President was quite happy after the darshan of the trinity.... He presented Rs 1 lakh cheque to the temple administration for the overall development of the Shree Jagannath temple. We explained to him about the state’s initiatives in taking steps for development around the shrine.” Earlier, Kovind had donated Rs 5 lakh for construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. Kovind was accompanied by his wife Savita to the 12th Century shrine. He was welcomed by the Puri Gajapati Dibya Singh Dev. The temple administration presented him a photo of the trinity. Later Kovind visited the 13th Century Sun Temple at Konark before leaving for Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||Tension at Super Speciality Hospital in Rourkela||A day after President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the Super Speciality Hospital at Rourkela in Odisha, patients and workers led by the Left parties barged into the hospital premises on Monday and demanded treatment at Rs 10 per patient as charged by the All India Institute Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi and its other branches. A scuffle ensued after the workers engaged in a heated argument with the hospital staff on the issue of affordable treatment. Sources said some people entered the hospital building taking advantage of the tension and went on a rampage, breaking chairs and tables. However, neither the workers nor the hospital authorities admitted to any loss of property. Rourkela Nagarik Mancha (citizen forum) convener Bishnu Mohanty told The Telegraph: “When we went there with about 20 patients, we found the hospital gates closed. When we tried to enter forcibly, they opened the gates. But all hell broke loose when the hospital authorities demanded Rs 500 as ticket fees instead of Rs 10 charged by AIIMS. How can poor people afford to pay such high fees?” Mohanty said: “We have been cheated. The Prime Minister had announced in 2015 that a super speciality hospital along with a medical college will be set up. Now only the super speciality hospital has been set up. But it lacks staff including doctors. Besides, we want the hospital’s management should be handed over to AIIMS Bhubaneswar so that people will be able to get affordable medical treatment.” Following the intervention of senior officials of the Rourkela Steel Plant, the situation was brought under control. The people of Rourkela had joined hands and formed a 18km-long human chain on March 19 to protest after the proposed medical college was not set up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
23-03-2021||India||Editors Guild seeks PM's intervention in revoking IT code||The Editors Guild of India has sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in revoking the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021, reminding him of his public commitment towards protecting freedom of speech and expression in India. The Guild released the letter sent over a fortnight ago on Monday, having got no response whatsoever from either the Prime Minister or the two ministers concerned who were also sent similar letters asking that the new ethics code be put on hold till detailed consultations are held with all stake-holders. The letters underscore that there was no consultation with stakeholders before the rules were notified. In the letter to the Prime Minister, the Guild said that the new rules have the potential of fundamentally altering how publishers of news operate over the Internet and undermine freedom of press in the country, identifying the  cumbersome three-tier structure to regulate digital media, with an “Inter-Departmental Committee” at the top as the most alarming aspect. Apart from the fact that this gives excessive powers to a government officer to block, modify and delete content, the letter notes that other provisions in these rules place unreasonable restrictions on digital news media, and as a consequence, media at large. “These rules have been brought in without due consultation with the stakeholders and deepen the worry that freedom of press in India is being seriously compromised.” In the letter to the ministers, the Guild has gone into greater detail about the problematic aspects of the code. On the three-tier structure, it urges the ministers to withdraw such an “onerous and regressive regulatory mechanism”, and initiate consultations for putting in place a more equitable self-regulatory system. “We believe that the question whether any speech violates any law in force, or be bound to a Code of Ethics, or whether it should be evaluated in accordance with Article 19(2) of the Constitution, is a complicated question of not only facts but also of law. Therefore, any action on such speech should be taken only after adjudication by an independent judiciary, rather than the executive.” Further, they have questioned the use of the IT Act, 2000, to introduce the rules, pointing out that the government went beyond the scope of the legislation without the approval of Parliament. Also, according to the Guild, there is lack of clarity on the applicability of the rule that states it is applicable to publishers of news and current affairs content as long as the publishers have a physical presence in the territory of India and are conducting the “systematic activity” of making their content available in India. “Such application is overbroad as there is no threshold requirement of readership to differentiate between Digital News Media based on scale. The consequence of this is that even blogs, individuals reporting news through social media and nascent news organisations will have to comply with the onerous obligations imposed by the Rules.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
23-03-2021||India||No accident claim for death by drinking, rules Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday ruled that the family of a person who had died because of excessive drinking was not entitled to any insurance benefit as the death was not caused by an accident. A bench of Justices M. Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran passed the ruling while dismissing the appeal of a family from Himachal Pradesh challenging the concurrent findings of the State Consumer Forum and National Consumer Forum that New India Assurance Company was not liable to pay any benefit to the family of Omprakash, a deceased chowkidar of the Himachal Pradesh State Forest Development Corporation. “From a bare perusal of the insurance policy… it is clear that only if the insured sustains any bodily injury resulting solely and directly from accident caused by outward, violent and visible means, the insurance company would be liable to indemnify the insured. “The post-mortem report clearly indicates that there were no injuries found on the body,” the apex court said. It said the probable cause of death was asphyxiation caused by alcohol consumption and regurgitation of food into larynx. “Further, the expert opinions … also show that the cause of death was due to consumption of alcohol,” the apex court stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
