24-03-2021||India||Maharashtra logs 31,855 fresh Covid cases, 95 deaths||Maharashtra reported as many as 31,855 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, its highest ever single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, a health official said. This took the state's overall caseload to 25,64,881. Before this, the state's highest daily spike of 30,535 cases was recorded on March 21. With 95 new deaths, the fatality count rose to 53,684, the official said. As 15,098 patients were discharged during the day, the recovery count reached 22,62,593. The number of active COVID- 19 cases now is 2,47,299, he said. Mumbai city reported its highest single-day tally of 5,190 cases, which pushed its overall tally to 3,74,641. This is the first time Mumbai has reported over 5,000 cases in a single day. With six deaths, the fatality count stood at 11,610 in the city. On the other hand, 2,088 persons were discharged from hospitals, taking the tally of recoveries to 3,31,322. There are 30,760 active patients, the BMC said. The growth rate of the viral infection between March 17 and 23 in the city was 0.79 per cent while recovery rate was 90 per cent, it said. There are 39 active containment zones which include slums and chawls while 432 buildings have been sealed so far after patients were found there. Mumbai's two neighbouring cities Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli- reported 566 and 929 new cases respectively. Pune city and its neighbouring industrial township of Pimpri Chinchwad reported 3,566 and 1,828 new cases respectively. Aurangabad city reported 899 cases on Wednesday. In Nagpur city of Vidarbha region 2,965 new cases were found. In North Maharashtra region, Nashik city reported 859 cases, while Jalgaon district recorded 725 new cases. With 1,40,844 tests conducted during the day, the state has so far carried out 1,87,25,307 tests. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 25,64,881, new cases: 31,855, death toll: 53,684, discharged: 22,62,593, active cases: 2,47,299, people tested so far: 1,87,25,307. India has detected a new "double mutant" COVID-19 variant in states like Maharashtra and Delhi as it recorded the highest ever one-day spike in cases and deaths from the disease this year with the Centre on Wednesday saying the surge in Maharashtra and Punjab is of "grave concern". The Union Health Ministry said the new "double mutant" variant of SARS-CoV-2 was detected in Delhi, Maharashtra and some other places in addition to the three "variants of concern" -- first noticed in the UK, South Africa and Brazil -- that have been found in at least 18 states and union territories. The ministry, however, said it could not be sufficiently established yet if these variants were behind the recent spike in COVID-19 cases in some states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
24-03-2021||India||INX Media case: Chidambaram, Karti summoned by Delhi court||On Wednesday, a Delhi court issued summons to former Union minister P Chidambaram and his son Karti in the INX Media money-laundering case on taking cognisance of the charge sheet filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against them. Special Judge M K Nagpal issued summons against the senior Congress leader, his son and others directing them to appear before court on April 7. The court stated there was sufficient material to proceed against the Chidambarams, Karti’s chartered accountant S S Bhaslararaman, former CEO of INX Pratim Mukerjea and six firms including INX Media and INX News. After the court’s order, Chidambaram told “summoning the accused is a routine step”. The charge sheet filed under section 3 (money laundering) read with section 70 (offences by companies), which is punishable under section 4 (punishment) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). “I find sufficient material and grounds for proceeding further in the matter against all the 10 accused persons named in the complaint, out of which six accused are companies, for commission of offence under section 3 read with section 70 of the PMLA, which is punishable under section 4 of the Act,” the judge said in his order. The charge sheet alleged that the first installment of illegal gratification of Rs 3,08,62,044 , in furtherance of criminal conspiracy, was paid by INX Media to M/s Advantage Strategic Consulting Pvt Ltd (ASCPL) and two other shell companies. It said these firms, Kriya FMCG Distributors Pvt Ltd (Kriya) and CBN Placement and Management Centre (CBNPMC), were beneficially owned or controlled by Karti, and the amount was paid during 2007-08 through SpanFibre and Satyam Fibre (India) Pvt Ltd (Satyam Fibre). It further alleged that the amount was found to have been paid through 12 fake debit notes/ invoices raised by ASCPL, Kriya and CBNPMC on Span Fibre and Satyam Fibre at the instance of Mukerjea and it was shown to have been paid as a commission for sale of Polyester Staple Fibre (PSF) by Span Fibre and Satyam Fibre to different companies but no such transactions actually took place. “These fake invoices/ debit notes are also alleged to have been created as a part of the scheme to camouflage/ layer the illegal gratification as genuine business transactions. “The bank details of the three companies receiving payments against these debit notes/invoices confirmed that the amount of these companies were substantially utilized for the benefit of Karti P Chidambaram and other persons related to him,” the court noted in its order. It further said according to the probe agency, the alleged gratification received in ASCPL was invested in the shares of Vasan Health Care Pvt Ltd (Vasan Health Care) and AGS Health Care Pvt Ltd (AGS Health Care) and the proceeds of crime were multiplied by sale of these shares. The court mentioned that as per the charge sheet, Karti also subsequently distanced himself from the affairs of ASCPL when certain media reports appeared about his father’s alleged role in granting FIPB approvals. ED has alleged that besides the original illegal gratification amount of Rs 3.08 crore received by ASCPL and its associate companies, Rs 22.20 crore, Rs 18.64 crore and Rs 18.49 crore were also alleged to be the tainted money having been earned by way of multiplication of original proceeds of crime on account of profits derived on investments of the original amount. The court further said the probe agency had alleged in the charge sheet that about Rs 65.88 crore was of the properties involved in money laundering and the money was laundered by the accused persons in the form of various movable and immovable assets in India and some foreign countries. ED further alleged, “It has further been revealed during investigation that another subsidiary company of Advantage Strategic Consulting Singapore Pvt Ltd (ASCSPL), namely Advantage Estrategia Esportiva SLU, Barcelona, Spain and beneficially owned by accused Karti, P Chidambram, was also involved in laundering of the tainted money as proceeds of crime were transferred in this company from ASCSPL and were invested in properties in and outside India.” The charge sheet said further investigation to identify the remaining tainted amount and the assets of the Chidambarams allegedly acquired through tainted money in India and was pending. Chidambaram was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the INX Media corruption case on August 21, 2019. On October 16, 2019, the ED arrested him in a related money-laundering case. Six days later, on October 22, the apex court granted bail to Chidambaram in the case lodged by the CBI. In the ED case, he got bail on December 4, 2019. The CBI had registered its case on May 15, 2017, alleging irregularities in a Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance granted to the INX Media group for receiving overseas funds of Rs 305 crore in 2007, during Chidambaram''s tenure as finance minister. Subsequently, the ED had lodged the money-laundering case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
24-03-2021||India||CBI books DHFL over fictitious home-loan accounts||The CBI has booked the DHFL and its directors for allegedly creating over 2.60 lakh fictitious home-loan accounts, some of which were used to claim interest subsidies in the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (PMAY), officials said on Wednesday.

The irregularities were pointed out in the report of auditor Grant Thornton, appointed by the present board of the scam-hit DHFL, they said.

Promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, both booked along with the company, allegedly opened a fictitious branch of the DHFL in Bandra and fake accounts worth Rs 14,046 crore of home-loan borrowers, who had already repaid their loans, were entered in the database, they said.

A total of 2.60 lakh "fake and fictitious" home-loan accounts were created in the non-existent branch from 2007-19 for total loan worth Rs 14,046 crore, out of which Rs 11,755.79 crore were deposited or routed to several fictitious firms known as Bandra Book firms, according to the FIR.

Several of these bogus loan accounts were allegedly opened in the PMAY to claim interest subsidies from the National Housing Bank in connivance with its officials, they said.

The DHFL had granted 88,651 cases under the PMAY till December 2018 and it received interest subsidy of Rs 539.40 crore, while it has to receive Rs 1,347.80 crore from the government, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
24-03-2021||India||BJP releases Kerala manifesto promising jobs, free laptops, legislation to protect Sabarimala traditions ||The BJP lined up several promises, including a legislation to protect traditions of the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala and law against "Love Jihad", while assuring employment for at least one person from each family and free laptops to high school students, in its manifesto for the Kerala Assembly polls unveiled on Wednesday. Union Minister Prakash Javadekar released the manifesto of the saffron party-led NDA front along with senior state leaders O. Rajagopal, P.K. Krishnadas, NDA leader and Kerala Kamaraj Congress state chief Vishnupuram Chandrashekhar, among others. Describing the manifesto as progressive, dynamic, aspirational and developmental oriented, Javadekar said it guarantees a terrorism-free and hunger-free Kerala, among others. According to the manifesto, social welfare pension would be raised to Rs 3,500 and temple administration will be freed from political control and entrusted to devotees. The LDF government had promised to raise the social welfare pension to Rs 2,600 from the current Rs 1,600, while the opposition UDF has assured to increase it to Rs 3,000, if voted to power. It also assures ban on forcible religious conversion, six free LPG cylinders to each BPL family and restructuring ofKIIFB (Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board) in line with Constitutional provisions and subjecting it to CAG audit and amending the University Act in line with the New Education Policy of the Centre. As part of the saffron party's assurances on places of worship, the manifesto promises to take urgent steps to re-acquire encroached lands of temples and a legislation for an independent, non-political and devotee controlled temple administration in the state. The union minister said while Congress is fighting the Communists in Kerala, they are allies in West Bengal. "I am curious as to who is fighting who in Kerala. Because Congress and Communists are partners in Lok Sabha and everywhere else.Here they are fighting.This is a mock fight. Bengal me dosti aur Kerala me Gusti." "They passed two resolutions in the Assembly together. One was demanding release of Madani (PDP leader Abdul Nasser Madani) and another against the CAA," Javadekar said. Javadekar, who is Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, said "voting for the CPI(M) is like voting for the Congress and your vote for Congress is a vote for CPI(M)." Urging the Left government to come clean on the Sabarimala issue,he said "Their (Left party) stand is completely exposed now.Pinarayi (CM Pinarayi Vijayan) and Yechury (CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury ) are for the entry of women whereas Devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran, the LDF candidate from Kazhakootam, is against it." "The government also needs to explain their role in the gold smuggling case," Javadekar said. The Union Minister also alleged that the state government was "hijacking" the central government projects and presenting them with minor changes as their own. "Pinarayi government has started hijacking central schemes by making little modifications and taking credit. We have given 80 crore people free ration for eight months which includes five kg dal and 40 kg rice to each family. "But the Kerala government wants to take credit. Mr Pinarayi Vijayan, it's not you but Modi, who has done all this," he said. The Centre has given houses to more than 1.27 lakh people along with toilets.With little modification, theLDF government has modified it into the Life Mission project, Javadekar claimed. "It's the Modi government which has done that.Not Pinarayi Vijayan," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||4 nuns harassed by Bajrang Dal activists, Amit Shah promises action||Four nuns were taken off an express train and detained for questioning by the railway police in Jhansi after local Bajrang Dal activists complained that two of the women were allegedly being taken forcibly for religious conversion, officials said on Tuesday. The police said there was no basis in the complaint and all four women later took the next train to their destination in Odisha. Following the ruckus created by local Bajrang Dal leader Ajay Shankar Tiwari along with the activists on March 19, the four nuns onboard the Utkal Express from Delhi to Rourkela were taken down from the train by the Government Railway Police (GRP) in Jhansi for questioning. Circle Officer of GRP Naeem Ansari said the complainant had said that they (the women) were being taken, possibly for forcible religious conversion. "However, during questioning, nothing as such came to light, and the four passengers were allowed to depart by the next train. No case has been registered in this regard," he said. During questioning, it was revealed that nuns Libiya Thomas and Hemlata, both residents of Delhi's Vikaspuri, along with Sweta and B Tarang (both 19-years-old and natives of Odisha) were travelling in a sleeper coach of the Utkal Express. SHO of GRP Jhansi Sunil Kumar Singh said no attack on the rail passengers emerged during the probe. Taking a note of the incident, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was campaigning for the BJP in poll-bound Kerala, assured strong action against the accused. Noting that UP was ruled by BJP government, Shah, while addressing a poll rally, said, "I want to assure the people of Kerala that the culprits behind this incident will be brought to justice at the earliest". The issue was raised before Shah by the party's Kanjirappally Assembly candidate for April 6 polls, K J Alphonse, who is his former ministerial colleague in the union cabinet. Reacting to the alleged harassment, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said it was the result of the "vicious propaganda" run by the Sangh Parivar to pitch one community against another and "trample" upon the minorities. "The attack in UP on nuns from Kerala is a result of the vicious propaganda run by the Sangh Parivar to pitch one community against another and trample the minorities," Gandhi said in a tweet. "Time for us as a nation to introspect and take corrective steps to defeat such divisive forces," the former Congress chief said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||Centre asks states to impose restrictions during festivals amid Covid surge||Amid a spike in Covid-19 infections in some parts of the country, the Centre on Wednesday asked states and union territories to consider imposing local restrictions in public observance of the upcoming festivals and limit or do away with mass gatherings for effective control of the pandemic. Additional Secretary in the Health Ministry Arti Ahuja, in a letter to state chief secretaries and union territory administrators, stated that the battle against Covid-19 is at a critical juncture with a rising number of cases and deaths being reported from many parts in the recent past. "...in view of upcoming festivals such as Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Bihu, Easter and Eid-ul-Fitr, etc., it is strongly advised that states may consider imposing local restrictions in public observance of these festivals and limit/do away with mass gatherings in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 22 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005," the letter read. Ahuja asked states to refer to the order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on March 23 for effective control of Covid-19, and also attached the order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority for reference. "Any laxity at this point in ensuring strict adherence to various SOPs issued by the Ministry of Health to contain the spread of Covid-19 may result in losing the impetus and benefits that our country has gained so far in managing the virus. Strict adherence to Covid-19-appropriate behaviour in public places and gathering is the key to break the chain of transmission and reduce the incidence of cases in the country," the letter stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||‘Double mutant variant’ of coronavirus detected in 18 states, says govt||A new "double mutant variant" of SARS-CoV-2 has been detected in India in addition to the several "variants of concern" that have already been found in at least 18 states, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Some of these "variants of concern" had earlier been detected abroad. The ministry, however, said it could not be sufficiently established yet if these variants were behind the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in some states. It said genome sequencing by Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) has identified variants of concerns (VOCs) in several states and a new double mutant variant. Genomic sequencing and epidemiological studies are continuing to further analyse the situation. The Ministry of Health had established on December 25 INSACOG which is a grouping of 10 national laboratories for carrying out genomic sequencing and analysis of circulating COVID-19 viruses, and correlating epidemiological trends with genomic variants. Genomic variants of various viruses are a natural phenomenon and are found in almost all countries, the ministry highlighted. "Since INSACOG initiated its work, 771 variants of concerns (VOCs) have been detected in a total of 10,787 positive samples shared by states and UTs (union territories). "These include 736 samples positive for viruses of the UK (B.1.1.7) lineage. Also, 34 samples were found positive for viruses of the South African (B.1.351) lineage. One sample was found positive for viruses of the Brazilian (P.1) lineage. The samples with these VOCs have been identified in 18 states of the country," the ministry said. Genome sequencing and analysis have been carried out on samples from arriving international travellers, contacts of those positive for VOC and community samples from most of the states at INSACOG partner laboratories, it stated. The analysis of samples from Maharashtra has revealed that compared to December 2020, there has been an increase in the fraction of samples with the E484Q and L452R mutations, the ministry said. Such mutations confer immune escape and increased infectivity. These mutations have been found in about 15-20 per cent of samples and do not match any previously catalogued VOCs, the ministry said. "These have been categorised as VOCs but require the same epidemiological and public health response of increased testing, comprehensive tracking of close contacts, prompt isolation of positive cases and contacts as well as treatment as per National Treatment Protocol by the states and UTs," the ministry stated. From Kerala, 2032 samples (from all 14 districts) have been sequenced. The N440K variant that is associated with immune escape has been found in 123 samples from 11 districts. This variant was earlier found in 33 per cent of samples from Andhra Pradesh, and in 53 of 104 samples from Telangana. This variant has also been reported from 16 other countries, including the UK, Denmark, Singapore, Japan and Australia. "As of now these can at best be said to be variants under investigation," the ministry said. "Though VOCs and a new double mutant variant have been found in India, these have not been detected in numbers sufficient to either establish or direct relationship or explain the rapid increase in cases in some States," the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||TMC MPs fly to Delhi to support AAP over new Delhi Bill||Trinamul Congress MP Derek O'Brien on Wednesday said his party MPs have rushed to the national capital to stop the "bulldozing" of a Bill that seeks to give more power to the Delhi Lieutenant Governor, in the Rajya Sabha. "Two days to go for elections in five States. Yet Trinamool's Rajya Sabha MPs air dash to Delhi to stop bulldozing of #GNCT Bill that disempowers an elected Delhi government. Another knife into the heart of democracy, the Constitution and Parliament. Worse still, Home Minister electioneering, not piloting Bill. Cruel irony," he tweeted. O'Brien had on Tuesday written to Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, requesting him to postpone the consideration and passing of the Bill in view of the absence of TMC members in the Upper House due to the Bengal Assembly polls. He had called the bill “an extremely important piece of legislation” that had an effect on each part of India and it would be a “gross miscarriage of justice” if the bill was rushed through. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was passed in the Lok Sabha on Monday, seeks to make it clear that the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor (L-G)". The bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before any executive action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||CJI SA Bobde suggests Justice NV Ramana as his successor||Chief Justice of India SA Bobde has recommended Justice N V Ramana as his successor and the 48th Chief Justice of India in keeping with convention and seniority norms, according to sources. CJI Bobde, who is set to retire on April 23, has sent the recommendation to the government and handed over a copy to Justice Ramana, the sources said. As per norms, a written communication from the incumbent Chief Justice is sent a month before his retirement. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad Friday sent a letter to Justice Bobde, for his suggestion to recommend a successor. As per the Memorandum of Procedure governing the appointment of members of the higher judiciary, "appointment to the office of the Chief Justice of India should be of the senior-most judge of the Supreme Court considered fit to hold the office". It stipulates that the Law Minister would, at an appropriate time, seek the recommendation of the outgoing Chief Justice of India for the appointment of the next CJI. Under this process, after receipt of the recommendation of the CJI, the Law Minister puts it before the Prime Minister who advises the President on the matter of appointment. "Whenever there is any doubt about the fitness of the senior-most Judge to hold the office of the Chief Justice of India, consultation with other Judges...would be made for appointment of the next Chief Justice of India," the document stated. Justice Ramana is the senior-most judge in the top court after the CJI. Born on August 27, 1957 in Ponnavaram village of Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district, Justice Ramana was enrolled as an advocate on February 10, 1983. He was appointed as a permanent Judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on June 27, 2000 and functioned as acting Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court from March 10, 2013 to May 20, 2013. Justice Ramana was elevated as the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court on September 2, 2013 and was elevated as a Judge of the Supreme Court on February 17, 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||Lockdown: a year ago today||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||India logs 47,262 Covid-19 cases in a day, highest rise this year||India recorded 47,262 fresh coronavirus cases in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,17,34,058, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. The active caseload registered an increase for the 14th day in row and was recorded at 3,68,457, comprising 3.14 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate further dropped to 95.49 per cent, the ministry data updated at 8 am said. The daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 132 days, while the country's COVID-19 death toll increased to 1,60,441, with 275 new fatalities, the highest in around 83 days. As many as 47,905 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 12 last year, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,12,05,160, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.37 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 23,64,38,861 samples have been tested till March 23, with 10,25,628 samples tested on Tuesday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Vaccines for all above 45 from April 1||Everyone above 45 years may register for Covid-19 vaccines from April 1, the Centre announced on Tuesday, expanding the government campaign’s pool of potential recipients to an estimated 347 million people or about 25 per cent of India’s population. The Union cabinet has accepted the recommendations of a national task force and scientists to open the Covid-19 vaccination campaign to everybody above 45 years of age, Prakash Javadekar, the Union information and broadcasting minister, said. “We request all eligible people to register from April 1 and get vaccinated. All above 45 should take the vaccination as early as possible,” the Union minister said, adding that India had sufficient quantities of vaccines. The campaign, currently vaccinating healthcare and frontline workers, everyone above 60 years and those between 45 and 60 with certain chronic health disorders, has already administered around 40 million first doses and 8 million second doses. The health ministry’s initial plan to vaccinate 10 million healthcare workers, 20 million frontline workers and 270 million people aged 50 and above or afflicted with chronic health disorders would require 600 million doses. The decision to extend vaccinations to all between 45 and 50 years means the plan now is to vaccinate roughly 347 million people, which will require roughly 100 million extra doses, health experts tracking the campaign said. “This would be about 25 per cent of India’s population — it would be great if India is able to complete this by August or September as originally intended,” said Giridhar Babu, professor of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore. The campaign’s pace needs to be synchronised with both the quantities of vaccines available and the rate at which recipients take them, an adviser to the Centre said. Opening up the campaign too fast could raise the risk of stock-outs, and a poor rate of acceptance could lead to wastage. Since the campaign’s start on January 16, the Centre has provided over 74.7 million doses of vaccines to the states, of which about 50 million doses had been administered till Tuesday. India last week administered on average about 2 million doses a day and on Monday logged over 3.2 million doses. India is currently using two vaccines — Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced in the country by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, a home-grown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. Health officials say the government has been assured a supply of around 480 million doses of Covishield and 120 million doses of Covaxin by August. At a sustained current pace of around 3 million doses a day, it would take more than three months to cover 100 million people and the revised target of 347 million could stretch into early 2022. However, health officials and experts are hoping more vaccines will be approved in India during the year. Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine and a DNA vaccine made by the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila are under clinical trials in the country. More than 50 countries have approved Sputnik V.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||Ragging: Rs 54,000 fine on 18 MBBS students in Sambalpur ||The Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research authorities have slapped a fine of Rs 54,000 on 18 students for allegedly ragging their juniors. The institute is located at Burla in Sambalpur in western Odisha. Sources said that fourth-year MBBS students had invited their juniors to play basketball on the campus. However, the juniors mostly from second year did not turn up for the game claiming they were busy with other work. Taking it as an insult, the seniors ganged up and came to the hostel for second-year students and again asked them to come to the basketball ground for a friendly match. But as soon as the juniors reached the ground, the seniors asked them to keep standing for five hours from 11pm to 4 the next morning, sources said. Later one of the junior students lodged a complaint with the institute’s ragging cell following which a probe was ordered. Institute director Lalit Kumar Meher told The Telegraph: “Following the complaint, we constituted a three-member committee to probe into the matter. The committee has found the seniors guilty of indulging in ragging. The ragging cell decided to impose a fine of Rs 3,000 each on the guilty students. Their parents will be informed about the incident and will be asked to guide their kids.” Asked when the ragging incident took place, Meher said: “The incident took place around 10 days back. The dean of students’ welfare is looking into it.” Stating that the authorities will not tolerate any kind of ragging on the campus, Meher said: “We would have been more harsh if the nature of ragging had been found to be more worse and if any other kind of physical torture was reported. Maintaining discipline is the most important aspect on the premises of the institute. Seniors and juniors have assured us to live on the campus as brothers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||Odisha Assembly passes resolution to include the word “Ahimsa” in preamble to Indian Constitution||The Odisha Assembly on Tuesday passed a unanimous resolution to include the word “Ahimsa” in the preamble to the Indian Constitution as a mark of respect to the Mahatma Gandhi on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of Father of Nation's first visit to the state. The Mahatma had visited the state on March 23, 1921. To demand for the inclusion of “Ahimsa” (non-violence) in the Preamble of the Constitution is important because it was the core ideology of the Mahatma. The Preamble talks of the basic ideals enshrined by the Constitution including democracy and secularism. Speaking on the occasion, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said, “Odisha had a special place in the heart of Mahatma Gandhi, the father of our nation. Mahatma visited Odisha eight times and I am glad that this august Assembly is commemorating the 100th anniversary of Gandhi’s first visit to Odisha on 23rd March, 1921.” Naveen also said, “There is also an increasing polarisation and divisiveness globally. Gandhi’s commitment to pluralism and his message of tolerance and harmony are as relevant now as it was then. The Mahatma’s non-violent resistance is a spark that ignited peaceful movement around the world.” He also recalled the words of Martin Luther King, JR who once said, “If Humanity is to progress, Gandhi is inescapable — we may ignore him at own risk.” “I consider this statement to be relevant for today’s world as well,” Naveen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||Odisha Assembly passes resolution to provide 15 per cent reservation to govt high schools students||The Odisha Assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution to provide 15 per cent reservation to students of government high schools for admission into medical and technical education courses of the state. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik moved the resolution. Explaining why the need for reservation for students of the government run schools was felt, the resolution said, “After introduction of common entrance examinations like NEET (National Entrance cum Eligibility Test) and JEE (Joint Entrance Examination), the number of students from government schools and colleges of our state in these courses is getting reduced considerably. This is not due to lack of merit, rather the students are unable to fare better in these tests due to lack of proper coaching facilities.” The government said students studying in government schools and colleges lack both physical and economic access to coaching centres. This has resulted in inequitable conditions for a majority of the students. “In this backdrop the cabinet has resolved to reserve adequate number of seats for the students of government high schools in medical and engineering colleges of the state. A high-powered committee headed by Justice A.K. Mishra, retired judge of the Odisha High Court along with other members was constituted making necessary recommendation in this regard,” the resolution said. The state government said, “The high power committee after thoroughly studying the situation and analysing it, has come out with the following findings and recommendations — about 86 per cent of the students in Odisha are in government schools and they get 23 per cent seats in state medical colleges and 21 per cent seats in state engineering colleges. While 12 per cent of the students studying in private schools get almost 60 per cent seats in both medical and engineering colleges.” The resolution further said that the findings of the committee clearly show that there is inequity arising from physical and economic access to coaching institutions, which play a major role in national entrance examinations. “This inequity affects a majority of the students,” the state government said adding that the reservation would give a huge boost to talented and intelligent students who cannot have physical and economic access to coaching institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||Bihar Assembly adjourns amid bedlam||Unprecedented scenes of violence were witnessed in the Bihar Assembly on Tuesday as the Opposition opposed a police bill tooth and nail and tried to hold the Speaker captive in his chamber. The police were called inside the premises and they, along with Assembly marshals, allegedly thrashed, abused and threw out several MLAs and journalists. The House was adjourned several times in between. On the other hand, the streets of the capital turned into a war zone as leaders and supporters of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) clashed violently with the police while trying to lay siege to the Assembly to protest the deteriorating law and order situation. Several protesters, journalists and police personnel were injured in the clash in which sticks, bricks and water cannons were freely used on the streets. RJD leaders Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav sported helmets while leading the protest and were detained by the police for some time before being allowed to go. Mayhem was the order of the day in the Assembly as soon as it met in the morning. Members of the Opposition parties — RJD, CPI-ML and Congress — trooped into the well demanding the withdrawal of the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021. They tore papers and scattered them all around the House and shouted slogans against chief minister Nitish Kumar and his government. As the bedlam increased, Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha adjourned the proceedings till noon. The bill, which seeks to change the name of the existing Bihar Military Police to Bihar Special Armed Police, and provide it the power to arrest people or conduct searches without warrants while guarding various premises or installations, or in the course of duty, has become a bone of contention between the Opposition and the ruling parties since the day it was circulated. The Opposition parties took an aggressive stand on the bill on Tuesday as it was to be tabled in the Assembly for its passage. As the Assembly resumed at noon, the Opposition again disrupted the proceedings claiming that the bill will usher in police rule in the state as people will not be able to even approach the court against any atrocity by the men in uniform. They tried to overturn a table kept in front of the Speaker’s chair. The comptroller and auditor general’s (CAG) report on Bihar was tabled amid the ruckus and the House was adjourned till 2pm. When the proceedings resumed, the protests also resumed more aggressively and the Assembly was adjourned for an hour. When it met again, the Opposition legislators tried to charge the treasury benches and snatch the police bill that was being tabled by minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav. Somebody threw a paperweight at the Speaker’s chair. The marshals in the House formed a protective wall to safeguard legislators belonging to the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The Opposition also tried to overturn a table and broke it after being unsuccessful in their endeavour. The entreaties of the Speaker did not elicit any response and the proceedings were adjourned till 4.30pm. It was around that time when the situation worsened. The Opposition lawmakers shut the door of the Speaker’s chamber with a rope with Sinha inside and squatted outside in an attempt to confine him inside and not allow the Assembly to function. The police were called in after the marshals failed to remove the Opposition legislators. District magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh and senior superintendent of police Upendra Sharma also rushed to the spot. The police charged at the protesting legislators, thrashed, abused, dragged and forcibly threw them out of the Assembly building. Several MLAs suffered injuries in the clash. RJD legislator Satish Kumar Das became unconscious and was carried away in an ambulance to hospital. “We have been beaten up by the police. See how the government is treating elected representatives,” said RJD legislator Sudhakar Singh said. Another RJD lawmaker Sangeeta Kumari asserted that the “police atrocities on democratic institutions have made clear the intention of the government. This shows what will happen if the police are given unbridled powers”. The police and district administration officials present there also allegedly attacked the journalists trying to report on the incident. Meanwhile, the House failed to resume at the given time, but attempts were made to do so again at around 6pm. However, this time women MLAs surrounded the Speaker’s chair. Women constables were called in and they were dragged outside the House. Once they were removed, the male legislators from the Opposition parties took their place. The marshals and the police personnel forcibly removed them again. Opposition leaders and sons of RJD chief Lalu Prasad — Tejashwi and Tej Pratap — were present in their chambers in the Assembly during the mayhem. There was a scuffle between Tejashwi and police personnel in the evening, but the RJD leader restrained himself after being asked to step back. Meanwhile, Nitish told The Telegraph: “The bill is mainly to change the nomenclature of Bihar Military Police to Bihar Special Armed Police. They will be able to arrest somebody without warrant if he or she is threatening the security arrangements or is committing any crime. The arrested person would be sent to the nearest police station.” “Many states have implemented such provisions. We have incorporated steps that will ensure officials are punished with imprisonment from seven years to life term if they misuse the powers given to them,” Nitish added. However, Nitish said he has “not witnessed such scenes in the Assembly in his life”. A large number of police personnel and state rapid action force entered the Assembly late in the evening. They threw out any opposition MLA who was protesting against the bill. CPI-ML legislator Mehboob Alam was also marshalled out of the Assembly in the evening. “We are being beaten up inside the House for protesting against the black bill giving unrestrained powers to the police. We will not allow this bill to be passed. The House is not in order, but the Speaker is trying to get it passed through the backdoor. This is all being done at the behest of chief minister Nitish Kumar.” The police bill was passed at 7.34pm while the Opposition walked out after a few of its legislators tore copies of the bill and threw it around in the House. Speaker Sinha later announced: “Action will be taken against the legislators who have indulged in vandalism and inappropriate behaviour.” The Opposition legislators later demonstrated at the entrance to the Assembly and demanded the resignation of Nitish for the attack on democracy and undermining the democratic traditions at the hands of the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: Sabarimala returns to haunt Left Democratic Front||A spectre haunts the communists in Kerala, that of a hilltop temple to a celibate god. The controversy over women’s entry into the Sabarimala temple is back in focus ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls, with a jittery Left making contradictory statements amid demands that all political parties state their position on the subject. “It’s back in focus since all the political parties have started debating it,” P.G. Sasikumara Varma, member of the Pandalam royal family that was once the temple’s custodian and retains the responsibility for certain rituals there, told The Telegraph on Sunday. “All political alliances should state their positions before the polls — that will give us believers some peace of mind.” For the Left, the subject represents anything but. After the state government facilitated the entry of women of childbearing age into the shrine, following a September 2018 Supreme Court judgment removing the traditional age bar on women, the Left Democratic Front had got routed in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The Congress-led United Democratic Front won 19 of the state’s 20 seats, and this was widely described as a “lesson” for the Left government for implementing the court verdict ignoring the violent protests by devotees and some Opposition activists. The December 2020 local body polls, fought over local issues, provided a respite, with the Left winning at every level from the gram panchayats to the city corporations. But the Sabarimala issue always simmered — fuelled by a raft of review petitions pending before a nine-member constitution bench — and has now resurfaced in the political arena ahead of the Assembly elections. The Left appears unsure how to handle it. Recently, state devaswom (temple affairs) minister Kadakampally Surendran felt compelled to issue what seemed an apology of sorts. “The incidents that unfolded in the name of Sabarimala in 2018 should never have happened. It had pained everyone — me too,” Surendran, seeking re-election from Kazhakoottam, told reporters. Soon after, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury publicly defended the Kerala government’s handling of the Sabarimala agitation, pouring cold water on Surendran’s efforts to placate the orthodox Hindus. However, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan later declared that even if the Supreme Court stood by its earlier judgment after considering the review petitions, his government would not do anything without consulting the believers. The UDF, the BJP and the believers want something more — a withdrawal of the Left government’s affidavit in the Supreme Court that had paved the way for the 2018 judgment. In 2007, the then Left government had placed an affidavit in the apex court saying it was against gender discrimination over entry to the temple. In February 2016, just before the last Assembly election, the then UDF government furnished a fresh affidavit backing the entry ban. However, in November 2016, the new Left administration reiterated the 2007 affidavit. On Sunday, Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala sought clarity on the subject: “Will the government withdraw the affidavit or not? This is what the people should be told.” Under pressure, some Left leaders have tried to play the issue down. “What is the need to discuss it every morning when Sabarimala is not an election issue?” CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran told reporters. But Varma, president of the Pandalam palace managing committee, insists that Sabarimala is very much an election issue. The usually reticent palace and its members had become a rallying point for the believers who hit the streets in 2018 against the implementation of the apex court judgment. “I usually go to Sabarimala in a large group of 30-odd people. Four of them are Muslims, including a priest, and two are Christians. It’s one of the most secular temples, as all the pilgrims are required (by tradition) to visit a church and a mosque before entering the temple.” Political observer N.P. Chekutty said the Sabarimala issue had not died down at all. “The larger Hindu community had put it on the back burner. Now being the most opportune moment, they have taken it up again,” he told this newspaper. “Sabarimala was one of the reasons for the LDF’s debacle in the Lok Sabha polls, although the main reason was the people’s expectation of a Congress-led government helmed by Rahul Gandhi at the Centre,” he added. He cited the powerful Nair Service Society’s criticism of the contradictory statements from CPM leaders. “The chief minister now says he won’t take any decision without consulting the believers. But he had earlier (in 2018) said the government was on oath to implement court orders,” NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair recently said. “However, what their national general secretary said is contrary to all of this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||Maharashtra chief minister lost moral authority to govern: Law minister||Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Tuesday said Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had lost the moral authority to govern, betraying signs of a spirited effort by the ruling dispensation at yet another effort to destabilise an Opposition-led state government. The allegations of corruption against Maharashtra’s home minister Anil Deshmukh levelled by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh have extended an opportunity to the BJP to launch another all-out effort to wrest power in a state considered the economic hub of the country. “The Uddhav Thackeray government has lost the moral right to govern,” Prasad told reporters at the BJP headquarters, accusing the Opposition alliance government in the state of running an “extortion” syndicate. Prasad was joined by former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who addressed the media in Mumbai, seeking to pile all out pressure on the coalition Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government. Party insiders said the central leadership has assured Fadnavis of full support in his effort to dislodge the Uddhav government. “Fadnavis has claimed he has enough ammunition to torment the alliance government,” one BJP leader said. After the former police commissioner’s letter alleging corruption, Fadnavis on Tuesday sought to pile more pressure by claiming a transfer posting racket in the police department and sought a CBI probe. The BJP has been unable to get over the loss of power in the key state of Maharashtra since one of their oldest ally Shiv Sena parted ways and joined hands with the rival NCP-Congress block after the polls in November 2019. The Sena had contested the polls in alliance with the BJP and parted ways later. A brazen attempt to break the NCP and usurp power by aligning with Sharad Pawar’s nephew Ajit Pawar too failed. Fadnavis was sworn in along with Ajit Pawar in a midnight coup but had to ultimately bite the dust after failing to get the numbers. Since then, Fadnavis, the designated leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, has been desperately trying to destabilise the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. “Fadnavis had claimed the Aghadi government will fall in two months. Now it’s over one-and-a-half years and so the desperation to use all kinds of means to defame our government,” NCP leader Nawab Malik said. The Opposition alliance has accused the BJP and the central government of using police officers and central agencies to tarnish their image and bring down the Uddhav government like they had done with the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. The BJP, driven by the declared dream of capturing power from “panchayat to Parliament”, has succeeded in dislodging two Opposition-ruled state governments in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh post their comeback in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. A similar effort last year in the Congress-ruled Rajasthan failed but they appear determined on getting back Maharashtra. The presence of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, a seasoned politician, as the chief architect of the alliance government appears to have made the effort difficult for the BJP in Maharashtra. On Tuesday, both law minister Prasad and Fadnavis targeted Pawar for defending Deshmukh over the corruption allegations and ruling out his resignation. Prasad claimed Pawar had used wrong facts to defend Deshmukh and said his distinguished political credibility had been tainted. “If Sharad Pawar wants his credibility to be retrieved then he should use his authority to make Anil Deshmukh resign,” Prasad said. The BJP feels that if they can force the home minister to resign, they would be very close to dislodging Uddhav, who they feel had betrayed them by joining hands with the NCP-Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||MP call for Bhagat Singh chair at central universities||A member of Parliament on Tuesday demanded setting up of chairs in every central university to pursue research on freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and study Indian democratic cultures and values. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader in Rajya Sabha, Manoj Jha, said Bhagat’s ideas, espousing the cause of universal brotherhood, are little understood. Academic chairs dedicated to great leaders or any social theme conduct research and propagate those ideals. Jha said the astounding spirit of martyrdom of Bhagat during the anti-colonial movement resides in the heart of every free Indian today. In his brief life, Bhagat wrote extensively how independent India could transform itself into a truly egalitarian society. “Instituting a chair in his name in every central university in India would enable a systematic study and development of Bhagat’s philosophical ideas and their programmatic content. The chair would work towards translation of his writings and their dissemination throughout the country,” Jha said. Chaman Lal, a retired professor of Hindi from Jawaharlal Nehru University and a researcher on Bhagat Singh, said the JNU is the only university which had decided in 2008 to set up a Bhagat Singh Chair. However, no progress has been made till date on this decision. A chair usually is headed by an eminent scholar and engages young scholars in research work. The history department of JNU was supposed to start the Bhagat Singh Chair. Panjab University in Chandigarh has instituted a Bhagat Singh Professor in the political science department. No other institution has taken any initiative to study the freedom fighter. Several universities have instituted chairs on Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and B.R. Ambedkar. In the Rajya Sabha, chairman Venkaiah Naidu paid tributes to Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev on the 90th anniversary of the martyrdom of the legendary heroes. “These martyrs not only strived to free our nation from the clutches of colonial rule but also envisioned a just and equal society devoid of communalism, hatred, economic disparity and retrogressive ideas. The trio have become household names in our country as shining beacons of selfless sacrifice and patriotism,” Naidu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||Science, cooperation and cash behind Covid-19 vaccines||Exactly a year ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a complete lockdown to curb the spread of the virus that causes Covid-19. The sudden lockdown hit daily wage earners, migrant labourers and the economy hard. But it provided a window of time for India to prepare for the epidemic and manage Covid-19 well. While people remained home, authorities enhanced testing and organised hospital beds, intensive care and ventilators. India has recorded over 11 million lab-confirmed infections and about 160,000 deaths. From September 17, the number of infections declined steadily. Eureka, we said. We have stopped the coronavirus in its tracks. So why wear a mask? Why avoid assemblies? We started to party without masks. And, this year from February 15, infections began to rise. Whether genetically-altered forms of the coronavirus arising naturally are contributing to the rise is being investigated. But no one doubts that our relaxed behaviour is the main cause. Now elections are round the corner in many states, including Bengal. More assemblies. More physical proximity. Less masking. Expect the inevitable! A sense of security provided by the vaccines has added to the inappropriate behaviour. “Vaccines are available, so why wear masks?” many are saying. We have vaccinated over 45 million of our citizens. But that is less than 3 per cent of our population. The young people need to protect themselves with masks and refrain from partying. They are unlikely to get a vaccine very soon. While behaving appropriately to prevent Covid-19, let us celebrate the triumph of science. Vaccines for the coronavirus have been developed at breakneck speed. The fastest any vaccine has ever been developed was four years — for mumps in the 1960s. Usually, it takes about 10 years. And now, within a year of the emergence of the virus, a fully-tested vaccine for the coronavirus was approved for emergency use. That was the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Thereafter more vaccines have emerged. Three factors were responsible for this extraordinarily rapid success. First, there was a bedrock of earlier scientific research on related viruses and faster ways to make vaccines. Second, availability of enormous funding to enable testing of multiple candidate vaccines in parallel. Third, regulators acted much faster than normal. Our body’s natural immune systems protect us from infections. Conventional vaccines use killed or disabled forms of the virus to stimulate immune defences against infection by a live virus. Covaxin, developed in India, is one such. An alternative method is to package the genetic code of an important viral protein in a carrier and use that as a vaccine. One needs to be sure that the carrier is safe for humans. Oxford-AstraZeneca had many years of experience in developing safe carriers. Their vaccine (Covishield) uses a chimpanzee adenovirus (a flu-like virus) as a safe carrier (the virus cannot make copies of itself) that encases the genetic DNA sequence for the viral spike protein, which the virus uses to dock to human cells. When the vaccine is injected, our cells engulf the virus. The virus then pushes its DNA into our DNA. When our DNA makes our proteins, it also makes the viral spike protein which our body recognises as foreign and mounts an immune response. The immune proteins, thus artificially activated, protect us from the live coronavirus. But the remarkable Covid-19 vaccines are the first two that showed high efficacy in large human (Phase III) trials; invented by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna. These vaccines are being widely used in the USA, but are not yet available in India. These are messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccines. Our cells read mRNA to make proteins. Naked mRNA can be easily destroyed. Therefore, vaccine manufacturers package mRNA in tiny oily bubbles, called lipid nanoparticles. The mRNA used in Covid-19 vaccines code for the viral spike protein. Upon vaccination, the mRNA containing bubbles bump into our cells, fuse with them and release mRNA. Our cells then start producing the viral spike protein. Our immune system is then triggered. This technology is very simple but revolutionary. An mRNA vaccine can be rapidly synthesised in a chemistry laboratory and deployed. If one fails, another possible candidate can be quickly synthesised and tested. Almost like plug-and-play. Sounds simple? Conceptually yes. But technically no. Two decades of scientific research provided the knowledge base required to invent the mRNA vaccines so rapidly. There is an emphasis on translational research now. Rightly so. But basic research that generates knowledge essential for translation must not be curtailed. The slowest part of vaccine development is to prove that a vaccine is both safe and efficacious. Testing is first done on animals and then on humans, in three phases. In the final phase (Phase III) a large number of humans are tested to determine efficacy of the vaccine. Phase III trials require a lot of money and time. For Covid-19 vaccines, governments and philanthropists were generous. Billions of dollars poured in so that companies could take financial risks and test many potential vaccines simultaneously. Vaccine rollout is regulated by national and international agencies. Safety and efficacy are assessed using stringent criteria. For the first time in human history, national regulators exchanged information massively on Covid-19 vaccine trials under the auspices of the International Coalition of Medicines Regulatory Authorities, set up in 2012. The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations launched in 2017, also facilitated the process. This information exchange helped determine best end-points to measure efficacy and monitor side-effects. One hopes that this international co-operation will continue for future vaccine rollouts. We have to save ourselves by continuing to wear masks and avoiding proximity to others. We will all get vaccinated, possibly soon. Many more vaccine rollouts are expected; over 250 candidate Covid-19 vaccines are being tested. We must salute scientists who have collectively risen to the challenge imposed by the pandemic. We must also remember that these extraordinary feats didn’t happen overnight; could not have happened without a solid platform of basic science.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||India skips vote on Sri Lanka’s human rights record ||India on Tuesday abstained from the vote on Sri Lanka’s human rights record at the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC). The resolution, initiated by the UK, was adopted by a majority of 22 members voting for it with 13 other countries abstaining and 11, including Pakistan and China, polling against it. In abstaining, India sought to take a nuanced approach on the issue to balance the demands of domestic politics and bilateral relations. But it still fell short of the demand of its electoral allies and foes alike in Tamil Nadu where the AIADMK, DMK, PMK and CPI had all asked the government to vote for the resolution to meet the aspirations of the Tamil people in solidarity with Sri Lankan Tamilians. Sri Lanka, on the other hand, was happy with India’s vote and stated so publicly. Foreign minister Dinesh Gunawardena tweeted: “Sri Lanka appreciates the support shown at Geneva by Bahrain, India, Japan, Nepal, Indonesia, Libya, Sudan, Namibia, Gabon, Togo, Mauritania, Senegal, Cameroon and Burkina Faso.’’ Explaining India’s vote ahead of the actual polling through electronic ballot, first secretary at the Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations in Geneva, Pawan Badhe, said: “India’s approach to the question of human rights in Sri Lanka is guided by two fundamental considerations. One is our support to the Tamils of Sri Lanka for equality, justice, dignity and peace. The other is in ensuring the unity, stability and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka.... “India supports the call by the international community for the Government of Sri Lanka to fulfil its commitments on the devolution of political authority, including through the early holding of elections for Provincial Councils and to ensure that all Provincial Councils are able to operate effectively in accordance with the 13th amendment to the Sri Lankan Constitution.’’ Further, India — which has itself had differences with the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights of late — maintained that the work of the OHCHR should be in conformity with the mandate given by the relevant resolutions of the UN General Assembly. Japan, which along with India had lost the East Container Terminal project when Sri Lanka reneged on the trilateral agreement for its development earlier this year, also exercised the abstain option while many of the European countries voted for the resolution. China remained firmly in Sri Lanka’s corner as did Pakistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||Devendra Fadnavis asks for CBI, NCP cries ‘plot’||The political conflict over the allegations of corruption made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh intensified on Tuesday with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis petitioning the Union home ministry for a CBI probe and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) dismissing it as a conspiracy to topple the Maharashtra government. Fadnavis, who on Tuesday disputed the claims made by NCP chief Sharad Pawar about home minister Anil Deshmukh being in quarantine during the time Singh accused him of pressuring officers to collect extortion money, approached the Union home secretary in Delhi and submitted “evidence” in a sealed envelope while demanding a CBI inquiry. BJP leader Fadnavis said the Maharashtra government was trying to defend Deshmukh despite serious allegations of a transfer racket and instructions for collecting Rs 100 crore in extortion money per month. Fadnavis had earlier said at a media conference that police records of VIP movement in Mumbai showed Deshmukh had gone to Sahyadri guest house on February 17 and also met officers at his residence on February 24, a period during which he was claimed to have been in quarantine after contracting Covid-19. NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik confronted Fadnavis, saying the former chief minister was trying to spread falsehood and that he himself had admitted he didn’t know whether Deshmukh had indeed moved around. Malik said Deshmukh was in home quarantine in Mumbai and had gone out only for workouts. On the allegation of a transfer racket run by the Maharashtra home minister, Malik said: “Officers mentioned in the report were never transferred. Fadnavis is trying to defame the government despite knowing the rules. No minister can directly transfer anyone. There is a Police Establishment Board for transfer of top-level IPS officers. This board makes proposals for transfers. The home ministry scrutinises the proposals and sends them to the chief minister.” He said two officers who had gone to Delhi after the change of government in Maharashtra were working for the BJP. Malik singled out Rashmi Shukla, who was a commissioner in the intelligence department, accusing her of tapping phones without permission. Arguing that tapping phones of people without permission was a crime, Malik said: “Rashmi Shukla was working as a BJP agent. Phones of senior leaders were also tapped during the process of government formation.” Fadnavis had said that Uddhav Thackeray overlooked a “very sensitive and explosive” report regarding corruption in transfer of IPS officers submitted by the director-general of police. He told reporters that the then commissioner of intelligence, Rashmi Shukla, reportedly intercepted some phone calls pertaining to police transfers and submitted a report to then DGP Subodh Jaiswal who subsequently sent it to the state government on August 25, 2020. The Congress on Tuesday evening called a meeting of its senior leaders and ministers to discuss the controversy. Although the party has extended support to the NCP line that there was a conspiracy to destabilise the government, there is considerable unease among a section of leaders about the grave allegations against the home minister. Purely as a matter of strategy, many Congress leaders believe the political battle could have been fought better by removing the home minister till the inquiry cleared him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||Maoist attack: 5 policemen killed, 13 injured in Chhattisgarh||Five policemen were killed and 13 injured after suspected Maoists blew up the bus in which they were travelling in Chhattisgarh’s Narayanpur district on Tuesday. Personnel of the police’s District Reserve Guard (DRG) were returning in the bus to Naryanpur town, 300km away from capital Raipur, after a counter-insurgency operation, said inspector-general of police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P. “Five DRG personnel, including the driver, were killed in the explosion,” he said. Reinforcements were rushed to the spot and bodies and injured personnel were evacuated from the forest. The injured personnel are being airlifted to Raipur in an Indian Air Force chopper for treatment, the IG added. Earlier while confirming the incident, state's director-general of police D.M. Awasthi had said over 20 security personnel were onboard the bus. The bus was passing along the under-construction Barsoor-Palli road which is surrounded by dense forest of Abhujmad when the Maoist triggered a landmine blast near a culvert, said a police official. The impact was such that the bus fell off the culvert. This was the second major Maoist attack on DRG personnel — the frontline anti-Maoist force of the state police — in the span of one year. The DRG personnel are recruited from among local youth and surrendered Maoists in Bastar division. On March 21, 2020, 17 security personnel, including 12 from DRG, were killed in a Maoist ambush in Sukma district of the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||UK variant in Punjab Covid surge||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday asked the Centre to offer Covid-19 vaccines to younger people after a fast-spreading UK coronavirus variant was found in four-fifths of viral genomes sampled from the state this month. Singh has called on people to strictly adhere to personal safety protocols and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to widen the vaccination campaign to cover those younger than 60 years as the variant has been found in younger people, the state said in a media release. The detection of the UK variant — also known as B.1.1.7 — that is known to be more infectious than earlier circulating coronaviruses, has amplified concerns that variants might be fuelling the Covid-19 resurgence in Punjab and other states. The state said 326 (81 per cent) of 401 samples collected between March 1 and 10 and sequenced at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi, contained B.1.1.7. Singh has warned that the state would impose fresh curbs and restrictions if people do not follow precautions. Punjab is among multiple states across India where average daily new case counts have increased over the past three weeks, more than doubling the country’s daily count from around 15,000 on March 1 to more than 40,000 on March 22. In Punjab, average daily case count has increased nearly four-fold from 566 to 2,262 over the past three weeks, marking the state’s third Covid-19 wave after the first wave and peak in mid-September and the second in mid-November. The UK variant has mutations that make it more infectious and a fast spreader. Studies have indicated that it accounts for 98 per cent of new cases in the UK and 90 per cent of new cases in Spain. The NCDC, a unit of the Union health ministry, and nine partner labs across the country have since December been sequencing coronavirus genomes from samples across the country to look for unusual variants that might influence epidemic patterns. This effort has so far detected 795 samples with the UK variant or one of the other two variants of concern called the South Africa and Brazil variants, the health ministry said on Tuesday. The ministry did not respond to queries seeking statewise distribution of these 795 variants. The sequencing efforts by the NCDC in collaboration with labs in New Delhi and Pune have also revealed the presence of a coronavirus variant with a double mutation — designated E484Q and L452R — among nearly 20 per cent of samples from Maharashtra, another state with a surge in counts. Researchers are currently trying to collect more samples and sequence more genomes and correlate them with infection patterns to determine whether this double mutation variant has played any role in the sharp rise in cases in Maharashtra in recent weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
