25-03-2021||India||Bharat Bandh on March 26; Congress extends support||Rail and road transportation services are likely to be affected and markets may remain closed in parts of the country on Friday as farmer unions protesting against the three agriculture laws have called a complete 'Bharat Bandh'. According to the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the nationwide shutdown will start at 6 am and it will be in force up to 6 pm across the country on March 26 which marks four months of the farmer agitation on Delhi's three borders -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri. Farmers leaders also said that copies of the new farm laws will be burnt during ‘Holika Dahan’ on March 28. After the Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRC) in Andhra Pradesh, the Congress on Thursday extended its support to a peaceful and "Gandhian" Bharat Bandh. "When the government is deaf, there is a need for a decisive struggle. The ongoing farmers' protest is part of that. We support a peaceful and Gandhian Bharat Bandh proposed on March 26," party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted.Confederation of All India Traders, which called the Bharat Bandh of February 26 said that markets will remain open on March 26 as it is not participating in the 'Bharat Bandh'. "We are not going to participate in 'Bharat Bandh' tomorrow. Markets will remain open in Delhi and other parts of the country. The ongoing deadlock can be resolved only through a dialogue process. There should be discussions on amendments in the farm laws that can make existing farming profitable," CAIT's national general secretary Praveen Khandelwal told PTI. This association represents eight crore traders in the country,Andhra Pradesh I&PR Minister Perni Venkatramaiah said that the state government is against the privatisation of steel plant and in regard to this, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had written letters to the Centre suggesting alternatives to retain the organisation. The minister appealed to the farmers'associations to cooperate and observe the bandh peacefully without any untoward incidents that cause inconvenience to the general public. According to information, all the government institutions in the state will be open after 1 pm and RTC buses will operate in the afternoon. All the emergency health services will run as usual during the bandh. While this will be the second Bharat Bandh called by the farmers, trade bodies called a strike protesting against fuel price hike, GST norms and e-way bill.The SKM, an umbrella body of protesting unions,appealed to protesting farmers to be peaceful and not get involved in any kind of illegitimate debate and conflict during the 'bandh'. "All shops, malls, markets and institutions will remain closed under complete Bharat Bandh. All minor and big roads and trains will be blocked. All services will remain suspended except for ambulance and other essential services. The effect of Bharat Bandh will be observed inside Delhi as well," SKM said in a statement. Senior farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said that road and rail transport will be blocked, claiming that markets will also remain closed. The SKM said the 'bandh' will also be observed in the national capital. So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and government, but deadlock continued as both sides stuck to their stand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||As many as 36,000 new Covid cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra recorded as many as 36,000 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest one-day rise since the pandemic began. Mumbai reported 5,505 new cases, its highest daily rise till now, while the nearby Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation reported 1,027 cases, its highest rise so far. It took the number of cases in the state to almost 26,00,900. The state has added over one lakh infections in the last four days. There are 2,62,685 active cases now. With 111 deaths reported on Thursday, the toll has reached 53,795. Pune and neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad reported 3,340 and 1,747 new cases, respectively. As many as 1,340 cases were reported in other areas of the district. In Marathwada region, Aurangabad reported 1,380 cases while 958 cases were detected in Nanded district. Nagpur city and Nagpur district (barring city) added 2,656 and 1,014 cases, respectively. Pune reported 16 deaths during the day, the highest, followed by Nagpur where 14 people died of Covid. With 20,444 patients discharged from hospitals, the recovery count in the state has risen to 22,83,037. As many as 1,53,447 coronavirus tests were carried out on Thursday, taking the total to 1,88,78,754.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||Budget session concludes ahead of time amid upcoming polls||Lok Sabha was on Thursday adjourned sine die, bringing the nearly two-month long Budget session to an end. The session started on January 29 and was originally slated to end on April 8 but several members had urged Speaker Om Birla to end the session early as they focus on electioneering in five states going to polls. Speaker Birla had recently tested positive for Covid-19 and was not attending the House. In his observations before adjourning the proceedings sine die (indefinite period), Bhartruhari Mehtab, who was in the chair, wished Birla a speedy recovery and informed members that the Speaker was stable. In Birla's absence, a panel of chairpersons, including Mehtab, Rajendra Agrawal, Rama Devi, Meenakashi Lekhi and Midun Reddy, chaired the proceedings. Panel of chairpersons usually comprises 10 members of the House who assist the Speaker run proceedings. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, several cabinet ministers and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were present in the House. The first part of the Budget session started on January 29 with the President's address to joint sitting of both houses of Parliament. The address was boycotted by over 20 opposition parties, including the Congress, in support of the demand of the protesting farmers for the repeal of the three farm laws. The Union Budget was tabled on February 1. Thereafter, House proceedings were washed out for four consecutive days over the opposition's demand for separate discussion on farm issues. To compensate the session's lost time, the House sat till midnight for several days. The second part of the Budget session which began on March 8 also saw repeated adjournments of House proceedings for the first few days as opposition protested over rise in fuel prices. The Budget session is usually divided into two parts. The recess period allows the various department-related standing committees to examine the demands for grants of various ministries. The main focus of the government in the second part of the session was to get the various demands for grants for the year 2021-22 passed along with the Finance Bill which carries various tax proposals. The House also gave its nod to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that gives primacy to the Lt Governor in Delhi. During the debate, while the opposition dubbed the bill as "unconstitutional", the BJP said its aim was to correct the mismanagement in Delhi. The Insurance (Amendment) Bill which increases foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the insurance sector from 49 per cent to 74 per cent was passed in the House. The lower house also approved the National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID) Bill 2021 to pave way for setting up of a government-owned Development Finance Institution (DFI) to fund infra projects. In his remarks before adjourning the session, Mahtab said despite disruptions, Lok Sabha's productivity during the Budget session stood at 114 per cent and the members also dealt with important issues by sitting till midnight on several occasions. A total of 146 members participated in the discussion on the Union Budget for 14 hours and 42 minutes, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||Param Bir files PIL against Deshmukh in HC after SC directive||Former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh on Thursday filed a public interest litigation in the Bombay High Court seeking an "immediate and unbiased" probe against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who he claimed asked police officer Sachin Waze to collect Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants. The IPS officer had earlier this week approached the Supreme Court, which on Wednesday termed as quite serious the matter in which he had filed a plea against Deshmukh, but asked him to approach the Bombay High Court with his grievances. Singh said in his plea before the High Court that Deshmukh held meetings at his residence with several Mumbai police officials, including Waze, in February this year. In these meetings, Deshmukh instructed the officers to collect Rs 100 crore per month from various establishments, the plea reads. It added that Deshmukh regularly interfered with police functioning and often misused his office. Deshmukh's conduct warranted a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the plea read. Singh urged the court to direct the CBI to conduct an immediate, unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial, and fair investigation" in the "various corrupt malpractices" of the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||SC quashes FIR against Patricia Mukhim for allegedly creating disharmony||The Supreme Court Thursday quashed an FIR lodged against journalist Patricia Mukhim for allegedly creating communal disharmony through her Facebook post. A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao allowed the plea filed by Mukhim against the Meghalaya High Court order which had refused to quash the FIR against her. We have allowed the appeal, the bench said while pronouncing the judgement. The top court had reserved its verdict in the matter on February 16. Mukhim's counsel had earlier argued before the apex court that there was no intention to create disharmony or conflict through the post which referred to an incident of a murderous assault on July 3, 2020. The counsel for Meghalaya government had earlier claimed in the top court that communal colour was given to the scuffle between minor boys and her post shows it was a communal incident between tribal and non-tribal people. On November 10 last year, a single judge bench of the Meghalaya High Court had refused to quash the FIR filed by the Lawsohtun Dorbar Shnong (a traditional institution). Mukhim had hit out at the Lawsohtun village dorbar (council) on Facebook for failing to identify the murderous elements after five boys were attacked at a basketball court in July this year. Eleven people were picked up and two were arrested in the case. The police complaint was filed against Mukhim by the village council on July 6 last year for her post on the social media, alleging that her statement incited communal tension and might instigate communal conflict. She was subsequently booked under section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, residence, language etc) and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti appears before ED in Srinagar||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here in connection with a money laundering case, officials said. Mufti reached the ED office in Rajbagh at 11 am to face questioning in the case, they said. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president did not appear before the agency in Delhi on Monday, citing she had prior commitments that could not be cancelled. Her request to ED officials that she be questioned in Srinagar instead of Delhi was accepted. The 61-year-old leader, who was released last year after more than a year in detention following the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, was served a notice to appear at the ED headquarters in the national capital. On March 19, the Delhi High Court had refused to stay summons issued to her after she moved the court seeking quashing of the summons in the case. The ED, which had earlier summoned Mufti March 15, had not insisted on her personal appearance at that time. "I write to you in reference to the summons issued to me to be present at your Delhi office on March 22. I have challenged in the Delhi High Court the constitutional vires of Section 50 of the PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act), under which these summons are issued," she said in a letter to the ED. Section 50 of the PMLA empowers the authority, that is, officers of the ED, to summon any person to give evidence or produce records. People who are summoned are bound to answer the questions put to them and to produce documents as required by the ED officers, failing which they can be penalised under the PMLA. The PDP leader had said that without prejudice to any of the contentions in the proceedings before the high court, "I state that I am not in a position to attend the summon on March 22 as I have prior commitments that cannot be cancelled at such short notice". "If however you insist we must do it sooner, I am ready and willing to be questioned in Srinagar, preferably at my residence or through video conference from Srinagar," Mehbooba said in her letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||Evaluation process for granting permanent commission to women in Army flawed: SC||The Supreme Court Thursday allowed the pleas of several women SSC officers seeking grant of permanent commission in the Army and held that the ACR evaluation process was flawed and discriminatory in nature. The apex court said the Annual Confidential Report (ACR) evaluation criteria for grant of permanent commission to women officers ignored the achievement and laurels brought by them to the Indian Army. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud said the process by which women officers were evaluated did not address the gender discrimination concern raised in the verdict delivered by the apex court last year. The top court delivered the verdict on a batch of pleas filed by several women officers who had sought compliance of its February last year directions to the Centre for grant of permanent commission, promotions and consequential benefits. In its landmark verdict delivered on February 17 last year, the top court had directed that women officers in the Army be granted permanent commission, rejecting the Centre's stand of their physiological limitations as being based on "sex stereotypes" and "gender discrimination against women". It had directed that within three months, all serving SSC women officers have to be considered for permanent commission irrespective of them having crossed 14 years or, as the case may be, 20 years of service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi refuses to refer to RSS as ‘Sangh Parivar’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said it is not right to call the RSS and its associated groups 'Sangh Parivar' as a family has women, respect for elders, compassion and affection, and the organisation has none of these. Gandhi's remarks come a day after he said the alleged harassment of nuns belonging to a Kerala-based congregation in Uttar Pradesh was a result of the Sangh Parivar's "vicious propaganda" to pitch one community against another and trample on minorities. In a tweet in Hindi on Thursday, he said he will no longer refer to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh as 'Sangh Parivar', a united family. "I believe it is not right to call the RSS and associated organizations Sangh Parivar -- there are women in the family, there is respect for the elderly, a sense of compassion and affection -- which is not there in the RSS," he said on Twitter. "Now I will not call RSS 'Sangh Parivar'!" the Congress leader added. On March 19, four nuns were taken off an express train and detained for questioning by the railway police in Jhansi after local Bajrang Dal activists complained that two of the women were allegedly being forcibly taken for religious conversion, officials said. The police said there was no basis in the complaint and all four women later took the next train to their destination in Odisha. Taking a note of the incident, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was campaigning for the BJP in poll-bound Kerala, assured strong action against the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||India reports 53,476 new Covid-19 cases, highest spike in over 5 months||India saw 53,476 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,17,87,534, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The active caseload registered an increase for the 15th day in row and was recorded at 3,95,192 comprising 3.35 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.28 per cent, the data stated. The daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 153 days. The death toll increased to 1,60,692 with 251 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 54,366 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 23. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,12,31,650, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.36 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 23,75,03,882 samples have been tested up to March 24 with 10,65,021 samples being tested on Wednesday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Harass slur boot for poll observer from Uttar Pradesh||The Election Commission of India has suspended an IAS officer from Uttar Pradesh who was deputed as a general observer for the elections following multiple complaints of sexual harassment in Bengal. Narendra Prasad Pandey, who was a general observer for the election to the Kashipur Assembly constituency in Purulia district, has denied the charge. An EC source said the emergency action was taken after prima facie information suggested overreach by the officer. Tuesday’s suspension order from EC secretary Malay Mallick to Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari says that Pandey “shall be placed under immediate suspension for his misconduct with district officials, misuse of official position and indulging in behaviour unbecoming of an observer appointed by the commission”. The order added that “disciplinary action and a charge sheet before March 30 have also been ordered”. Pandey’s actions “compromised the dignity of the institution of observers”, the order said, adding that he was removed on March 22 “to prevent any flare-up of the situation”. A senior official said: “The officer had made lewd proposals to several women officers. Although observers have no business issuing orders to other officials, he had the temerity to attach the services of a woman officer to himself. After we spoke to her, we learnt that he had made advances towards several women officers within the fortnight that he was posted there. Such was the gravity of the situation that he had to be immediately flown back to Uttar Pradesh.” Pandey, a special secretary in the agricultural production commissioner’s branch, told this newspaper: “The order does not mention the charge (sexual harassment) that you are making. All I can say at this stage is that I have done nothing wrong.” The EC also replaced the police commissioner and collector in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, as part of the routine precaution of transferring officers whose neutrality is doubtful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Covid: Centre asks states to curb festive mass gatherings||The Union health ministry on Wednesday asked the states to consider restricting the public observation of festivals and limiting or doing away with mass gatherings amid the rising daily new Covid-19 cases in 17 of India’s 20 most populated states. The ministry has advised the states to “consider imposing local restrictions in the public observation” of festivals such as Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Bihu, Easter and Eid-ul-Fitr, and “limit or do away” with gatherings. “Any laxity at this point in ensuring strict adherence to various protocols issued by the health ministry to contain the spread of Covid-19 may result in losing the benefits the country has gained so far in managing the virus,” additional secretary Arti Ahuja wrote to all the states. The health ministry had earlier this week written to Uttarakhand, cautioning that the observed counts of Covid-19 cases among pilgrims and residents at the ongoing Kumbh Mela could rapidly rise into a surge. The seven-day average daily case counts — a superior trend indicator than daily new cases — have increased by 1.3-fold to 5-fold in 19 of India’s top 20 most populated states over the past three weeks, increasing India’s daily count from 15,000 on March 1 to over 47,262 on March 24. The trends in Maharashtra and Punjab are of “grave concern,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Wednesday. In Maharashtra, the average daily count has soared from 7,900 to over 30,000, while that in Punjab has increased five-fold from 566 to 2,375 since March 1. Health officials have exhorted the public to adhere to safety protocols such as wearing masks and avoiding crowds. “A large proportion of the population in India is still susceptible — 60 per cent in some places, 75 per cent in other areas — they need to take precautions,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccines. India’s emerging second wave has surprised some public health experts who say they had thought that the first wave that peaked with about 97,000 daily new cases in mid-September had left behind such a large fraction of people infected that a second wave was unlikely. “I was mistaken,” said T. Jacob John, a senior clinical virologist and former professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “I hadn’t expected a sharp surge of the kind we’re seeing in many states now. But if, as we had assumed, most people are already infected and this wave is driven by infections in susceptible people, we should see a much sharper rise and a shorter lasting wave.” A new coronavirus variant possessing a “double mutation” detected in samples from Maharashtra has also turned up in samples from Delhi, Punjab and other states but there is no evidence that it is contributing to the current surge in infection, health officials said. The variant with two mutations, designated E484Q and L452R, has triggered concern because E484Q has been shown to allow the virus to escape immune responses and L452R has been found to be more infectious and has contributed to large outbreaks in California. A nationwide coronavirus genome sequencing effort coordinated by the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, with nine partner institutions has detected the E484Q-L452R double mutation in 206 samples from Maharashtra, 9 samples from Delhi and 3 samples from Gujarat. But NCDC director Sujeet Singh said there was no evidence that it was associated with the surge in Maharashtra or any other state. “Even in Nagpur, where the double mutation made up 20 per cent of the samples, infection patterns suggest they came from areas affected the least during the first wave last year,” Singh told The Telegraph. “So the variant was found in a pool of population that was the least exposed and thus highly susceptible to the infection.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Nitish Kumar has adopted RSS-BJP culture: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has completely transformed himself into the RSS-BJP mould, arguing that the forces which disrobed democracy in this brutal manner cannot be called a government. The former Congress president, who has often been accused of nurturing a soft corner for Nitish, seems to have finally given up with the realisation that the Janata Dal United leader has adopted the RSS-BJP culture as manifested through the mindless violence against MLAs on the Assembly premises. Rahul was one among many Opposition leaders who felt Nitish’s political philosophy was not in tune with the RSS ideology and he would return sooner or later. Tuesday’s incident shocked many political parties as they issued a joint statement condemning the police brutality which they described as an “unprecedented attack on India’s democracy”. These parties also condemned the draconian law that triggered protests leading to police action. The joint statement was signed by parties like the Congress, NCP, DMK, RJD, Samajwadi Party, TRS, Shiv Sena, AAP, CPM and CPI. The statement said: “The BJP-JDU government in Bihar has pushed through the draconian Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, that confers unbridled powers upon Bihar Military Police to conduct raids and arrests without warrants. This is an unconstitutional bill that effectively transforms the police force into an armed militia to harass, suppress and crack down on academics, activists, journalists, the political opposition and all those who dare to speak truth to power. It is an insidious conspiracy to enforce a Police Raj in Bihar and portends what the BJP intends to do throughout India employing the sheer tyranny of power.” It added: “Given this bill blatantly violates the rule of law and undermines human rights, Opposition MLAs from the RJD, Congress and other progressive parties raised their voices unitedly on the floor of the House. Rather than addressing their legitimate pro-people concerns, these MLAs were ruthlessly beaten and forcefully ejected from the Assembly. In doing this, the BJP and JDU have not only sought to throttle the voices of peoples’ representatives, but also assaulted constitutional principles. We unequivocally condemn this unprecedented attack on India’s democracy, and urge every Indian to stand by democratic principles.” Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, said he never saw such police action against elected representatives on the Assembly premises in his 49-year-long legislative career and said one can imagine how police will deal with the ordinary citizens if they can beat up MLAs like this. He said these forces wanted to destroy democracy in India. A Congress delegation on Wednesday called on President Ram Nath Kovind and demanded recall of Manipur governor Najma Heptulla for not acting according to the constitutional scheme to ensure that the illegal government of the BJP continues in power in the northeastern state. They submitted a memorandum to the President arguing that the governor was not acting upon their petition to disqualify 12 BJP legislators who were appointed parliamentary secretaries despite the high court declaring the appointment illegal. The Congress is demanding that these MLAs should be disqualified under the office of profit act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Supreme Court asks Param Bir Singh to file graft plea in HC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday termed as “quite serious” the allegations against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh of compelling police personnel to collect a monthly extortion money of Rs 100 crore from business houses, but refused to order a CBI probe into the allegations. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R. Subhash Reddy, while expressing disappointment that none of the governments in the country had bothered to insulate the police force from political or extraneous influence in terms of its 2006 Prakash Singh vs Union of India case, however, asked former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh to approach Bombay High Court with his plea. Singh had sought a CBI probe into the alleged conduct of Deshmukh. He was represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi. The court also noted that Singh’s present petition was a fallout of their internal differences which has now surfaced in the open. In a written order, the bench said: “….On further hearing, we put to learned senior counsel as to why the petition should not have been preferred under Article 226 of the Constitution of India before the Bombay High Court as the powers thereunder, if any, are wider. If investigation by an independent agency is being sought for, that is a relief which can also be granted by the High Court. There have also been subsequent developments in the matter as has been noticed in terms of the report of Ms Rashmi Shukla, Commissioner, State Intelligence Department. “The High Court has the requisite authority to address the same. We have no doubt that the matter is quite serious and affects the administration at large. It also appears that a lot of material which has come in public domain is a consequence of the personal falling out. “Learned senior counsel also seeks to rely upon the judgment in Prakash Singh & Ors (Others) vs Union of India & Ors (2006)... In our view, this is only a mantra recited periodically, wherever the occasion so suits, and there has been no seriousness by all concerned to ever implement the directions enshrined in the judgment. These directions were based on the principle of insulating police machinery from political/executive interference to make it more efficient and to strengthen the rule of law. “It appears that none want to give up, inter alia, the control of police transfers or implement measures that would insulate the police machinery from performing its role without any uncalled for interference. In view of the aforesaid position, learned senior counsel for the petitioner seeks to withdraw the writ petition with liberty to approach the High Court. Liberty granted. “Learned senior counsel submits that they will file the petition during the course of the day and would like the matter to be taken up tomorrow itself. That, in our view, would be an appropriate prayer made to the High Court and not by a direction from this Court. Pending applications stand disposed of.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Modi government passes Delhi bill in Parliament||The Narendra Modi government found little support outside its ranks when it passed a bill in Parliament on Wednesday that is being seen as a bid to clip the wings of the Arvind Kejriwal dispensation in Delhi. Some of the parties opposed to the changes sought to be brought in through the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, staged a walkout as the Rajya Sabha voted it in. Of all the Opposition parties, the Trinamul Congress made a particular point of being present for the consideration and passage of the bill despite the first phase of Assembly elections in Bengal being just a couple of days away. Trinamul leader Derek O’Brien made a last-minute effort to delay the voting by urging the Chair to invoke the residuary powers provided under Rule 266 of the Rajya Sabha. However, since Parliament is in session and other bills have been passed, this was not allowed. With a number of Opposition MPs from the election-bound states unable to turn up for the discussion and some of the parties opposed to the bill staging a walkout, its passage was a foregone conclusion and there was no resistance from the treasury benches when a division (voting) was sought at the initial stage of its passage. The Opposition was vastly outnumbered with 83 votes favouring its passage and only 45 opposed to it. Subsequently, the leader of the Opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress, said that since the government was unwilling to take on board their suggestions, including a request for referring the bill to a select committee of the House for further consideration, they were walking out. Earlier, two parties which normally side with the government — the Biju Janata Dal of Naveen Patnaik and the YSR Congress of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy — had announced that they would not participate in the vote while articulating their opposition to the bill. While junior home minister G. Kishan Reddy insisted that no power of the elected government was being taken away, Congress MP Abhishek Singhvi described the bill as an example of coercive federalism. AAP’s Sanjay Singh likened the bill to “Draupadi’s cheerharan (humiliation)” in the Mahabharat because chief minister Kejriwal had refused Delhi police’s request to convert stadia into jails to lodge protesting farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Ashoka University students withdraw agitation||The agitation by students of Ashoka University, sparked by the resignations of two senior professors, was withdrawn on Wednesday. The move by the Ashoka University Student Government came a day after four senior founders of the varsity offered them a seat in the board of management. The Seventh House of Representatives of the Ashoka University Student Government said in a letter to the students: “With the Vice-Chancellor’s email today morning, we are officially closing the strike. However, this is not to say that the movement must end. We must continue coming together, asking questions, making art, and discussing academic freedom and the precarious political situation we find ourselves in… To the Vice-Chancellor, we thank you for being so receptive to our proposed changes and for your commitment to work with us to the best of your ability in building a more representative Ashoka.” Students had boycotted classes — mostly online — on Monday and Tuesday to press for the return of political scientist Pratap Bhanu Mehta who quit on March 15, saying that the founders of the varsity had made it clear to him that he was a “political liability”. Former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian had also quit last week in solidarity with Mehta who is being seen as a victim of intolerance against his newspaper columns criticising the ruling BJP. The students demanded a public acknowledgement of Mehta’s resignation by the founders, an offer to Mehta to rejoin and the divestment of powers from the founders to “elected representatives of faculty, students and administration”. Neither professor withdrew their resignations but issued a joint statement with the management of the elite private varsity acknowledging “lapses in institutional processes” and saying that the duo were “lifelong friends and well-wishers” of the varsity. The House added: “We were able to meet unprecedented demands after protesting for six days and boycotting classes for two. Public universities across the country strike for weeks and months on end, often to fulfil basic needs, and even then they are not always successful. We must forge deeper solidarities with student unions and collectives fighting against injustice throughout India.” The move by students came on a day when vice-chancellor Malabika Sarkar — who earlier headed Calcutta’s Presidency University — asked the Ashoka University Student Government to nominate a student to become an “invitee member” of the board of management. A senior professor said this would not entail voting rights although voting rarely takes place on the board, which largely operates on consensus. Sarkar also announced that a workers’ welfare committee would be set up to meet students’ demands for better work conditions for non-teaching staff. After meeting the students on Tuesday, four prominent founders issued a statement saying: “The founders, even though they have devoted resources and energy to establish Ashoka University have never interfered with, nor do they intend to interfere, with the academic functioning of the university. ‘Academic functioning’ in this context includes not only how and what faculty teach, how they assess, how they are recruited and how they secure tenure but also their freedom to write and speak in their chosen fora and on their chosen themes.” The statement signed by Ashish Dhawan who chairs the board of trustees, education entrepreneur Pramath Raj Sinha, Naukri.com owner Sanjeev Bikhchandani and CEO of data analytics firm Benori Knowledge Solutions, Vineet Gupta, made no mention of the resignations. Gupta was in the news last week for a clearance from the Centre to receive funds from abroad to start another varsity in Mohali. The statement added that an ombudsperson would also be appointed. The university had faced flak from prominent intellectuals across the world for the circumstances under which Mehta and Subramanian had quit. On Tuesday, 900 students had gathered at different locations to hear Mehta’s online talk on Karl Marx’s Das Kapital. Several associations of students and teachers on Wednesday expressed solidarity with the students’ agitation at Ashoka University. In a statement, they said: “Ashoka students and faculty have been peacefully protesting for the past week and will continue to do so until the agreed upon demands are fulfilled. However, this has emphasised the larger question around freedom of speech, academic freedom, and the right to peacefully protest across this country. This is an issue of political repression against intellectuals and critics in this country, targeted towards students, faculty and all critical thinkers in educational institutes who dare question the government and centres of power.” Signatories include student bodies of Aligarh Muslim University, Jadavpur University, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Jindal Global Law School, Presidency University, SRM School of Architecture and Interior Design, Krea University, Tezpur University, SFI, CPIML-Liberation’s All India Students Association, Youth for Swaraj, All Bengal University Teachers’ Association and Jadavpur University Teachers Association. They added: “This is an issue of basic human and ecological rights upheld by educational institutions versus an oppressive ideology bent on eradicating all voices of reason, democracy, criticism, and rational thought. We want to reiterate that peaceful criticism of state actions and policies are not and should not be equated to hate speech or be deemed anti-national.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Justice N.V. Ramana set to be CJI ||An in-house committee of the Supreme Court has dismissed Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy’s allegations of corruption and impropriety against Justice N.V. Ramana, the second senior-most judge, the apex court spokesperson confirmed on Wednesday. The decision clears the decks for Justice Ramana to take over as Chief Justice of India — the first former journalist to rise to the post — from April 24 after the incumbent, Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, retires on April 23. The in-house panel, headed by Justice Bobde, found Jagan’s allegations “extremely malicious, motivated and frivolous with an intention to browbeat the entire judicial system”, sources privy to the inquiry said. The sources declined to reveal details citing confidentiality. In keeping with protocol, the in-house panel did not include Justice Ramana. Jagan had written to Chief Justice Bobde on October 6 alleging Justice Ramana’s two daughters had illegally acquired land at Amaravati in Andhra. He further alleged that Justice Ramana was interfering with the functioning of Andhra Pradesh High Court to favour Jagan’s political rival and former chief minister N. Chandrababu Naidu. Legal sources had at the time suggested that Justice Ramana was being targeted because he headed a bench that had directed the establishment of special courts to speed up the trials in criminal cases against all lawmakers across the country. Jagan faces 31 criminal cases, mainly for alleged corruption and money-laundering, and his allegations were seen as an attempt to browbeat the judiciary into going slow against him.To avert speculation about the in-house inquiry, the apex court spokesperson issued a written statement on Wednesday, saying: “A complaint dated 6th October sent by the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh to the Supreme Court was dealt with under the in-house procedure and the same on due consideration, stands dismissed. “It be noted that all the matters dealt with under the in-house procedure being strictly confidential in nature are not liable to be made public.” The Bar Council of India and Bar associations across the country had condemned the allegations after Jagan released his letter to the media. Jagan’s charges against Justice Ramana have led to two contempt petitions against the chief minister in the Supreme Court, and to an order by Andhra Pradesh High Court for a CBI probe against the YSR Congress leader. Undeterred by the allegations, Justice Ramana had on October 18 last year, while delivering the Justice A.R. Laxmanan Memorial Lecture, urged judges to be “steadfast” and “fearless”. He had exhorted them to “withstand all pressures and odds and to stand up bravely against all obstacles”, saying the judiciary’s greatest strength was the people’s faith in the institution. The remark was seen as a rejoinder to Jagan. Sources said Justice Ramana, who will be India’s 48th Chief Justice and continue in the post till August 26, 2022, held strong progressive views and was a champion of free speech and democratic rights. Last May, a bench headed by him had directed the Centre to set up a committee to review the restoration of full-fledged Internet services in Jammu and Kashmir, and followed it up with a series of orders that led to Net connectivity being eventually restored. Justice Ramana will be the first judge from Andhra Pradesh to become Chief Justice of India. Justice Koka Subba Rao, also a Telugu, held the post between June 30, 1966, and April 11, 1967, but he came from the undivided Madras state and was a Madras High Court judge. As a young man, Justice Ramana had participated in demonstrations seeking a separate Andhra Pradesh state. Among the movement’s leaders was the present Vice-President, M. Venkaiah Naidu. Born in a farming family on August 27, 1957, in Ponnavaram village, Krishna district, Justice Ramana had worked as a journalist between 1979 and 1980, reporting on political and legal matters for the Eenadu newspaper. He was enrolled as an advocate on February 10, 1983. He specialised in constitutional, criminal, service and inter-state river laws and practised in Andhra Pradesh High Court. He was appointed a permanent judge of Andhra Pradesh High Court in 2000, became Delhi High Court chief justice in 2013 and joined the Supreme Court in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||SC ‘terrorism’ query on electoral bonds||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought an assurance from the Centre that the electoral bonds it plans to release in poll season would not be used for terrorism or other violent acts, while reserving its order on a plea to halt the bond release. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde also asked attorney-general K.K. Venugopal why the government had allowed “anonymity” to those who buy these bonds and donate to political parties. “Can someone buy (electoral) bonds in these 10 days and fund terrorist operations?” Justice Bobde asked, referring to the April 1-10 window during which the government plans to release the bonds. “We are sure there are political parties who have violence on their agenda.” Venugopal said only registered political parties that had secured at least one per cent of the vote in the most recent Lok Sabha or Assembly elections could cash the bonds. “We don’t want to get into politics and comment on any party, but can’t a party receive bonds and then fund a protest which turns violent? What is the control of the government on what use the money is put to?” Justice Bobde asked. Electoral bonds, started in 2018, are promissory notes that any Indian citizen or company can buy and donate to an eligible political party of their choice. The bonds do not bear the donor’s name, a situation that has led to charges of opaque political funding, of an influx of black money, and of big companies “bribing” political parties. According to the petitioner, Association for Democratic Rights (ADR), the ruling BJP has received more than 60 per cent, by value, of the electoral bonds issued till now. After elaborate arguments, the bench of Justices Bobde, A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian reserved its verdict by observing: “We will pass orders.... But this angle of misuse of funds for illegal purposes, for purposes of terrorism, we would like you as a government to look into. It is not to suggest that political parties have violence on their agenda.” ADR has sought a halt on the sale of electoral bonds ahead of and during the upcoming Assembly polls. The Bengal polls are already said to be flush with money. “Tell us why is there selective anonymity?” the court asked, alluding to other kinds of bonds not allowing buyers such anonymity. Venugopal said the money collected was all white money that went through banks and were paid by cheque. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the ADR, countered that a subsequent buyer could purchase the bond from the original buyer against cash. “You are not telling us about the anonymity,” Justice Bobde said, to which Venugopal confirmed that an electoral bond “does not disclose who received it or purchased it”. But he added: “Mr Arun Jaitley (the late finance minister) decided that black money is a tremendous menace (and) Mr Jaitley devised this (scheme).”Venugopal said every party had to file its income-tax returns. “It was after your Lordships’ judgment (in 2019) that all started filing. So now the question of such misuse cannot arise,” he said. “Terrorism is not funded by white money. It is only funded by black money.” Earlier, Bhushan had pleaded that even the Reserve Bank governor had written to the Centre expressing discomfiture about the electoral bonds, saying they would affect India’s financial system. “RBI said this will put them at reputational risk. Here bribing has been made through government channels. Apart from bank no one will know who is the donor, not even ECI. The RBI and ECI had both raised strong reservations. This is unprecedented and has not happened anywhere in the world,” Bhushan said.“What they have done is open the way for large corporations, through shell companies, (to pay) bribes.” “Bribes to political parties?” Justice Bobde asked. When Bhushan said these were essentially bribes to ruling parties, the Chief Justice remarked: “Why only a ruling party?” “The ruling party is the one which can fulfil the needs,” Bhushan said, for Justice Bobde to reply: “It can also be given to a party which may come to power in the upcoming election.” The ADR says that almost 99 per cent of the more than Rs 6,500 crore worth of electoral bonds sold were worth Rs 1 crore or Rs 10 lakh, suggesting large corporations rather than individuals are buying them to try and wangle favours from the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Curbs on devotee entry in Puri Jagannath Temple||The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) has decided to restrict the entry of devotees into the 12th century shrine once a week in the wake of a surge in coronavirus cases in Odisha. Sources said the restriction on entry will be imposed every Sunday to disinfect the temple premises. The temple witnesses heavy rush of devotees on Sundays. SJTA chief administrator Dr Krishan Kumar said: “The temple will be disinfected once a week. The administration will announce the closure day once a week for devotees soon and it will be notified.” Officials said the decision to close the temple for devotees once a week will be implemented from April 1. Taking in account the sudden spurt in Covid cases, the state government has restricted the number of guests in social events. According to the new guidelines, the number of guests in a marriage function has been reduced from 500 to 200 and no more than 50 people are allowed to attend funeral ceremonies and last rites. The restrictions were announced by the special relief commissioner in a notification. The state government has already banned the celebration of Holi in public places. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has asked the administration and the police to enforce Covid guidelines, including the compulsory use of masks, strictly to prevent a second wave of coronavirus in the state. The number of new Covid cases in the state has touched 100. Following the state government’s tough stand on the issue, the Malkangiri district administration has imposed night curfew to prevent congregation of people during the ongoing tribal festival between 9pm and 6am till March 31. Similarly, the administration of Ganjam, which had reported the highest number of Covid cases last year, has made it mandatory for people entering the district from outside to inform the local authorities. The returnees will have to undergo a medical check-up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Sundari returns to Madhya Pradesh from Satkosia Tiger Reserve||Sundari, a tigress which had come from Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh in June 2018, as part of the first inter-state tiger translocation project, was sent back on Tuesday evening after a trouble-torn stay for two years and nine months in Satkosia Tiger Reserve in Angul district of Odisha. The tigress, who is now aged four-and-a-half years, was kept in a special enclosure at Raiguda in Satkosia forest for the last 30 months after it reportedly killed two persons in the area. The Odisha government had brought Sundari along with another tiger Mahavir in 2018 from Madhya Pradesh to Satkosia to repopulate the big cat numbers as part of India’s first tiger translocation project. Both of them were released in the Satkosia tiger reserve. While Sundari was released in the wild at Satkosia in June 2018, followed by Mahavir a few days later. Mahavir died after getting caught in a snare laid by the poachers in the forests on the fringes of Satkosia reserve a few months after his release in 2018. Sundari, on the other hand, was in the news owing to her violent behaviour as she reportedly killed two persons. As the people living in and around Satkosia protested and even torched a beat house of the forest department in the area, Odisha forest officials confined the tigress in an enclosure in September 2018 after tranquillising her. In 2019, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) asked the Odisha government to send Sundari back to Madhya Pradesh. As the issue snowballed into a major controversy and wildlife activists raised concern over the handling of the tigress, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in December 2020 urged his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik to ensure proper care of Sundari till her relocation. A six-member team, including a veterinary surgeon, reached Satkosia earlier this week. On Tuesday, they tranquillised Sundari and put her in a cage. “It took only 15 minutes to tranquillise the tigress. Following this, the tigress began her journey back to Madhya Pradesh in a special van. The van is scheduled to reach Madhya Pradesh at night,” said Pradeep Raj Karata, Angul regional chief conservator of forests. Till the work on the construction of tiger safaris at Kanha Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh is complete, Sundari will be temporarily sheltered at the Ghorela Rewilding Centre there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
25-03-2021||India||Day after, Opposition ‘runs’ parallel House in Bihar||The Opposition boycotted the Bihar Assembly proceedings on Wednesday and ran a parallel House on its premises over the alleged manhandling of its MLAs. The Opposition also asserted that it might boycott the Assembly proceedings for its entire tenure if chief minister Nitish Kumar does not apologise for the incident. The move came in the wake of Opposition legislators being allegedly assaulted on Tuesday by the marshals and police personnel for vehemently and aggressively opposing the tabling and passage of the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021. Even women legislators were manhandled and dragged out of the House by the police. The bill changes the name of Bihar Military Police to Bihar Special Armed Police and provides it the power to arrest people, as well as, conduct searches or raids without a warrant or the permission of a magistrate. The Opposition claimed the bill would turn Bihar into a police state. Wednesday was the last day of the budget session of the Assembly. The session started on an ominous note with the legislators of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress, the Left parties, and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen staying away from the proceedings. They assembled in the open space outside the Assembly building and held their own proceedings in protest, elected legislator Bhudeo Chaudhary as their “Speaker”, condemned the abuse and assault on the MLAs, and sacked the chief minister over the incident. Congress MLAs led by state party chief Madan Mohan Jha participated in the protest with black bands tied over their eyes. Women Opposition legislators offered bangles to the chief minister over the unprecedented incident in which Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha was allegedly held hostage in his chamber and had to call the police to remove the protesting MLAs. The police also dragged them out of the House. The 243-member Assembly has 126 ruling NDA legislators. It has the support of an Independent and a Lok Janshakti Party MLA. The Opposition has 110 MLAs, while the AIMIM has five legislators. The government has a thin majority in the House. “Chief minister Nitish and his puppet officers must know that no government is permanent. MLAs were abused and beaten inside the Assembly. They have set an unparliamentary trend. If the chief minister does not apologise for the incident, we may boycott the Assembly for the remaining tenure,” leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said. Tejashwi, younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, at present leads the party. “I will not forget the barbaric thrashing, abuse and misbehaviour of the MLAs, including the women legislators by Nitish Kumar and his pet officials. The chief minister will remember later on the shameful tradition he has started,” he said. Tejashwi pointed out it was ironic that the bill was passed in the presence of the police after they thrashed and removed the Opposition legislators. He alleged that a day might come when the police might beat Nitish in his own residence under the powers provided in the bill. “The senses of Nitish must have tingled with pleasure when the goondas were removing the saris of women legislators and putting their hands in their blouses. Filthy abuses were hurled at the women and they were dragged by their hair. Nirlajja (shameless) Kumar was enjoying dance and music in the night after the shameful incident,” Tejashwi said. The RJD leader also asserted that the entire incident was orchestrated at the behest of Nitish and the entire country was condemning him. Lalu, currently undergoing treatment in Delhi under incarceration after being convicted in fodder scam cases by the CBI court in Ranchi, called Nitish a “goonda of the Sangh (RSS).” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condemned the incident. “The shameful incident in the Bihar Vidhan Sabha has revealed that the chief minister is completely influenced by the RSS and the BJP. Those who have outraged the modesty of democracy have no right to be called the government. Yet the Opposition will keep raising its voice in public interest. We are not afraid,” he tweeted. Samajwadi Party leader and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav hit out at the Janata Dal United–BJP government over the incident. “ The attack on MLAs by armed police in the Bihar Assembly is a crime. The assault on the unemployed youth on the streets shows what the BJP thinks of the public after coming to power. It is condemnable. There has been a murderous attack on the democracy in Bihar. No more BJP. It believes in dictatorship instead of political mandate,” Akhilesh said. Nitish said that all legislations, including the police bill, passed by the legislature are being sent to the governor for approval. He said what happened a day ago was unprecedented. “What has happened in the House is unprecedented. Everybody has seen the behaviour of the Opposition legislators. It has not been good. They obstructed the functioning of the Assembly. If they had any doubt, they should have discussed it. The bill has provided all details. It has nothing about which rumours have been spread. Any action on the incident depends on the Speaker,” Nitish said. The chief minister also said that calling the police to control the situation in the Assembly comes under the jurisdiction of the Speaker. He also pointed out that tables and chairs were broken in the House and a paperweight was thrown. The chief minister also congratulated the NDA for electing JDU leader Maheshwar Hazari as deputy Speaker through voting. Hazari got 124 votes while the Opposition was not present in the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
25-03-2021||India||Nuns forced off train on suspicion of forceful conversion by ABVP members in Jhansi||Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad members allegedly forced two nuns and two women postulants off a long-distance train in Jhansi on March 19, alleging they were involved in religious conversion. Despite the women’s plea that they were law-abiding citizens, they were taken to the Government Railway Police station at Jhansi Junction and forced to sit there for four hours from 7.30pm till 11.30pm. A postulant is a candidate, especially one seeking admission into a religious order. The four Delhi-based women hailed from Kerala and were travelling from Delhi to Rourkela in Odisha on the Kalinga-Utkal Express. Chandrakant Yadav, an ABVP leader from Jhansi, said five members of his organisation were on the train and had complained against the nuns to the railway police, who asked the women to get off the train. The incident comes at a time BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh has acquired a poor reputation for crimes against women, with several ruling party politicians among the accused and the police often playing a dubious role. The ABVP is the student arm of the RSS. Friday’s atrocity came to light after Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday, and Archbishop Felix Machado, secretary-general of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India (CBCI), issued a media release on Wednesday. “The CBCI is deeply saddened and shocked by the attack on four religious sisters belonging to the Congregation of the Sacred Heart Society. Such incidents surely bring dishonour and shame to all of us, the law-abiding citizens of our beloved Mother India,” the archbishop said. “It is distressing that the four religious sisters were accused of unfounded allegations by some fellow travellers without any recourse to law even though the young women informed them that they were Catholics and bona fide citizens of the Indian Republic.” He said the railway police took the nuns into custody and released them only after a senior police officer “verified the matter”. The Jhansi Bishop’s House later helped them resume their journey. “The CBCI calls upon all respective government authorities, central, state and the Indian Railways to ensure safety of all women in future,” the archbishop said. Vijayan was quoted by the media as saying such incidents tarnished India’s image. The Puri-bound train had started its journey from Haridwar and the nuns and postulants had boarded it at Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin station. “There were two nuns and two trainees (postulants). The ABVP members, who were returning from a training camp at Rishikesh in Uttarakhand, thought the two nuns were taking the other two for religious conversion,” Naeem Khan Mansooru, deputy superintendent of railway police in Jhansi, said. “They called the Railway Protection Force, which passed on the information to the GRP. Later, the GRP found that all four were Christians by birth. They were then allowed to resume their journey.” A police source in Lucknow said a probe had been started against the ABVP members and that “the guilty will be brought to book eventually”. Yadav, the ABVP leader, said: “The GRP has the authority to probe a complaint. But this matter was over once they realised the women were not into any illegal activity. The matter was closed from our side. Even the media didn’t feel like raising this issue at the time. It is being raised unnecessarily after so many days.” A 12-year-old boy died of burns while reportedly trying to imitate a hair-straightening act shown on social media. Sivanarayanan on Tuesday applied kerosene to his hair and tried to straighten it with a lit matchstick, police said. The boy died in a hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
25-03-2021||India||Harassed, ‘raped’, killed: Day in life of women in Uttar Pradesh||A mother and daughter driven to suicide by alleged blackmail and sexual harassment. Two teenaged sisters strangled after purported rape. A mother bludgeoned to death and her daughter left to die on a field. The incidents, all of which happened between Monday night and Tuesday night, suggest that crimes against women are spiralling out of control in Uttar Pradesh, whose chief minister Yogi Adityanath goes about criticising other states’ law-and-order record during election campaigns. ⚫ A Dalit mother, 40, and her daughter, 17, hanged themselves from a tree on Tuesday night at village Belsar in Gonda district of eastern Uttar Pradesh. The elder woman’s brother-in-law said a Belsar resident named Satyam Singh had shot an “objectionable video” of his niece and was blackmailing her and her mother. “He wanted to exploit them sexually, which is why they ended their lives,” he said. “We had earlier approached the police three times but every time they asked us to resolve the matter in the village panchayat. The panchayat had asked Satyam last year to stop harassing my niece but he didn’t listen.” Gonda superintendent of police Shailesh Kumar Pandey denied knowledge of any past complaint from the family but said Satyam had been arrested. Rajan Baba, a village panchayat member, said: “We had warned Satyam many times.” ⚫  In village Singaha in Sant Kabir Nagar district, 140km east of Gonda, Shanti Devi, 42, had her skull smashed and her daughter Ranju Kumari, 17, was left seriously injured late on Tuesday night. “They had come to work on a farm in Singaha from their village of Musahara. They did not return home,” Vinay Pathak, a local police inspector, said. “There were several injury marks on their heads and faces. The girl has been admitted to the medical college in Gorakhpur. We are trying to ascertain the motive.” ⚫ In Pilibhit, western Uttar Pradesh, two sisters were found throttled to death on a highway near their home in the Bilaspur area on Tuesday morning. The girls, aged 19 and 16, were labourers at a brick kiln and had been missing since Monday night. Officers said the elder sister was hanging from a tree while the younger lay on the ground a few metres away. The post-mortem has confirmed both were strangled before one of them was hanged. Their mother said the brick-kiln owner, Ali Hasan, and his accountant Mahesh Kumar had raped and murdered the girls. Police sources said they were probing several angles, including honour killing, but did not reveal whether the post-mortem had confirmed rape. The accountant’s mobile phone was found near the younger girl’s body, police sources said. The girls’ mother, speaking to reporters on Wednesday before the police took her away for questioning, said: “We live in a hut provided by the brick kiln owner. He had threatened me on Tuesday night and asked me not to go to the police,” she said. Kamal Singh, a local police officer, dismissed her allegation, saying the brick kiln owner had himself informed the police of the double murder on Tuesday. Singh didn’t explain how the accountant’s mobile came to be at the spot. “We had no enmity with anybody but the brick-kiln owner had his eyes on my daughters,” the mother alleged. Pilibhit superintendent of police Jay Prakash said: “The role of the victims’ family members is dubious….” According to the National Crime Record Bureau, 59,853 crimes against women were reported in Uttar Pradesh in 2019, making up 14 per cent of the national figure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
