26-03-2021||India||Night curfew in Maharashtra from Sunday in view of rise in Covid-19 cases||Night curfew will be imposed in entire Maharashtra from March 28 in view of alarming rise in coronavirus cases, an official statement said on Friday. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray ordered night curfew from Sunday onwards, it said. Thackeray also warned of stricter restrictions if the people did not observe Covid-19 safety protocol, it said. The chief minister reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the state in a meeting with divisional commissioners, district collectors, superintendents of police and deans of medical colleges.
"I do not wish to impose lockdown. But there seems a possibility of healthcare facilities falling short given the rise in number of coronavirus patients," Thackeray was quoted as saying. He asked officials to ensure availability of adequate hospital beds and medicines, the statement said. Maharashtra recorded 35,952 coronavirus infections on Thursday, the highest one-day rise since the pandemic began. The state added over one lakh cases in four days. People should celebrate Holi in a simple manner considering the rise in Covid-19 cases and crowding should be avoided, the state government said on Friday.

Holi will be celebrated on March 28 and Rang Panchami falls a day later.

"The festival should be celebrated in a simple manner, observing social distancing norms and without coming together in any way given the increasing spread of Covid-19. Rang Panchami too should be celebrated in a simple manner," the government said in a statement. Noting that the state's Konkan region has a tradition of carrying a 'palkhi' or palanquin in a procession on Holi, the state government said this should be confined to temples and asked the local administration to do the needful. "No big religious or cultural programmes should be organised on the day of Holi and Rang Panchami," the government added. The state government also urged the Christian community to observe Good Friday (on April 2) and celebrate Easter Sunday (on April 4) in a simple manner in view of the spread of the disease.

The government said, if a church is spacious, maximum of 50 persons should attend the prayer meet there during the holy week from March 28 to April 4. If the church is smaller in size, then a special prayer meet should be held in the presence of 10-25 persons, and four to five special masses may be organised depending on the need, it said. It said adherence to Covid-19 protocols, including wearing masks, using hand sanitisers etc, must be ensured, adding that efforts must also be made to broadcast prayer meets online. "No religious programme that can attract crowd in any way should be organised. Besides, procession should not be taken out," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
26-03-2021||India||Modi hails ‘Bangabandhu’ Mujibur, says bond of blood unites us ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday hailed “Bangabandhu” Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's leadership and the contributions of the Indian Army in Bangladesh's 1971 Liberation War as he joined his counterpart Sheikh Hasina and President Abdul Hamid in celebrating the golden jubilee of the country's independence and the birth centenary of its founder. Addressing Bangladesh's 50th Independence anniversary at the National Parade Square, Modi recalled the role played by the Indian Army in the freedom war and said the blood of those who fought for their liberation and the blood of Indian soldiers are flowing together and this blood will form such a relationship that will not break down under any type of pressure. "I salute the brave soldiers of the Indian Army who stood with the brothers and sisters of Bangladesh in Muktijuddho. Those who gave their blood in Muktijuddho, sacrificed themselves, and played a very big role in realising the dream of independent Bangladesh," said Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus. Modi, who was wearing a “Mujib Jacket” as a tribute to Bangladesh's Father of the Nation, said that Bangabandhu's leadership and bravery had ensured that no power could enslave Bangladesh. Under Bangabandhu's leadership, people of Bangladesh across the social spectrum came together and became “Muktibahini”, Modi said, adding Bangladesh's Liberation War had support from all corners of India, from all parties, every section of the society. "This is one of the most memorable days of my life. I am grateful that Bangladesh has included me in this event. I am grateful that Bangladesh has invited India to take part in this function. It is a matter of our pride that we got the opportunity to honour Sheikh Mujibur Rahman with the Gandhi Peace Prize," he said. The Gandhi Peace Prize 2020 was conferred on Bangabandhu early this week. It was for the first time that the award was given away posthumously. At the beginning of the programme, Modi handed over the Gandhi Peace Prize to Bangabandhu's daughters Prime Minister Hasina and her younger sister Sheikh Rehana. Recalling the 1971 war of independence, Modi said the pictures of atrocities that the Pakistan Army inflicted on the people in then East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) used to distract people in India. "I must have been 20-22 years old when I and my colleagues did Satyagraha for Bangladesh's freedom," he told the gathering. The war broke out after the sudden crackdown at midnight past on March 25, 1971 in the erstwhile East Pakistan by the Pakistani troops and ended on December 16. The same year Pakistan conceded defeat and unconditionally surrendered in Dhaka to the allied forces comprising the freedom fighters and the Indian soldiers. Officially three million people were killed during the nine-month long war. Modi said the next 25 years are crucial for both India and Bangladesh. “Our heritage is shared, our growth is shared, our targets and opportunities are also shared,” he said. He said both India and Bangladesh have the power of democracy and vision for the future, and it is necessary for the region the two countries progress together. "That is why Indian and Bangladeshi governments are making meaningful efforts in this direction," he said. "We must remember that we've similar opportunities in fields of trade and commerce, but at the same time, we've similar threats like terrorism. The ideas and powers behind such types of inhumane acts are still active. We must remain vigilant and united to counter them, he added. On the occasion of the 50th year of Indo-Bangla ties, Modi invited 50 Bangladeshi entrepreneurs to India. "They should get associated with our innovation ecosystem and meet venture capitalists. We will learn from them and they will learn from us as well," he said. Earlier, the programme began with religious leaders from Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism and Christianity reciting prayers from their holy books, projecting a secular image of Muslim-majority Bangladesh. Bangladesh was founded as a secular state, but Islam was made the state religion in the 1980s. In 2010, the High Court held up the secular principles of the 1972 constitution.
Modi was the guest of honour while Bangladesh President Hamid was the chief guest at the function chaired by Prime Minister Hasina. Meanwhile, at least four persons were killed and dozens injured when some Islamist organisations protesting Prime Minister Modi's visit to Bangladesh clashed with police on Friday afternoon. In Chittagong's Hathazari upazila, at least four persons, including two students, were killed and dozens injured when police tried to disperse the protesters by first firing tear shells followed by rubber bullets and shotguns, the Dhaka Tribune reported. "The Hathazari police station suddenly came under attack. We are trying to bring the situation under control," the paper quoted Additional Superintendent of Police Shahadat Hossain as saying. In Dhaka, at least 50 people, including two journalists, were injured when clashes broke out between a group of protesters and police in the Baitul Mukarram area on Friday afternoon. The protesters, members of various Islamist groups, launched a fresh demonstration after Friday prayers, protesting the visit of Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
26-03-2021||India||Two accused sentenced to life imprisonment in Nikita Tomar murder case||A fast-track court in Haryana's Faridabad on Friday sentenced two men to life imprisonment for the murder of Nikita Tomar, five months after the 21-year old woman was shot outside her college. Soon after the court pronounced the quantum of punishment, Haryana's Home Minister Anil Vij told PTI that the state government will file an appeal before the high court, seeking the death sentence for the two men. Apart from awarding the life sentence to convicts Tausif and Rehan under section 302 (murder) and a fine of Rs 20,000, the court also sentenced them to five years' imprisonment and Rs 2,000 as fine under section 366/34 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code, defence counsel Adal Singh Rawat said. Tausif was also sentenced to four years in prison under the Arms Act. All sentences will run concurrently, he told PTI. Faridabad Additional District and Sessions Judge Sartaj Baswana convicted the two men in the case on Wednesday, less than four months after the trial began on December 1. A third accused, Azharuddin, was acquitted. Tausif was trying to force the student into marrying him, police had earlier said. Amid outrage over the murder, which was caught on camera, Vij had linked it to love jihad , a reference to right-wing allegations that marriages are being used to fraudulently convert Hindu women. In his reply to a calling attention motion on the murder, he told the state assembly in November 2020 that the government was planning to bring a Bill to tackle "love jihad". Reacting to the court verdict, the minister said, We will study the judgment. We will file an appeal before the high court so that the convicts get capital punishment. Defence counsel Rawat said Nikita Tomar's family will also file an appeal before the high court. On October 26, the final-year B.Com student had stepped out of her college in Faridabad's Ballabhgarh after an exam when Tausif confronted her, trying to force her into a car, police had said. The two accused were later arrested on the basis of CCTV footage. The Faridabad police filed a 700-page chargesheet before the court on November 6. Vij said the accused were arrested within 24 hours of the crime and the trial was quick. The police filed chargesheet before the court in 11 days, he said. The victim's family had also been demanding capital punishment for the accused. There should be a strong deterrence so that no one else will dare to commit such a crime in future, her father Moolchand Tomar had said earlier. We want the culprits hanged. Nikita sacrificed her life against love jihad, he had said. Azharuddin, who has been acquitted, was arrested on charges of supplying the illicit gun used in the crime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
26-03-2021||India||Modi hands over Gandhi Peace Prize for Sheikh Mujibur Rahman to his daughter||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday handed over the Gandhi Peace Prize 2020, being conferred by India upon Bangladesh's 'Father of the Nation' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, to his daughter Sheikh Rehana, the younger sister of premier Sheikh Hasina. Modi arrived in Bangladesh on a two-day visit to attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and hold talks with his counterpart Hasina. Speaking at the National Day programme of Bangladesh, Modi said it was an honour for India to confer Gandhi Peace Prize on Mujibur Rahman. He handed over the award, a citation, a plaque and a shawl to Sheikh Rehana in the presence of Prime Minister Hasina. The Gandhi Peace Prize is an annual award instituted by the government of India since 1995, the 125th birth anniversary commemoration year of Mahatma Gandhi. Modi earlier said Bangabandhu was a champion of human rights and freedom, and a hero to Indians as well. The award carries an amount of Rs 1 crore, a citation, plaque and an exquisite traditional handicraft/ handloom item. Mujibur Rahman was imprisoned in Pakistan when Bangladesh was born. Pakistan was forced to set him free on January 8, 1972. He returned to Dhaka on January 10, 1972. He later took over as Prime Minister of Bangladesh but was assassinated by some military officers during a coup d'etat on August 15, 1975. His wife, brother, sons and daughters-in-law were also assassinated along with him. Hasina and her sister Sheikh Rehana survived as they were in Europe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||BJP blames corruption in BMC for fire at Mumbai hospital||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday alleged that corruption in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was responsible for the fire at a hospital in a Mumbai mall, which killed 10 patients. The incident of fire occurred in Sunrise Hospital in the Dreams Mall building in Bhandup area shortly after Thursday midnight. The hospital is located on the top floor of the four-storey mall building and there were 76 patients, most of them being treated for COVID-19, when the fire broke out, officials said. "It is the corrupt practices in the BMC that could have led to the fire incident in Bhandup mall. Why no fire audit was performed before sa COVID Care Centre was set up there?" Fadnavis asked. "I would say that the Bombay High Court should take suo moto cognisance of the incident and probe the matter. Those from the BMC, who are responsible for the incident, should face action," the Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly said while talking to reporters here. The state government had given assurance of carrying out safety audit of all the hospitals in the state, he said. "Yet this incident occurred today. It means the government is not serious about public health and safety," he said. The Shiv Sena currently rules the Mumbai civic body and also heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state by sharing power with the NCP and the Congress. Another BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said he would file a complaint of criminal negligence against the BMC in connection with the fire, while the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) also sought to know how a COVID Care centre was given permission to operate in a mall. Somaiya said the mall is an "epitome of corruption". "I am going to file a complaint of criminal negligence against the BMC. There have been several complaints against this mall, but no action was taken against its owners," he alleged. MNS general secretary Sandeep Deshpande claimed that the mall has not received the occupancy certificate (OC) so far and its fire audit is still incomplete. "The mall was operational without the OC by the BMC. The fire audit could not be completed as the fire system in place there was not satisfactory. That is why, the fire brigade did not issue a clearance certificate," he told reporters. "I still wonder why a COVID Care Centre was set up in this mall. The local ward officer should be questioned and probed for allowing treatment of coronavirus patients at the mall," he said. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who visited the spot in the afternoon, said there was approval for starting a temporary coronavirus treatment facility there. He also announced a financial aid of Rs 5 lakh to the next kin of each deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||Centre mulls bringing more population groups under vaccination drive||The Centre is planning to widen the scope of the COVID-19 immunisation drive by bringing more population groups under its ambit, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday, days after everyone above 45 years was made eligible to get vaccinated from April 1. He said people have embraced the 'Made in India' vaccines, and it is due to this enthusiasm and trust that the country crossed the last one crore vaccination in just under four days. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated first and immunisation of frontline workers began from February 2. The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination has commenced from March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified comorbid conditions. "A few days ago, the government announced that from April 1 all citizens aged 45 years and above, whether having any comorbidity or not, will be eligible to get vaccinated. The government is already planning to widen the umbrella of COVID-19 vaccine beneficiaries soon to cover other sections of the population," Vardhan said. He made these remarks during his keynote address on 'Reshape Tomorrow Summit' organised by The Economic Times, according to a health ministry statement. "I have often called 2020 the year of science. A vaccine development process that used to take many years, often decades, has been condensed to about 11 months. "Just in January last year, research started with a previously unknown virus and we now have not just one, but several vaccines that will be administered to millions of people before the end of the year with several other types of COVID-19 vaccines also on the way," the minister said. Both Covaxin and Covishield are being manufactured in India. But, Covaxin by Bharat Biotech has been developed in the country under the ambit of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) showcasing the nation's remarkable scientific acumen and vaccine development capability to the world, he said. "People have embraced our 'Made in India vaccines, and it is due to this enthusiasm and trust, we crossed our last one crore vaccinations in just under four days," the minister was quoted as saying in a statement. Vardhan also described India's investment in the 'test, track and treat' strategy along with the behavioural change campaign as the bedrock of the country's highest recovery rate and minuscule fatality rate, it said. He praised Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's decision to allocate Rs 35,000 crore for the COVID-19 vaccination drive in the 2021-22 budget. "On January 16, India started its national vaccination programme against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. That day witnessed vaccination of the highest number of beneficiaries anywhere in the world on the first day. Back then, our priority was to use the COVID-19 vaccine as a shield to protect our healthcare and frontline workers. "Within the first 34 days, we touched 1 crore vaccination, and in the subsequent weeks, we opened the vaccination to other priority groups. Throughout this vaccination drive, our focus has been on keeping the services as citizen-friendly as possible," Vardhan said. To speed up the pace of the vaccination drive, the Centre has lifted time restrictions and people can now get immunised round the clock according to their convenience across India, he said. Applauding the collaborative approach followed by India for planning and execution of the vaccination drive, Vardhan propounded the exercise as an excellent example of how the federal system can work in synergy to maximize the reach of a programme. The vaccination drive is being coordinated as a 'Jan Bhagidari Aandolan' involving many stakeholders like ministries, departments, professional bodies, medical colleges, NGOs, CSOs, media houses, private sector, youth and women volunteer groups, he added. "In these trying times when the clamour for 'vaccine nationalism' is on the rise, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, being a champion of global cooperation and humanity, has led the way by example. "His decision to extend help to our global family not only resonates well with our age-old virtues of 'Vasudhaivakutumbakam', exalting the entire world as one family but has also further cemented India's stature as a true leader in the comity of nations," the health minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||Yogi blames Rahul Gandhi for Congress's downfall||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi, saying the Congress leader does not speak on his own but depends on "borrowed wisdom" and he is becoming a reason for his party's downfall. "Rahul ji apni buddhi se toh kuch kahte nahin. Udhar ki buddhi vivek nahin deti hai. (Rahul ji does not say anything from his wisdom. Borrowed wisdom does not give sense of reasoning)," Adityanath said while responding to a question about Gandhi's criticism of the state of affairs in Uttar Pradesh under his government. Adityanath made the remarks at the India Economic Conclave which he attended via a video bridge. The chief minister said that since Gandhi hardly visits the state, he would have little information about the ground situation there. When India faces a crisis, Rahul Gandhi does not remember the people of the country but his maternal grandmother in Italy, Adityanath said. "He criticises north when he is in south, and south when he is in north (India)," the senior BJP leader said targeting Gandhi who is the MP from Wayanad in Kerala. The Congress leader had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha Elections from Wayanad and Amethi, but lost to BJP's Smriti Irani in the Uttar Pradesh seat. Gandhi also criticises India when he is abroad, Adityanath said, adding that when a person has such a nature, his reliability is under question. Adityanath claimed that Gandhi is becoming a reason for the Congress' downfall. To a question about opinion polls predicting another term for the Left Democratic Front in Kerala against the convention of the party in power being ousted in the next election in the state, he said Gandhi's arrival in the state has triggered a slide in Congress' fortunes there. Responding to a question on West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee, he said it is an "ideological victory" for the BJP that people who used to describe going to temple as "communal" are themselves visiting temples. "This may be due to elections, but we consider it as our ideological victory. Ideological victory leads to real victory," Adityanath said. He recalled that restrictions were placed on Durga Puja in West Bengal in 2018. Uttar Pradesh, Adityanath said, faced a similar situation as Durga Puja and Moharram fell at the same time. He said his government allowed both by fixing time for the two by talking to stakeholders. Later, the West Bengal government approached the Uttar Pradesh government to understand how it managed to allow both the religious events, he claimed. Predicting a win for the BJP in the West Bengal polls, Adityanath said every section of society wants change in the state. He said Uttar Pradesh has progressed in every field since the BJP came to power in the state in 2017. The size of its economy is now second in the country from six in 2015-16, Adityanath said. He said that his government identified various fields to boost people's income and improve the state's economy. The per capita income has gone up to Rs 96,000 from Rs 47,000 earlier, Adityanath said. The state has seen over Rs 3 lakh crore private investment in the last four years, he said, adding that law and order has considerably improved and road and air connectivity boosted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||SC asks Punjab govt to hand over Mukhtar Ansari’s custody to UP||The Supreme Court Friday directed the Punjab government to hand over the custody of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, who is lodged in Rupnagar jail there, to Uttar Pradesh Police. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy said that the custody of Ansari, an MLA from Mau constituency, be handed over to the state of Uttar Pradesh within two weeks. The top court also dismissed a plea by Ansari seeking transfer of cases lodged against him in Uttar Pradesh to some other place outside the state. The top court delivered the verdict on the plea of Uttar Pradesh government seeking a direction to the Punjab government and Rupnagar jail authority to immediately hand over the custody of Ansari, to the district jail Banda. On March 4, the top court was informed by the Punjab government that Yogi Adityanath-led government has no fundamental right to seek Ansari's transfer from Rupnagar jail to a district jail in Banda in Uttar Pradesh. Ansari is lodged in district jail Rupnagar in Punjab in connection with an alleged extortion case since January 2019. He is also accused in several cases of heinous crimes lodged in Uttar Pradesh. The UP government has earlier contended that Ansari has been dodging the judicial system and is running his alleged illegal activities from Rupnagar district jail in Punjab. While Uttar Pradesh had alleged in the apex court that there is collusion between Ansari and Punjab Police, the Amarinder Singh government has refuted these claims and raised questions over the maintainability of plea filed by the Yogi Adityanath government. The UP government has referred to the prison rules and said that though the state itself does not have fundamental rights, it can espouse the cause and the fundamental rights of the victims and it may assume the position of the victim. It said Ansari had flouted the jail manual rules and rights of the victim and the State at large cannot be overlooked and the accused cannot be allowed to jettison the fair trial. It had said that the top court under Article 142 can order transfer of Ansari from Punjab jail to a jail in Uttar Pradesh as around 14 and 15 cases are at final stages. Ansari, who has also filed a petition seeking transfer of his cases in UP to outside the state, had submitted that because of his political affiliation to a party in opposition, he is being targeted. Punjab government has said that Ansari has been unwell and the central government owned PGI Chandigarh has been giving him the medical certificates from time to time. The UP government has made repeated efforts to seek Ansari's custody and it has been told by the Punjab jail authorities that Ansari has been unwell and their response has been based on medical records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||Govt extends validity of driving licence, vehicle documents till June||The government on Friday extended the validity of motor vehicle documents like driving licence (DL), registration certificate (RC) and permits till June 30, 2021, in view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. In an advisory to states, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) said it is extending the validity of fitness, permit, driving licence, registration and other documents whose extension of validity could not be granted due to lockdown and which had expired since February 1, 2020, or would expire by March 31, 2021. It had earlier issued advisories dated March 30, 2020, June 9, 2020, August 24, 2020, and December 27, 2020, in connection with extension of validity of documents related to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. It is advised that the validity of the documents that have expired since February 1,, the same may be treated to be valid till June 30, 2021, the ministry said in an advisory to states. Enforcement authorities are advised to treat such documents valid till June 30, 2021, the MoRTH said adding that "this will help out citizens in availing transport-related services". Stating that this may be last advisory in this regard, the ministry has asked the states to implement this advisory in letter and spirit, so that citizens are not harassed or face difficulties. Earlier through various notifications, it was advised that the validity of fitness, permit (all types), licence, registration or any other concerned documents may be treated to be valid till March 31, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||Mehbooba accuses govt of trying to dismantle PDP||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Friday accused the Centre of trying to dismantle her party by luring and threatening its members. Her remarks come a day after she was grilled for five hours by the Enforcement Directorate at its Srinagar office in connection with a money laundering case. In a tweet, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister charged, "GOI (Government of India) is trying to dismantle PDP by luring & threatening its members. Investigative agencies like ED are being used to intimidate me." Accusing the government of trying to subject her to political vendetta, she said, "To make matters worse, I'm being denied my fundamental right to a passport. If this isn't political vendetta then what is?". After the questioning, Mufti had told reporters that dissent has been criminalised in the country and central agencies like NIA, CBI and ED were being misused to silence the opposition. "Dissent has been criminalised in this country. ED, CBI and NIA are being misused to silence the opposition tactically," she charged. She further charged that anyone opposing the current government was hounded by trumped up charges like sedition or money laundering. "This country is not being run by the Constitution but the agenda of a particular political party," she alleged. Asked about the questions put forth to her by the ED, the PDP chief said she was asked about the sale of her ancestral land in Bijbehara area of Anantnag district and the use of the Chief Minister's discretionary funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||NEP to ensure equality and quality in education sector: Ramesh Pokhriyal||Union Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' on Friday said the new National Education Policy will form the basis of ensuring equality and quality in the sector and rubbished allegations of "saffronisation" of education. The new policy, which was approved by the Union Cabinet last year, replaced the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986. "There is no such thing as saffronisation of education. Those who are alleging this, do not have a correct definition of saffronisation. Yes, we are respecting our mother tongue but are countries like Israel and Japan which offer education in their language, behind others?" Education Minister Pokhriyal said in response to a question at the India Economic Conclave. Teaching up to class 5 in mother tongue or regional language, lowering the stakes of board exams, a single regulator for higher education institutions except for law and medical colleges, and common entrance tests for universities are part of the new National Education Policy (NEP). "English is not knowledge, it is just a language. Today when Germany has over 14 universities teaching Sanskrit, no one asks them anything, when we do the same, there are allegations of saffronisation," the minister said. "No language is being imposed on anyone. We have brought an excellent new education policy which will ensure equality, quality and access in the education sector," Pokhriyal said. Among the salient features of the new NEP also are replacing the 10+2 structure of school curricula with a 5+3+3+4 structure corresponding to age groups 3-8, 8-11, 11-14 and 14-18 years respectively, scrapping of M.Phil programmes and implementing common norms for private and public higher education institutions. The policy is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||Modi pays homage to martyrs of Bangladesh War of Independence||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday visited the National Martyr's memorial at Savar here and paid homage to those who sacrificed their lives in the 1971 Bangladesh War of Independence against Pakistan. "I pay my heartfelt tribute to the patriotic martyrs of Bangladesh whose glorious sacrifices enabled the birth of this great Nation. May every visitor to this revered ground honour the sacred memory of the millions who were slain but not silenced. Their valour will continue to inspire future generations to fight injustice and defend the cause of righteousness," Modi wrote in the visitor's book at the memorial. "On behalf of the people of India, I pray that the eternal flame at Savar remains a lasting reminder of the noble victory of truth and courage over deceit and oppression," he wrote. Army bugles played the Last Post as the Bangladesh national flag was hoisted at half mast in a ceremonial manner as Prime Minister Modi stood in solemn silence in front of the memorial as a mark of respect to the martyrs after placing a wreath. Designed by Syed Mainul Hossain, the memorial at Savar, about 35 km north-west of Dhaka, comprises seven pairs of triangular-shaped walls -- each representing a significant chapter in Bangladesh's history, including the 1952 'Bhasha Andolan' (Language Movement) -- through which Bangladesh became an independent nation from Pakistan. On reaching the memorial, Modi planted a sapling of the Arjuna tree "to commemorate sacrifices of the patriotic martyrs of Bangladesh", the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) tweeted. "This sapling has been planted as a mark of respect for the valorous martyrs of Bangladesh," the Prime Minister's Office tweeted. In another tweet, the PMO said, in the same complex, the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had also planted a sapling during his Bangladesh visit in 1999. Vajpayee had planted a sapling of Cape jasmine that time. Sharing a picture of Modi laying the wreath at the memorial, the Ministry of External Affairs tweeted, "Prime Minister @narendramodi paying solemn tribute at the National Martyr's Memorial to the brave-hearts of the Liberation War of Bangladesh, for their great sacrifices." Later, Modi met political leaders from the ruling Grand Alliance. "Engaging the Bangladeshi political leadership across the spectrum! PM @narendramodi meets political leaders from 14 Party Alliance along with convener. Discussions centred on diverse issues of our bilateral relations," the MEA tweeted, sharing a picture of the meeting. Modi arrived Dhaka on a two-day visit during which he will attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and hold talks with his counterpart Sheikh Hasina. Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus, was received by Prime Minister Hasina at Dhaka's Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport upon his arrival. A salute of 19 guns and Guard of honour were accorded to Prime Minister Modi at the airport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||Supreme Court dismisses plea to stay on sale of electoral bonds||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a plea seeking stay on further sale of electoral bonds ahead of Assembly elections. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde declined to stay sale of the electoral bonds as sought in the application moved by the NGO, Association for Democratic Reforms. "Since the bonds were allowed to be released in 2018 and 2019 without interruption, and sufficient safeguards are there, there is no justification to stay the electoral bonds at present," the bench said on Friday, as reported by NDTV. The NGO had also sought stay on sale of the electoral bonds during the pendency of the PIL filed by it pertaining to funding of political parties and alleged lack of transparency in their accounts The Centre had earlier told the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, that the bonds would be issued from April 1 to April 10. The NGO had claimed that there is a serious apprehension that any further sale of electoral bonds before the upcoming assembly elections, including in Bengal and Assam, would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies . While reserving its order on the NGO's application, the apex court on March 24 had flagged the issue of possible misuse of funds received through electoral bonds by political parties for illegal purposes like terrorism and had asked the Centre whether there was any control over how these funds were put to use. The top court had said that the government should look into this issue of possible misuse of funds received through electoral bonds for illegal purposes like terrorism. What is the control of the government on how the money is put to use, the bench had asked the government. “The funds can be misused for illegal purposes like terrorism. We would like you, as the government, to look into this aspect, the bench said, adding that political parties may use these funds for activities beyond their political agenda.” “If a political party receives electoral bonds worth Rs 100 crore, what is the assurance that it won't be used for illegal purposes or fund violence,” the bench had observed. The Centre had told the bench that electoral bonds have a validity of 15 days and political parties have to file their income tax return also. It had said that buyers have to use white money and the purchase of electoral bonds is through a banking channel. Terrorism is not funded by white money. It is funded by black money, the government had said. The NGO had said there is anonymity about the donor and the Election Commission and the Reserve Bank of India had earlier raised objections on it. It had also claimed that most of the funds through electoral bonds have gone to the ruling party. Assembly polls will be held in Tamil Nadu, Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Union territory of Puducherry beginning from March 27 to April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||SC sets aside NCLAT order, backs removal of Cyrus Mistry ||In a major victory for the Tata Group, the Supreme Court on Friday set aside a National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) order restoring Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the conglomerate.

A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde, justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said it is allowing the appeals filed by the Tata Group.

"The order of NCLAT dated December 18, 2019 is set aside," the bench said while pronouncing the verdict and putting at rest the long-drawn legal battle of the salt-to-software Tata conglomerate.

It said, "...all the questions of law are liable to be answered in favour of the appellants Tata Group, the appeals filed by the Tata Group are liable to be allowed and (the appeal by) the SP (Shapoorji Pallonji) Group is liable to be dismissed."

The bench, which dealt with the SP Group's contention regarding separation, said the valuation of the group's shares depends upon the value of the Tata Sons' stake in listed equities, immovable assets and others.

"...at this stage and in this court, we cannot adjudicate on the fair compensation," it added.

"We will leave it to the parties to take the Article 75 route or any other legally available route in this regard," the bench said.

The SP Group had earlier valued its holding in the Tatas at Rs 1.75 lakh crore.

However, during the hearing in the matter before the apex court, the Tatas had, on December 8 last year, said the valuation of the 18.37 per cent shares of the SP Group in Tata Sons Private Limited (TSPL) is between Rs 70,000 crore and Rs 80,000 crore.

The SP Group had told the top court that Mistry's removal as the chairman of TSPL at a board meeting held in October 2016 was akin to a "blood sport" and "ambush", in complete violation of the principles of corporate governance and in pervasive violation of the Articles of Association in the process.

The Tata Group had vehemently opposed the allegations and denied any wrongdoing, saying the board was well within its right to remove Mistry as the chairman.

The top court had, on September 22 last year, restrained the SP Group and Mistry as also his investment firm from pledging or transferring their shares in TSPL.

The SP Group, which owns 18.37 per cent shares in TSPL, had said the latter moved the top court to block its plan to pledge shares for raising funds and that reeked of vindictiveness and oppression of minority shareholder rights.

The apex court had, on January 10 last year, granted relief to the Tata Group by staying the NCLAT order by which Mistry was restored as the executive chairman of the conglomerate.

Mistry had succeeded Ratan Tata as the chairman of TSPL in 2012, but was ousted four years later.

TSPL had earlier told the top court that it was not a "two-group company" and there was no "quasi-partnership" between it and Cyrus Investments Private Limited.

In his reply to the Tatas' petition challenging his reinstatement by the NCLAT order, Mistry had also demanded that group chairman emeritus Ratan Tata should reimburse all the expenses to TSPL since his departure in December 2012, in keeping with the best global governance standards.

Mistry is seeking representation in the company in proportion to the 18.37-per cent stake held by his family, according to the cross-appeal.

TSPL, formerly known as Tata Sons Limited, had sought setting aside of the NCLAT order in toto, alleging that it was "completely inconsistent with the annals of corporate law" and reflected "non-appreciation of facts", which was "untenable in law".

The NCLAT had held that the group's chairman emeritus Ratan Tata's actions against Mistry were oppressive and the appointment of a new chairman was illegal.

It, however, had stayed the operation of its order with respect to Mistry's reinstatement for four weeks to allow TSPL to file an appeal in the top court.

"In other words, far from putting an end to the alleged acts complained of, the judgment (of the NCLAT) has sown the seeds for a never-ending discord and conflict between shareholders of the appellant (TSPL), creating a recipe for an unmitigated disaster," the Tata Group had said.

The plea had raised questions of law and said the order restoring Mistry to his "original position" as the executive chairman of TSPL for the "rest of the tenure" was illegal as his tenure "stood extinguished in March 2017".

The plea termed "illegal" the NCLAT's declaration that Natarajan Chandrasekaran's appointment as the chairman of TSPL was wrong and claimed that he was appointed "in accordance with the articles and duly approved by the board and shareholders".

It alleged that the NCLAT granted a relief to Mistry that was not even sought.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||Noted journalist and author Anil Dhaker passes away at 74||Noted journalist and author Anil Dharker died here on Friday, a former colleague said. Dharker (74) was the founder and director of the Mumbai International Literary Festival, held in November every year and was also the founder and director of Literature Live! which holds literary evenings throughout the year in the city. He underwent a bypass procedure at a Mumbai hospital on Thursday and died there on Friday morning, the colleague said. Over a five-decade-long illustrious career, Dharker had been a columnist and writer, an architect, a member of the advisory committee of the film censor board and more. Dharker had been the editor of a variety of publications, starting with Debonair (a monthly), Mid-Day and Sunday Mid-Day (evening papers); The Independent, a morning broad-sheet from the Times of India group and The Illustrated Weekly of India. He was a columnist for The Indian Express newspaper and author The Romance Of Salt, a book on Mahatma Gandhi's Dandi March. Dharker had also worked as a TV show producer and anchor, and head of a news television channel. He was a member of the Advisory Boards of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), Doordarshan, the Children’s Film Society of India and several film funds for the production of films in India. He was also a recipient of several awards for journalism. Expressing grief over Dharkers demise, columnist Bachi Karkaria tweeted: "Extremely saddened by the passing of the many talented Anil Dharker. I can safely say no other Indian Litfest curator had his deep, emotional commitment or drive. Knew him for well nigh 50 years. Flourish as much up there, dear Anil." In her tributes to Dharker, fellow author and columnist Shobhaa De tweeted: Goodbye dearest Anil. An elegant mind, a stylish writer, and a loyal friend. You will be missed by all those whose lives you touched. RIP." Lyricist and Chairman of the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) Prasoon Joshi tweeted," Saddened to hear about Anil Dharker passing away. Will miss and cherish the discussions we had about life. A stimulating mind, nurturer of literature and art who thrived on ideas."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||Modi flies to Dhaka in first foeign trip after Covid-19, to hold talks with Hasina||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Dhaka on Friday on a two-day visit to Bangladesh during which he will attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and hold talks with his counterpart Sheikh Hasina. Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus, was received by Prime Minister Hasina at Dhaka's Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport upon his arrival. The prime minister travelled to Dhaka on the newly-inducted custom-made Boeing 777 aircraft. He wore his mask before alighting from the aircraft and exchanging pleasantries with Hasina. He received a guard of honour at the airport. The prime minister had on Thursday said he will hold substantive discussions with his Bangladeshi counterpart during the visit, as he expressed happiness that his first foreign tour after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic will be to a friendly neighbouring country with which India shares deep ties. "Our partnership with Bangladesh is an important pillar of our Neighbourhood First policy, and we are committed to further deepen and diversify it. We will continue to support Bangladesh's remarkable development journey, under Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's dynamic leadership," Modi tweeted ahead of his visit. Modi wrote that he was looking forward to remembering the life and ideals of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and celebrate 50 years of Bangladesh's War of Liberation, as well as our diplomatic ties. Modi is scheduled to go straight to the National Martyrs' Memorial in Savar from the airport to pay tributes to the 1971 Liberation War martyrs. Shortly afterwards, he will visit the Bangabandhu Memorial Museum at Dhanmondi 32, originally the Bangladesh founder's private residence, to pay homage to his memories. Later, Modi will join the celebration programme as the guest of honour at the National Parade Square. Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid will be the chief guest at the function, which would be chaired by Prime Minister Hasina. In the evening, Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the "Bangabandhu-Bapu Museum" jointly with his counterpart at the Bangabandhu International Conference Centre. He will also attend a state banquet hosted in his honour by Hasina. On Saturday, Modi will visit the mausoleum of 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman at Tungipara in Gopalganj district, the first Indian dignitary to ever visit the place. He is also scheduled to visit the Jeshoreshwari and Orkandi temples in southwestern Shatkhira and Gopalganj on Saturday. On Saturday afternoon, Modi will hold talks with Hasina at the Prime Minister's Office, where at least five MoUs are expected to be signed and a number of projects inaugurated virtually. Later, he will meet President Hamid at Bangabhaban presidential palace before leaving for New Delhi in the evening. Modi's visit is taking place at a time Bangladesh is commemorating Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of the country's war of liberation. The two countries are also celebrating 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||Traffic movement suspended in Ghazipur border for farmers’ Bharat Bandh||The Delhi Police on Friday closed both carriageways of National Highway-24 passing through the Ghazipur border in view of the 'Bharat Bandh' called by farmer unions protesting against the three agri laws. Farmers gathered at several national highways, key roads and some railway tracks in Punjab and Haryana on Friday morning as part of their nationwide protest against the Centre's new agri laws. According to the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting unions who called for the bandh, the Bharat Bandh is being observed from 6 am to 6 pm to mark four months of the farmers' agitation at Delhi's three borders -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri. In a tweet, the Delhi Traffic Police said, "Traffic movement is closed on Ghazipur Border NH-24 (Both carriageways)." The one side of the carriageway was earlier opened on March 15 for traffic. However, the other side from Ghaziabad towards Delhi has been closed since the farmers' protest started. The Delhi Police has said adequate security arrangements have been put in place in view of the bandh. Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal had said there will be intense patrolling to maintain peace in the national capital.  Heavy police force has been deployed in Haryana and Punjab as part of security measures, an official said. The farmers have gathered at several highways and roads in the two states including in Bathinda, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Patiala, Mohali, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Bhiwani districts. A group of farmers who were holding a protest in Zirakpur and Kharar towns in Punjab, both on the outskirts of Chandigarh, said they were allowing ambulances and other emergency vehicles to pass. Some of the protesters blocked the Ambala-Delhi highway near Ambala Cantt, police said. While another group squatted on a railway track near Shahpur village, around five kilometers from Ambala Cantt, due to which all the trains running between Delhi and Saharanpur were stranded, railway officials said. The farmers also blocked the Ambala-Rajpura Highway on the Haryana-Punjab border near Shambhu barrier, and the Ambala-Hisar Highway near Ambala City. Blockades on various state highways were also reported in Naraingarh and Mullana in Haryana, police said. The SKM, an umbrella body of protesting unions, appealed to protesting farmers to be peaceful and not get involved in any kind of illegitimate debate and conflict during the 'bandh'. "All shops, malls, markets and institutions will remain closed under complete Bharat Bandh. All minor and big roads and trains will be blocked. All services will remain suspended except for ambulance and other essential services. The effect of Bharat Bandh will be observed inside Delhi as well," SKM had said in a statement. Farmer leaders have said road and rail transport will be blocked and claimed that markets will also remain closed. They also claimed that trade unions from organised and unorganised sectors, and transport and other associations too have extended support to the call for Bharat Bandh. Meanwhile, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), apex religious body of the Sikhs, has also supported the nationwide protest. SGPC president Jagir Kaur had said on Thursday that its offices would be kept closed on Friday in support of the Bharat Bandh. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for the minimum support price on their crops. The statement issued by the SKM claimed that various farmers' organisations, trade unions, student organisations, bar associations, political parties and representatives of state governments have supported its call for a nationwide protest. Apart from repealing of three farm laws, the demands of protesting unions include cancellation of all police cases against farmers, withdrawal of electricity and pollution bills, and reduction in prices of diesel, petrol and gas. So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and government, but the deadlock has continued as both sides have stuck to their stand. In January, the government had offered to suspend the farm laws for 12-18 months, which was rejected by the farmer unions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||India logs nearly 60,000 cases, highest one-day spike since mid-October||India saw 59,118 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,18,46,652, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The active caseload breached the four lakh-mark again after around three-and-half months. Registering an increase for the 16th day in row, the active cases have increased to 4,21,066 comprising 3.55 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.09 per cent, the data stated. The 59,118 new infections reported in a span of 24 hours were the highest since October 18, 2020. The death toll increased to 1,60,949 with 257 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 61,871 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 18. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,12,64,637, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.36 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to ICMR, 23,86,04,638 samples have been tested up to March 25 with 11,00,756 samples being tested on Thursday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||10 die, 70 evacuated in Mumbai hospital blaze||Ten patients died after a fire broke out at a Mumbai mall hospital where coronavirus patients were being treated, a fire brigade official said on Friday. The fire broke out at the Sunrise Hospital in the Dreams Mall building in Bhandup area shortly after midnight, the official said. Around 70 patients were rescued, he added. The hospital said there were two deaths due to COVID- 19 at the facility and there was no death due to the fire. The hospital is situated on the top floor of the four-storeyed mall building and 76 patients, most of them being treated for COVID-19, were there when the fire broke out, the official said. The cause of the 'level four' fire (serious emergency call in fire brigade parlance) has not been ascertained yet, the BMC control room sources said. Twenty fire engines, 15 water tankers and ambulances were rushed to the spot. Fire fighting operation is underway, the official said. The 70 patients were evacuated by the fire brigade and shifted to another hospital, the official said, adding fire personnel are checking if any patient is still stuck there. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said strict action will be taken against those found responsible for the fire. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar who visited the site expressed surprise that a hospital was operating inside the mall. "I have seen a hospital at a mall for the first time," the mayor said, adding action will be taken if irregularities were found in allowing the facility to operate there. The hospital in a statement said, "There was a fire on the first floor of Dreams Mall, Bhandup and the smoke reached up to the Sunrise Hospital located on the top floor. When fire alarms beeped, all patients were safely evacuated to the fire refuge area as the smoke was reaching the hospital." "The two bodies have been shifted as well. The other patients have been shifted to nearby jumbo COVID-19 centre and private hospitals," the hospital said. The statement said the hospital was started last year in "exceptional circumstances" of the pandemic and has helped save many lives. "The hospital is functioning with all due compliances like fire licence, nursing home licence among others," it said. The chief minister further said the state government had last year allowed some hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients given the spread of the disease and said that the facility in the Bhandup mall was one of them. "The permission was to end on March 31. Unfortunately, the fire broke on the first floor of the mall and spread upwards," he said. The chief minister said that efforts were made to rescue all the patients admitted at the hospital. However, it took some time to evacuate those who were on ventilators. "Unfortunately, they died," he said."We wake up after such incidents take place and then a probe is carried out. This incident, too, will be investigated. Action will be taken as per law probe against whoever is at fault," Thackeray added. "I had asked (the authorities) to ensure such incidents do not occur. Still, unfortunately, this has taken place. "...I express regret to those who have lost their kin in the incident," he said in Marathi. Speaking in Hindi, Thackeray later said, "I apologise to the kin of those who died in the incident." The chief minister said that compensation of Rs 5 lakh will be given to the next kin of each deceased. President Ram Nath Kovind expresses grief over the incident. "Deeply mourn the loss of lives in a fire accident at a hospital in Bhandup, Mumbai. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims of this tragedy. I pray for speedy recovery of the injured," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||SC quashes FIR against Patricia Mukhim over her FB criticism of Meghalaya CM||The Supreme Court on Thursday quashed the FIR registered against Shillong Times editor Patricia Mukhim over her Facebook criticism of Meghalaya’s chief minister and officials for failing to prevent attacks on non-tribals, ruling “free speech” cannot be stifled by implicating people in criminal cases. “Disapprobation of governmental inaction cannot be branded as an attempt to promote hatred between different communities,” the bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat observed. “India is a plural and multicultural society. The promise of liberty, enunciated in the Preamble, manifests itself in various provisions which outline each citizen’s rights…,” it said. The Supreme Court added: “They (the citizen’s rights) include the right to free speech, to travel freely and settle (subject to such reasonable restrictions that may be validly enacted) throughout the length and breadth of India.” It set aside a Meghalaya High Court judgment of November 10 last year that had refused to quash the FIR saying Mukhim’s post had “sought to create a divide to the cordial relationship between the tribal and non-tribal living in the state of Meghalaya”. Mukhim had in a Facebook post on July 4 last year questioned chief minister Conrad Sangma’s and his officials’ failure to act against tribal youths who had the previous day brutally assaulted a group of non-tribal youths on a basketball court. “Why should our non-tribal brethren continue to live in perpetual fear in their own state? Those born and brought up here have as much right to call Meghalaya their state as the indigenous tribal does,” she had said. Following a local complaint filed by the Dorbar Shnong (traditional village council) of Lawsohtun, Shillong police registered a case against her under penal code sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups) and 505 (making statements conducive to public mischief), which can bring jail terms of up to three years. Quashing the FIR, Justice Rao, who authored the Supreme Court judgment, said the allegation that her post would “incite communal tension and might instigate a communal conflict in the entire state is only a figment of imagination”. Later in the day, Mukhim told The Telegraph in a text message that the judgment had vindicated her position and that of many others who stood up for the truth and human rights. “It also reminds us all that the right to freedom of expression as guaranteed by the Indian Constitution has been safeguarded by the apex court,” she said. The Supreme Court said the journalist’s plea for the protection of non-tribals living in the state could not by any stretch of imagination be classified as hate speech. “It was a call for justice — for action according to law, which every citizen has a right to expect and articulate. Free speech of the citizens of this country cannot be stifled by implicating them in criminal cases, unless such speech has the tendency to affect public order,” the court said. “The intention has to be judged primarily by the language of the piece of writing and the circumstances in which it was written and published.... (and) must be read as a whole. One cannot rely on strongly worded and isolated passages.... The Facebook post read in its entirety pleads for equality of non-tribals in the state of Meghalaya.” Quoting former US President and liberal thinker Thomas Jefferson, the court observed: “It is of utmost importance to keep all speech free in order for the truth to emerge and have a civil society.” The court noted that sometimes local people’s resentment of settlers can lead to hostility or violence. “In such instances, if the victims voice their discontent, and speak out, especially if the state authorities turn a blind eye, or drag their feet, such voicing of discontent is really a cry for anguish, for justice denied — or delayed. This is exactly what appears to have happened in this case,” the court said. “The attack upon six non-locals, carried out by masked individuals, is not denied by the state; its reporting too is not denied.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||Hardwar: Kumbh Mela duration cut||The duration of Kumbh Mela in Hardwar has been curtailed to one month for the first time in its history and it has been made mandatory for pilgrims to have a “negative” RT-PCR test report to attend in view of a recent surge in Covid cases. The congregation will take place from April 1 to 30, with three shahi snan dates on April 12, 14 and 27. Usually, the event lasts around three-and-a-half months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||Stringent tests required to be passed to get driving licence||Those seeking driving licences are now required to pass a set of stringent skill tests that include reversing a vehicle with reasonable accuracy to qualify for it, the Centre informed the Lok Sabha on Thursday. The passing percentage in order to be eligible to get a driving licence in all regional transport offices has been fixed at 69 per cent, minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari told the House in a written reply. “In the case of vehicle having a reverse gear, driving the vehicle backwards, reversing it into a limited opening either to the right or left under control and with reasonable accuracy”, is one of the parameters of qualifying in the driving skill test, Gadkari said. This is according to the provisions of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989. A demonstration is shown on the LED screen installed in all automated driving test tracks, apart from physical demonstration at the test track itself, before the commencement of actualtest, he said. Besides, a video link for driving skill test demo is provided to applicants at the time of booking appointment. In another written reply, Gadkari said the government has notified that certain services related to driving licences and registration certificate have been made completely online with the help of Aadhaar authentication on a voluntary basis. This has been done to help citizens to avail these services in a hassle-free manner and to reduce the footfall in regional transport offices, which will increase the efficiency of RTO officials, the minister said. He said the road transport and highways ministry has also written to all the states and Union Territories to sensitise them in this regard so that they roll out these services at the earliest. He said the ministry has already undertaken steps for facilitation of citizens, including that all forms, fees and documents under the Motor Vehicles Act can be submitted online to avoid human intervention. The steps include dealer point registration, he said, adding that “for registration of new motor vehicles, the onus to apply for registration stands shifted to dealers and the requirement to produce vehicles before the authority stands removed, vide the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019”. Besides, the minister said the driving licence could be renewed anytime between one year before its expiry till one year after its expiry to facilitate citizens away from hometown, visiting abroad, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi says 'Sangh Parivar' devoid of family values||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday argued that calling the RSS and its allied outfits “Sangh parivar” was not correct as they were devoid of family values, a critique that could be an attempt to bring the ideological infirmities of the BJP’s mentor into the mainstream discourse. The Congress leader, who is intensely campaigning in election-bound states, tweeted: “I believe it is not correct to call RSS and allied outfits as Sangh Parivar. There are women in a family, there is respect for elders, a feeling of compassion and love — values absent in RSS. Now I won’t describe RSS as Sangh Parivar.” Although Rahul has been one of the strongest critics of the RSS in contemporary politics and has pointed to the absence of women in the outfit’s hierarchy several times in the past, he has now offered a more comprehensive analysis by referring to the perceived lack of compassion and love, apart from respect for elders. Although most RSS office-bearers are elderly people, Rahul might have been pointing to the humiliation of senior leaders such as L.K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Sumitra Mahajan, Kalraj Mishra and Yashwant Sinha in the garb of an age limit of 75 for participating in active politics. The 75-plus rule may sound farcical now that the BJP has lapped up 88-year-old veteran technocrat E. Sreedharan to reap electoral benefits in Kerala while the 80-year-old Najma Heptulla continues to be governor of Manipur. While women are not allowed in the RSS, there is a separate nondescript outfit called Rashtriya Sevika Samithi that enrols women activists. But the RSS is not for advocacy of women’s empowerment and even the current chief, Mohan Bhagwat, has attracted criticism by arguing that women’s primary duty is to look after the home and keep the husband happy. Rahul’s reference to compassion and love appears linked to the divisive agenda against minorities and intolerance of pluralism that he ceaselessly dwells on. His new articulation, which strikes at the nomenclature of the ideological fraternity called the Sangh parivar, is bound to trigger a larger debate through which the Congress leader seeks to expose the biases of the so-called cultural organisation. Even in states like Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, Rahul has talked about the infirmities in the RSS ideology in the context of women’s empowerment and rejection of a pluralist culture. On Wednesday, Rahul had commented on the harassment of Kerala nuns by members of RSS student wing ABVP in Uttar Pradesh. He had tweeted: “The attack in UP on nuns from Kerala is a result of the vicious propaganda run by the Sangh Parivar to pitch one community against another and trample the minorities. Time for us as a nation to introspect and take corrective steps to defeat such divisive forces.” While the ideological battle is old and eternal, even the political conflicts have intensified in the aftermath of the ongoing farmers’ movement and the allegations of attempts to undermine democratic institutions. The Congress on Thursday strongly objected to the curtailment of the budget session of Parliament, which was adjourned sine die two weeks before the scheduled closure. The Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh, said: “The government said there were demands from regional parties because of Assembly elections. There were no such demands; the demand came from the South Block and the North Block (offices of the Prime Minister and the home minister).” Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, in addition to many central ministers, are busy with election campaign. The leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, said: “The Prime Minister has no interest in Parliament. There is no need to call a session if the burning issues are not to be discussed.” Ramesh said: “The government is undermining every democratic institution. In this session, the Opposition’s demands were steamrolled. Not even one calling attention motion or short duration discussion was allowed. We wanted debates on the farmers’ movement, the privatisation of national assets, etc, but nothing was allowed. Democracy is not strengthened by new buildings; democracy is strengthened by allowing institutions to function properly.” Giving examples of the government’s undemocratic instincts, Ramesh said: “The National Bank for Financing Infrastructure & Development Bill was passed today. This is a new experiment as this government institution will not be probed by the CAG, CBI, the CVC and even Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee. Why no oversight is allowed?” He threatened to move the Supreme Court against unlawful legislation, including the new laws on mining and the Delhi government’s powers, indicating an escalation of the political fight in the coming months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||Enforcement Directorate grills Mehbooba Mufti||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday vowed defiance after being grilled for hours by the Enforcement Directorate in an alleged money-laundering case, reports our special correspondent in Srinagar. It was Mehbooba’s first interrogation by any investigating agency in the country after her release from detention in October. “No rocket science is needed (to understand why I was questioned). Dissent has been criminalised in the country. This country is being ruled by the ED, CBI or NIA. Either you are booked for sedition or for money-laundering. Anybody who speaks, they are using ED or NIA,” Mehbooba, president of the Peoples Democratic Party, told reporters after she walked out of the ED office here. “The country is not running according to the Constitution of India. It is running according to a particular political party’s agenda. You cannot speak. Anybody who does is being hounded. These things will continue,” she added.” The former chief minister vowed to continue to fight for the resolution of Kashmir issue and restoration of Article 370. On Thursday, Mehbooba reached the ED’s Rajbagh office at 11am and came out late in the afternoon. Mehbooba said she was questioned over two issues — one pertaining to the sale of her ancestral home in her hometown Bijebehara and the other related to how she spent the secret funds while she was the chief minister. Mehbooba said the land was owned by her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed. She said the ED asked her how she sold it and how much money she got. “Second, (they asked) where I spent the secret funds as the chief minister, about the money given to the widows and the procurement of the list of beneficiaries,” she said. “I have nothing to hide. My hands are clean. That is why it took them two years to find (a case to book her). Now they are raising questions on my father’s land and how much money was spent on his graveyard.” Initially, the ED had asked the PDP president to appear before the agency in Delhi on Monday but she had refused citing prior commitments that could not be cancelled. Her request to ED officials that she be questioned in Srinagar was accepted after that. On March 19, Delhi High Court had refused to stay the summons issued to her by the ED. In a letter to the ED, Mehbooba had referred to the summons issued to her to present herself on March 22 at Delhi. “I have challenged in the Delhi High Court the constitutional vires of Section 50 of the PMLA (Prevention of Money-Laundering Act), under which these summons are issued,” she had written. Section 50 of the PMLA empowers the ED to summon any person to give evidence or produce records. People who are summoned are bound to answer questions put to them, failing which they can be penalised. The PDP president, who has emerged as the most vocal critic of the scrapping of J&K’s special status, was released in October after 14 months of detention. Mehbooba, Farooq and Omar Abdullah were among thousands who were arrested for opposing the move. Before Mehbooba, the ED had questioned Farooq in connection with a case related to the alleged embezzlement of the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
26-03-2021||India||Ex-police commissioner Param Bir Singh moves Bombay High Court against Anil Deshmukh||Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Thursday filed a PIL in Bombay High Court seeking a CBI probe against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, who he claimed had asked police officer Sachin Waze to collect Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants. The PIL also raised the issue of alleged corruption in police transfers and postings in the state. The IPS officer had earlier this week approached the Supreme Court, which on Wednesday termed the matter “quite serious” but asked him to approach the high court. The criminal public interest litigation reiterated the allegations Singh had made earlier and sought an “immediate, unbiased, impartial” probe by the CBI against Deshmukh, an NCP leader. Singh sought a high court direction to the CBI to secure CCTV footage from Deshmukh’s residence from earlier this year before it is “destroyed,” and to the state government to produce all records of communication received from IPS officer Rashmi Shukla in March 2020. In February last year Shukla had levelled allegations of malpractices in police postings and transfers against Deshmukh and also informed her superiors about it, but was transferred soon afterwards, alleged the PIL. The court should pass directions to ensure that in future police officers are not transferred on account of “pecuniary benefits to any politician”, Singh’s petition said. The PIL is likely to be taken up for hearing by a bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta next week. The Opposition BJP earlier this week alleged that Shukla, when she was state intelligence commissioner, had intercepted phone calls and gathered evidence of corruption in police transfers. The PIL claimed that last month Deshmukh had asked some police officers, including Waze, to collect Rs 100 crore every month, including Rs 40-50 crore from around 1,750 bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Waze has been arrested in connection with the retrieval of explosives from a car near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence. Singh had first made the allegations against Deshmukh in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Deshmukh has denied the allegations. The PIL also alleged that Deshmukh had interfered in investigations and pressurised him to implicate BJP leaders in connection with the alleged suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar. The former Mumbai police commissioner accused Deshmukh of indulging in “corrupt malpractices” in transfers and postings of police officers. Singh apprised Thackeray of these allegations, but “immediately thereafter, on March 17”, was shunted out to the home guards department without allowing him to complete the “minimum fixed tenure of two years”, he said. Later, Deshmukh had said in an interview that Singh’s colleagues had made serious lapses in the investigation of the recovery of the explosives-laden vehicle near Ambani’s residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
26-03-2021||India||SC raps army for denying women officers permanent service commissions||The Supreme Court on Thursday rapped the defence establishment for denying women army officers permanent service commissions on a par with their male peers, observing this was “a reflection of the insidious patriarchal system”. The bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, M.R. Shah and Sanjiv Khanna said the discrimination was continuing despite Delhi High Court in 2010 and the apex court in February 17 last year ordering gender parity in the matter. Thursday’s ruling said all women officers who had fulfilled the cut-off grade of 60 per cent in the Special No. 5 Selection Board last September were entitled to permanent commissions, subject to their meeting the medical criteria and receiving disciplinary and vigilance clearance. “It is not enough to proudly state that women officers are allowed to serve the nation in the armed forces, when the true picture of their service conditions tells a different story. A superficial sense of equality is not in the true spirit of the Constitution and attempts to make equality only symbolic,” Justice Chandrachud, who authored the judgment, wrote. To bypass the 2010 and 2017 judgments, the defence ministry had adopted different selection criteria for men and women officers in the matter of granting permanent commissions, and formed different selection boards for them. The court noted the selection boards had considered the annual confidential reports of the women officers for their 5th and 10th years instead of their latest ACRs, which was the norm adopted for male officers. It directed that the method of evaluation of ACRs and the cut-off be reviewed for future batches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
26-03-2021||India||SC plan for ad hoc high court judges||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it was open to the direct appointment of ad hoc judges in various high courts to tide over the backlog of over 3.51 crore cases. Of these, over 80 lakh cases are pending at the various high courts and trial courts for the past five to 20 years. Article 224A of the Constitution empowers the President, acting in consultation with the Chief Justice of India, to appoint retired judges of high courts as ad hoc or acting judges of high courts. “This is constitutional provision and this provision is not being used. We will lay down guidelines stating that if pendency goes beyond a certain limit for say more than eight or 10 years, then the chief justice will automatically recommend the appointment of ad hoc judges,” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
26-03-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Andhra Pradesh govt extends support to farmers||Farmers received a shot in the arm on the eve of their Bharat Bandh with the Andhra Pradesh government extending support to the protest action to mark the completion of four months of the movement at Delhi’s borders. The ruling YSR Congress Party as well as the Opposition Telugu Desam Party have supported the call for the bandh on Friday. Both parties had remained aloof during the first Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) — which is spearheading the movement of farmers — on December 8. The Andhra government’s decision to support the bandh is primarily driven by its opposition to the Narendra Modi government’s decision to privatise Visakhapatanam Steel Plant, and a result of the effort by farmers to build solidarities across sectors over the past couple of months when their protest stopped getting any traction in the mainstream media. While trade unions and several political parties had supported the December 8 bandh too, this time round the farmers have been able to rope in students’ organisations and Bar associations as well. In a video statement, Darshan Pal of Krantikari Kisan Union,  a constituent of the SKM, has made it clear that participation in the bandh — scheduled from 6am to 6pm — is voluntary and no one should be forced to down their shutters. The SKM’s expectation is that all shops, malls, markets and institutions will remain closed. Only essential services and ambulances will be exempt, the SKM said in a statement. The farmers plan to block roads and railway tracks. In Andhra Pradesh, the state government has announced that buses run by the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation will not ply till 1pm. The farmers have decided to block the alternative routes that had been created near their protest sites for the entire duration of the Bharat Bandh. Delhi, which has been kept out of the protest plans for two months since the violence during the tractor rally on January 26, has not been exempt this time. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) — an umbrella body of 40,000 trade associations — said all business establishments in Delhi and across the country shall remain open on Friday and normal trading activities will be held. “Neither the CAIT is supporting the bandh nor any farmer organisation has approached to support bandh,” the confederation said in a statement. With the farmers’ movement having spread to other parts of the country since Republic Day, the SKM is hoping that the bandh will have a greater impact than the one on December 8. For over two months now, the government has not formally invited farmers for any negotiations and there has been a complete breakdown of communication, resulting in a hardening of stance on both sides. The farmers remain steadfast on their demands that the three farm laws have to go and a law guaranteeing MSP should be enacted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
