27-03-2021||India||Nearly 80% voter turnout in Bengal and 73% in Assam in first phase of Assembly elections||A voter turnout of 79.79 per cent was recorded in West Bengal and 72.14 percent in Assam till 5pm on Saturday in the first phase of assembly elections in these states, the Election Commission said. In Bengal the Trinamul faces a stern test from the BJP in its bid for a third straight term. In Assam the BJP is hoping to win a second straight term, with Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal the biggest name on the ballot on Saturday. Voting was held in 30 assembly constituencies in West Bengal and 47 seats in Assam in the first phase with a total of 21,825 polling stations. Polling booths across both states opened at 7 am and closing times were extended by an hour due to the pandemic. During the polls, 10288 each of Ballot Units (BUs), Control Units (CUs) and VVPATs were used in West Bengal and 11,537 each of BUs, CUs and 37 VVPATs were used in Assam. One control unit, on VVPAT and at least one ballot unit make an EVM. "Non-functioning rate during the poll is lesser than experienced in last few polls," an EC statement said without elaborating. On Saturday, a total of 167 cases of Model Code of Conduct violations were reported through the cVIGIL app from West Bengal out of which 111 were disposed of by 4.30pm. 582 cases were reported from Assam with 423 disposed. (Inputs from NDTV)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
27-03-2021||India||Modi-Hasina meet: new train, vaccine doses, ambulances ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that he had a "productive meeting" with his Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina during which they reviewed the full range of bilateral ties and discussed ways to deepen the economic and cultural linkages in the future. Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus, held one-on-one talks with Hasina which was followed by delegation-level meeting which continued for over an hour. "Had a productive meeting with PM Sheikh Hasina. We reviewed the full range of India-Bangladesh relations and discussed ways to deepen economic and cultural linkages in the times to come,” Modi tweeted. The two sides signed five MoUs covering areas such as connectivity, commerce, information technology and sports. "India and Bangladesh signed MoUs in key sectors such as disaster management, sports and youth affairs, trade, technology and more. These will add strength to our development partnership and benefit the people of our nations, especially the youth," Modi said. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said that Prime Minister Modi and Prime Minister Hasina discussed the progress achieved in areas of health, trade, connectivity, energy, developmental cooperation and many more. In a humanitarian gesture, Prime Minister Modi handed over a representational key of 109 life-saving ambulances to Hasina. He also handed over a representational box as a symbol of India's gift of 1.2 million COVID vaccine doses to Bangladesh. Hasina presented a gold and silver coin released on the occasion of the birth centenary of her father and Father of Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman to Modi. She also handed over a silver coin released on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of Bangladesh's Independence. The two leaders also jointly inaugurated several projects virtually, including opening three new border haats on India-Bangladesh borders and inaugurating a new passenger train 'Mitali Express' connecting Dhaka and New Jalpaiguri on the Indian side. This is the third passenger train after Maitree Express (Dhaka-Kolkata) and Bandhan Express (Khulna-Kolkata) running between the two neighbouring countries. The other projects included: foundation stone laying of a monument at Bangladesh's Ashuganj in memory of 1971 martyred Indian soldiers; extended development work at Rabindra Bhawan Kuthibari in Shilaidaha of Bangladesh's Kushtia and ground breaking for Infrastructure Development for Power Evacuation Facilities of Rooppur Nuclear Power Plant. The MoUs signed were on Disaster Management, Resilience and Mitigation; cooperation between Bangladesh National Cadet Corps (BNCC) and National Cadet Corps (NCC) and establishment of a Framework of Cooperation in the Area of Trade Remedial Measures. The supply of ICT equipment, courseware and reference books and training for Bangladesh-Bharot Digital Service & Employment and Training (BDSET) Center, and Establishment of Sports facilities at Rajshahi College field and surrounding areas were other MoUs. Prime Minister Modi also reiterated India's "sincere and continued efforts" to conclude the Teesta water-sharing agreement in consultation with relevant stakeholders during his talks with Hasina. "The Indian side also requested for early finalisation of a draft for sharing of water of Feni River pending with the Bangladeshi side," Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told reporters. The two prime ministers also released India-Bangladesh Friendship stamps to commemorate the 50th anniversary of establishment of diplomatic relations. Modi's visit is taking place at a time Bangladesh is commemorating Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of the country's war of liberation. The two countries are also celebrating 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties. On Friday, Modi attended the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of Bangabandhu' in Dhaka||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
27-03-2021||India||Deadlock on farmers' stir will end if farm outfits are willing, says Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday said the deadlock over the ongoing farmers' agitation will end the day the leaders of farm unions decide to sort out this issue. "The government will also find a way out. The Centre is ready for talks and wants to resolve the issue," Tomar told reporters. He reached here after campaigning for the BJP for the Assembly polls in Assam, where voting for the first phase was held on Saturday. "The incumbent BJP government in Assam worked well. After a long period, the people of Assam witnessed peace, development and a sense of security under this government. The BJP will come to power again in that state," Tomar said. To a query, the Morena MP said the BJP is in a very strong position in TMC-ruled Bengal, where polling was held for the first phase. Thousands of agriculturists, mainly from Haryana, Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting since past four months at Delhi's border points, demanding a rollback of three new farm laws, terming them "anti-farmers". The Centre in September last year enacted the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Multiple rounds of talks between the government and leaders of farmers have failed to break the impasse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
27-03-2021||India||Covovax trials begin in India, says Adar Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla on Saturday said clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccine Covovax have begun in India and the company hopes to launch it by September this year. In August 2020, US-based vaccine maker Novavax, Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its COVID-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. "Covovax trials finally begin in India; the vaccine is made through a partnership with @Novavax and @SerumInstIndia. It has been tested against African and UK variants of #COVID19 and has an overall efficacy of 89%. Hope to launch by September 2021!," Poonawalla said in a tweet. The development and commercialisation pact between Novavax and SII excludes major upper-middle and high-income countries, for which Novavax continues to retain rights. In January this year, Poonawalla had said SII expected to launch Covovax by June 2021. "Our partnership for a COVID-19 vaccine with @Novavax has also published excellent efficacy results. We have also applied to start trials in India. Hope to launch #COVOVAX by June 2021!", Poonawalla had said in a tweet. SII is already supplying AstraZeneca/Oxford COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, in India and to other countries across the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||India, Bangladesh want stability, love and peace instead of terror and unrest, says Modi||India and Bangladesh want stability, love and peace instead of instability, terror and unrest in the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday as he underlined that the two friendly neighbours want to see the world progressing through their own development. Prime Minister Modi made the remarks while speaking to the Matua community members after offering prayers at their temple in Gopalganj's Orakandi - the birthplace of Hindu mystic figure and community's spiritual guru Harichand Thakur. "Both India and Bangladesh want to see the world progressing through their own development. Both the countries want to see stability, love, and peace instead of instability, terror, and unrest in the world," Modi said. Modi said he was waiting for this opportunity for many years and during his visit to Bangladesh in 2015, he had expressed desire to visit Orakandi, which has come true now. This place is a pilgrimage site for the spiritual relationship between India and Bangladesh, he said. "I was speaking to some people here. They were saying who could have thought that India's Prime Minister would visit Orakandi, Modi said, adding that he was feeling the same emotions as felt by the Matua community members in India after coming to Orakandi, from where Harichand Thakur disseminated his pious message. Orakandi is the abode of Hindu Matua community, a large number of whom are residents of neighbouring West Bengal. Prime Minister Modi announced that India will upgrade one girls' middle school and set up a primary school in Orakandi. Analysts said Modi's planned temple visits carry a political significance at the time of the ongoing assembly elections in West Bengal. The Prime Minister was accompanied by BJP MP from West Bengal Shantanu Thakur during his visit to Orakandi. The Matua community's vote may determine the winner in some seats in the elections to the West Bengal state assembly, the first phase of which began on Saturday. Modi said the Matua community celebrates 'Baroni Shanan Utshab' every year on the auspicious occasion of the birth anniversary of Harichand Thakur and a large number of devotees from India come to Orakandi to participate in this festival. "To make this pilgrimage easier for citizens of India, efforts will be made on behalf of the Government of India," he said. "We are also committed to grand events and various works reflecting the glorious history of the Matua community in Thakurnagar (West Bengal)," Modi said. "I have always been very close to the family members of the Thakurbari," he added. "The way India and Bangladesh governments are working towards strengthening their ties, Harichand Thakur and Thakurbari have been doing this for ages. This place symbolises the spiritual tryst of India and Bangladesh," he said. In his address, Modi said that it was important for both India and Bangladesh to come together and fight common challenges. He said that during the COVID-19 pandemic, India and Bangladesh proved their capabilities. "Both nations are facing this pandemic strongly and fighting it together. India is working by considering that it is its duty that the 'Made in India' vaccine reaches the citizens of Bangladesh," Modi added. He said India is moving forward with the mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, and Sabka Vishwas', and Bangladesh is its co-passenger in it. "Bangladesh is presenting a strong example of development and change in front of the world and India is your co-passenger in these efforts," he added. Last time when Prime Minister Modi visited Bangladesh in 2015, he offered puja at Dhakeshwari temple in the national capital. Bangladesh has taken extra security measures for the Indian premier's visit in the wake of protests by few leftist and Islamist groups. In 2016, the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) said their latest vital sample statistics report found the country's total population to be 15.89 crore by the end of 2015 with the number of Hindus at 1.70 crore in the Muslim-majority nation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Modi visits mausoleum of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday visited the mausoleum of 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman at Tungipara in Bangladesh's southwestern Gopalganj district and paid floral tributes to him. Prime Minister Modi was received at the mausoleum by his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina, who is the daughter of Rahman. Sheikh Rehana, the youngest daughter of Rahman was also present. Modi, who was covering his face with a mask, paid floral tributes to 'Bangabandhu' and stood in silence for a few minutes while Hasina and her Cabinet colleagues offered 'Fatiha'. He is the first Indian dignitary to ever visit Bangabandhu's grave. He signed the visitors' book at the mausoleum complex and planted a sapling at its premises. Earlier, the Indian Prime Minister offered prayers at the centuries-old Jeshoreshwari Kali temple in Ishwaripur village in southwestern Bangladesh,bordering West Bengal. There, he announced that India will build a multipurpose community hall for the worshippers. Modi was welcomed in a traditional way upon his arrival at the temple. Inside the temple, Modi offered prayers and sat on the floor while the priest was reciting the religious texts. "Feeling blessed after praying at the Jeshoreshwari Kali Temple, Modi tweeted after offering prayers at the temple in southwestern Shatkhira district, bordering India. "PM @narendramodi places hand made Mukut on Ma Kali. Mukut made of silver with gold plating. Hand made over three weeks by a traditional artisan," Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted. Speaking outside the temple, Modi said that he prayed to Goddess Kali to free the human race from COVID-19. Noting that a large number of devotees from across the border and Bangladesh visit during Maa Kali mela' at the temple, Modi said a community hall is needed which should be multi-purpose so that when people come here during Kali puja, it is useful to them too. Modi said India will build a multipurpose community hall at the temple. "It should be useful for social, religious and educational events for local people. Most importantly, it should act as a shelter for all at the time of disasters like cyclones. India will do construction work. I express my gratitude to the Bangladesh government that they have wished us well for this, Modi said. According to Hindu mythology, the Jeshoreshwari Kali temple is one of the 51 Shakti Peeths, scattered across India and neighbouring countries. Records suggest a Hindu king set up the temple in the 16th century. The Hindu community and temple authorities with the government support redecorated the temple ahead of Modi's visit. Last time when Prime Minister Modi visited Bangladesh in 2015, he offered puja at Dhakeshwari temple in the national capital. Bangladesh has taken extra security measures for the Indian premier's visit in the wake of protests by few leftist and Islamist groups. Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus, on Friday attended the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in Dhaka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Rahul urges people to cast vote against divisive forces to strengthen democracy||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi urged voters on Saturday to cast their ballots against "divisive forces" to strengthen democracy as polling began for the first phase of the Assembly elections in West Bengal and Assam. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who has been campaigning for the Assam polls, urged people to vote for progress and the golden future of the state. In a Facebook post in Hindi, she urged the people of Assam, especially youngsters and women, to vote in large numbers. "Do cast your ballot against divisive forces to strengthen democracy," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The Congress is contesting the Bengal polls in a coalition with the Left parties and the Indian Secular Front (ISF). Elections to the 294-member state Assembly are to be held in eight phases starting Saturday, with the final round of voting scheduled to take place on April 29. The Congress-led "Mahajot" alliance is seeking to wrest power from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Assam, which is voting in three phases starting Saturday. The counting of votes for both states as well as for the Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Assembly polls will be taken up on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||India registers over 62,000 fresh Covid cases, 291 casualties in a day||India saw 62,258 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,19,08,910, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. Registering a steady increase for the 17th day in row, the active cases have increased to 4,52,647 comprising 3.80 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 94.85 per cent, the data stated. The 62,258 new cases were reported in a span of 24 hours, the highest since October 16, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,61,240 with 291 daily new fatalities, the highest in around three months, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 63,371 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 16. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,12,95,023, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.35 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to ICMR, 23,97,69,553 samples have been tested up to March 26 with 11,64,915 samples being tested on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Sachin Tendulkar tests positive for Covid||Legendary cricketer Sachin Tendulkar on Saturday announced on twitter that he has tested positive for COVID-19 and is currently in home isolation. Tendulkar is one of the biggest names to have tested positive for the virus in recent times. "I have been testing myself and taking all the recommended precautions to ensure Covid is kept at bay. However, I've tested positive today following mild symptoms. All other at home have tested negative," Tendulkar tweeted. "I've quarantined myself at home and am following all necessary protocols as advised by my doctors," Sachin further said. The former India captain also thanked the healthcare professionals for their constant support. "I want to thank all the healthcare professionals who are supporting me and many others across the country," Sachin added. "Sachin has got himself tested and the report has come out positive. He has isolated himself and is following all the necessary protocols," a source close to family told news agency PTI on Saturday. The COVID-19 cases have been on a surge in Maharashtra and Mumbai with over 36,000 positive cases recorded on Friday. Notably, Sachin Tendulkar was the captain of the India Legends team which recently won the Road Safety World Series in Raipur after beating Sri Lanka Legends in the finals of the tournament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Dearth of samples and funds delay India’s plans to sequence 5% of coronavirus genomes||A wait for funds and dearth of samples have delayed India’s plans to sequence 5 per cent of its coronavirus genomes and determine whether unusual mutations are driving the Covid-19 epidemic’s current resurgence, health researchers have said. A 10-lab consortium of government labs tasked with sequencing five per cent of coronavirus genomes from across India is awaiting dedicated funds nearly three months after the Centre announced the initiative late-December citing concerns about a fast-spreading UK variant. The absence of assigned funds and the arrival of fewer sequences from various states than ideally required have limited sequencing efforts, senior researchers with the Indian National SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium have told The Telegraph. The labs using funds borrowed from other projects have sequenced around 11,000 genomes instead of over 50,000 required to meet the sequencing goal of five per cent of over a million new Covid-19 cases in India since January 15. The number of samples, however, that have come in for sequencing also do not match the five per cent target. The consortium had until mid-March received 19,092 samples from across the country instead of over 50,000 it should have received. The consortium should have ideally sequenced over 17,000 genomes from Maharashtra alone where Covid-19 counts increased by over 354,000 since mid-February. But it had until mid-March received only 2,826 samples from Maharashtra. The sequencing is intended to help in early detection of unusual variants with mutations that might impact the epidemic’s patterns. But the fewer the samples, the harder it is to draw statistically valid, meaningful inferences about the variants observed in the samples. “We’ve lost over two months,” a senior researcher told this newspaper. “Without funds, we can’t recruit the human resources or get the reagents for large-scale sequencing. If the money appears this week, it’ll take time to hire and purchase which will likely delay full capacity sequencing even further.” The Centre had on December 30 announced INSACOG, a joint initiative by the Union health and science ministries coordinated by the department of biotechnology (DBT), amid growing concerns worldwide about fast-spreading variants in the UK and South Africa. The consortium — 10 government labs across India, each assigned specific regions — is designed to both bolster sequencing and pair the sequencing data with epidemiological data to allow health researchers to look for patterns, if any, between mutations and local outbreaks. But INSACOG has received no funds yet, researchers and officials have told this newspaper. A senior official with the DBT, the agency expected to support the initiative, told The Telegraph on March 8 that “budget issues have been handled” and the institutions have been asked to proceed with funds available with them. “Additional funds are also being made available,” the official said. The consortium’s researchers had initially sought around Rs 120 crore, but revised it downward to Rs 90 crore, hoping it would aid speedier approval. “We’re waiting, hoping it will arrive this week,” the director of one of the labs told this newspaper on Thursday. The nearly 11,000 genomes sequenced since January represent “an extraordinary effort” by members of the consortium working without assigned funds, said a senior official. This is nearly double the 6,000-plus sequences done by different Indian labs in the nine months prior to INSACOG. Most of these INSACOG genomes were sequenced by the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, the nodal lab for the consortium, the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, and the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Gujarat cops drag leader from news meet ||A leader of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha was dragged away by Gujarat police from a news conference he was addressing in Ahmedabad on Friday afternoon, as the protest against the three farm laws at Delhi’s borders completed four months. “This is what we came to expose. There is no democracy in Gujarat. No one has the right to speak their mind. There is an undeclared emergency,” Yudhvir Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) told television channels, after the police in the BJP-ruled state arrived at the venue to stop the news conference and detain Yudhvir and seven other farmer leaders. A police officer said on camera that the news conference was stopped because there was no permission for it. “Why do we need permission to talk to the media?” Yudhvir asked. Yudhvir added that in a democracy, everyone has the right to present their views. “This is our country as much as it is theirs,” he added. The police told some reporters permission was required because the news meet was related to the Bharat Bandh that the Morcha had called on Friday. Several hours later, after 9 in the night, PTI issued a report that quoted Ahmedabad’s deputy commissioner of police (Zone 2) Vijay Patel as saying the detentions were because Covid-19 guidelines had been violated at the afternoon meet. All eight were released. By then the “Gujarat model” of arresting farmer leaders while they were speaking to journalists had drawn considerable attention on social media, with some Twitter users saying this proved the government was afraid of the farmers’ agitation. The Bharat Bandh called to mark four months of the protest had an impact in Bihar, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and parts of Uttar Pradesh, besides Punjab and Haryana, the Morcha said. It acknowledged the support of trade unions, transporters’ organisations, women’s groups and others who have shown solidarity. In Karnataka, another BJP-ruled state, Kavita Kurunganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch was detained along with several other farmer activists. Reacting to the detentions, the Morcha said: “BJP-ruled governments are brazenly violating basic norms and rules in their anxiety to suppress the farmers’ movement.” Tens of thousands of farmers have been sitting at Delhi’s borders since November 26 to push for repeal of three farm laws that they believe will leave them at the mercy of large corporate houses and reduce them into labourers on their own land. More than 300 have died. “Sustaining such a long movement is not only a matter of patience and hard work of the farmers, it is also a shame for the government. Despite extreme weather conditions, farmers stayed resolute, and continue to be in high spirits,” the Morcha said. This is the second Bharat Bandh that the Morcha has called in four months and both have remained by and large peaceful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Dadri mob lynching trial begins, more than five years later ||The Assembly polls are a reminder that it takes five years to change governments in a democracy. It took longer than that just to begin the trial in a lynching case that ripped the “development” fig leaf of the Right-wing establishment in the country and presaged the real intentions of the Narendra Modi dispensation. The trial in the murder of Mohammed Akhlaque started in a fast-track court in Greater Noida on Thursday — over 2,000 days or more than five years after he was dragged out of his home at Dadri in Uttar Pradesh and killed on the suspicion of storing and eating beef. Yusuf Saifi, counsel for Akhlaque’s family, told The Telegraph: “The charges against the 14 accused persons were framed last month and the trial started yesterday (Thursday). The court has fixed the next date of hearing on April 12. Akhlaque’s family members are witnesses in the case and they will testify in court as and when it summons them.” Akhlaque, 52, was pulled out of his home in Dadri, less than 50km from Delhi, on September 28, 2015, by a mob and killed. His younger son, Danish, was also thrashed on the suspicion of eating and storing beef. The murder was the trigger for the intolerance debate that saw leading writers, scientists, artistes and filmmakers stand up in protest. According to the chargesheet filed by police, Vishal Rana, the son of local BJP member Sanjay Rana, is the prime accused and a key conspirator. Asked why it took over five years for the trial to begin, lawyer Saifi said one of the reasons was a move by defence lawyers to put up several discharge applications before the designated court as well as other applications demanding a CBI inquiry. “Judges hearing the case were changed twice. Two judges were transferred during the hearing of the case and the case files had to be placed before the third judge,” Saifi said. A preliminary analysis of the meat sample conducted by a veterinary laboratory in Dadri had revealed that the meat found from the house was of goat and not beef. Later in June 2016, the Uttar Pradesh University of Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry, Mathura, had declared the meat sample as that of “cow or its progeny”. The meat sample, however, had not been found inside Akhlaque’s house but from the site where he was lynched. Saifi said there was still no clarity on the final report on the meat sample. After the test in Mathura, the sample was sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory in Lucknow for a final opinion. “The prosecution has so far not revealed anything on that,” he said. Akhlaque’s older son, Sartaj, is a corporal in the air force. Akhlaque’s wife Ikraman, Danish, daughter Shaista and mother Asgari Begum live at Sartaj’s defence quarters in south Delhi’s Subroto Park. Akhlaque’s younger brothers, Mohammed Saifi and Mohammed Jan, too have moved to the nearby Gautam Budh Nagar town fearing possible attacks. All the 17 accused are out on bail. One of the accused, Ravi Sisodia, died of suspected chikungunya in jail. Two of the accused were minors at the time of Akhlaque’s killing and they will be tried by the Juvenile Justice Board, Saifi said. Vishal, the suspected key conspirator, is accused of making an announcement on a loudspeaker from the village temple that Akhlaque had stored beef inside his house. The mob had stormed the house, found pieces of meat in the fridge and claimed it was beef. The attackers had dragged Akhlaque and Danish out of the one-storey house and beaten them with sticks, bricks and hockey sticks. Akhlaque died on the spot while Danish suffered multiple injuries. Danish, Ikraman and Shaista are the “key eye-witnesses” in the case. “The confession statement of Vishal is part of the chargesheet. In his statement, he has confessed that he and the other accused had been instigated by villagers through the claim that Akhlaque had slaughtered a cow, and they had become emotional,” Saifi said. In October 2016 in the village where Akhlaque was lynched, people had draped the Tricolour around the coffin of the accused Ravi, triggering a controversy. Ravi’s coffin was placed near the spot where Akhlaque was murdered and hundreds of villagers had gathered to place wreaths on it before draping it in the national flag. Akhlaque’s family is also dealing with the cow-slaughter case that was registered against them in 2016 by locals. Allahabad High Court had later stayed the arrest of the family members. The police have so far not filed a chargesheet. Mohammed Jan, Akhlaque’s younger brother, had said some of the accused persons and their parents had been putting pressure on them to withdraw the lynching case in exchange for the withdrawal of the cow-slaughter case. Cow slaughter was banned in Uttar Pradesh in 2002 when Rajnath Singh was chief minister. But there is no ban on possession and consumption of cow meat if the animal is not slaughtered within the state. Even if a cow is slaughtered, the maximum punishment is seven years in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Manmohan Singh appeals to the voters of Assam||As 1.54 crore voters in Bengal and Assam prepared to vote on Saturday, a sane voice issued an appeal: “You must vote for a government that upholds the Constitution of India and the principles of democracy. You must vote for a government that will care for every citizen, for every community.” Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh addressed the appeal to the voters of Assam, which he had represented in the Rajya Sabha for 28 years. But the crux of his message applies also to Bengal, where the BJP is mounting an unparalleled effort at forming the government in a state that has so far remained out of its reach. “Society is being divided on the basis of religion, culture and language. The basic rights of the common man are being denied. There is an atmosphere of tension and of fear,” Singh said in a message intended for voters in the northeastern state but which should strike a chord in Bengal where attempts have been made to polarise the electorate. Polling will be held in 30 of the 294 seats in the first of eight phases in Bengal on Saturday, covering an electorate totalling 73 lakh. In Assam, 47 of the 126 seats are scheduled to go to polls on Saturday. Singh, who has stopped even his occasional visits to election-bound states for campaigning because of advanced age, issued the appeal over video to the voters of Assam. The former Prime Minister also spoke of the everyday crises plaguing the country. “Ill-conceived notebandi (demonetisation) and badly implemented GST have weakened the economy. Lakhs of men and women have lost their livelihoods. The youth are desperate for decent jobs. Rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas is making life difficult for the common man. The poor are becoming poorer. And Covid-19 is making matters much worse,” the economist said. Singh’s comments came at a time the Narendra Modi government has sought to lay the entire blame for the economic mess on the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Expressing gratitude to Assam for his parliamentary stint, Singh listed the yardsticks that should decide their vote and added: “You must vote for a government that will ensure inclusive growth.” You must vote for a government that will put Assam once again on the path of peace and development.” While Singh’s video message was being uploaded, his successor, Prime Minister Modi, sent many in the country on a fact-finding mission online. Addressing events to mark the golden jubilee of Bangladesh’s independence and the birth centenary of its founder Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Modi, who took care to wear a Mujib Jacket, said in Dhaka: “I must have been 20-22 years old when I and my colleagues did satyagraha for Bangladesh’s freedom.” Going by the memes the claim evoked, it appeared that not many Indians were familiar with this particular phase in Modi’s public life. Old-timers said Modi could have meant a Jan Sangh rally in front of Parliament in August 1971. Singh, who recalled his long association with veterans like Hiteswar Saikia and Tarun Gogoi, said: “The Congress is committed to protect the unique language, culture and history of Assam, and to ensure the well-being of all communities. It has prepared a ‘Jan Manifesto (people’s manifesto)’, with promises that are practical. As a measure of its determination, it has also announced five ‘guarantees’ to the people, including non-implementation of the CAA, jobs to 30 lakh unemployed youths, Rs 365 as daily wage to tea workers, free electricity up to 200 units to very household and Rs 2,000 per month to every housewife under the ‘Grihani Samman’ scheme.” While Singh used to at least visit states for holding a media conference till a few years ago, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has completely stopped participating in election campaigns. The entire burden of the Congress campaign has fallen on Rahul Gandhi even if he doesn’t hold any position in the party. In this round of Assembly elections, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra too has campaigned in Assam and is likely to visit Tamil Nadu and Kerala as well. But few among the other leaders are in demand among the candidates for campaigning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Mother of two hands over jackpot to customer who had not paid for ticket||A lottery vendor who handed over a Rs 6-crore jackpot-winning ticket to a buyer who had not paid her or cleared his past dues is being extolled for her honesty across Kerala. Smija K. Mohan, 37, a mathematics graduate who sells lottery tickets on the roadside in Aluva, Ernakulam district, played down suggestions that she had shown extraordinary honesty in handing the promised ticket over to a client who had not paid for it. “People use their hard-earned money to buy lottery tickets with the hope of striking it big one day,” the mother of two children, aged 12 and 2, told The Telegraph on Thursday. Kerala police have given her a “big salute” in a Facebook post that said: “Smija has become an unparalleled role model for today’s society by establishing that one’s word has more value than crores of rupees.” She has been flooded with invites from local citizens’ groups who want to felicitate her. Smija had over the years nurtured a base of regular buyers through a WhatsApp group. Left with 12 unsold tickets, priced at Rs 200 each, for the state government-run lottery, she had contacted her regular customers, sharing pictures of the tickets. Among them was P.K. Chandran, an elderly gardener. Chandran asked her to reserve a ticket for him and promised to pay her later along with her dues from past tickets. The same evening Smija learned the ticket she had reserved for Chandran had won the jackpot. “I immediately called him. He thought I was kidding,” Smija said. When Smija went to Chandran’s home to hand the ticket over, he cleared her dues of Rs 1,450, including the price of the winning ticket. “Lots of people, including strangers, have asked me why I didn’t keep the ticket for myself since the customer had not paid for it. But that’s not how we should work. I didn’t even think of keeping the ticket,” she said. Smija, who was been struggling to come to terms with the sudden fame and adulation that have come her way, shyly added: “Edathala police station has invited me today for a felicitation.” Smija had started moonlighting as a lottery ticket vendor in 2011 when she and her husband Mohan worked at a government printing press in Kakkanad, Ernakulam. After losing their jobs over the past three years, they became full-time lottery ticket vendors. Asked why she had chosen to work in a printing press after graduating in mathematics, Smija attributed it to “circumstances”. “Everyone has financial problems. I needed to earn a livelihood to take care of my family and aged parents. But I now realise that selling lottery tickets is not a bad business at all,” she said. Lottery agents who sell winning tickets get about 10 per cent of the prize money. Smija, who buys her tickets from the Bhagyalakshmi Lottery Agency, said she had no idea how much might trickle down to her. Chandran has told local reporters he had never won anything so big. He said he planned to help his eldest daughter Chalitha build her own house and set aside some money for his second daughter Anjitha’s marriage and son Ajith’s engineering studies. He did not say anything about rewarding Smija. This newspaper could not contact Chandran or Bhagyalakshmi. A different lottery agent said that the agents usually paid the vendors who sold winning tickets “some money”. Asked what she would do if the agent rewarded her, Smija said: “I haven’t thought about it yet. The government has already built me a one-bedroom house on five cents of land through the Life Mission.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
27-03-2021||India||Centre assures SC that Rohingya Muslims will not be deported||The Centre on Friday assured the Supreme Court that Rohingya Muslims would not be deported unless the Myanmar government identifies and agrees to take them back. The assurance was given to a bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta during the course of a hearing. The court was dealing with the plea of Mohd Samiullah, a Rohingya Muslim, seeking a stay on the deportation of Rohingya refugees from Jammu and Kashmir. The bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, took on record the government’s assurance but refused to hear the submission sought to be made by UN special rapporteur Tendayi Achiume after senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Jammu and Kashmir government, opposed it. Salve objected to Achiume being heard in the matter on the ground of jurisdiction. “We have very serious objections on this. Please don’t go into this. The UN is not subject to your Lordships’ jurisdiction. Our government has also issues with the UN special rapporteur,” Salve said. Achiume had last year filed an application opposing the deportation of Rohingya Muslims on the ground that they would be subjected to torture and genocide in Myanmar. The bench told senior advocate C.U. Singh, appearing for Achiume, that since the Jammu and Kashmir government had certain objections to the UN special rapporteur being heard, it would not like to hear him at this juncture. “We will not hear you (Achiume). There is serious objection. We will see when to hear you,” Justice Bobde told Singh. During Friday’s arguments advocate Prashant Bhushan strongly opposed the deportation of the refugees on the ground that they would be subjected to genocide as a military junta was now in power in Myanmar. Solicitor-general Mehta, however, said that all illegal migrants in the country could not be granted refugee status and India could not become the world capital for refugees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
27-03-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to stay electoral bonds||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay the release of electoral bonds for the Assembly polls in Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, holding that there was no illegality or anonymity in the periodical issuance of these documents during elections as they carried adequate safeguards suggested by the Reserve Bank of India and the Election Commission. “We do not know at this stage as to how far the allegation that under the scheme there would be complete anonymity in the financing of political parties by corporate houses, both in India and abroad, is sustainable,” the bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said. “If the purchase of the bonds as well as their encashment could happen only through banking channels and if purchase of bonds are allowed only to customers who fulfill KYC norms, the information about the purchaser will certainly be available with the SBI which alone is authorised to issue and encash the bonds as per the scheme,” the court added. The bench dismissed an application filed by the Association for Democratic Rights seeking a stay on the issuance of electoral bonds from April 1 as according to the NGO it would lead to massive money laundering by some political parties as the identities of the donors and purchasers are “anonymous”. Rejecting the argument, the court said any expenditure incurred by anyone in purchasing the bonds through banking channels would have to be mentioned as an expenditure in his book of accounts. The trial balance, cash flow statement, profit and loss account and balance sheet of companies that purchase electoral bonds will have to necessarily reflect the amount spent, the court said. The bench said the apprehension that foreign corporate houses might buy the bonds and attempt to influence the electoral process in India was also misconceived. “Under Clause 3 of the scheme, the bonds may be purchased only by a person who is a citizen of India or incorporated or established in India,” the court pointed out. “Therefore, in the light of the fact that the scheme was introduced on 2.1.2018; that the bonds are released at periodical intervals in January, April, July and October of every year… in the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 without any impediment and that certain safeguards have already been provided by this court in its interim order dated 12.4.2019, we do not see any justification for the grant of stay at this stage. Hence both the applications for stay are dismissed…,” the bench said. The court noted that the NGO had been repeatedly filing petitions on poll bonds since 2017. The bench said that on April 12, 2019, too, it had passed interim directions to the political parties to file before the EC details of the donations received through such bonds. “Therefore, once this court has passed an order on 12.4.2019 directing some interim arrangement, thereafter applications for the same interim relief cannot be made every time the window for the purchase under the scheme is opened,” it said. The court also rejected the argument that the RBI and the EC had objections to the issuance of bonds and the government had further incorporated certain recommendations made by the RBI to prevent misuse. “Despite the fact that the scheme provides anonymity, the scheme is intended to ensure that everything happens only through banking channels. While the identity of the purchaser of the bond is withheld, it is ensured that unidentified/unidentifiable persons cannot purchase the bonds and give it to the political parties,” the court said. “Under Clause 7 of the scheme, buyers have to apply in the prescribed form, either physically or online, disclosing the particulars specified therein. A non­KYC-compliant application or an application not meeting the requirements of the scheme shall be rejected,” the bench said, pointing out that the scheme had sufficient safeguards to avoid possible misuse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
27-03-2021||India||Bihar bandh against police assault on MLAs ||The Bihar bandh called by the Opposition to protest against the alleged police assault on its MLAs while opposing a police bill in the Assembly on Tuesday disrupted life across the state on Friday as leaders and supporters took to the streets. The Opposition MLAs had opposed the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, which has now become an act after being passed by the bicameral state legislature and the approval of the governor, claiming it gave powers to the force to arrest and conduct searches without warrant or the presence of a magistrate. The Rashtriya Janata Dal, CPI-ML, CPI, CPM, and Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) participated in Friday’s bandh and demanded chief minister Nitish Kumar’s apology on what they called an attack on democracy. They also sought the withdrawal of the three controversial farm laws being opposed by the farmers. Several national highways were blocked in several of the 38 districts in the state. The protesters squatted on the roads, placed carts and vehicles as barricades, and burnt tyres to disrupt traffic for several hours. They also shouted slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Nitish. In many districts the roads were blocked early in the morning. National Highway 2, also known as the Grand Trunk Road, NH 28, 31, 57, 77, 80, 83, 110 and the Mahatma Gandhi Setu across the Ganga between Patna and Hajipur, and many state highways were blocked in various districts. Trains were also stopped at various railway stations for some time as the bandh supporters squatted on the tracks and climbed onto the engines. They also took out marches waving party flags and shouting slogans. RJD workers took out the “last procession” of the chief minister. Many of them got their heads tonsured to mark the occasion. RJD’s Mahua MLA Mukesh Raushan trampled over Nitish’s effigy. A similar procession was taken out in Nalanda, the native district of Nitish. Water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha’s convoy got stuck in a jam caused by the bandh supporters at Bhagwanpur in Vaishali, while he was going to Muzaffarpur. The police extricated the vehicles with much difficulty. The state capital also witnessed massive traffic snarls as the protesters blocked the main thoroughfares at different places. Shops and business establishments were closed for several hours in Patna and many other towns. RJD leaders Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav took part in the bandh in Patna after participating in the funeral of their uncle Mahavir Rai, the elder brother of party chief Lalu Prasad. Rai passed away while undergoing treatment for various ailments at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna. Tejashwi asked whether the MLAs had staged a protest in the House for the first time. He asserted that the protests were peaceful and well within the limits of the behaviour expected from the legislators. “The socialist leaders sat on the Speaker’s chair and ran the House in 1974. Socialist leader Karpoori Thakur led a protest that disrupted the Assembly for three days in 1986. Nitish Kumar was an MLA at that time. But this kind of atrocity and mayhem by the police happened inside the House for the first time,” he said. “Bihar police have now become the police of Nitish’s Janata Dal United. We have 200 video footages showing the barbaric acts of the police and administrative officials. We will not tolerate the atrocities on us and the Bihar bandh is one of our acts of protest against it,” Tejashwi added. Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha has expressed displeasure on the police atrocities on MLAs, of which several video footages have surfaced. He has directed additional chief secretary (home), Chaitanya Prasad, and director-general of police S.K. Singhal to “identify the police personnel who misbehaved with the legislators and submit a report”. “Action will be taken against the police personnel found guilty of misbehaving with the MLAs. It is everybody’s responsibility to uphold the prestige of the House. We cannot allow anybody to cross the line,” Sinha said. The Speaker has sent the CCTV footage to the ethics committee of the Assembly to review the behaviour of the MLAs, on the basis of which action could be taken against the erring legislators. On the other hand, the Patna district administration has registered an FIR against Tejashwi and 20 other RJD leaders including Tej Pratap, state party unit president Jagdanand Singh, former ministers Abdul Bari Siddiqui, Shyam Rajak and others for staging a violent protest while trying to march to the Assembly on Tuesday. The charges slapped against them include attempt to murder (Section 307 of the IPC), among others. Nitish spent the day at Rajgir in Nalanda district where he inaugurated a nature safari and a modern ropeway to approach the Vishwa Shanti Stupa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
