28-03-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: Rape survivor tied, paraded with accused in village; 6 held||A total of six persons, including the man accused of rape, and five villagers, have been arrested. A video showing the girl and the accused tied with ropes, being beaten and forced to walk in public in the village under Jobat police station amidst slogans of “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” has gone viral on social media. The girl was rescued by police, a senior officer said. Sub-Divisional Officer of Police (SDOP) Dilip Singh Bilwal said two cases were registered on Sunday on the FIRs lodged by the victim. “One of the cases was registered against the 21-year-old man who is accused of rape. Another FIR was registered against family members of the girl and villagers for parading her in the village and beating her,” Bilwal said, adding that the rape accused is married with two children. He has been booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Family members and relatives of the victim were booked under sections 294 (Obscene act in public places), 355 (Assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement) and other sections of the IPC, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||Uddhav Thackeray asks Maha officials to prepare for lockdown||Considering the rise in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray asked officials to prepare a plan for implementation of a lockdown which will have a minimum impact on the economy on the recommendation of the state COVID-19 task force, on Sunday. According to an official release by the Maharashtra government, during a meeting held between the chief minister, Health Minister Rajesh Tope and other officials, principal secretary to state health department Dr Pradeep Vyas mentioned about there being a “tremendous stress” on the availability of beds, oxygen supply, and ventilators, which could fall short if the positive cases continue to go up. The members of the task force also expressed apprehension that the state might report 40,000 fresh cases in the next 24 hours. During the meeting, the CM reviewed health infrastructure including availability of beds, oxygen, medicines etc. in the state to treat COVID-19 patients. Following which the task force then recommended that the state government implement measures like a stricter lockdown to stem the rise in coronavirus positive cases. “The chief minister has asked officials to prepare a detailed plan for implementation of a lockdown which will have a minimum impact on the economy of the state,” the release said. “There should not be any kind of confusion among the people once a lockdown is announced,” the CM is quoted as saying. Maharashtra has seen a huge rise in coronavirus positive cases over the last week. As many as one lakh new infections have been added to the state’s tally within a short period. “24,619 cases had been reported on a single day in September, 2020. However, on March 27 this year, the state reported 35,726 new cases in a day. This number could touch 40,000 in the next 24 hours,” the release said quoting the members of the task force. Dr Vyas made a presentation on the current status of beds, ventilators, availability of oxygen during the meeting. “There are 3.57 lakh isolation beds in the state of which 1.07 lakh are already filled. The remaining beds are getting filled at a higher speed,” Dr Vyas said, adding that out of the 60,349 oxygen beds, 12,701 beds are already occupied by COVID-19 patients. “Out of the 19,930 beds, 8,342 beds are already occupied with mild symptomatic patients. 1,881 of the 9,030 ventilators also remain occupied,” he said. Dr Vyas mentioned that some districts in the state do not have vacant beds at all, which is an indication of the health system falling short (to tackle the rising cases). However, the health department has blamed the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases to the delayed response by citizens. “People are not testing in time. They are not following COVID-appropriate behaviour. At the same time, private establishments are not following the 50 per cent attendance norms. There seems a casual approach towards home isolation. These all factors could be some of the reasons behind the spike in the cases,” alleged the department. The CM then directed officials to ensure sufficient supply of foodgrains, medicines and all types of medical services to address the challenge of the pandemic. “The industry should produce 80 per cent of oxygen for medical reasons and remaining for other purposes,” he said. According to Tope the cases are rising at a rate of 10 per cent every day in the state. “We fear of falling short of beds in some areas,” he said. Tope said the government has asked for E-ICUs as well as for short isolation and treatment centres across cities to meet the requirement to some extent. “If cold chain facilities are increased in rural areas, we can vaccinate more people and prevent further spread of the virus. There is a sizable number of youngsters in the new cases. We fear some of them might lose their lives,” Tope said. Struggling to arrest the upsurge in coronavirus positive cases, the CM on Friday directed officials to impose section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure under which gathering of five or more persons will be banned in night in the state, beginning March 28. On Saturday, the state government announced a ban on holding of all types of gatherings, including political and religious. It also ordered that restaurants, gardens and malls will remain shut between 8 pm to 7 am beginning Saturday night. People will also not be allowed to visit beaches during 8 pm to 7 am. Maharashtra on Saturday reported 35,726 new coronavirus positive cases, the second-highest daily rise, which took the tally to 26,73,461. At 166, the state reported the highest number of fatalities due to COVID-19 in this year so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||Amit Shah claims BJP on course to win over 200 seats in Bengal||Home Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah on Sunday exuded confidence that his party will win 26 out of the 30 West Bengal seats and more than 37 of the 47 Assam seats which went to polls in the first phase of assembly elections in these states on Saturday. Citing the internal party feedback that he has received, Shah claimed that the BJP is on course to achieve its target of winning over 200 seats in the 294-member West Bengal assembly and improving its alliance tally of 86 seats in the 126-member Assam assembly, and asserted that people have voted for the "positive" agenda espoused by the party. Addressing a press conference, Shah also rejected West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's charge that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to a temple of the Matua community -- which is in sizeable number in the state -- during his trip to Bangladesh violated the poll code. He said that the visit had nothing to do with the elections and was aimed at fostering deeper ties between the two countries. Shah also parried a query about reports that he might have met leaders of the NCP, which is a key constituent of the opposition-run government in Maharashtra, saying everything cannot be made public. He said that peaceful polling in Assam and West Bengal and high voter turnouts are positive signs for the two states, noting that West Bengal often witnessed violence during polls held earlier. The home minister lauded the Election Commission (EC) for the violence-free polls. Targeting the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal, he said an atmosphere of appeasement and an euphemism for alleged pro-Muslim policies have prevailed in the state and illegal immigrants were allowed uninhibited while public funds were misappropriated and development plunged. People had high hopes but only the name of the ruling party changed while the state slid further, he said referring to the TMC ousting the Left from power in 2011. The state has now embraced the development agenda for 'Sonar Bangla' espoused by Modi, Shah said, noting that it has seen such an election after years when there was no violence or any order of a re-poll in any place. "We will win 26 seats in the first phase and succeed in bagging over 200 seats," he said, citing the feedback he has received from BJP leaders involved in the campaign. Asked about a purported telephonic conversation Banerjee had with a BJP leader, who was earlier in her party, to woo him back to her fold, Shah said everyone has a right to solicit support. The home minister hit out at the TMC after it released an audio in which BJP vice president Mukul Roy is allegedly telling industrialist and party leader Shishir Bajoria about their approach to the Election Commission, saying this shows that phones of opposition leaders were being tapped in the state. Is this a democratic practice, he asked. Shah asserted that there is nothing incriminating in that conversation as the BJP has given in writing to the poll watchdog what the two leaders were heard discussing. He also appealed to voters of Nandigram, where Banerjee is locked in a high profile contest with her former protegee and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari, to support his party, saying they can bring about a change for better in the state by their votes. On Assam, Shah said, it is clear that people have voted for the BJP whose government has taken the state on the road of development by making it free of violence and agitation, and has now promised to make it flood-free. Under Modi's leadership, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and his senior ministerial colleague Himanta Biswa Sarma have ushered in a lot of development which has been drawing people's support. To a question about certain media reports that the TMC may be slightly ahead in Bengal, he said similar predictions were made about assembly polls in other states, including Uttar Pradesh, where the BJP had decimated the opposition by winning 312 seats in the 403-member assembly. The first phase of polls in Bengal had over 84 per cent turnout while it was 79 per cent in Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||Modernisation need of hour in agriculture sector says Modi in Mann Ki Baat address||Modernisation in the agriculture sector is the need of the hour as already a lot of time has been lost, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday. In his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio address, Modi also hailed the world's largest vaccination programme being carried out in India against the Covid-19 and stressed on "dawai bhi, kadai bhi" (medicines as well as strict preventive measures). He hailed the 'taali-thaali' campaign and lighting of diyas last year, saying it had touched the hearts of 'corona warriors'. "That is the very reason they resolutely held on the whole year, without tiring, without halting. Steadfastly, they endured to save the life of each and every citizen of the country," Modi said. Asserting that adopting modern practices in the agriculture sector is imperative, he said in every aspect of life, newness and modernisation are essential. "In India's agriculture sector, modernisation is the need of the hour. It has been delayed and we have already lost a lot of time," the prime minister said in his 75th episode of Mann Ki Baat. "To create new employment opportunities in agriculture, to increase farmers' income, it is equally important to adopt new alternatives and innovations along with traditional agricultural practices," he said. The country has witnessed this during the white revolution and bee farming is also emerging as one such alternative, he said. The prime minister's call for embracing modern practices in agriculture comes at a time when hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi's border points at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri since November last year demanding that the Centre repeal the three contentious farm laws. The government has maintained that these reform laws will boost farmers' income by bringing investment, modern practices and allow them to sell their produce anywhere across the country at the best prices. Noting that bee farming is becoming the foundation of a honey revolution or sweet revolution in the country, Modi said farmers in large numbers are associating with it. The natural organic honey of the Sundarbans areas of West Bengal is in great demand in the country and the world, he said. Modi also cited the examples of Banaskantha, Gujarat and Yamuna Nagar, Haryana, where farmers have taken to bee farming and increased their income. "Honey bee farming does not lead to income solely from honey, but bee wax is also a very big source of income. There is demand for bee wax in everything pharmaceuticals, food, textile and cosmetic industries," he said. "Our country currently imports bee wax, but our farmers are now rapidly transforming this situation that is, in a way contributing in the Atmanirbhar Bharat' campaign," he said. During his radio broadcast, Modi also recalled that in March last year, the nation first heard about the Janata curfew. The Janata curfew was imposed on March 22 last year on the prime minister's appeal following the coronavirus outbreak. "From very early on, the people of India have put up a spirited fight against COVID-19," he asserted. Noting that around this time last year, the question was whether there would be a vaccine for COVID-19 and by when would it be rolled out, Modi said it is a matter of pride that the world's largest vaccination drive is underway in India. He urged the people to take the vaccine. "We are getting to hear such news from all corners of the country...that touch our hearts. 109-year-old elderly mother from Jaunpur UP, Ram Dulaiya ji has taken the vaccination. Similarly, 107-year-old Kewal Krishna ji in Delhi has taken the dose of the vaccine. 100-year-old Jai Chaudhary from Hyderabad has taken the vaccine and it's an appeal to all to take the vaccine," Modi said. "I am observing on Twitter -Facebook how after getting the vaccine for the elderly of their homes, people are uploading their pictures. A youth, Anandan Nair, from Kerala in fact has given a new term to this- Vaccine service'," he pointed out. Modi also said that India's 'Nari Shakti' is excelling in the sports field and lauded the recent sporting feats of cricketer Mithali Raj and shuttler P V Sindhu. Raj recently became the first Indian woman to complete 10,000 runs across formats while Sindhu finished runners-up at the Swiss Open earlier this month. The prime minister also spoke about the success of the Indian shooters in the International Shooting Sport Federation (ISSF) World Cup. Talking about lighthouses, Modi said India is working towards strengthening tourism facilities in some of them and appreciated the efforts of lighthouse keepers in doing their duties diligently. "Sadly, we had lost many lighthouse keepers during the tragic 2004 Tsunami," he said. On Mann Ki Baat completing 75 episodes, Modi said it feels like just yesterday when in 2014 "we began this journey" and thanked all the listeners. "During Mann Ki Baat, we have discussed a wide range of subjects. We all have learnt so much. Diverse topics have been covered," he said. Mann Ki Baat completes 75 episodes at a time when India is looking forward to marking our 'Amrut Mahotsav', Modi said underlining the importance of the celebrations of 75 years of Independence. "The sacrifices of our great freedom fighters must inspire us to think about our duties as a citizen. This is something Mahatma Gandhi talked about extensively," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||140 rescued in Kanpur govt hospital fire||Over 140 patients were rescued after a fire broke out at the state-run LPS Institute of Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery in Swaroop Nagar on Sunday morning, the Uttar Pradesh government said. According to hospital officials, two high-risk patients died in the morning but the deaths were "not caused by the fire". "Around 7.30 am, smoke was seen billowing out of a storeroom on the ground floor. The fire was subsequently doused and the patients were shifted to another building. All the patients are safe," Dr Vinay Krishna, Director of the hospital, told PTI. The deceased patients were Rasoolan Bi (80), a resident of Ghatampur who was suffering from acute respiratory problems, and Tek Chand of Hamirpur, who was put on ventilator support. About the deaths of the two patients, Krishna said, "Tek Chand died around 6.30 am, even before the fire broke out. Rasoolan Bi died later. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. Prima facie, the high-risk patients had normal deaths and the fatalities were not caused by the fire. The post-mortem will reveal the exact cause of the deaths." Smoke filled the centrally air-conditioned building but the fire did not cause any casualty, he asserted. Krishna said the cause of the fire was "probably a short-circuit". "We used the fire extinguishers kept on the floor to douse the flames. Two fire-tenders were also pressed into service," he said. The fire broke out near the intensive care unit (ICU) on the ground floor of the hospital. "The fire broke out in a storeroom. Things are under control now and officers are on the ground. There are no casualties. Over 140 patients were evacuated," Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi told PTI. Kanpur's Additional Commissioner of Police Akash Kulhari said a couple of fire-tenders were pressed into service to douse the flames. Window panes on the first floor of the hospital were broken to let the smoke out, an official said. According to Swaroop Nagar Station House Officer (SHO) Ashwani Pandey, about 175 patients were evacuated from the ICU and other neighbouring wards and shifted to other wards. "A short-circuit is suspected to have led to the fire, but the exact reason will be ascertained only after an investigation," the SHO said. Kanpur's Chief Fire Officer, N P Singh, said that after getting information about the fire at the cardiology institute, an alert was sounded at all neighbouring fire stations including Colonelganj, Fazalganj, and Anwarganj. "Nine fire tenders were pressed into service and firefighters took over two hours to evacuate the patients and completely douse the blaze," Singh said and claimed that there was no casualty reported due to fire. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath took cognizance of the incident and directed that the evacuated patients be provided immediate care. He also sought a report from the district administration, the Uttar Pradesh government said in a statement issued in Lucknow. The chief minister has directed a high-level team, headed by the principal secretary, health education and also comprising the director general of fire services and the Kanpur divisional commissioner, to visit the site and give its report immediately, the statement said. He has said a campaign should be launched at the earliest to test the fire-fighting arrangements at all hospitals of the state, in accordance with the directives issued earlier to strengthen such measures. The hospital was established in 1975. The JK Charitable Trust had donated the building for the institute and it was named as Laxmipat Singhania Institute of Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||Amit Shah exudes confidence after first phase of polling in two states||Union Home Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah on Sunday said according to the feedback received from the ground, the saffron party will win 26 of the 30 seats that went to polls in the first phase of the West Bengal Assembly election. Similarly, he said the party has got clear-cut indications that it will win 37 of the 47 Assembly seats in Assam that went to polls in the first phase on Saturday. Addressing a press conference at his residence here, Shah said the peaceful polling and the high voter turnouts are positive signs for the two states and thanked the voters. He also expressed gratitude towards the Election Commission (EC) for conducting peaceful elections in Assam and violence-prone West Bengal. According to the feedback received from the party workers on the ground, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will win 26 of the 30 seats in West Bengal and 37 of the 47 seats in Assam in the first phase of polling, Shah said. He exuded confidence that the saffron party will register a massive electoral victory in West Bengal by winning more than 200 seats in the 294-member Assembly and also improve its tally in Assam. Shah also appealed to the people of Nandigram, from where West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee is contesting the polls, to vote for change and a better future of the state. Rejecting the TMC's criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Bangladesh, he said the visit is to strengthen bilateral ties and has nothing to do with elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||Will not attend public Holi programmes, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said he will not attend any public Holi programme due to the increasing number of coronavirus cases and appealed to the people to celebrate the festival with their families and avoid crowds. The national capital recorded 1,558 cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, the highest since since December 15 when 1,617 people tested positive for the virus, according to official data. "Corona cases have increased in the last few days, in view of this, I am not attending Holi programs being organized in public this time. Appeal to all of you to just celebrate Holi with your family and avoid crowds, follow the rules of Corona prevention," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday ordered that there will be no public celebrations in the national capital during upcoming festivals such as Holi and Navaratri. "The government has set up a number of teams to ensure that people adhere to its directions on Holi. District magistrates and police have created district-wise teams. Legal action would be taken against violators," Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||Modi stresses on the need to modernize agricultural sector in 'Mann ki baat'||Modernisation in the agriculture sector is the need of the hour as already a lot of time has been lost, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday. In his monthly Mann Ki Baat programme, Modi also hailed the world's largest vaccination programme being carried out in India against COVID-19, and stressed on "dawai bhi, kadai bhi" (medicines as well as strict preventive measures). Asserting that adopting modern practices in the agriculture sector is imperative, he said in every aspect of life newness, modernisation is essential. "In India's agriculture sector, modernisation is the need of the hour. It has been delayed and we have already lost a lot of time," the prime minister said in his 75th episode of Mann Ki Baat. "In order to create new employment opportunities in the agriculture sector, to increase farmers' income, it is equally important to adopt new alternatives, innovations along with traditional agricultural practices," he said. The country has witnessed this during the white revolution and bee farming is also emerging as one such alternative, he said. The prime minister's call for embracing modern practices in agriculture comes at a time when hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi's border points at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri since November last year demanding that the Centre repeal the three contentious farm laws. The government has maintained that these reform laws will boost farmers' income by bringing investment, modern practices and allow them to sell their produce anywhere across the country at best prices. During his radio broadcast, Modi also recalled that in March last year the nation first heard about the Janata curfew. The Janata curfew was imposed on March 22 last year on the prime minister's appeal. "From very early on, the people of India have put up a spirited fight against COVID-19," he asserted. Noting that around time last year, the question was whether there would be a vaccine for COVID-19 and by when would it be rolled out, Modi said it was a matter of pride that the world's largest vaccination drive is underway in India. Modi also said that India's 'Nari Shakti' is excelling in the sports field and lauded the recent sporting feats of cricketer Mithali Raj and shuttler P V Sindhu. On Mann Ki Baat completing 75 episodes, Modi said it seems like just yesterday when in 2014 "we began this journey" and thanked all the listeners. "During Mann Ki Baat, we have discussed a wide range of subjects. We all have learnt so much. Diverse topics have been covered," he said. Mann Ki Baat completes 75 episodes at a time when India is looking forward to marking our 'Amrut Mahotsav', Modi said underlining the importance of the celebrations of 75 years of Independence. "The sacrifices of our great freedom fighters must inspire us to think about our duties as a citizen. This is something Mahatma Gandhi talked about extensively," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||NIA arrests Chhatradhar Mahato in 2009 murder case||The National Investigation Agency arrested TMC leader Chhatradhar Mahato in connection with the killing of a CPI(M) leader in 2009, soon after he cast his vote in Lalgarh during the first phase of polling in West Bengal, a senior official said on Sunday. Mahato, the former convenor of the Maoist-backed People Against Police Atrocities (PCPA), was nabbed from his residence in Jhargram district by an NIA team comprising of 40-45 personnel late on Saturday, hours after he exercised his franchise. "He was arrested in connection with the 2009 killing of CPI(M) leader Prabir Mahato. He has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. We will produce him at a city court on Sunday," the NIA official said. The Calcutta High Court had recently directed Mahato to appear before the NIA thrice a week to assist it in investigation of the case. Mahato, 50, had earlier served a 10-year sentence for his involvement in a landmine blast triggered by Maoists in Salboni in 2008, aimed at the convoy of the then West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya and former Union minister Ramvilas Paswan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
28-03-2021||India||India registers over 62,000 fresh Covid cases, 312 casualties in a day||India saw 62,714 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,19,71,624, while the daily deaths crossed the 300-mark for the first time in 2021, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. Registering a steady increase for the 18th day in row, active cases have increased to 4,86,310 comprising 4.06 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has further dropped to 94.58 per cent, the data stated. The 62,714 new cases were reported in a span of 24 hours, the highest since October 16, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,61,552 with 312 daily new fatalities, the highest in around three months, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily death toll of 312 is the highest since December 25, 2020 when 336 new deaths were reported. As many as 63,371 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 16. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,13,23,762, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.35 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 24,09,50,842 samples have been tested up to March 27 with 11,81,289 samples being tested on Saturday. The 312 new fatalities include 166 from Maharashtra, 45 from Punjab, 14 from Kerala, 13 from Chhattisgarh, and 10 from Delhi. A total of 161552 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 54073 from Maharashtra, 12659 from Tamil Nadu, 12492 from Karnataka, 10997 from Delhi, 10322 from West Bengal, 8783 from Uttar Pradesh and 7203 from Andhra Pradesh and 6621 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
28-03-2021||India||Migrant workers' kin wait for death proof||Sixteen migrant workers walking home to Madhya Pradesh in the lockdown last May were crushed to death by a train after they fell asleep on the tracks. Ten months later, their families are struggling to get their death certificates. Family members said they had approached the then sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Jaisingh Nagar, but were told these would be issued in Aurangabad in Maharashtra where the men were run over. SDM Dileep Pandey said: “We recently wrote two letters to the Aurangabad administration.” There is no explanation why it should take so long. Sunita Singh, Chandrawati, and Parvati Singh lost their husbands. Gajraj Singh lost his two sons. Without the certificates, they can’t access the bank accounts of the dead, or even receive social welfare benefits such as widow pension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
28-03-2021||India||Covid cases: Total ban on gatherings in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on Saturday announced a complete ban on all types of gatherings, including political and religious, to arrest the fresh surge in Covid cases. The government also ordered that restaurants, gardens and malls will remain shut between 8pm and 7am beginning Saturday night. People will also not be allowed to visit beaches during that time. Drama theatres will remain shut from Saturday night. However, the delivery of food at night has been exempted. Violation of the guidelines will attract a penalty of Rs 1,000. “Gatherings of more than five people will not be allowed from 8pm to 7am effective from midnight on 27th March. Violation will attract penalty of Rs 1,000 per person on offenders. “All public places, including gardens and beaches, will remain closed during the same period and violators will be fined with Rs 1,000 per person. Not wearing face mask will attract Rs 500 fine while the same is Rs 1,000 for public spitting,” the order stated. It said that holding of social, cultural, political and religious gatherings in the state is being banned completely. Auditoriums or drama theatres should not allow their property to be used for such events, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
28-03-2021||India||UP riot: Court allows govt to withdraw case against 12 BJP leaders ||A local court on Friday allowed the Uttar Pradesh government to withdraw a case against 12 BJP leaders, including state minister Suresh Rana and legislator Sangeet Som, for allegedly inciting violence during the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. The special court judge, Ram Sudh Singh, on Friday allowed the government counsel to withdraw the case in public interest. The accused were alleged to have participated in a mahapanchayat and incited violence through their speeches in August 2013. At least 62 people were killed and more than 50,000 displaced in the communal clashes in Muzaffarnagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
28-03-2021||India||BJP MLA beaten and stripped by farmers in Punjab||A BJP MLA and some other party workers in Punjab were attacked by agitating farmers who stripped the legislator’s clothes and threw ink at him in Malout town on Saturday. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is leading the farmers’ protest, condemned the violence. The Abohar MLA, Arun Narang, was accosted near the party office where he was going to hold a news conference. A large number of farmers gathered there beat him up and tore his clothes before the police could pull him away. “This agitation of farmers, under adverse circumstances, turned violent and the MLA was physically assaulted…. We strongly condemn this act,’’ the Morcha said. BJP leaders have faced repeated protests in Punjab and Haryana and villages in western Uttar Pradesh, where they are seen as anti-farmer. “The central leadership of the BJP is rooted in its ego and instead of solving the problems of the farmers, they are busy in the elections, but local leaders are facing the bitter results of this behaviour of the central government,” the Morcha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
28-03-2021||India||Hike in  power tariff  in Odisha||The Odisha Electricity Regulatory Commission (OERC) on Saturday hiked power tariff by 30 paise per unit for the fiscal 2021-22. The increase in power tariff will come into effect in the state from April 4. The tariff for BPL (Below Poverty Line) and irrigation consumers will remain unchanged and there will be no change in monthly minimum fixed charge, demand change and meter rent, as per the OERC order. It has allowed a 2% rebate over and above normal rebate on the bill to the Low Tension (LT) domestic and single-phase general purpose category of consumers only who pay through digital means.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
