29-03-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti's passport application rejected||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti's application for a passport has been rejected by the Regional Passport Office here, based on an "adverse" police verification report. In a letter to the People's Democratic Party (PDP) president, the passport officer has informed Mehbooba that her application for an Indian passport has been rejected as the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the Union Territory had recommended against granting the document to her. The letter adds that Mehbooba can appeal against the decision at a higher forum provided by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Commenting on the rejection of her application, the PDP president said it shows the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir. "Passport Office refused to issue my passport based on CID's report citing it as 'detrimental' to the security of India. This is the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir since Aug 2019 that an ex Chief Minister holding a passport is a threat to the sovereignty of a mighty nation," she wrote on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
29-03-2021||India||Pawar admitted to hospital after complaining of abdominal pain||NCP chief Sharad Pawar will undergo surgery at a hospital here after it was diagnosed that he has gall bladder issue, a minister of his party in the Maharashtra government said here on Monday. "Our party president Sharad Pawar saheb was feeling a little uneasy due to a pain in his abdomen last evening and was therefore taken to Breach Candy Hospital for a check-up. Upon diagnosis it came to light that he has a problem in his Gall Bladder," Nawab Malik tweeted. "He is on Blood Thinning Medication which is now being stopped due to this issue. He will be admitted to the hospital on the 31st of March 2021 and an Endoscopy and Surgery will be conducted. Hence all his programmes stand cancelled until further notice," the minister added. The development comes amid speculation that Pawar (80) met Union Home Minister Amit Shah at a top industrialist's residence in Ahmedabad on Saturday. At a press conference in New Delhi on Sunday, Shah parried a query on the purported meeting, saying everything cannot be made public. Malik, whose party shares power in Maharashtra with the Shiv Sena and Congress, had said no such meeting took place, adding there is an attempt to create confusion by spreading such rumours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
29-03-2021||India||Delhi police warns of strict action against those not following Covid protocols on Holi||The Delhi Police on Monday said patrolling has been increased and strict action will be taken against those who do not follow coronavirus guidelines issued in view of Holi. Amid a surge in COVID-19 cases in the national capital, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had on Tuesday ordered that there would be no public celebrations here during upcoming festivals such as Holi and Navaratri. Delhi reported 1,881 coronavirus cases on Sunday, the highest in around three-and-half months, while the positivity rate rose to 2.35 per cent, according to the health department. Patrolling has been intensified during Holi, Delhi Police Public Relations Officer Chinmoy Biswal said. "Pickets have been placed by the district police in their respective areas. Patrolling has been increased. Police are focusing on those who are involved in drunken driving and action will be taken against them," he said. "As public gathering is not allowed this year during Holi celebrations, strict action will be taken against those who do not adhere to coronavirus protocols. Delhi Police appeals to the public to celebrate Holi with their family members at home," Biswal said. Police personnel, besides patrolling, are also urging to people to stay in their homes in view of rising coronavirus cases and making announcements through loudspeakers about guidelines and safety protocols. The Delhi Traffic Police has also made elaborate arrangements to check incidents of drunken driving and over-speeding among others. "Special checking teams have been deployed at major intersections and vulnerable points to detect and prosecute traffic violators. Special traffic police checking teams along with PCR and local police teams have been stationed on various roads and strategic locations or intersections across Delhi," Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Meenu Choudhary said. In cases of drunken driving, red light jumping, using mobile phone while driving, dangerous driving and over speeding, the driving license will be seized and it will be liable for suspension for a period of minimum of three months, police said. Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev had earlier directed authorities to ensure strict compliance of the DDMA order. On Saturday, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava had instructed his officers to ensure optimal visibility of the force and follow safety guidelines while strictly enforcing the DDMA orders amid the COVID-19 pandemic. In view of consecutive festivals in the coming week, he had stressed that the DDMA guidelines regarding COVID-appropriate behaviour should be strictly adhered to and enforced on the ground. The police commissioner had also instructed his staff to follow safety guidelines while enforcing the DDMA orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
29-03-2021||India||All taxis in Goa to have digital fare meters in 6 months||Digital fare meters along with printer, GPS and panic button will soon be fitted on all taxis in Goa, state Transport Minister Mauvin Godinho has said. The task is expected to be completed in six months, Godinho said in a written reply tabled in the Goa Assembly on Friday in response to a question raised by Leader of the Opposition Digambar Kamat. The budget session of the state Assembly is currently underway. Godinho said the state government has amended Section 140 of the Goa Motor Vehicles Rules-1991, wherein every motor cab is to be fitted with a digital fare meter along with a printer, Global Positioning System (GPS) and a panic button. "After floating an e-tender, the work order is issued to an empanelled vendor to supply the devices. The government will soon start fitting the devices on taxis," he said. Goa has 674 yellow/black taxis, 14,575 all India taxis (having permit to go out of the state), 2,593 all Goa taxis and 2,250 app-based taxis, Godinho said in the written reply. Besides, 1,246 motorcycle taxis are also operating in the coastal state, he said. The state government has given permission to M/s Frotamiles Private Limited to operate the app-based cab aggregator Goa Miles, the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
29-03-2021||India||India records biggest one day surge in fresh Covid cases since October||India saw 68,020 new coronavirus cases in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the country's COVID-19 tally to above 1.20 crore, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. Registering a steady increase for the 19th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 5,21,808, which comprise 4.33 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 94.32 per cent, the data stated. A total of 68,020 new cases were reported in a day, the highest recorded since October 11 last year, taking the country's tally of cases to 1,20,39,644, while the death toll increased to 1,61,843 with 291 fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 74,383 new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 11. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,13,55,993, while the case fatality rate has further has dropped to 1.34 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. According to the Indian Council for Medical Research, 24,18,64,161 samples have been tested up to March 28 with 9,13,319 samples being tested on Saturday. The 291 new fatalities include 108 from Maharashtra, 69 from Punjab, 15 from Chhattisgarh, 12 each from Kerala and Karnataka, and 11 each from Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,61,843 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 54,181 from Maharashtra, 12,670 from Tamil Nadu, 12,504 from Karnataka, 11,006 from Delhi, 10,324 from West Bengal, 8,786 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,205 from Andhra Pradesh and 6,690 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
29-03-2021||India||Idol falls on Puri Jagannath Temple servitor ||A servitor of the 12th century Puri Shree Jagannath Temple on Sunday sustained grievous injuries in his leg after a portion of a stone idol fell on him at Ugra Nursingha Temple located inside the main shrine. The servitor, identified as Jambeswar Mohapatra, fractured his right leg. Sources said the accident took place while he was performing the daily rituals in the morning. Soon after, he was found writhing in pain. Other servitors and temple officials rushed to the spot and immediately took him to the hospital for treatment. Mohapatra said: “The idol of Hiranya Kashyap which was installed in the lap of Ugra Nrusingha idol, fell accidentally on my right leg as a result of which I sustained injuries. However, by the God’s grace, I am feeling fine now.” The temple administration on Sunday announced that it would stick to its decision taken on March 23 to restrict the entry of devotees to the shrine  on Sundays from next week. “The temple will be disinfected every Sunday. After the temple is properly sanitised, it will be opened to the devotees the next day,” said chief administrator of the temple Dr Krishan Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
29-03-2021||India||Panic over death after Covid vaccine in Bihar||A 70-year-old woman died hours after taking the first dose of a coronavirus vaccine in Vaishali district of Bihar on Saturday, triggering panic in the village. Health officials and police rushed to Birma Math village following a ruckus by the villagers over the death of Sanjharia Devi. Her body has been sent to AIIMS Patna for post-mortem. Sanjharia Devi and three others who had taken the vaccine were feeling dizzy, Dinanath Mahto, a neighbour, told this paper. “On Friday night, Sanjharia managed to eat just half a roti because of dizziness and went to sleep with her 10-year-old granddaughter. At 2.30am, the girl woke up to go to the toilet and started crying when she could not wake up her grandmother,” he added. Vaishali civil surgeon Indra Deo Ranjan denied the vaccine had caused the death and said she was suffering from chronic hypertension and had previously suffered a paralysis attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
29-03-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh worker seeks wage, is killed ||A BJP politician’s son allegedly bludgeoned a domestic worker to death after he demanded his last two months’ wages before Holi, which he planned to spend with his family at home. Sandesh Kumar, 22, of village Paindabad in Kannauj district had been working for the past six months as domestic help for former MLA Banwari Lal Dohre in Dahlepur village in the same district. Vikas Rai, a local police inspector, said Banwari Lal’s son Ajit allegedly hit Kumar in the head with a rifle butt on Thursday after he demanded his wages as he wanted to go home for Holi. “However, it’s a subject of investigation,” he added. Some Dahlepur residents informed Kumar’s relatives he was lying injured and unconscious in front of Banwari Lal’s house. Family members rushed to Dahlepur, 10km from Painabad, and admitted him to Kannauj district hospital. “From there, they took him to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital in Kanpur the same evening. He died of brain haemorrhage on Sunday,” said Kannauj superintendent of police Prashant Verma. “We have arrested Ajit on the charge of murder on a complaint from the dead man’s family,” Verma said. Banwari Lal said: “I feel bad about my son’s activities. I don’t live with him; I live in Kannauj city. But I was told the servant had fallen down the stairs. Only a thorough inquiry can reveal the truth.” A BJP source said: “Ajit had been chosen to contest the Zila Panchayat election. Posters with his pictures had been put up across Kannauj city. He is also district president of the Vishwa Hindu Mahasangh, which promotes Hinduism and organises religious events.” A villager said Kumar earned a monthly salary of Rs 5,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
29-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Assembly polls 2021: Stalin urges Rahul to stitch alliance against BJP||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday requested Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to stitch an alliance against the BJP at the national level, like the combine led by his party in Tamil Nadu, and accused the Centre of unleashing a “chemical” and “cultural” attack against the state. Addressing a public meeting here for the April 6 Assembly polls, Stalin said India was “suffocating due to the communal, fascist” forces and Rahul had a big responsibility to protect the nation against it. The rally here was the first in which leaders of all the constituents of the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance took part, including Rahul. Stalin said the BJP got only 37 per cent of the votes polled in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, which meant that 63 per cent of the people opposed it, but they voted for different parties. There was no coalition at the national level — similar to the one in Tamil Nadu — against the BJP in the last Lok Sabha polls, he said. Hence, Rahul should take the responsibility to stitch an alliance against the BJP at the national level, he added. Addressing Rahul as brother, Stalin said the Congress MP had told him not to address him as sir. The ruling AIADMK is facing the polls in alliance with the Pattali Makkal Katchi, the BJP, the former union minister G.K. Vaasan-led Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar) and other smaller parties. The BJP could not win even a single Lok Sabha seat from Tamil Nadu in the 2019 Parliamentary polls as secular parties, led by the DMK came together, he said. Also, the ensuing Assembly polls would be a “washout” for the BJP in Tamil Nadu, he said. According to the Election Commission data, seven national parties together secured 69 per cent votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls which includes the BJP’s 37.76 per cent and the Congress’ 19.7 per cent. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
29-03-2021||India||Sharad Pawar meeting? Amit Shah won’t deny ||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said “everything can’t be made public” when he was asked if he had met Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar in Ahmedabad on Saturday. The power corridors in Delhi and Mumbai were abuzz with reports of a purported “secret meeting” between NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Shah. The reports came in the backdrop of the BJP’s all-out effort to topple the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra using the allegations of corruption levelled against home minister Anil Deshmukh by Param Bir Singh, who was recently removed from the post of Mumbai police commissioner. The BJP has been demanding a CBI probe and resignation of the Uddhav Thackeray government over the charges. Deshmukh is an NCP leader. “Everything can’t be made public,” Shah replied when asked about reports of “two top Maharashtra leaders” meeting him in Ahmedabad. He did not deny such a meeting. Shah was in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar, his Lok Sabha constituency, on Saturday, the day voting kicked off in Bengal and Assam. However, Maharashtra minister and NCP national spokesperson Nawab Malik denied any meeting between Pawar and Shah, describing the speculation as the BJP’s way of creating “confusion”. “It is  completely false information deliberately pushed by some people to create confusion. It is something that BJP wants to create some confusion over. Such a meeting has not taken place. There is no reason that Pawar should meet Shah,” Malik said. Deshmukh on Sunday said a retired judge of the high court would probe the allegations of corruption levelled against him by Param Bir. The minister told reporters in Nagpur that he had asked the chief minister to initiate an inquiry into the allegations made against him. “The chief minister and the state government have decided that a retired judge of the high court will conduct a probe into the allegations against me. Whatever is the truth will come out,” he said. Sena leader Sanjay Raut in his weekly column Rokhthok in the party mouthpiece Saamana wrote that the Maharashtra government did not have a damage control machinery, as was seen when the allegations against Deshmukh were made. “Deshmukh got the home minister’s post by accident. Jayant Patil and Dilip Walse-Patil declined the post. That is why Sharad Pawar gave the post to Anil Deshmukh,” Raut wrote. He later tweeted: “Bura na mano Holi hai..”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
29-03-2021||India||Liquor vanished? UP cops blame it on rats||A probe has been initiated into a claim by a police station that rats were behind the disappearance of a large number of seized cartons of illicit liquor from a strongroom. A senior police officer has said over 1,400 cartons of liquor have been reported missing from the Kotwali Dehat police station here and a case has been registered against station house officer Indreshpal Singh and clerk Rishal Singh. However, a general diary at the police station mentions that 239 cartons have been damaged by rats. The senior police officer said thisseems to be fishy and unacceptable. Superintendent of police of Etah Udai Shankar Singh on Sunday confirmed the development and said that a probe was on. He, however, refused to elaborate further. A case has been registered against Indreshpal Singh and Rishal Singh. Both of them had not turned up to provide an explanation for the incident despite summons issued in their names, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
29-03-2021||India||Fire engulfs Kanpur hospital, 150 shifted||A massive fire broke out at the LPS Institute of Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery in Kanpur city on Sunday, forcing the administration to shift all 150 patients to other hospitals. There was a strong rumour that at least two patients died in the fire but the officials claimed they were already in critical condition and died of other reasons. There were around 150 patients in the hospital, including 10 in the ICU, at the time. Raj Shekhar, commissioner of Kanpur division, said the fire didn’t claim any life in the hospital. “One of the patients had died of some ailment at 6:30am while the other, who was on pacemaker, died at 9.20am. The majority of patients have been shifted to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital in the city,” the officer said. However, eyewitnesses were quoted as saying to the media that there was smoke all over and the two patients might have died of suffocation before the hospital staff broke the glass panes of the ICU and emergency ward. They said it took the fire brigade two hours to control the fire, which broke out at 8am. Vinay Krishna, director of the hospital, said, “It appears that the fire broke out in the store room on the ground floor because of short circuit and eventually spread to the other areas. We have shifted all the patients to other hospitals.” Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said he had asked the officers and hospital administrations across the state to review the safety measures and upgrade them to prevent the repetition of such incidents. The deceased have been identified as Tek Chand, 65, from Hamirpur and Imam Ali, 60, from Kanpur. “He (Chand) was on a ventilator. The doctors asked us to take him out of the ICU as it was filled with smoke. He died when we brought him out,” a relative of Chand said. Ali had a pacemaker on. It was not clear how many have sustained injuries. A press statement from the information and publicity department of the government said: “Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath ji taking immediate cognisance of the fire incident in Kanpur’s Cardiology Institute has instructed the district administration to provide prompt and proper treatment to all the injured. “The chief minister has constituted a high-level inquiry committee under the chairmanship of principal secretary, medical education, to investigate the causes of the incident. DG fire service and commissioner Kanpur division will be members of this committee.” The statement added that the chief minister had instructed that the fire-fighting arrangements of all the hospitals should be investigated by running a campaign without delay so that similar accidents could be avoided in future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
29-03-2021||India||Two-city scan for re-infections amid Covid surge||Health researchers in Chennai and Pune plan to systematically test blood samples from newly infected Covid-19 patients to determine if re-infections are contributing to India’s sharply rising second wave of the epidemic. The National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, and the Byramjee Jeejeebhoy Government Medical College, Pune, independently plan to look for IgG antibodies — a sign of earlier infection — in blood samples from confirmed Covid-positive patients. “Such studies will be very useful — we need to know who is getting infected,” said Dileep Mavalankar, a senior infectious disease epidemiologist with the Indian Institute of Public Health, Ahmedabad, who is not associated with the Chennai or Pune efforts. The initiatives come amid what the Union health ministry described on Saturday as India’s “sharpest rise” in weekly new Covid-19 cases and deaths since May 2020 — a 7.7 per cent rise in new cases and a 5.1 per cent rise in deaths. India’s seven-day average of daily Covid-19 cases has nearly doubled in less than two weeks — from 24,400 on March 15 to 50,500 on March 26 — and the daily deaths have increased from 131 on March 15 to 291 on March 26. The epidemic’s current resurgence in places — such as Ahmedabad, Calcutta, Chennai, Mumbai and Pune — that were among the hardest hit during the previous wave in 2020 has puzzled researchers and triggered speculation about possible re-infections by mutated versions of the coronavirus. “It would be premature to say for now that variants are contributing to either re-infections or to the observed surge in different states,” said Samiran Panda, head of the epidemiology division at the Indian Council of Medical Research, the country’s apex health research agency. Doctors and health researchers know from studies worldwide over the past year that Covid-19 re-infections are rare. Among India’s more than 11.9 million cases, researchers have documented confirmed re-infections in less than 100 cases. “However, re-infection, although rare at this point, is a reality,” Panda told The Telegraph. “But people need to remember that protective measures such as wearing face masks, avoiding crowds and frequent hand-washing reduce the risk of both new infections and re-infections.” The plan by the Chennai and Pune researchers to look for IgG antibodies in newly infected patients can be tricky and challenging to interpret. People infected by the virus develop antibodies anyway and the samples should ideally be taken at the time of Covid-19 diagnosis or as close to it as possible. “We would ideally need at least a few hundred samples to make meaningful interpretations,” said Manoj Murhekar, director of the NIE, an institution under the ICMR that plans to collaborate with the Chennai city corporation for the study. A senior health researcher in Pune said that though there were rare anecdotal accounts of re-infections, the IgG study would help quantify the proportion of re-infections, if any, among the newly infected patients in areas under fresh epidemic waves. While India’s vaccination campaign is expected to enhance the number of people protected from the infection, officials underline that vaccinated individuals might still be able to pass on the infection. “The vaccines in use are able to prevent severe forms of the disease after infection, but might not prevent people from acquiring the infection,” Panda said. The health ministry on Saturday asked 12 states, including Bengal, to bolster public health responses and enforce precautionary behaviour by the public amid concerns that only 44 per cent of people wear masks and one infected person could spread it to 406 others over a month. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a videoconference with local authorities from the 46 hardest-hit districts, including Calcutta and 24 North-Parganas in Bengal, called for increased testing, efficient isolation of cases and quarantining of contacts, and improved hospital preparedness for a surge. Twenty-five of these 46 districts are in Maharashtra and account for nearly 60 per cent of the 332,000 new cases detected across the country over the past week. Ahmedabad, Amritsar, Bangalore, Bhopal, Chennai, Durg, Nagpur, Pune, Raipur, Surat and Thane are among the most affected districts. The ministry has flagged the high fatality rates in Chhattisgarh and Punjab and urged authorities to get doctors to ensure that patients with severe illness are moved to hospital in time and that doctors adhere to standard treatment protocols. The ministry has also asked the states to accelerate the vaccination campaign to immunise all those in the priority population groups in the districts with large numbers of Covid-19 cases as early as possible as an aid to the containment measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
