30-03-2021||India||Covid-19 situation turning from bad to worse, warns govt ||The coronavirus situation is "turning from bad to worse" and is a huge cause of worry especially for some states, the Centre said on Tuesday while stressing that the whole country is at risk and nobody should be complacent. It said eight of the top 10 Covid-19 high-burden districts of the country are from Maharashtra and that Delhi, taken as one district, is also on the list. At a press conference, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the 10 districts with maximum active Covid-19 cases are Pune (59,475), Mumbai (46,248), Nagpur (45,322), Thane (35,264), Nashik (26,553), Aurangabad (21,282), Bengaluru Urban (16,259), Nanded (15,171), Delhi (8,032), Ahmednagar (7,952). Though technically speaking, Delhi has many districts, but it has been taken as one district, he said. NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said, "Covid-19 situation is turning from bad to worse. In the last few weeks, especially in some states, it is a huge cause for worry. No state, no part of the country or district should be complacent." "We are facing an increasingly severe and intense situation, more so surely in some districts. But the whole country is potentially at risk and therefore all efforts to contain and save lives should be taken. "Hospital and ICU preparations have to be readied. If the cases increase rapidly, the healthcare system would be overwhelmed, Paul said. About surge in case positivity rates, Bhushan said Maharashtra last week had an average positivity rate of 23 per cent, followed by Punjab 8.82 per cent, Chattisgarh 8.24 per cent, Madhya Pradesh 7.82 per cent, Tamil Nadu 2.5 per cent, Karnataka 2.45 per cent, Gujarat 2.22 per cent, and Delhi 2.04 per cent. The average national positivity rate during last week was 5.65 per cent. All states and Union Territories are reporting a surge in cases and there is a need to significantly and exponentially increase the number of Covid-19 tests. The proportion of RT-PCR tests need to be increased too, Bhushan said. "On Saturday, we held meetings with these states and also spoke to 47 districts. We requested them to increase the number of tests with a special focus on RT-PCR tests. Rapid antigen tests must be used for screening and in densely populated areas where cases are coming in clusters. The preferred test should be the RT-PCR ones," he said. On variants of the virus, the health secretary said 10 laboratories have done genome sequencing of 11064 samples since December of which the UK variant was detected in 807 samples, South African variant in 47 and Brazilian variant in one. A total of 6,11,13,354 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered till 10 am. About 81,74,916 healthcare workers got the first doses of the Covid-19 vaccine and 51,88,747 the second dose. As many as 89,44,742 frontline workers got the first dose and 37,11,221 the second dose. Bhushan also said that 48.39 per cent, Telangana tops the list of states with the highest Covid-19 vaccine doses given in private facilities. Delhi came second with 43.11 per cent vaccinations in private facilities, he said. From April 1, people above the age of 45 years would be eligible for vaccination. They can register themselves in the CoWIN platform, the Aarogya Setu app or go for on-site registrations which would start after 3 pm, the health ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
30-03-2021||India||Modi targets TMC over death of BJP worker's kin in Bengal||Decrying the 'anti-women' mindset of the Congress, Trinamool Congress and Left parties, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday hit out at them over the death of the mother of a BJP worker in West Bengal, Shova Majumdar, following an assault. In a veiled attack against DMK leader and former union telecom minister A Raja for his objectionable remark against Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami's mother, Modi, in a poll rally here, said the opposition's 'anti-women mindset' is not restricted to Tamil Nadu alone. In West Bengal, an elderly lady, Shova Majumdar, lost her life, he said. "A few weeks ago, we all saw with horror how goons belonging to TMC brutally attacked her just because her ideology was different." Though this has been in the news for long, he asked if the Congress showed any empathy or its ally DMK condemned it. Also, he wondered if DMK's ally the Left parties condemned such behaviour. "Did their friends TMC, with whom they hold strategy meets in Delhi, show any regret? No not at all. Pin drop silence among the opposition." Without naming Raja, Modi said the Congress and DMK have launched their 'outdated 2G missile', which has one clear target, the women of Tamil Nadu. "A few days back, this missile was launched by UPA with a clear order to attack the nari shakti of Tamil Nadu." Today Congress and DMK have insulted the respected mother of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami, he alleged. "God forbid, if they come to power, they will insult many other women of Tamil Nadu." Days ago, in his campaign, Raja allegedly spoke in an offensive, derogatory manner over the birth of Palaniswami, following which the ruling AIADMK lodged a police complaint and a case has been registered against him. Raja later apologised for his remark, but claimed that his words were taken out of context. Asking the Congress and DMK leadership to control their party leaders, the PM said the 'proud' sons and daughters of Tamil Nadu never compromised on their ideals and fought against injustice. BJP leaders had on Monday condoled the death of Shova Majumdar, the 85-year-old mother of a party worker in West Bengal, who was allegedly attacked by Trinamool Congress members. Home Minister Amit Shah had said the pain and wounds of Majumdar's family would haunt West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee for long. BJP president J P Nadda said Majumdar lost her life for being the mother of a worker of the saffron party and added that her sacrifice would be remembered forever.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
30-03-2021||India||CAA an attack on Assam's culture, history, says Rahul||The Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) is an attack on the language, history and culture of Assam and the Congress will not allow it to be implemented, party leader Rahul Gandhi said in a video message on Tuesday. Gandhi posted the video message for the people of the Northeastern state as he was unable to attend his scheduled election-related programmes due to heavy rains. The Congress-led Grand Alliance, if voted to power, will fulfil the five guarantees it has given to the people of the state, he said. "The first guarantee is we will not allow CAA to be implemented. It is an attack on Assam, your language, history, your tradition and culture," Gandhi said in his video message. The objective of the CAA is to grant Indian citizenship to people of minority communities Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, who had come to India till December 31, 2014 due to religious persecution in these countries. The state witnessed violent protests against the CAA in 2019 and five persons lost their lives. The protestors saw the law as a threat to their cultural identity and livelihood. The other four guarantees are five lakh government jobs in five years, increasing the daily minimum wage of tea garden workers to Rs 365, 200 units of free electricity per month for all, and Rs 2,000 per month for every homemaker, Gandhi said. He alleged that the hill tribes people are under attack from the BJP as the saffron party seeks to scrap Article 244A of the Constitution. Article 244A deals with formation of an autonomous state comprising certain tribal areas in Assam and creation of local legislature or council of ministers or both. The Congress leader was scheduled to address a poll rally each at Haflong in Dima Hasao hill district and Bokajan in Karbi Anglong hill district, besides an interactive session with women at Silchar. "Due to bad weather, I was unable to reach you today. But my and the Grand Alliances message is clear - we will take Assam to the path of progress and prosperity with the five guarantees," he said in the video message posted on his official Twitter handle. Earlier in the day, Gandhi tweeted that the people of Assam have understood that there is no relation between 'jumlas' (rhetoric) and development, and asked the Centre to explain what it had done for the upliftment of labourers, including tea garden workers, in the state. His remarks come two days before the second phase of the assembly elections in the state on April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
30-03-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah tests positive for Covid-19||Veteran politician and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday and he received wishes for speedy recovery from several leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

In a tweet this morning, the National Conference (NC) leader's son Omar Abdullah informed about his father testing positive for the coronavirus and also urged everyone who came in contact with him recently to get tested. Prime Minister Modi, while replying to his tweet, wished Farooq Abdullah, a Lok Sabha member and a former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, a speedy recovery.

"Praying for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Farooq Abdullah Ji. Also praying for your and the entire family's good health @OmarAbdullah," he tweeted. Omar Abdullah, also a former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, promptly replied to Modi, saying, "My father and the rest of the family join me in thanking you for your wishes and prayers @narendramodi ji."
Farooq Abdullah (85), who received the first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine on March 2, is in isolation at his home. Doctors from the SKIMS Hospital checked his vitals and also took blood samples for testing, officials said.
In his tweet, Omar Abdullah said, "My father has tested positive for COVID-19 and is showing some symptoms."
"I will be self-isolating along with other family members until we get ourselves tested. I request anyone who has come in contact with us over the last few days to take all the mandated precautions," he said.
Former chief ministers N Chandrababu Naidu and Mehbooba Mufti, among others, also wished for Farooq Abdullah's speedy recovery.
Mehbooba replying to Omar Abdullah's tweet said, "Very sorry to hear that. Hope he (Farooq Abdullah) recovers soon."
"Saddened to learn about Farooq Abdullah Ji testing positive for COVID-19. I wish him speedy recovery and the best of health," Naidu said.
People's Conference leader Sajad Lone wished a speedy recovery for Farooq Abdullah. "Wishing Dr Farooq Sahib a speedy recovery in his fight against COVID," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
30-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Modi lashes out at former minister, calls him ‘outdated 2G missile’||In a veiled attack, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday dubbed former union telecom minister A Raja, as an 'outdated 2G missile' of the Congress and DMK and slammed him for insulting the mother of Chief Minister K Palaniswami and targeting Tamil Nadu women. Without naming Raja, Modi in his election rally here said Congress and DMK have launched their 'outdated 2G missile' and this missile has one clear target, the women of Tamil Nadu. "A few days back, this missile was launched by UPA with a clear order to attack the nari shakti of Tamil Nadu." Today Congress and DMK have insulted the respected mother of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami, he alleged. "God forbid, if they come to power, they will insult many other women of Tamil Nadu." Days ago, in his campaign, Raja allegedly spoke in an offensive manner over the birth of Palaniswami and the ruling AIADMK lodged a police complaint and a case has been registered against him. Asking Congress and DMK leadership to control their party leaders, the PM said the people of Tamil Nadu are noting everything and they would never tolerate insult to the women of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
30-03-2021||India|| DGCA asks airports to impose fine on those flouting mask rule||Aviation regulator DGCA on Tuesday told airports to consider imposing spot fines, with the help of police authorities, on passengers who are found not wearing masks properly and not maintaining social distancing as per the Covid-19 rules. On March 13, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had asked airports and airlines to ensure that passengers wear masks and maintain social distance at all times during air travel, and take action against those violating the norms. In a circular issued on Tuesday, the regulator said, "During the surveillance of some airports, it has come to notice that compliance (of Covid-19 protocols) is not satisfactory." "All airport operators, therefore, are requested to ensure that the instructions on Covid-19 protocol from the standpoint of wearing face masks properly, covering nose and mouth, as well as maintaining social distance norms within the airport premises are followed scrupulously," it said. Accordingly, all airport operators can increase surveillance in this regard, the DGCA said. "The possibility of taking punitive action, such as levy of spot fines in accordance with the law, shall also be explored with local police authorities so as to serve a deterrent for violation of Covid-19 protocol," it stated. The March 13 circular had asked the airport operators to hand over the passengers, who are not following the Covid-19 protocol even after repeated warnings, to the security agencies. Moreover, it had asked the airlines to de-board the passengers who refused to adhere to Covid-19 norms even after repeated warnings and consider banning them from flying for at least three months. Fifteen passengers, who were found violating Covid-19 norms on domestic flights of three airlines between March 15 and March 23, might be banned for three months by the carriers, senior officials of the DGCA had said last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||Modi compares Left govt in Kerala to Judas over gold smuggling scam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday targetted Kerala's ruling LDF over the gold smuggling scam, saying the CPI(M)-led government "betrayed" the people of the state just as Judas did to Lord Jesus for a few pieces of silver. He also slammed the LDF government over the manner in which it dealt with the agitation against the decision to implement a Supreme Court verdict allowing entry of women in all age groups into Sabarimala temple, saying the Left dispensation should be ashamed of showering lathis on innocent devotees. "About LDF it can be said: Judas betrayed Lord Christ for a few pieces of silver. LDF has betrayed Kerala for a few pieces of gold," the PM said while attacking the Left government over the sensational gold smuggling case. Addressing his first election rally in Palakkad where 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan is contesting as the BJP candidate, Modi also criticised the UDF over corruption, saying during its rule, the Congress-led government did not even spare rays of sun, a reference to the solar panel scam. The veteran BJP leader claimed that the politics of the southern state was seeing a major shift driven by aspirations of the youth who have questioned the "match-fixing" politics of the LDF and the opposition UDF. "Over the last few years, the politics of Kerala is seeing a major shift. This shift is being driven by the aspirations of the youth, especially the first time voter in the state. For many years, the worst kept secret of Kerala politics was the friendly agreement of UDF and LDF. Now, the first time voters of Kerala are asking- what is this match fixing?" Modi said. Training guns on the LDF and the UDF over the Sabarimala temple issue, Modi said, "LDF government should be ashamed of showering Lathis on innocent devotees. UDF should be ashamed of remaining silent when this was happening. I am proud to belong to a party that has, is and will always defend the culture of our land." "I want to tell the LDF and UDF: If you abuse our culture, we will not be mute spectators," he said, referring to the agitation led by party's state unit chief K Surendran to protect faith in the state. "Our state unit President Surendran Ji was arrested and ill-treated by the Kerala government. What was his crime? That he spoke for Kerala's traditions?" Modi asked. Taking on the Left parties on political violence in the state, Modi said they have been in power many times in Kerala but their leaders still behave like junior level goons or party leaders. "Under their eyes and with their blessings, political rivals are killed, hacked, beaten," Modi said. He promised that if voted to power, the BJP government will stop the culture of violence in the southern state. "In a democracy we can have political differences. But, violence is not acceptable. So many of our young BJP Karyakartas have lost their lives. A BJP government in Kerala will stop this culture of violence", Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||Sikhs with swords attack policemen in Maharashtra's Nanded, 14 arrested||Police have arrested 14 people in connection with an attack on policemen by a mob of sword-wielding Sikhs in Nanded after they were denied permission to hold a public procession due to the COVID-19 pandemic, an official said on Tuesday. The Wazirabad police in Maharashtra's Nanded district have registered three FIRs against 64 people (who have been named in the FIRs) and other unidentified persons in connection with Monday's incident at the Sri Hazur Sahib gurdwara, he said. A viral video showed the sword-wielding mob barging out of the gurdwara, breaking the barricades put up by police and attacking the policemen. Four constables were injured and six vehicles were also damaged in the violence. The condition of one of the injured policemen was serious, the official said. The police were also trying to ascertain if anyone from the gurdwara committee had any role in the incident, he said. "We have arrested 14 people till now on charges of attempt to murder, rioting, and under provisions of the Arms Act and other sections. Around 64 people have been named in the FIR, while search is on for others," Deputy Inspector General of Police, Nanded Range, Nisar Tamboli told PTI. The official on Monday said permission for the Hola Mohalla public procession was not granted due to the coronavirus pandemic. "The gurdwara committee was informed and they had assured us that they would abide by our directives and hold the event inside the gurdwara premises," he had said. However, when the Nishan Sahib was brought at the gate around 4 pm on Monday, several participants started arguing and over 300 youth stormed out of the gate, broke the barricades and began attacking the policeman, he had said. Nishan Sahib is a triangular saffron-colour flag furling outside a gurdwara on a steel pole covered with a saffron cloth. The flag also has an insignia called Khanda in the middle, which includes two swords and a chakra. Hola Mohalla (Hola) is a Sikh festival that comes a day after Holi. Unlike Holi, when people sprinkle coloured powder on each other, Hola Mohalla is an occasion for Sikhs to demonstrate their martial skills. Nanded is an important Sikh pilgrimage centre as it is home to the sacred shrine - the Takht Sachkhand Sri Hazur Abchal Nagar Sahib. It was here that the 10th and last Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh (1666-1708), anointed the holy book Guru Granth Sahib as the eternal Guru of Sikhism and spent the last 14 months of his life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||After Mehbooba, police reject her mother's passport application||The passport application of Gulshan Nazir, wife of former Union home minister and two-time Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mufti Mohammed Sayeed, has been rejected following an adverse police report. According to a letter sent to Nazir, who is the mother of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, the Regional Passport office informed her that the Jammu and Kashmir Police's CID department has not cleared her passport application under section 6 (2) (c) of the Passports Act. Under this section, a passport is rejected by authorities if they feel that the applicant may engage outside India in activities prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India or the departure of the applicant from India may, or is likely to, be detrimental to the security of the country. A passport can also be rejected, under the section, if the presence of the applicant outside India may, or is likely to, prejudice the friendly relations of India with any foreign country. This section can also reject an application if the central government is of the opinion that issuing a passport or a travel document to the applicant will not be in public interest. There are other reasons in this section which bars processing any application where an applicant has been convicted or is facing criminal proceedings or has a pending summon, according to the Act. But this is not attracted in the case of Nazir, whose husband Mohammed Sayeed had served as Union home minister in the 1990s and later as chief minister twice of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. "...your application for issuance of passport is refused," said the letter issued by the passport officer to Nazir. Mehbooba tweeted that the passport office has rejected her mother's passport application. "CID (Criminal Investigation Department) claims that my mother who is well into her seventies is a 'threat to national security' and therefore doesn't deserve a passport. GoI (Government of India) is employing absurd methods to harass and punish me for not toeing their line," she said. Mehbooba's passport has also been rejected under the same clause and her petition in the Jammu and Kashmir High Court was also dismissed. Dismissing the petition, Justice Ali Mohammad Magray had observed that Mehbooba's application for a passport was rejected by the passport officer, Srinagar, as the police verification report recommended against the issuance of the document to her. "In such circumstances, I am of the considered view that no direction can be issued by this court for issuance of passport in favour of the petitioner," the judge said in his order. "Even otherwise, the scope of this court in the matter of grant or otherwise of passport in favour of an individual is very limited in as much as the court, in this behalf, can only direct the concerned authorities to expeditiously consider the case of an individual in the light of the mandate of the scheme of law governing the subject," the order read. In a letter to Mehbooba, the Regional Passport Office here had informed the People's Democratic Party (PDP) president on March 26 that her application for a passport was rejected on the basis of the "adverse" police verification report. The passport officer also informed the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister that the CID of the Union Territory had recommended against granting a passport to her. The letter said Mehbooba can appeal against the decision at a higher forum provided by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Commenting on the rejection of her application, the PDP president had said it shows the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir. "The Passport Office refused to issue my passport based on CID's report citing it as 'detrimental' to the security of India. This is the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir since Aug 2019 that an ex-chief minister holding a passport is a threat to the sovereignty of a mighty nation," she had tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||India logs over 56,000 fresh Covid cases, 271 casualties in a day||India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 1,20,95,855 with 56,211 more people testing positive for the infection in a span of 24 hours, while 271 more fatalities pushed death toll to 1,62,114, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Tuesday. Registering a steady increase for the 20th day in row, active cases have increased to 5,40,720 comprising 4.47 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 94.19 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,13,93,021, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 24,26,50,025 samples have been tested up to March 29 with 7,85,864 samples being tested on Sunday. The 271 new fatalities include 102 from Maharashtra, 59 Punjab, 20 from Chhattisgarh, 16 from Karnataka, 14 from Tamil Nadu and 11 from Kerala. A total of 1,62,114 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 54,283 from Maharashtra, 12, 684 from Tamil Nadu, 12,520 from Karnataka, 11,012 from Delhi, 10,325 from West Bengal, 8,790 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,210 from Andhra Pradesh and 6,749 from Punjab. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||OCI cardholders no longer required to carry old passports for India travel||People of Indian origin and the Indian diaspora having Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) cards are now not required to carry their old, expired passports for travel to India, as required earlier, according to a government notification that has been welcomed by members of the community. The Overseas Citizens of India or OCI card is issued to people of Indian origin globally which gives them almost all the privileges of an Indian national except for the right to vote, government service and buying agricultural land. The OCI card gives them a visa free travel to India. In a March 26 press release, the Indian missions in the US said that in order to ease the travel of OCI card holders, it has been decided that the time line for re-issuance of OCI cards in r/o OCI card holders, who may be required to get their OCI card reissued has been extended until 31 December, 2021. Further requirement of carrying old and new passports along with the OCI card has been done away. Henceforth, the OCI card holders travelling on the strength of their existing OCI card bearing old passport number are not required to carry their old passport. However, carrying a new passport is mandatory. New York-based social activist Prem Bhandari, who has been taking up the cause of OCI card holders for the past several years, welcomed the announcement. He expressed gratitude to the Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of External Affairs and the Government of India for not only extending the renewal up to December 31 this year but also for relaxing the guidelines and not requiring OCI card holders to carry their old, expired foreign passports. The OCI card holders can heave a sigh of relief worldwide, with these new guidelines, he said. He expressed thanks to Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla for the new guidelines. Bhandari said that he had seen first-hand the inconvenience caused to members of the Indian diaspora due to certain OCI card rules as they undertook travel to India during the pandemic. He said some of the passengers were not allowed to board flights to India and were sent back from airports as they were not carrying their old foreign passports, which was required as per government rules. The OCI card, among other benefits, allows multiple entry, multi-purpose life long visa to an Indian-origin foreign national to visit India. Under the provisions of the OCI card, which gives the cardholder lifelong visa to India, those below 20 years and above 50 years need to renew their OCI card every time they have their passport renewed. The Indian government has relaxed the provisions since last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. The timeline has been extended multiple times so far. However, this is for the first time that the guidelines have been relaxed for carrying old passports and the new passports along with the OCI cards for overseas Indians. In May last year, the central government had allowed certain categories of OCI card holders, who were stranded abroad, to come to the country. Earlier, according to the regulations issued by the Indian government, visas of foreign nationals and OCI cards were suspended as part of the new international travel restrictions following the COVID-19 pandemic. OCI cardholders were asked to carry their old passport with them to fly to India. Now, under the new provisions, OCI cardholders are not required to carry their old passports but will still need to carry their new passport. Bhandari said that Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines for OCI card holders to carry old expired foreign passports had been in place since 2005 but till 2019, it was not being thoroughly checked or applied. Bhandari had previously also requested Indian authorities to initiate measures such as granting emergency visas on departure to help Indian-origin families travel to their homeland for health or other emergencies amid the COVID19 pandemic. Bhandari, Jaipur Foot USA Chairman, had said that late last year he had written to the Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, as well as the Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola and Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla outlining some of the hardships faced by Indian-origin families in travelling to India for emergency reasons and suggesting measures that can be taken to ensure smoother travel for these families. Bhandari had suggested that holders of Indian passport/PIO/OCI card be allowed to travel with their US-born minor children under the age of 14 with any unexpired visa obtained anytime without applying for an emergency visa at consulates. He added that in case it is difficult to carry out these measures, authorities may consider either granting Emergency Visa on Departure (E-VoD) or restoring immediate e-Visa process for approval online. Last year, Bhandari had also requested extension of the date of renewal of OCI cards till December 31, 2020 such that the Non-Resident Indian/Person of Indian Origin community had enough time to understand the new requirement and renew their OCI cards. Bhandari also expressed hope that the issue of tourist visas will also be resolved soon. In October last year, the Indian government had decided to restore with immediate effect the validity of all existing visas, except electronic, tourist and medical category visas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||Fight to liberate Nemom from ‘Gujarat of Kerala’ tag||A senior BJP leader’s description of the party-held Nemom Assembly constituency as the “Gujarat of Kerala” reverberates ahead of the elections since the rest of the political spectrum has taken it as an insult to the southern state known for its syncretic culture. With less than a fortnight to go for the April 6 Assembly polls, the Nemom constituency in Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram has deservedly been grabbing eyeballs from all parties fighting for their share of the pie. Nemom is the sole seat represented by the BJP in Kerala. Veteran BJP leader Kummanam Rajasekaran, who returned to state politics in March 2019 after a brief stint as Mizoram governor and is contesting the Nemom seat, is the man under fire for likening Nemom to Gujarat. Two months after Rajasekharan said “Nemom is the Gujarat of Kerala”, the ruling Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led United Democratic Front are separately assuring the electorate that they would not allow the BJP to retain the seat. Although Rajasekaran appeared to have made the Gujarat reference to convey that the BJP would be similarly invincible in Nemom, many had bristled at the association with the eastern state where atrocities have frequently been committed against the minorities, especially during the 2002 riots. It was O. Rajagopal, now 91, who had stunned everyone by opening the BJP’s account in Kerala by unseating the CPM’s V. Sivankutty in 2016. The UDF had put up a dismal show with its candidate V. Surendran Pillai of alliance partner Janata Dal United polling just 13,728 votes. While Rajasekharan is desperately trying to emulate his predecessor and Sivankutty is pulling out all the stops to regain the seat he had won in 2011, the Congress has defied its own diktat not to field Lok Sabha members by asking K. Muraleedharan to take the field and regain the party’s honour. “We will not allow the BJP to convert Nemom into Gujarat, which is known for all the wrong reasons as opposed to Kerala that stands for progressive values,” Muraleedharan told The Telegraph, setting the tone for a tough triangular fight he is confident of winning. The LDF has made a similar pledge. “We all know what the BJP did to Muslims in Gujarat. Malayalis will never allow him (Rajasekaran) to fulfil his Gujarat dream in Nemom,” Sivankutty told this newspaper. Rajasekaran iterated his “Gujarat of Kerala” comment when this newspaper met him during his campaign in peak Kerala summer. “It is the development work of my predecessor (Rajagopal) that has helped make Nemom our Gujarat. It’s the same reason why the BJP is invincible in Gujarat.” But certainly Gujarat is not the only topic being discussed in Nemom, an Assembly constituency part of the Thiruvananthapuram Lok Sabha seat represented by Shashi Tharoor of the Congress. Unlike in 2016, when the fight was between the LDF and the BJP, the entry of Muraleedharan has added a new dimension to a contest the whole state is hooked to. After two consecutive losses, the Congress is back as a challenger in Nemom since, in the words of Muraleedharan, the UDF partners insisted on fielding a heavyweight unlike in the last two state polls. “The UDF had painted a dismal picture in 2011 and 2016 when we gave the Nemom seat to a smaller partner with no roots here,” Muraleedharan said. Socialist Janata (Democratic) that was given the ticket in 2011 had later merged with the Janata Dal United. Muraleedharan had won from the neighbouring Vattiyoorkavu seat in 2016 by a margin of 7,446 votes against his current rival Rajasekharan. The UDF’s performance in Nemom had since turned into a gauntlet around its neck with the LDF alleging massive “trading” of votes to help the BJP, a charge the Congress has vehemently denied. Even Pillai recently attributed his loss to the Congress “transferring” votes to Rajagopal. “The BJP won because we fielded a weak candidate from a party with no roots here. But things are different this time,” Muraleedharan said, rubbishing such allegations. While Sivankutty is banking on the fact that the LDF managed to keep its head high by polling 644 more votes than even the BJP in the December local body polls in the 26 wards that comprise the Nemom Assembly segment, Muraleedharan had no doubts that the UDF was coming back to power. “The civic polls are done and dusted. We are now engaged in a fight for the state that we are going to win,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||Teenage rape victim paraded in Madhya Pradesh village||A 16-year-old girl who had allegedly been raped was beaten up, tied to the rape accused with a rope, and paraded in a Madhya Pradesh village on Sunday by a mob that chanted “Bharat Mata ki Jai”. A video showing the girl and the 21-year-old accused, who are tied with a rope, being forced to walk around the village amid slogans of “Bharat Mata ki jai” has been shared widely on social media. The atrocity occurred in a village under Jobat police station in Alirajpur district. The girl was rescued by police, a senior officer said. Sub-divisional police officer Dilip Singh Bilwal said two cases were registered on Sunday on the basis of FIRs lodged by the victim. “One of the cases was registered against the 21-year-old man. Another FIR was registered against the family members of the girl and villagers,” Bilwal said. Six people — the accused and five villagers — have been arrested. The rape accused, who is married and has two children, has been booked under sections of the IPC and the Pocso Act. Family members and relatives of the victim were booked under Sections 294 (obscene act in public places), 355 (assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement) and other sections of the IPC, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||Rape accused gets anticipatory bail at special SC hearing on Holi ||The Supreme Court on Monday held a special hearing on Holi to grant anticipatory bail to a Goa restaurateur accused of raping a woman from Delhi besides trying to intimidate and poison her. The bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and Abdul Nazeer granted the relief after hearing senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi who appeared for the accused, Jude Lobo. Rohatgi claimed Lobo had been falsely implicated because he had refused to let the woman hold a rave party of more than 50 people in December on the ground of the Covid restrictions. The woman and the prosecution were not represented. The bench has issued notices to the woman and the investigating agency. A trial court in Delhi had cancelled Lobo’s anticipatory bail and Delhi High Court had refused to interfere with the matter. Rohatgi asked why a complaint would be lodged last December for an alleged rape in 2009. He stressed that Lobo was a married man with three children.“We are satisfied that the petitioner has made out a prima facie case for grant of anticipatory bail,” the bench said in its order. The Supreme Court is on a week’s holiday from March 29 on account of Holi and will reopen on April 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||More infectious coronavirus variant circulating in Maharashtra||Anecdotal evidence suggests a coronavirus variant more infectious but less virulent is circulating in Maharashtra, a top state medical adviser said on Monday as India’s count of active patients increased to over 521,000, past the midpoint of the previous peak in September. Shashank Joshi, a senior Mumbai-based physician and member of the state’s Covid-19 task force said Maharashtra may need to consider a lockdown if hospitals continue to fill up with patients. Maharashtra accounted for about 325,000 (62 per cent) of India’s 521,808 Covid-19 patients under medical supervision on Monday with daily new cases in the state over the seven days exceeding the daily counts during the peak of its first wave in mid-September. The seven-day average of daily new cases in Maharashtra has increased over 5-fold over the past month — from around 6,400 on March 1 to 33,400 on March 28. The state detected 40,414 new cases on Sunday, or nearly 60 per cent of India’s count of 68,020 new cases. “We’re seeing an exponential rise in cases. Hospital beds are filling up fast — private hospitals are already close to approaching or at peak capacity, but we still have beds in public hospitals,” said Joshi. The state has around 30,000 oxygen-supported beds, nearly 11,900 intensive care unit beds, and 6,100 ventilators reserved for Covid-19 patients. In line with observations during the previous wave, 80 to 90 per cent of patients recover at home and do not require hospital care. “We’re seeing fast recovery and a low case fatality rate — it is possible that this is a variant that is more infectious and possibly less virulent,” Joshi said, citing observations such as more household members of a case becoming infected now than during the earlier wave. Joshi said the state is seeking to collaborate with the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, to accelerate work to determine what variants are circulating in the state and contributing to the current resurgence. State authorities have increased testing and contact tracing and are trying to curb the risk of infection spread from cases under home isolation but health experts are worried at the speed at which the cases are rising in the state. Joshi said a lockdown has been discussed as an option if the epidemic begins to overwhelm the state’s hospital infrastructure. A decision would depend on how fast cases rise in the coming days, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||Kashmir: Militants storm municipal council meeting killing a BJP councillor ||Militants stormed the venue of a municipal council meeting in Jammu and Kashmir’s Sopore on Monday, killing a BJP councillor and a security guard and injuring another councillor in indiscriminate firing. The attack has led to major embarrassment for the security establishment after militants not only inflicted casualties but managed to escape unharmed. The attack triggered panic among hundreds of students and parents as the council complex is close to a school. All the students were safe. BJP state chief Ravinder Raina claimed the party’s state secretary and Block Development Council chairperson Dr Farida Khan was critically injured in the attack. But Khan told The Telegraph she escaped unharmed. A police spokesman said councillor Reyaz Ahmad and special police officer Shafqat Nazir were killed in the attack. Injured councillor Shams-ud-din Peer was shifted to Srinagar’s SMHS Hospital. CRPF constable Jagannath Ray, who was injured in Srinagar’s Lawaypora attack on March 25, succumbed to his wounds on Monday. A CRPF sub-inspector and a driver had died on March 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
30-03-2021||India||Three Dalit kids charred to death during Holika Dahan ||Three Dalit children were charred to death and another was seriously injured during Holika Dahan in Bihar’s Bodh Gaya on Sunday evening. The incident happened at Rahul Nagar village under Moratal panchayat where the four children aged around 12 to 13 years had gone to put offerings in the bonfire of wood (Holika) that is burnt on the eve of Holi. They were placing the offerings when somebody lit the bonfire from two sides. The fire spread quickly and the children got trapped in it. People heard their screams and managed to pull them out after much effort, but three of them were charred to death by then and one was writhing in pain. The injured child was admitted to a hospital in a serious condition and is battling for life. “It was an accident that snuffed out the lives of three children. The parents should not have let them go near the bonfire. Our village is not celebrating Holi this year because of the incident,” Nandu Manjhi, a resident of Rahul Nagar, told reporters. None of the victims’ families have lodged a police complaint. They performed the last rites of the deceased near the Falgu river. Bodh Gaya station house officer Mitesh Kumar said: “The villagers cremated the deceased children on Monday morning. They have not lodged any complaint so far.” Several other mishaps and crimes were reported from different parts of the state, which witnessed slightly low-key celebrations of the festival of colours on Monday following the government’s ban on public gatherings in the wake of the surge in Covid cases. A woman at Pandeypatti village under Muffasil police station in Buxar district was shot at and injured on Monday when she opposed the playing of obscene songs by a group of youths near her house. One of the revellers whipped out a pistol and shot her. The youths fled after the incident while villagers took the injured woman to the government hospital. Buxar sub-divisional police officer Gorakh Ram said: “The firing happened during a dispute over the playing of songs. The woman has suffered a bullet injury in her leg. We are investigating the matter.” Two persons were killed near Mushahri village under Parsauni police station in Sitamarhi district on Holi after the motorcycles they were riding collided with each other. On the other hand, two groups of people clashed with each other over a land dispute in Madhubani district on Monday. One person was shot dead while five were left injured in the incident. Earlier, a speeding truck rammed into a sweets and snacks shop at Telhara in Nalanda district, killing six persons on Sunday. The locals, angered over the incident, attacked the Telhara police station and torched several vehicles parked on its campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
