31-03-2021||India||Farmers will march on foot to Parliament in May, say leaders||Announcing their plans for the upcoming two months, farmers, who have been protesting against the new farm laws at the Delhi borders, said they will march to the Parliament on foot in May, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said on Wednesday. "The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha met yesterday, and decided that the farmers will be undertaking a march to the Parliament. The date for the march is yet to be decided. "It will be joined not just by farmers, but also by women, and unemployed individuals, and labourers who have been supporting the movement," farmer leader Gurnaam Singh Chaduni said. Addressing a press conference, he said that the march would be carried out in a "peaceful" manner, and special care would be taken that "what happened on January 26 is not repeated". The leaders also shared their plans of forming a committee to control protesters if there is police action in parliament march. “We will form a committee to let the protestors know what to do in case there is police action during the march,” they said. "It will also be made clear to them that SKM condemns all kinds of violence. So the protestors will know that if there is any damage of property by them, they will have to serve the penalty," a farmer leader said. Farmer leaders also announced their plans to block the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway for 24 hours on April 10. "We will be blocking the KMP expressway on April 10 for 24 hours, that is from 11 am on April 10 to 11 am on the next day. "We will be doing this because the government has not been listening to us. It has been sleeping. This is to wake up the government," another farmer leader said. An event to honour the farmers who have lost their lives during the agitation will be organised on May 6. "Soil from different parts of the country will be brought to these borders and a memorial will be created for all our brothers who have lost their lives while participating in this movement," a farmer leader said. Separate events will also be organised to commemorate Ambedkar Jayanti, and Labour Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
31-03-2021||India||Centre holds meeting with states, UTs ahead of  above-45 vaccine drive||As India prepares to open up its COVID-19 vaccination drive to people above 45 from April 1, the Centre on Wednesday asked states and union territories to identify low vaccine-coverage pockets, particularly in districts reporting a surge in new infections, and take corrective action. National Health Authority (NHA) CEO and Empowered Group on COVID Vaccination chairperson Dr R S Sharma and Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting with health secretaries, mission directors of NHM and immunisation officers of all states and UTs during the day, a statement said. The status and pace of the inoculation drive across the country were reviewed at the meeting held through video-conferencing, as were the preparations for April 2021, when vaccination would be extended to cover everybody above the age of 45, the ministry said. "A key theme underlying the meet was the identification of low vaccine coverage pockets particularly in districts showing COVID-19 surge and for taking corrective actions there," it said in the statement. On vaccination coverage of healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs), the states and the UTs were advised to ensure that only eligible beneficiaries were registered and inoculated under the respective categories. They were also advised to archive incorrect and duplicate entries on the Co-WIN platform, identify pockets of low vaccination coverage health facility, professional association, blocks, districts for taking corrective action, and ensure saturation of vaccination of these groups on priority. States and UTs were asked to conduct regular reviews of capacity utilisation at private COVID Vaccination Centres (CVCs). They were also asked to undertake GIS analysis of CVCs to identify the need for more such facilities, and address apprehensions of private CVCs regarding vaccine supply and guidelines, the statement said. The states and UTs were also advised to ensure that there was no sedimentation of vaccine stocks at any level of storage, and that their distribution was based on consumption to avoid overstocking or under-stocking at cold chain points and CVCs. They were asked to conduct regular reviews of vaccine stocks and consumption to identify gap areas and address the same, the ministry said in its statement. The Centre also advised the states and UTs to maintain vaccine wastage at less than one per cent (current National Wastage Percentage being six per cent). They were asked to ensure timely utilisation of available stock to avoid expiry of vaccines and update the vaccine consumption data on Co-WIN and eVIN portals. Dr Sharma assured that there was no problem in storage and logistics of the vaccines. He re-emphasized that there was no value in conserving vaccines for the second dose and that states must promptly supply vaccines to all government and private hospitals where there is a demand, the statement stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
31-03-2021||India||Taxi services to Bangalore airport disrupted after driver dies by suicide||Taxi services to Bangalore’s Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) were disrupted on Wednesday as they stayed off the road, after an airport cab driver who allegedly set himself ablaze, died last night. Pratap, 34, from Ramanagara, working with the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation's airport taxi service, had allegedly set himself ablaze inside his car near the pick-up area of the airport on Tuesday, depressed over his financial troubles, police sources said, adding that they were trying to ascertain the exact cause. Aircraft rescue and fire-fighting teams had rescued him and he was rushed to hospital, but succumbed to injuries at midnight, they said. According to airport taxi drivers, Pratap took the extreme step due to poor financial condition, poor business and inability to pay EMIs. They said most taxi drivers including those linked to Ola, Uber, KSDTC and other airport taxi services have stayed off the roads as a mark of protest following his death, as many of them are going through similar financial problems. KIA in a passenger advisory said taxi services at the airport have been impacted and passengers are requested to use the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses to travel to or from the airport or make their own travel arrangements. BMTC has deployed additional buses on the airport route to help passengers, official sources said. Alleging that the price war in the cab industry and government's apathy has led to Pratap's death, former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy in a series of tweets said KSDTC was following taxi fare of Rs 24 per km fixed by the state government. Taxi aggregators, however, were offering fares of Rs 9 per km to attract passengers, resulting in business loss for KSDTC drivers, he added. He urged the state government to intervene and come to the rescue of the taxi drivers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
31-03-2021||India||Delhi to hold random Covid tests on flyers from surge ||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will conduct random Covid-19 test of passengers coming from states where there has been a surge in cases recently, said the Delhi airport's operator DIAL on Wednesday. The Centre had on Tuesday said the COVID-19 situation is turning from "bad to worse" and is a huge cause for worry, especially for some states, warning that the whole country is at risk and any complacency at this stage will have "heavy costs". The Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) stated on Twitter on Wednesday, "As per the latest government mandate, DDMA shall conduct random COVID-19 testing of passengers coming from the states where cases are increasing." "After the collection of samples, the travellers would be allowed to exit. However, the passengers who were found to be positive shall be mandatorily quarantined as per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare protocol," it added. Six states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, have reported a high number of daily COVID-19 cases and account for 78.56 per cent of the 56,211 fresh cases recorded in the country in a day, the Union Health Ministry had said on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
31-03-2021||India||India ranks 140 among 156 countries in Global Gender Gap report||India has slipped 28 places to rank 140th among 156 countries in the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2021, becoming the third-worst performer in South Asia. According to the report, India has closed 62.5 per cent of its gender gap till date. The country had ranked 112th among 153 countries in the Global Gender Gap Index 2020. Noting that the decline also took place on the economic participation and opportunity subindex, albeit to a lesser extent, the report said India's gender gap on this dimension widened by 3 per cent this year, leading to a 32.6 per cent gap closed till date. Most of the decline occurred on the political empowerment subindex, where India regressed 13.5 percentage points, with a significant decline in the number of women ministers (from 23.1 per cent in 2019 to 9.1 per cent in 2021). "Among the drivers of this decline is a decrease in women's labour force participation rate, which fell from 24.8 per cent to 22.3 per cent. In addition, the share of women in professional and technical roles declined further to 29.2 per cent. The share of women in senior and managerial positions also remains low: only 14.6 per cent of these positions are held by women and there are only 8.9 per cent firms with female top managers," the report said. Further, the estimated earned income of women in India is only one-fifth of men's, which puts the country among the bottom 10 globally on this indicator, it said. Discrimination against women is also reflected in the health and survival subindex statistics. With 93.7 per cent of this gap closed to date, India ranks among the bottom five countries in this subindex. Wide gaps in sex ratio at birth are due to the high incidence of gender-based sex-selective practices. In addition, more than one in four women has faced intimate violence in her lifetime, the report said. "Conversely, 96.2 per cent of the educational attainment subindex gender gap has been closed, with parity achieved in primary, secondary and tertiary education. Yet, gender gaps persist in terms of literacy: one third of women are illiterate (34.2 per cent) compared to 17.6 per cent of men," it added. Among India's neighbours, Bangladesh ranked 65, Nepal 106, Pakistan 153, Afghanistan 156, Bhutan 130 and Sri Lanka 116. Among regions, South Asia is the second-lowest performer on the index, with 62.3 per cent of its overall gender gap closed. "Within the region, a wide gulf separates the best-performing country, Bangladesh, which has closed 71.9 per cent of its gender gap so far, from Afghanistan, which has only closed 44.4 per cent of its gap. "India is the third-worst performer in the region, having closed 62.5 per cent of its gap. Because of its large population, India's performance has a substantial impact on the region's overall performance," the report said. In South Asia, only Pakistan and Afghanistan ranked below India. The report stated that India, home to 0.65 billion women, has widened its gender gap from almost 66.8 per cent one year ago to 62.5 per cent this year. In Pakistan and Afghanistan, the income of an average woman is below 16 per cent of that of an average man, while in India it is 20.7 per cent, it said. As the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic continues to be felt, the global gender gap has increased by a generation from 99.5 years to 135.6 years, the report noted. Now in its 15th year, the report benchmarks the evolution of gender-based gaps in four areas: economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment. It also examines the drivers of gender gaps and outlines the policies and practices needed for a gender-inclusive recovery. For the 12th time, Iceland is the most gender-equal country in the world. The top 10 most gender-equal countries include Finland, Norway, New Zealand, Rwanda, Sweden, Ireland and Switzerland.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
31-03-2021||India||CBI court discharges 3 cops in Ishrat Jahan encounter case||A special CBI court on Wednesday discharged police officers G L Singhal, Tarun Barot and Anaju Chaudhary in the 2004 Ishrat Jahan alleged fake encounter case. Special CBI judge V R Raval allowed the discharge applications of Singhal, Barot (now retired) and Chaudhary. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on March 20 conveyed to the court that the state government had declined prosecution sanction against the three accused. The court in its October 2020 order observed that they had "acted in their official duties," so the probe agency was required to obtain prosecution sanction. Ishrat Jahan, a 19-year-old woman from Mumbra near Mumbai, was killed along with Javed Shaikh alias Pranesh Pillai, Amjadali Akbarali Rana and Zeeshan Johar by Gujarat police in an 'encounter' near Ahmedabad on June 15, 2004. The police claimed the four were terrorists who were planning to assassinate then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi. However, a high court-appointed Special Investigation Team concluded that the encounter was fake, after which the CBI registered a case against various police officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
31-03-2021||India||DCGI extends shelf life of Covishield from 6 to 9 months||India's drug regulator DCGI has extended the shelf life of Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, from six to nine months from its manufacturing date. In a letter to the Serum Institute of India, Drugs Controller General of India V G Somani said the SII is permitted to apply the shelf life of nine months to unlabelled vials available on hand. Shelf life is the length of time for which an item remains fit for use. The DCGI said it has no objection in respect of 'Extension of Shelf Life of Covishield Vaccine' in multi-dose glass vial (10 dose-5ml) from six months to nine months. "You are permitted to apply the shelf life of nine months to unlabelled vials available on hand, subject to the condition that the details of such stock, batch-wise, shall be submitted to this office and Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli," Somani said in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
31-03-2021||India||India records over 53,000 fresh Covid cases, 354 casualties in a day||As many as 53,480 fresh infections pushed India's COVID-19 tally to 1,21,49,335, while 354 new fatalities, the highest single-day spike so far this year, took the death toll to 1,62,468, according to Union health ministry data updated on Wednesday. The country had recorded 355 deaths on December 17. The active caseload increased to 5,52,566 and accounts for 4.55 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate further dropped to 94.11 per cent, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,14,34,301, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it stated. India's COVID-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 24,36,72,940 samples had been tested up to March 30 with 10,22,915 being tested on Tuesday. The 354 new fatalities include 139 from Maharashtra, 64 from Punjab, 35 from Chhattisgarh, 21 from Karnataka and 16 each from Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Of the total 1,62,468 deaths reported so far in the country, 54,422 were from Maharashtra, 12,700 from Tamil Nadu, 12,541 from Karnataka, 11,016 from Delhi, 10,327 from West Bengal, 8,800 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,213 from Andhra Pradesh and 6,813 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
31-03-2021||India||Centre asks districts to give first dose of vaccination to people above 45 years within two weeks||The Union health ministry has asked the hardest hit districts across the country to give the first dose of vaccination to all people above 45 years within two weeks. Although such districts have not been identified in Tuesday’s directive, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas were among the 46 districts the ministry had named on Saturday with large numbers of patients or sharp increases in daily new cases. “All districts with high case loads and fast growth of cases must ensure 100 per cent saturation vaccination of the priority age group of 45 years and above in the coming two weeks,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote in a letter sent to all states on Tuesday. The accelerated rollout of vaccinations to all above 45 years in districts with large case loads or surge is intended to protect those at highest risk of severe disease or death from Covid-19. The vaccination campaign will open to all above 45 years from April 1. India’s seven-day average of daily new cases has climbed five-fold since mid-February — from around 11,200 to over 58,000 on Tuesday. The ministry has asked all districts to take steps to reduce Covid-19 deaths by tracking case fatality rates and identifying localities or hospitals where mortality is unusually high. It has also asked local authorities to conduct “death analysis” to understand “system-related issues of why the death happened”. For instance, late detection of severe cases may imply surveillance failure, late admission to hospital may signal delayed referral, while deaths may also occur due to lack of oxygen, lack of beds, or non-adherence to clinical management protocols. The ministry has asked all districts irrespective of whether they are seeing a surge now or have low case loads to map their cases, track their geographical spread, activate surveillance teams and implement containment zones. “The current rise in cases is of concern and has the potential of overwhelming the healthcare system unless it is checked right now,” Bhushan said in the letter to state chief secretaries. He called on all districts to set up emergency operations centres to monitor the outbreak 24x7. Clusters of cases are now emerging in many districts because of events or locations with large crowds of people congregating without adequate precautions, he said, cautioning that lack of precautions and laxity in public health measures could trigger sudden surges. The seven-day average of daily new cases has increased by over 10-fold in Maharashtra, Punjab, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh and over 6-fold in Karnataka, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh, over the past six weeks. Maharashtra this week documented an average of 34,450 new cases daily compared with 3,000 cases in early February. Senior health officials have attributed the surge in Maharashtra, Punjab and other states to poor testing practices, inadequate isolation of positive cases and inefficient quarantine of contacts, all of which facilitate chains of transmission. Maharashtra has over the past week shown an unacceptably high test positivity rate — the fraction of positive cases among those tested — of 23 per cent, an indication that the state is not testing in adequate numbers and thus missing cases. Experts say the figure should ideally be lower than 5 per cent. The health ministry has asked the states to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour by the public and ensure that all positive cases are isolated and at least 25 to 30 of their close contacts are traced, quarantined and tested as required under standard protocols. “We have reasons for huge concern — the virus is still active,” said Vinod Paul, member of Niti Aayog and chair of the national Covid-19 task force and expert group on Covid-19 vaccination. “We need greater vigilance in every state — not just in those where the battle is raging.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
31-03-2021||India||NCP chief Sharad Pawar in hospital||NCP chief Sharad Pawar was on Tuesday admitted to a hospital here, a day ahead of a scheduled surgery after he experienced pain in his abdomen, a party leader said. NCP leader and minister Nawab Malik said Pawar, 80, was supposed to get admitted to Breach Candy hospital on Wednesday. “As he experienced pain in his abdomen today, he was admitted to the hospital in the afternoon.” Malik had on Monday said Pawar would undergo a surgery at the hospital after he was diagnosed with gall bladder issues. “...All his programmes stand cancelled until further notice,” the minister had tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
31-03-2021||India||India extends shelf life of Covishield||India’s drug regulator has allowed the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine to be used for up to nine months from its manufacture date, as opposed to the prescribed six months, according to a document reviewed by Reuters and a source. The approval, given to a licensed version of the drug made by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and exported to dozens of countries, could help health authorities minimise vaccine wastage and better plan their inoculation programmes. Some African countries have only until the middle of next month to use up more than a million doses of the vaccine — branded Covishield by the SII — if the shelf life is not extended. “You are permitted to apply the shelf-life of nine months to unlabelled vials available on hand,” India’s drugs controller-general, V.G. Somani, wrote late last month in reply to a request from the SII. AstraZeneca had said in a statement last week that its product could be stored, transported and handled at normal refrigerated conditions for at least six months. The World Health Organisation website also gives the shelf life of Covishield and the South Korean-made AstraZeneca shot as six months. Reuters has reviewed Somani’s approval, which has been communicated to some African countries, but could not determine if his recommendation applied to unused vials. Each vial typically contains 5 millilitre of vaccine, or 10 doses. The source, with direct knowledge of the matter but not authorised to discuss it publicly, said the approval was given based on data submitted by the SII. The source did not specify what kind of data was shared by the company, the world’s biggest vaccine maker. Somani, the SII and AstraZeneca did not immediately respond to requests for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
31-03-2021||India||UGC: University students can pursue up to 40 per cent of academic programme online||University students can now pursue up to 40 per cent of an academic programme online with the flexibility of choosing any institution for the Net-based learning, according to new rules of the University Grants Commission (UGC). Academics warned that such a move would dilute academic standards and reduce the workload at institutions, causing sanctioned posts to shrink. The higher education regulator last week notified the UGC Credit Framework for Online Learning Courses through Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Aspiring Minds (Swayam) Regulations, 2021, under which every university is expected to recognise the credits, or points, earned by students from online courses, which can be up to 40 per cent of an academic programme. “The higher education institution may allow only up to forty per cent of the total courses, being offered in a particular programme in a semester, through the online credit course, through the SWAYAM platform,” the notification said. Universities in India now offer courses in the traditional face-to-face mode. After the Covid outbreak, they shifted to the online mode. However, there have been multiple complaints about poor quality of teaching and learning in the online mode and many students have been blighted by the lack of stable Internet connections and required devices such as mobile phones and computers. Under the new rules, the Swayam-based online credit courses shall be developed and delivered by a course coordinator. On any particular topic, there can be multiple online courses developed by different coordinators of different universities. A student may choose to pursue an online programme from any university and her parent university will have to accept the score she gets. However, the same programme will have to be offered by the parent university as the remaining 60 per cent of the course will have to be completed there. The exam for the online course may be conducted under the supervision of approved persons or through technology-enabled proctoring services. The UGC had in 2017 allowed universities to permit students to earn credits for up to 20 per cent of any programme through the online mode. However, most universities are yet to implement it. Delhi University (DU) Executive Council member Seema Das disapproved of the idea of substituting offline teaching with online learning. “The conduct of teaching-learning activities in the face-to-face mode in classrooms is most productive. The teachers understand the needs of the students and address them to achieve impactful learning. In the virtual space, the quality of learning will be adversely affected. There is limited scope for teachers and students to interact. Online education can be used to supplement offline education, not substitute it,” Das said. She also questioned the regulations being imposed on institutions. “The universities should be left to decide on academic matters. However, the UGC is imposing new norms on academic matters. This is against the academic autonomy of universities. When it comes for discussion in the statutory bodies of the university, there will be resistance from teacher representatives,” Das said. She said the motive behind pushing online courses was to reduce the workload in educational institutions, thereby cutting down on expenditure on higher education. Nandita Narain, a faculty member of St Stephen’s College, said DU had about 5,000 ad hoc faculty members and many of them could face the axe when this policy was implemented. “The ad hoc teachers have been working for over a decade in colleges. This policy will reduce the sanctioned strength of teachers. Many optional courses may be discontinued by the university because they are available online. The axe will immediately fall on the ad hoc teachers,” she said. Former DU Executive Council member Abha Dev Habib said the students’ stake in the institution would be adversely affected if they were made to pursue 40 per cent of a course from online forums. “When the students know they will have to come to university for partial classes, their interest will be affected. Their participation in extra-curricular activities will also go down,” Habib said. UGC member Prof R.P. Tiwary said the proposed model would give more flexibility to students to pursue higher studies. “The option to choose online courses will benefit the students. They will avail themselves of quality education offered by the best faculty from anywhere in the country. Academic rigour will be maintained,” he said. Tiwary said the students would participate in e-tutorials and receive e-content on online courses. They will have ample opportunity to take part in discussions and clarify doubts, he added. There will be scope for self-assessment in terms of quizzes, assignments and multiple-choice questions, according to Tiwari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
31-03-2021||India||Indo-Tibetan Border Police plans to double its women’s contingent on LAC||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police plans to double its women’s contingent to be deployed along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh and the Northeast, sources in the border guarding force said. “We have proposed to double the women’s contingent along the sensitive India-China border. At present we have 500 women troops mainly deployed along the LAC in Ladakh and the Northeast,” said a senior ITBP official. India and China have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Under the disengagement process that began on February 10, India and China have moved back from their positions on the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks, with the Indian withdrawal taking place entirely across India-claimed territory. The Chinese army, however, is said to have strengthened its position at Ladakh’s Depsang Plains, where the Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines. For the first time in 2019, a women’s contingent comprising 500 troops of the ITBP broke the glass ceiling and were deployed in the high-altitude border outposts along the Indo-China border in the treacherous terrain after completing 44 weeks of training in battlecraft and mountain survival. Like their male counterparts, they had undergone gruelling drills and learnt to handle weapons, read maps, gather intelligence and were trained in commando tactics. Earlier, women in the paramilitary force were deployed for maintaining law and order and VIP duties and were also posted at the cantonments and hospitals. Sources said the total number of women troops in ITBP was 2,000, mostly constables, head constables, sub-inspectors and inspectors. “We are now also planning to recruit women officers in the ITBP in supervisory and combat roles. A proposal for recruitment of officers in the rank of commandants and assistant commandants has been sent to the Union home ministry,” said another ITBP official. The ITBP protects the 3,488km border with China that passes through the five states of Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. The Indian Army is behind this first line of defence. On the Chinese side too, the People’s Armed Police, also a paramilitary force, guards the border, while the People’s Liberation Army is stationed behind it. The 90,000-strong ITBP was introduced on October 24, 1962, specifically to guard the Chinese frontier after the India-China war.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
31-03-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: Priyanka Gandhi pulls no punches on Left||The Congress, which has aligned with the Left in Bengal, has been explicitly comparing the CPM-led Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala with the BJP in terms of propaganda, corruption and even the tendency to curb people’s freedom. While Rahul Gandhi, who is expected to campaign in Bengal, has avoided launching a brutal attack on the Left, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who started her tour of Kerala on Tuesday bluntly attacked the CPM for “borderline fascist culture” and demonstrating traits similar to the BJP in governance style. She condemned the Pinarayi Vijayan stint as a “government of fraud and scams”. Without feeling hemmed in by the political exigencies of Bengal camaraderie, the Congress chose to intensify its attack on the Left in Kerala after feedback from the ground suggested a much closer contest than predicted initially. Reports from both Assam and Kerala indicate the Congress is very much in the race for power, compelling both Rahul and Priyanka to step up campaigning in both states. While Rahul, who has toured Kerala and Tamil Nadu extensively, would have reached Assam on Tuesday but for bad weather that cancelled his flight, Priyanka who had been in Assam for the past two days has started her Kerala campaign. Comparing the CPM rule in Kerala with the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, she said: “The Kerala government’s attitude towards women’s security is similar to what we see in Uttar Pradesh. Their handling of the Walayar rape case was similar to the Hathras case of Uttar Pradesh.” In Walayar in 2017, two Dalit sisters had committed suicide after being raped by multiple men over a period of time. The accused were later acquitted amid allegations of political interference and a botched-up probe by police. Priyanka also wondered how an LDF ally was raising the issue of “love jihad” like Adityanath. The Congress has run a campaign on social media, pointing out that the term “love jihad” was coined by former CPM chief minister V.S. Achuthanandan, not Adityanath. Priyanka alleged the LDF government was curbing people’s freedom and instilling fear in the minds of citizens. Rahul, who has campaigned in Kerala extensively, focused on the economy and jobs although he said both the CPM and the BJP didn’t have any answer to the scourge of unemployment. He said the Kerala chief minister looked for answers in his favourite book — Das Kapital by Karl Marx — instead of trying to understand what the people were actually facing on the ground. But he avoided comparing the CPM with the BJP unlike Priyanka who made the “borderline fascist” jibe. While Rahul will campaign in Bengal after a few days, Priyanka is not scheduled to do so. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala, who has been camping in Kerala, has been viciously attacking the state government, going to the extent of accusing Vijayan of striking a deal with the Adani Group to save himself in the “gold smuggling” case. He said: “Narendra Modi and Vijayan together reduced the quota of solar energy for Kerala from 2.75 per cent to 0.25 per cent to facilitate the purchase of wind power from Adani at a much higher cost than available in the open market.” Surjewala issued a statement on Tuesday along with senior leaders from Kerala, which said: “The six “Ds (disasters) of Pinarayi Vijayan’s rule are the hallmarks of the disastrous five years of the LDF government in Kerala. Pinarayi Vijayan is a replica of Narendra Modi, both in ‘authoritarian’ style and in running a self-centred ‘autocratic’ government. ‘Pinarayi-nomics’ has destroyed Kerala’s progressive march. ‘Pinarayi-cracy’ has derailed Kerala’s growth story. ‘Pinarayi-deals’ has created space for the BJP by way of a secret deal between the chief minister and the Prime Minister.” Surjewala identified the “six disasters” as “decimating economy, deceiving farmers, denying drinking water, demonising Scheduled Castes, denuding youth of employment and diabolical corruption.” These are the same allegations that the Congress usually levels against the Modi government. After polling in Kerala on April 6, the Congress will have to sing a different tune in Bengal, transplanting these allegations on the main challenger BJP and the ruling Trinamul Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
31-03-2021||India||Govt official dies in police custody in Bihar||A government official allegedly died in police custody in Bhagalpur district of Bihar on Holi, leading to strong protests by the local people and sending the administration into a tizzy. The station house officer (SHO) of Barari police station has been suspended in this connection. A judicial inquiry into the incident began on Tuesday, though senior officers asserted that the police personnel were not responsible for his death. The incident occurred at Mayaganj locality under Barari police station area late on Monday evening when a police posse reached there following information about a clash between two groups of people following some trivial fight between their kids over playing music. Family members of the deceased Sanjay Yadav, a clerk in the minor irrigation department in neighbouring Banka district, said that he had just returned home around 9pm after celebrating Holi with friends, when the police barged into the house and grabbed him. “Barari SHO Pramod Kumar Sah and other policemen put a towel around his neck and dragged him out like a criminal. We went to the police station later in the night with our relatives and friends but were told that he had died,” Sanjay’s daughter Monika Bharti told reporters. The locals then surrounded the police station through the night demanding action against the police officials. They relented on Tuesday morning only after Bhagalpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nitasha Guria suspended Sah and assured Yadav’s family of all help in getting justice. Bhagalpur range deputy inspector general (DIG) Sujeet Kumar admitted it was a case of custodial death but refuted allegations of police torture. Sujeet said Sanjay was brought to the police station because he was aggressively arguing with the police. Two large sound boxes or amplifiers were also seized from his house. “Technically, it is a case of custodial death because Sanjay was brought to the police station. He was present on the premises for around 25 minutes. We have around 15 minutes of CCTV footage showing him entering the police station and sitting on a chair. “He removed his T-shirt and complained of uneasiness. He was immediately taken to the nearby government hospital, but was declared brought dead there,” he told The Telegraph. “The doctors said he had high blood pressure and suffered a paralytic stroke, which resulted in his death. However, we are yet to receive the post-mortem report. Sanjay was not beaten up inside the police station,” the DIG said. Kids charred Nine children were charred to death in separate incidents in Araria and Bhagalpur districts, while four kids are feared drowned in the Indrapuri barrage in Rohtas district on Tuesday. The Araria incident happened at Kabaiyya village under Palasi block on Tuesday afternoon. Six children aged between three and six years and belonging to a family of the minority community were roasting corn on the cob in their hut, which caught fire. The fire spread so fast that the children could not escape. They died before the villagers could douse the blaze. Three children died in Athania village under Pirpainti police station in Bhagalpur town when their house caught fire in the early hours of Tuesday. Their parents also suffered serious burn injuries and are undergoing treatment at the local hospital. Local officials said that it took a couple of hours to control the blaze with the help of the fire brigade, but the three children had died by then. In another mishap, four children, who had gone with their family members and friends for a picnic near the Indrapuri barrage over the Sone river in Rohtas district, went missing after going to take a bath. The Rohtas district administration has roped in divers to locate the missing children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
31-03-2021||India||Odisha: Pregnant woman forced to walk 3km for not wearing helmet||A woman, who is eight months’ pregnant, was allegedly made to walk 3km in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district in the scorching sun as she was not wearing a helmet while riding pillion on her husband’s motorcycle. Police took Bikram Biruli, a Gramin Dak Sevak, to the police station but left his wife Gurubari on the road even after she pleaded to accompany him. Later, she was forced to walk 3km to the police station. The incident took place on Sunday. After the incident triggered a furore, Mayurbhanj district police placed the officer-in-charge of Sarat police station, Reena Baksal, under suspension on Monday. Biruli, 24, told The Telegraph: “My wife, who is eight months’ pregnant, complained of pain in the abdomen on Sunday. So I decided to take her to the nearest subdivisional hospital in Udala, which is 40km from my village. On the way, we met a police team. The police officer in-charge asked us to pay Rs 500 as my wife was not wearing helmet.” Biruli, a PhD scholar, asked the head of the police team and officer-in-charge Baksal to give them an e-challan which he would later pay. “As I did not have the money, I asked them for an e-challan which I would later pay. They insisted on offline payment. This led to an argument following which they forced me to go with them in the police van. “Though I asked the police team to take my wife with me in the van, the woman officer denied and abused me and misbehaved with me in front of my wife.” Biruli said the incident took place at 9.30am on Sunday, 5km away from his village Matkami Sahi under Nota gram panchayat, around 260km from Bhubaneswar. Gurubari, who has studied till Plus Two, said: “Even I pleaded with the woman officer to consider my health status as I am expecting a baby in May. My health condition is deteriorating day by day. They did not listen to anything. I waited for my husband for nearly one-and-a-half hours. As he did not return, I decided to walk to the police station.” Narrating her plight, Gurubari said: “It was almost 40 degrees Celsius that day. People started asking questions. I was terrified. Later I decided to walk. I had only one litre of water in a bottle with me. “I started walking around 11am. I was feeling tired and it took me nearly one-and-a-half hours to reach the police station. Seeing my husband sitting on the floor in a miserable condition in the police station, I cried.” Gurubari further said: “I am happy with the officer being suspended. I have only one appeal to the police that they should not misbehave with tribal people, particularly women.” However by the afternoon, the family members came and paid the money and took away the motorcycle. After the couple lodged a complaint with the higher authorities, Mayurbhanj superintendent of police ordered a probe and based on the report, the police officer has been suspended. The district police also suspended constable R.K. Singh for allegedly misbehaving with a man during helmet checking near Karanjia on Monday evening. “We are very sensitive towards the cause of the public,” Mayurbhanj superintendent of police Smit P. Parmar told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
