04-10-2020||New Delhi||2,683 new COVID-19 cases take Delhi's tally past 2.9 lakh; death toll reaches 5,510||The National Capital's COVID-19 caseload rose to 2.9 lakh on Sunday with authorities reporting 2,683 new instances of the infection in a day, while 38 new fatalities during the same period took the death toll in the city to 5,510.This was the third day in a row that the city reported less than 3,000 new cases. Authorities reported 2,258 new cases on Saturday and 2,920 on Friday.Delhi reported 38 deaths on Sunday.The fatality count was 34 on Saturday, the lowest since September 25 when 24 deaths were recorded.Forty-eight deaths were reported on September 29, the highest in a day since July 16, when the city reported 58 deaths.The cumulative coronavirus caseload rose to 2,90,613 lakh with 2,683 more people contracting the viral disease. The death toll stands at 5,510, according to the Delhi government's health bulletin.The capital reported 3,037 cases on Thursday, 3,390 on Wednesday, 3,227 on Tuesday and 1,984 on Monday.Of the total cases reported in Delhi so far, 2,60,350 have either recovered, been discharged or migrated out.As many as 50,832 tests were conducted to detect COVID-19 infection on Saturday, of which 8,963 were RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 41,869 rapid antigen tests. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/2-683-new-covid-19-cases-take-delhis-tally-past-2-9-lakh-death-toll-reaches-5-510-150999
04-10-2020||New Delhi||COVID-19: Delhi Police used drones for effective surveillance of containment zones||The Delhi Police used drones for effective surveillance of containment zones to combat the threat of coronavirus, a police official said.“During the lockdown period, we hired drones from Aerodyne India. It helped the police in fighting the pandemic,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (southeast) Rajendra Prasad Meena said.He said drones helped policemen to monitor the situation from a safe distance, thereby ensuring some distancing.The drones carried both day and night day surveillance and successfully collected data in the form of images and videos, Meena said.The facility was used in the areas of all police stations of southeast district, which proved to be effective in surveillance of the COVID situation and also helped us to take quick action to cut the risk of the spread of the disease, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-19-delhi-police-used-drones-for-effective-surveillance-of-containment-zones-150983
04-10-2020||New Delhi||Delhi Metro: Work on Pink Line’s unfinished stretch delayed beyond September due to COVID||A small unfinished stretch on the Delhi Metro’s Pink Line was expected to be completed by September end this year but it got delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, sources said.The Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar corridor or the Pink Line spans about 58 km with 38 stations. However, a small portion in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri area has proved a bottleneck for the DMRC authorities for a long time, due to which, the line is disjointed for some distance there.Delhi Metro Rail Corporation authorities have been working on ironing out the land and other issues that has halted the connecting of the two sides on that stretch.“But for the pandemic, we would have opened the missing link by September end. Now, we hope to do it by March 2021,” an official source told PTI.Pink Line was opened in multiple phases in 2018 and all stations on the line have been opened.“Work is in progress on this section in Trilokpuri which is still not connected on the corridor. The foundation work has been completed and pier casting work is going on. Preparations are in progress for pier cap casting as well. However, 17 houses have still not been evacuated and the matter is subjudice,” another source said.The total length of the stretch which “remains to be linked is 289 metres”, he said.The first section to be opened on the Pink Line was the over 20 km-long Majlis Park-Durgabai Deshmukh South Campus segment in March 2018, which for the first time connected the north and south campuses of the Delhi University on the metro network.This was followed by inauguration of the stretch from South Campus to Lajpat Nagar; and then of the Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake segment and eventually of the Lajpat Nagar-Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 part of the line.The bottleneck near Trilokpuri station had arisen due to multiple issues, including land acquisition, resulting in a portion of metro segment—then about a few kilometres remaining incomplete—rendering the Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake station a terminus.Thus, currently a very small stretch between the Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake and Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 stations is left to be joined. No station remains to be opened, so this linking should happen soon, the source said.The stations on Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake-Shiv Vihar stretch are Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake, East Vinod Nagar-Mayur Vihar-II, Mandawali-West Vinod Nagar, IP Extension, Anand Vihar ISBT, Karkardooma, Karkardooma Court, Krishna Nagar, East Azad Nagar, Welcome, Jaffrabad, Maujpur-Babarpur, Gokulpuri, Johri Enclave and Shiv Vihar.              The main highlight of this section of Pink Line is the presence of three interchange stations—Anand Vihar (with Blue Line), Karkardooma (with Blue Line) and Welcome (with Red Line). PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-metro-work-on-pink-lines-unfinished-stretch-delayed-beyond-september-due-to-covid-150980
04-10-2020||New Delhi||COVID-19: Schools in Delhi to remain closed till October 31||All schools in the national capital will continue to remain closed till October 31 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, Delhi government officials said on Sunday The Delhi government had earlier extended the school closure till October 5, though the Centre had permitted calling students of classes 9 to 12 to schools on voluntary basis from September 21."During this COVID-19 crisis, it would not be appropriate to take any risk regarding children's health. Therefore, the Delhi government has decided to continue the closure of schools till 31 October. During this period, online education will continue in all schools," a Delhi government official said Sunday."All heads of schools have been authorised to call teachers and staff members for smooth conduct of online classes, teaching learning activities and any other work, during this period," the official added.The Directorate of Education (DoE) has also directed all government and private schools that a message regarding wearing mask, following physical distancing and maintaining hand hygiene to be conveyed to the students as a way to combat COVID-19 situation before starting any online activity.Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the Centre announced a nationwide classroom shutdown as part of measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.On March 25, the Central government had announced a nationwide lockdown to tame the spread of the virus. While several restrictions have been eased gradually in different phases of "Unlock" since June 8, educational institutions continue to remain closed.However, as per the latest unlock guidelines, schools, colleges and other educational institutions can reopen outside containment zones after October 15.The decision on whether to reopen educational institutions has been left with states and union territories. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-19-schools-in-delhi-to-remain-closed-till-october-31-150933
04-10-2020||New Delhi||Great Golden Circus only recognised circus in India: Central Zoo Authority to Delhi HC||The Central Zoo Authority (CZA) has told the Delhi High Court that the Great Golden Circus in Gujarat is the only circus in the entire country which is recognised under the Wildlife Protection Act.However, a notice has been sent to the circus to show cause why its recognition should not be cancelled for alleged violation of the provisions of the Act with regard to maintenance and display of captive elephants, the CZA has told the high court.The submissions were made by the authority in its affidavit filed before a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar in response to PILs by the  People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and the Federation of Indian Animals Protection Organisation (FIAPO), PETA India, represented by advocates Aman Hingorani and Swati Sumby, has claimed in its plea that due to the COVID-19 outbreak and resultant lockdown, circuses are finding it difficult to feed the animals which at various stages of starvation.It has sought a direction to the Centre to immediately notify the Performing Animals (Registration) Amendment Rules of 2018 which expressly prohibit training and exhibition of performing animals in circuses and “mobile entertainment facilities”.           FIAPO, which is a group of 100 organisations and works towards the protection of animal rights for over a decade, has challenged the constitutional validity of sections 21 to 27 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act so far as they permit exhibition and training of animals in relation to circus acts.It has contended in the plea that circuses with animals performing tricks often use wild animals, including elephants, hippos, and exotic birds.It has said these animals are very often used without requisite paperwork certifying their fitness and added that on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, there have been numerous reports of animals being stranded as part of these circuses all over the country and being abandoned by their owners. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/great-golden-circus-only-recognised-circus-in-india-central-zoo-authority-to-delhi-hc-150931
04-10-2020||New Delhi||Delhi’s air quality likely to turn ‘poor’ on Monday||The National Capital’s air quality was recorded in the “moderate” category on Sunday morning, and it is likely to turn “poor” on Monday due to lowering temperatures and slow wind speed.The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 174 at 10:30 am which falls in the “moderate” category. On Saturday, the 24-hour average AQI was 189.An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.“As predicted, the PM2.5 contribution (in pollution) is increasing, which is a characteristic of winters. The air quality is likely to deteriorate to the lower end of poor quality on Monday,” the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said.                PM2.5 is tiny particulate matter less than 2.5 microns in diameter. It can enter deep into the lungs and even into the bloodstream.    It said an increase in farm fires was observed around Punjab, Haryana and neighbouring border regions and it is likely to impact Delhi in the coming days.Pawan Gupta, a senior scientist at Universities Space Research Association, NASA, said farm fires were observed in more districts of Punjab. Fires in Uttar Pradesh have also started showing up, he said.Also, there is a marked dip in minimum temperatures recorded in Delhi. On Sunday, it settled at 18.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal.The minimum temperature is likely to drop to 18 degrees Celsius by Wednesday.Low temperatures and stagnant winds help in accumulation of pollutants near the ground, affecting air quality. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhis-air-quality-likely-to-turn-poor-on-monday-150918
04-10-2020||New Delhi||Man held for supplying illegal firearms to criminals in Delhi||A 38-year-old man was arrested here for allegedly supplying illegal firearms and ammunition to criminals in Delhi and its neighbouring areas, police said on Sunday.Five country-made pistols along with eight live cartridges were seized from the accused -- Ashok Kumar, a resident of Mathura district in Uttar Pradesh, who was arrested by the Delhi Police on Friday, they said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said to curb smuggling of firearms from Uttar Pradesh into Delhi, a police team was formed to collect intelligence and gather information regarding such rackets."On Friday, we received information that an illegal arms supplier, Ashok Kumar, would come to MB road here near Tughlakabad Fort to deliver a consignment of illegal firearms... Accordingly, our team laid a trap and he was nabbed," he said.Five country-made pistols along with eight live cartridges were recovered from his possession and a case was registered against him at Sangam Vihar police station, he added.On interrogation, Kumar told police that he was earlier into farming but after shifting to his uncle's village, he came in contact with local criminals there. He was supplying arms and ammunition to criminals in Delhi-NCR for the last year to make a quick buck, the DCP said.On Thursday, he received the consignment of illegal arms and ammunition from another criminal in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh and was supposed to deliver it in Delhi-NCR, the police said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/man-held-for-supplying-illegal-firearms-to-criminals-in-delhi-150899
04-10-2020||New Delhi||Retired CBI officer held in bribery case||The CBI today said it had arrested its retired SP NMP Sinha, who was a part of the team that investigated the Bihar’s fodder scam, in connection with an alleged bribery case.He is said to have received Rs 25 lakh from a company, Usha Martin, to settle a case.Sinha, who retired in August this year, was SP in the CBI’s economic offence wing. Officials said he would be be produced before a court. Sinha was nabbed with a private person who had allegedly delivered the bribe. The money was also recovered by the agency, they said.The CBI on Saturday conducted searches at eight locations in multiple cities, including the officer’s residence in Faridabad. Other places searched include offices of Usha Martin in Ranchi, besides other locations in Delhi and Ghaziabad.It is alleged that Sinha was handling a case of alleged cheating against the mining company (Usha Martin) regarding a lease given to it for an iron ore mine in Jharkhand in 2005. He retired in August this year, they said. It is alleged that he was in touch with the representative of the company and had demanded a bribe of Rs 25 lakh to settle the case against it, they said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/retired-cbi-officer-held-in-bribery-case-150689
04-10-2020||From Kangra to AIIMS in New Delhi||The Doctors Guleria of AIIMS||The Centre has unlocked virtually everything even as Covid-19 cases are rising. Is that a concern?Randeep Guleria: We haven’t reached a situation where we can say the disease has plateaued but at the same time, it’s important to restart the economy. People must understand that we are still in the thick of the pandemic and their responsibility in terms of wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and washing hands is more today than it was during the lockdown when restrictions made adherence to precautions easy. There’s a Covid fatigue in people and that’s a concern.Will the virus get more virulent in winter?RG: The combination of air pollution and other viral infections like influenza as well as Covid-19 will increase hospitalisation and the burden on health system in winter.Should we expect a Covid peak in the upcoming festive season?RG: That’s a concern. People tend to crowd during festivals and cases may rise. For the country as a whole, it will take some time to say we have peaked and cases are coming down, but I hope we can weather the storm as far as the festive season goes.What is the burden of asymptomatic cases in India?RG: Nearly 40 to 60 per cent patients may be asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. So there are a large number of people who can spread the virus but don’t take precautions assuming they are Covid-free. That’s why infections continue to spread. Everyone must wear masks to break the chain of transmission.When can we expect the vaccine?RG: By early next year, but the challenge is how we market it once we have it; how do we produce enough doses, syringes, vials, how do we train people and ensure an efficient cold chain so the vaccine reaches the priority populations. The government is working on this.What level of vaccine efficacy are you expecting?RG: Any efficacy over 50 to 60 per cent will be acceptable as that will give us some decrease in case numbers. We can vaccinate high-risk groups and reduce cases enough for normal activities to restart.Is the virus in India mutating?RG: Current news is that the virus hasn’t changed significantly for a vaccine not to be effective. Unlike influenza virus, this virus continues to be relative stable. That’s very good news for vaccine development.of money, manpower, sweat and blood, you can’t open those many specialties. New institutes should have been called something else. — Dr JS GuleriaDr JS Guleria, you have practised medicine for nearly 70 years now. Why do you think India’s Covid mortality is so low?JS Guleria: India has inherent immunity and the previous BCG vaccine could have played a role.Despite the strictest lockdown, why are India’s cases the second highest in the world?RG: Certain things happened during the lockdown which were not expected. Migrants started going home and many people didn’t follow the lockdown strictly and moved around. The lockdown served us more in preparing healthcare facilities better. We also reached a stage where we were trying to restart the economy and lifted the lockdown when we did not have a downward trend. That’s why we have been emphasising that although the lockdown has been lifted, our responsibility in terms of Covid-appropriate behaviour continues.What are your abiding memories of Himachal?JSG: The memory of my school in Kangra’s Indora, which was the only boarding school at the time. It was up to Class X and was located in a jungle. Our bathroom used to be 3 km away; our breakfast was two chapattis made of wheat and chana; lunch was Ganga Jamuni daal. It was a very rigid life, but I guess that is the reason why I am 93 today.You studied medicine at Amritsar. What brought you to AIIMS-Delhi?JSG: I actually wanted to be an agriculturist but was rejected in the interview for admission to Punjab Agricultural College, Lyallpur. Then I decided to study medicine and joined DAV College, Lahore. After Partition, I returned to Kangra and then pursued MD at Amritsar Medical College. Just when I got selected for Punjab Civil Medical Services, a pensionable job, I learnt of an opening in AIIMS, New Delhi, which had just been set up then. I paid three-month salary to Amritsar Medical College to be relieved of PCMS to join AIIMS. Even though everyone advised me against leaving a pensionable job (AIIMS job was not pensionable at the time), I took the plunge because I wanted to teach. I was selected. When I joined AIIMS, there was no building or hospital. We built the institution brick by brick. I remember when we opened the cardiology lab at AIIMS, we swept the floors ourselves. What’s so special about AIIMS that the government is replicating the model across states? Can AIIMS-like institutes ever equal AIIMS-Delhi?JSG: No. Calling new medical colleges as AIIMS-like institutes is the biggest disservice to AIIMS-Delhi. Other institutes can never come up like AIIMS-Delhi. You cannot put in that kind of money, manpower, sweat and blood, you can’t open up those many specialties. New institutes should have been called something else. AIIMS-Delhi is one of a kind that has fulfilled its mandate of patient care, teaching and research against all odds.Dr Randeep studied medicine at IGMC-Shimla and PGI-Chandigarh. What brought him to AIIMS?JSG: Between 1984 and 1992, Dr Randeep was in the PGI and was an Assistant Professor there. I asked him to come to Delhi. My advice to him was to stay closer to the national capital. And of course he wanted to be in Delhi because we, his parents, were there.You attended to Pt Nehru in his last days? What do you remember?JSG: Pt Nehru was in Bhubaneswar in May 1964 when he suffered a paralysis of the left side. Three AIIMS doctors were flown urgently. I was a Junior Assistant Professor then. My duty was to look after Pt Nehru and stay with him. Since he could not walk on his own, I would shoulder him around. This routine lasted till Pt Nehru died. I particularly remember an occasion when Lord Mountbatten came to visit Pt Nehru, who had gone off to sleep. He waited for Pt Nehru till he woke up.You were also the first doctor to attend to former PM Indira Gandhi when she was brought to AIIMS on October 31, 1984?JSG: Yes, she was accompanied by RK Dhawan, ML Fotedar and Sonia Gandhi. She was brought dead but the then Health Minister B Shankaranand asked us not to declare her dead till Rajiv Gandhi arrived. He was out of the city. Both Pt Nehru and Mrs Gandhi respected doctors a lot.Dr Randeep, what are your memories as a personal physician to late PM Vajpayee?RG: Vajpayeeji had a lot of respect for doctors and would often invite me over for breakfast. His sense of humour was great.What are your memories of Kangra?RG: I have been going to Himachal regularly both to my grandparents‘ place, to our village Manjra and to Dharamshala. Dharamsala I remember a lot because I grew up there, we used to go there regularly, my grandmother used to be there and my mother used to go regularly. We used to go to Mc Leodganj for picnics regularly. Now it has become such a crowded place, a tourist spot with so much traffic jam. For a large number of years there was no electricity in our village and lamps were used. We would sleep on the roof and watch the fireflies. It was a sight.Has healthcare in Himachal improved since you left?RG: Himachal is among the few northern states to do well on healthcare improvement. Today ambulance services from Himachal go all the way up to PGI. I was a member of the Himachal Health Commission and we have seen the transformation. We had IGMC-Shimla, but now we have a government medical college in Tanda. AIIMS is coming up in Bilaspur. Many private medical colleges have also come up.How do you both see each other as professionals?RG: My father is an astute clinician. People say he has a sixth sense and can diagnose what no one else can. Even in Covid times, he continues to see patients on the sly and I have a tough time trying to stop him from being exposed.JSG: Dr Randeep is an excellent clinician, teacher and human being. As AIIMS Director, you have to see many VIPs, but he has never refused a poor patient. While he became AIIMS Director, I missed the post. I was shortlisted and told by the then Health Minister that I was being appointed Director, but later my junior was appointed. I became Dean and continued to work for AIIMS. In 1958 when I joined, there was no building in AIIMS. We were given a ward each for medical and surgery in Safdarjung Hospital where we would teach. I admitted the first patient in AIIMS on December 31, 1959 by the name of Mr Khema after the nursing hostel was converted into a hospital. We set up the OPD clinics for cardiology, medicine and chest at AIIMS and instituted the DM degree.During your times, medicine was more of a mission, but now it is considered a profession.JSG: Yes, we were driven by a vision to build AIIMS. In my times, it took 14 years to get a car from government quota. Today, allurements have led to unethical situations.Tele-consultation is a norm in Covid times. Can technology replace patient-doctor interface?JSG: Never. I must see my patients. Human-to-human contact is irreplaceable.RG: Medicine is all about being able to look at and understand the patient. Tele-consultation can supplement healthcare in Covid times, but can never totally replace the patient-doctor interaction. Medicine is both a science and art, and the art of medicine is linked to seeing the patient.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/the-doctors-guleria-of-aiims-150817
