31-10-2020||NEW DELHI||Ammonia in Delhi water can damage internal organs, warn doctors||As ammonia levels in Delhi’s Yamuna shot up above the acceptable levels earlier this week, public health experts have warned that consuming such water can cause damage to the internal organs, brain, lungs, irritation in eyes, cough and anaemia.The level of ammonia in the water is between 1.7 parts per million and 1.9 parts per million. On Friday, it shot up to around 3.5 parts per million, which is perceived as an extremely high level of toxicity and is not fit for human consumption.“When ammonia enters the body, it effects the blood cells, causes anaemia, affects the nerves and its conduction, affects the brain which can cause early onset of dementia or Alzheimer’s,” Jugal Kishore, Head of Community Medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, told IANS.He added, “Long period of exposure to ammonia is dangerous. When it comes to drinking water, people should not use aluminium utensils in the house and use reverse osmosis (RO) filtration method.” Another Delhi-based doctor, Tushar Grover, Medical Director at Vision Eye Centre, said that ammonia in a significant concentration can cause signs of chemical injuries which can cause irritation, discomfort, burning sensation and pain.P. Venkata Krishnan, a doctor of internal medicine at Paras Hospital, warned: “High ammonia level causes irritation in eyes, cough, lung injury, damage to lungs etc. It can cause damage to the internal organs and result in renal failure and respiratory problems. Such water can also be cleaned by RO technique and not boiling or filtration”. He, however, emphasised that dissolved ammonia toxicity is not very common in humans because it requires large amount of ammonia to be delivered over a long period of time.“The toxic level of ammonia affects aquatic animals and can contaminate the vegetables grown in that area, especially cauliflower which are grown in the open,” he said.Earlier on Saturday, Delhi Jal Board Vice Chairman Raghav Chadha said the utility was working on a war footing to restore normal water supply in Delhi, which was affected due to high levels of ammonia in the Yamuna river.---IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/ammonia-in-delhi-water-can-damage-internal-organs-warn-doctors-163938
31-10-2020||New Delhi||Passengers can travel on all seats of buses in Delhi from Nov 1: Transport Minister||Amid a spike in COVID-19 cases, Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Saturday said passengers can travel on all seats of public transport buses from November 1, and cautioned that travellers will have to wear face masks and maintain physical distancing.Gahlot, however, said no passengers will be allowed to travel in standing position.With the rise in number of COVID-19 cases, Delhi government had in May fixed the number of maximum passenger in Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and Cluster scheme buses to 20.Lt Governor Anil Baijal, who is the chairman of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) recently gave approval to Delhi government’s proposal to run the public transport buses with full seating capacity.In a tweet, Gahlot said bus travellers will require to wear face masks and appealed to people to observe proper physical distancing in view of the COVID-19 threat.“The passengers can travel on all the seats of buses from tomorrow. No passenger, however, will be allowed to travel in standing position. Wearing mask is compulsory and I appeal to all the travellers to maintain social distance to check the spread of Corona virus,” Gahlot tweeted.With the opening of various economic activities and government and private establishments in the city, people were forced to wait in long queues often at crowded bus stands, due to restricted number of passengers in buses.The number of DTC and Cluster buses seat up to 40 passengers. There are around 3,800 buses run by the DTC and over 2,600 run under Cluster scheme of Delhi Integrated Multi Modal Transit System.The DDMA chairman had also approved the proposal of the Transport department to resume inter-state bus service.The inter-state bus services were stopped after the imposition of lockdown in March, resulting in shutting down of inter-state bus terminals at Anand Vihar, Sarai Kale Khan and Kashmiri Gate.The Transport department is preparing a standard operating procedure for opening the inter-state bus services. It is expected to begin next week, officials said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/passengers-can-travel-on-all-seats-of-buses-in-delhi-from-nov-1-transport-minister-163932
31-10-2020||New Delhi||No dengue death in Delhi this year: Kejriwal govt||Delhi government on Saturday announced zero death in the national capital due to dengue this year so far, giving credit to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's campaign against the mosquito-borne tropical disease caused by the dengue virus.The announcement comes as it is going to organise the ninth week of '10 Hafte 10 Baje, 10 minute' anti-dengue campaign on Sunday with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealing the citizen to join the movement."This is the second last week of the campaign and due to the aggressive campaign by the Delhi government this year no dengue-related death has been reported in the national capital," the government said in a statement.This week Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain also informed that no dengue-related death has been reported in the national capital this year and credited Kejriwal government's anti-dengue campaign for this."Delhi people did it! No death due to dengue this year. There is also a sharp fall in number of cases compared to figures reported last year. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's campaign—'10 hafte 10 baje 10 minute'—has been made a success by you all," Jain had tweeted.As per the Delhi government statement, the Delhi model of fighting dengue is getting applauded across the country and Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan recently asked a question about the campaign to a contestant by playing a voice clip of the Delhi Chief Minister in the popular television show KBC.Delhi Chief Minister Kejriwal earlier had urged citizens here for their collective efforts against the disease, saying "we have to stop the breeding of dengue mosquitoes and protect our family and the entire Delhi from Dengue."Kejriwal on last Sunday had also declared that dengue was "under control" in the national capital like the previous year.Last week, the anti-dengue campaign of the Delhi government got support from celebrities such as Shankar Mahadevan, who encouraged the citizens of Delhi to religiously follow the dengue prevention guidelines such as inspecting their residences for signs of stagnant water, draining the accumulated water or adding a layer of oil or petrol to it to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes.The Delhi government this year launched a Dengue helpline—01123300012—and a WhatsApp helpline—8595920530—to assist the general public. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/no-dengue-death-in-delhi-this-year-kejriwal-govt-163915
31-10-2020||New Delhi||High number of unreliable rapid antigen tests masking real extent of COVID in capital: Experts||A high number of unreliable rapid antigen tests being conducted in Delhi may be masking a mountain of COVID-19 cases at a time when a "dangerous cocktail" of pollution, crowding during the festive season and devil-may-care attitudes is leading to record spikes in the daily incidence of the infection in the city, experts said.At the same time, the scaling up of the gold-standard RT-PCR tests and loosening the testing regimen has also significantly helped in diagnosing a large number of infections which would otherwise have gone untraced, the experts said.Bucking the national trend, the national capital has registered a massive surge in COVID-19 cases over the past few days with 5,891 fresh incidences recorded on Friday, the highest single-day spike till date, even as the positivity rate shot up to nearly 10 per cent. Friday was the third consecutive day when over 5,000 cases were reported in a day in the city, with infection tally going beyond 3.8 lakh. In contrast, the national number of positive cases has been coming down every day—from a high of more than 90,000 at one time to 48,268 on Saturday. "Is the situation normal? If RT-PCR tests are further ramped up, the numbers will be far more scary than the (about) 6,000 we are seeing today. I understand, people are mentally fatigued, especially the younger population, sitting at home and wanting to go out and socialise. But instead of being more responsible citizens, they have thrown all caution and precaution to the wind,” said Dr. Richa Sareen, pulmonology and critical care consultant at Fortis Hospital, Vasant Kunj.The numbers tell only part of the story. The bigger issue is that authorities may not even be aware of a large number of positive cases that would have slipped through the cracks because they took the rapid antigen test (RAT), notorious for producing a large percentage of false negatives — meaning many positive patients with no or little symptoms are being declared negative, and therefore safe.  Noted lung surgeon Arvind Kumar said the sensitivity of RAT is "only about 50 per cent", meaning it "misses the other half”.“And the danger of rapid antigen tests… is that an asymptomatic carrier of the infection, if found negative, will get a false sense of security, and go around in public infecting people. Had that person not got tested and feared being positive, and stayed at home, chances of him or her spreading infection would be far less," he told PTI.Kumar, who works at the  Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said such persons, who are infected but have wrongly tested negative, are "lulled into a comfort zone" and end up increasing the overall case burden.The lung surgeon attributed the sudden spike in cases majorly to pollution, overcrowding in public places during festive season and the reckless attitude of many people towards observing safety norms in markets, restaurants and other places.The Delhi government has significantly ramped up its testing from a daily average of over 18,000 in August to nearly 56,000 in October. Of these, RT-PCR tests account for about 28 per cent of the total.On August 26, for instance, the number of RT-PCR tests was 5,912 and RAT 13,904. Two months later, on October 29, this went up to 17,029 RT-PCR and 43,095 RAT. According to health department officials, until October 22 this month, the RT-PCR-based positivity rate was 12.32 per cent and corresponding RAT-based figures stood at 3.69 per cent.The overall positivity rate combining the two methods is currently about 10 per cent. "Pollution, festive season, and laxity in adhering to safety measures by people, especially the youth, is a scary combination and the easing of the economy has lulled them into a false sense of security. People should be panicking right now and staying indoors as much as possible, not holding birthday parties and posting pictures on social media with not a trace of a mask in sight,” Suranjit Chatterjee, a senior consultant at Apollo Hospitals, told PTI.He termed the three factors a "dangerous cocktail" and warned that if people do not take things seriously, the virus will "wreak havoc". If they do not panic now, in a cautious way, they will end up panicking when hospital beds start getting swamped, he warned.Chatterjee praised the government for scaling up tests and making the testing regimen more accessible and liberal. But, he said, the city would have seen 4,000 or 5,000 cases a day much earlier had RT-PCR tests been ramped up or if its percentage in the total number of tests was increased."So we may have missed a large number of positive cases due to RAT,” he said.  Delhi recorded 4,473 cases on September 16, which experts call the "second major spike" after the June 23 peak of 3,947. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain has said the city may be experiencing a third wave now, but it is too soon to declare it such until more trends are available. "RT-PCR tests should be done on family members of a positive case and close contacts who are symptomatic. I would not advise RAT in such a situation. However, if there is an industrial factory or a corporate office, where a large number of employees are there who are all feeling healthy, and the employer may just want to do it for sake of satisfaction, then RAT is fine”, said Chatterjee. While RT-PCR is the "gold standard”, he can understand why it's not being done more widely.  "RT-PCR tests need a lot of manpower, resources and are costly too. So, government has to spend on multiple paraphernalia, like beds and ventilators and balance its budget accordingly.”A senior doctor in the Delhi government, who did not wish to be named, added that it is not that RAT is completely unreliable.“Results also depend on whether the sample has been collected properly or not. In RAT, swab is taken from throat, while in RT-PCR it is done from the nose, and in RT-PCR too, a proper jab has to made."Beside, testing regimen has been made so easy, and one does not even need a doctor's prescription to get tested in Delhi. Many people came out and got tested. Had the process been tedious, they would have tried to avoid it," he added.Discussing the sudden spike in cases, Sareen, the Fortis consultant, said people walking around with scant or no regard to safety norms are "making things worse”.Later, when beds won't be available, the same people will accuse the government or hospital authorities of inadequate COVID-19 care, she said."Resources can't be produced overnight. Even if we managed beds, ICU paraphernalia, we would need trained manpower, more housekeeping staff and more nurses and doctors. We saw what happened in the US, with ships and parks turning into hospitals, once the cases got out of hand," she said.Sareen appealed to the youth to not take things casually, and not post pictures of parties on social media, creating a "false sense of normalcy”."I am sure, many people in Delhi must have already planned Halloween parties today. We have gone from state of fear to state of disregard," the doctor said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/high-number-of-unreliable-rapid-antigen-tests-masking-real-extent-of-covid-in-capital-experts-163893
31-10-2020||New Delhi||Delhi’s air quality ‘very poor’, likely to improve over next 2 days||Delhi’s air quality recorded a marginal improvement but remained in the “very poor” category on Saturday morning, while a government forecasting agency said it is likely to get better due to a favourable wind speed.The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 369 at 9.30 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 374 on Friday, 395 on Thursday, 297 on Wednesday, 312 on Tuesday and 353 on Monday.Jahangirpuri (412), Mundka (407) and Anand Vihar (457) recorded the air quality in the “severe” category.An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.On Thursday, Delhi’s AQI touched the “severe” levels for a brief period, before slipping back to the “very poor” category.According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitoring agency, SAFAR, the share of stubble-burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution was 19 per cent on Friday.It was 36 per cent on Thursday, the maximum so far this season, 18 per cent on Wednesday, 23 per cent on Tuesday, 16 per cent on Monday, 19 per cent on Sunday and nine per cent on Saturday.The number of farm fires has again increased in Punjab (around 3,000), Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and is likely to impact Delhi-NCR’s air quality.The wind speed has picked up. A significant improvement is predicted by Monday and the air quality is likely to slip back to the “poor” category, the SAFAR has said.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the predominant wind direction was northwesterly and the maximum wind speed 15 kilometres per hour. The minimum temperature was recorded at 13 degrees Celsius.Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground while a favourable wind speed helps in their dispersal.The city’s ventilation index -- a product of the mixing depth and the average wind speed — is likely to be around 8,500 square metres per second on Saturday — favourable for dispersal of pollutants.The mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with a calm wind speed.A ventilation index lower than 6,000 square metre per second, with an average wind speed of less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhis-air-quality-very-poor-likely-to-improve-over-next-2-days-163839
31-10-2020||New Delhi||Bineesh Kodiyeri remitted funds into drug dealer’s account: Enforcement Directorate||A day after arresting Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPM leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) today said he allegedly credited “huge amount of unaccounted funds” into the bank accounts of a drug peddler.The ED had yesterday arrested Bineesh from Bengaluru under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and produced him before a local special court, which sent him to the agency’s custody till November 2. Officials in the ED said during the investigation, it was revealed that the “drug peddler” in the case — Mohammed Anoop — was a ‘benamidar’ of Bineesh. The term ‘benamidar’ is used for a person who holds ‘benami’ property on behalf of a beneficial owner of the property. Anoop was arrested on October 17. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/bineesh-kodiyeri-remitted-funds-into-drug-dealers-account-enforcement-directorate-163517
