01-02-2021||Calcutta||Hint of Celsius drop on Met radar||The Celsius plunged to 12.1 degrees on Sunday, four notches below normal, riding strong north-westerly winds. The recent cold spell was briefly broken on Saturday, when the minimum temperature was 15.3 degrees. But fresh cold winds from snow-laden Kashmir dragged the mercury down in the city on Sunday. The next two days are tipped to see the Celsius sliding further, the Met office has said. “The minimum temperature is expected to go down to the 11-degree range over the next two days,” said a Met official. Sunday was the coldest January 31 since at least 2013, according to the Met office records. The minimum temperature on January 31 was 12.5 degrees in 2019 and 12.6 degrees in 2013. The temperature has dropped below 10 degrees in several districts in the western part of the state. The Met office will declare a cold wave in places like West Burdwan, Birbhum, Bankura and West Midnapore if the chill persists, said the official. The entire north India is under the grip of biting cold. The Celsius plunged to 3 degrees in Delhi and around 4 degrees in Patna. The winds from Kashmir reach Calcutta via both these places. Last week was persistently cold in the city but moisture-laden winds from the Bay of Bengal led to cloud formation on Saturday and pushed the temperature up. But the same clouds kept the maximum temperature under check and the day still felt cold despite a three-degree rise in the minimum temperature from Friday, when the mercury had plunged to 12.7 degrees. The sky cleared by the night, accelerating the flow of north-westerlies. The early hours of Sunday were exceptionally windy and chilly. The day was mostly sunny and people flocked to the zoo, Science City and Eco Park in tens of thousands. Even in the afternoon sun, pedestrians were wrapped in woollens. “The cold weather is expected to persist till February 3, after which the temperature will start rising,” said G.K. Das, the director of Indian Meteorological Centre, Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
01-02-2021||Calcutta||Underprivileged girls on Covid mission||A number of underprivileged girls who live in closed, congested spaces are visiting their neighbourhoods and other places like theirs to talk to adults about the need to wear masks, wash hands and follow all other Covid-19 protocols. The idea is to tell the residents, many of whom have become very relaxed in regard to the disease, that the pandemic is not over yet and one should not let their guard down. The girls, led by an NGO, started the drive about a fortnight back and are visiting the neighbourhoods thrice a week. They are talking to residents of 12 slum neighbourhoods in north Calcutta and along the Hooghly. “Some of the girls approached us and said they would like to talk to adults in their area about the need to stay safe. They said people in their neighbourhoods would listen to them rather than outsiders. The target is to reach out to their own and immediate neighbourhoods,” said Ananya Chatterjee, the school administrator of Calcutta Rescue, the NGO. Chatterjee said training started in December for 10 of the girls who are between 16 and 17 years. The NGO has been educating the girls on Covid-19 and what needs to be done to stay safe since the beginning of the pandemic. The girls made posters and audio clips, some of which they showed to the parents of some of the other children during online classes. For most of the families, visiting them in person has a different impact than speaking to them online. “We tell them that the need to stay safe is even more because we live in closed spaces where there is hardly any distance between two houses,” said Saba Sabir, 17, who lives in the Mechua area. It's not that they do not face “resistance” from people when they visit, but the girls take it in their stride. “There are some who don’t listen and walk away, but many do. We don’t argue with them,” said Samapika Dhali, 16. Suchandra Chatterjee, a social worker and psychological counsellor at Calcutta Rescue who accompanied the girls said the first reaction was not always very welcoming. “The attitude of many of the adults at times is that what would these students talk to them about. But because they are so thorough that when they start talking, the people do listen to them,” said Chatterjee. From next week the girls intend to make the talk more interactive by having a quiz and the NGO will give the participants masks and hand sanitisers as prizes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||Syncretic forest legend that keeps communal tension in check||A legend of the forest worshipped by Hindus and Muslims alike has been instrumental in not letting communal tension come to the forefront in the Sunderbans, feels the author who has introduced the legend to the world. Legends like this make the popular culture of Bengal so mixed, vibrant and interesting, the author said. A virtual session at the Tata Steel Kolkata Literary Meet in association with Victoria Memorial Hall and The Telegraph saw Amitav Ghosh discuss his new book Jungle Nama, due for a mid-February release, with journalist Ankita Mukherji. The book is a verse adaptation of an episode from the legend of Bon Bibi, a tale popular in the Sunderbans, which also lies at the heart of Ghosh’s earlier novel, The Hungry Tide. Bon Bibi is believed to have travelled from Medina to the Sunderbans to protect the people as well the forests and its animals. Her legend has survived through handwritten manuscripts and orally, through pala-gans and jatras. The book has been illustrated — “illuminated”, says Ghosh — by artist Salman Toor, born in Pakistan and based in New York. “It is a miracle that he can actually join us because there is a huge snowstorm that is headed to New York, which is where he is trying to drive down to at this point,” Mukherji said at the outset. Excerpts from the conversation. Protector, of communal harmony Mukherji wanted to know if it was “more important than ever before to reclaim syncretic figures like the Bon Bibi for the present generation”. Ghosh called the Bon Bibi legend “extra-ordinarily hybrid”. “Bon Bibi is the daughter of a Muslim fakir who goes to Medina. She is born in Medina. From Medina, she comes to Bengal. Hindus may see her as a goddess and Muslims will see her as a female peer. All across the Muslim world, there used to be saint figures who had magical powers. We have a very rich tradition of this kind of syncretic folklore in Bengal,” he said. “All across the Sunderbans, rituals to Bon Bibi are performed by Hindus as well as Muslims. All these rituals begin with Arabic incantations. That’s a common feature: Hindus do it, Muslims do it just as much. I think it is a wonderful kind of syncretism that you see there. In popular culture, in Bengal, it is incredibly mixed. These traditions, they are impossible to pick apart and say this is Hindu and this is Muslim. There is just so much mixed together. I think that’s what makes the popular culture of Bengal so vibrant and so interesting,” he added. “Shrines to Bon Bibi are just little things that people make out of wood and bamboo…. One of the most important aspects of the culture of forest people everywhere is that they don’t build temples. Historically, what they would do is they would create shrines within the forest. A temple, a mosque, a church — what do they do? They create a structure that cuts you off from your surroundings. Whereas the whole idea of forest belief is that the forest itself is your temple, the forest itself is your shrine. “Unfortunately, I think people will start building temples to Bon Bibi,” said Ghosh. For several years now, there have been reports from the Sunderbans of a persistent attack on the syncretic character of Bon Bibi. Several people are said to be unhappy with the cross-communal name and prefer Bonodebi. Temples to Hindu deities have also replaced shrines to Bon Bibi at several places. On Saturday, when Ghosh spoke of temples to Bon Bibi, Mukherji said they already exist. “That might be a sign of the times because temples do tend to proliferate everywhere these days…. There have been so many instances of disruptions in communal harmony but not in the Sunderbans area. Do you think Bon Bibi might have a role in that?” she asked. Ghosh’s answer: “Absolutely. Look, let us not idealise it. It’s not as if there are no communal tensions. Divisions are always rife for exploitation by politicians or people trying to take advantage of these things. But most of the people who live in the Sunderbans, especially on the Indian side, most of them are Dalits. There is an absolute overlap between the populations, there is a sort of neutral understanding. These kinds of communal tensions haven’t been at the forefront certainly in the Sunderbans. We should be very grateful. Yes, I do feel that Bon Bibi legend has something to do with it, absolutely”. Bull’s eye: Balance Ghosh called the Bon Bibi legend “a part of everyday life” in the delta. “It is a kind of a charter of conduct for the people who live in the Sunderbans. The legend is really about finding a balance. A balance between the needs of the human and the needs of the non-human. This is basically what Bon Bibi does. She creates a balance between tigers and all other beings and humans. In that sense, I think it is a very apt legend for today. The moral of it is right on the mark, because of the problem with our world today. It is really that it’s a world out of balance. It’s a world where humans have just taken everything over and left nothing for the non-humans. Mind you, the non-humans aren’t taking it lightly. They are striking back. That’s exactly what we are seeing,” he said. Incredible devastation The mangrove delta is at the heart of several works of Ghosh. “What is in this very inhospitable terrain that keeps calling out to you and provides literary inspiration?” Mukherji asked him. “Sunderbans is a meeting place. A place where land and water meet, where many rivers meet. One of the most spectacular things — confluence of rivers (mohona). It is not an untouched wilderness. A place with a very deep history. The workings of this history are quite visible within the forest. It was in the Sunderbans that I started to really get a sense of the incredible devastation that climate change is going to inflict upon the whole planet. Because the impacts are already visible there,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||Bird lovers prevent shooting at Amtala wetland||A group of birdwatchers spotted two teenagers allegedly taking aim at a flock of birds with an airgun at an Amtala wetland, on the southern fringes of the city, and stopped them from shooting on Saturday. “We saw the teenagers take aim and one of them was about to shoot but somehow we stopped them. We asked them why they were shooting birds. One of them said they would eat the meat,” said Shantanu Sikdar, one of the birdwatchers. The teenagers, residents of the area, then allegedly threatened to break the cameras of the birdwatchers if they did not let them go. Sikdar then called up Diptimoy Ghosh, a traffic sergeant of Calcutta police, who directed them to Bishnupur police station. The birdwatchers took the teenagers to the police station. “Police did not arrest them as they are minors. Their air rifle was seized and they were let go with a warning,” said Sikdar. “We warned them of the consequences of killing birds. We also spoke to their relatives,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||1 dead, 1 missing  as boat capsizes in Sunderbans||A 65-year-old man drowned and a woman went missing after a boat carrying tourists from Calcutta capsized off Jharkhali in the Sunderbans in South 24-Parganas on Sunday. The motorised boat carrying around 20 passengers, including children and women, left the Jharkhali jetty to visit an island nearby around Sunday noon. Eyewitnesses have told police that the boat started wobbling within minutes of leaving the jetty. Passengers became panicky as the boatmen struggled to control the boat on the turbulent Herobhanga river. “We have been told that water soon started entering the boat from one side, prompting the passengers to move to the other side. The boat tilted and capsized a few minutes later,” an officer of Jharkhali coastal police station said. A few fishermen who were close to the boat came to the rescue of the passengers. The administration at Basanti was also alerted. One of the passengers, who had lost his consciousness, was rushed to a hospital in Basanti, where he passed away. The police identified him as Subodh Goutanya, 65. Police and forest department officials launched a rescue operation with speed boats but one of the tourists remained untraced. Pratima Dolui, the missing tourist, is a resident of Dhalipara in Kudghat. Police sources said the boat, owned by a local businessman, was ferrying more passengers than its capacity. Some traders in Jharkhali said they had objected to so many passengers boarding a small boat, but members of the local boat syndicate ignored the warnings. Jharkhali, which can be reached from Calcutta by road via Basanti, is a major tourist draw around this time of the year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||Centre’s ‘funds freeze’ puts Jadavpur University in a spot||Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das has said non-release of funds under a central scheme has put them “in a difficult situation” as they had made expenditures following an assurance from the Centre about continued fund support. The university, according to officials, has recorded a deficit of around Rs 12 crore, following suspension of fund support. In May 2018, JU and nine other universities from across the country were selected for receiving Rs 100 crore each under the Rastriya Uchchatara Shiksha Abhiyaan (RUSA) 2.0 scheme to pursue research and provide scholarships. JU had received the first installment of Rs 41.67 crore (Rs 25 crore from the Centre and Rs 16.67 crore from the state) in November 2018 and utilised the amount by the end of March 2020. The state’s grant has to follow the Centre’s. The university is in the process of making an assessment of the shortfall, following which Das will write to the education ministry so that the excess expenditure is reimbursed. “The non-release of the second installment has put the university in a difficult situation. We made expenditure following an assurance that the support would continue. Despite repeated reminders to the ministry, the money has not come and we have registered a deficit,” Das said on Sunday. “Once the exact assessment is done, we will write to the ministry for reimbursement.” JU pro-VC Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya had on January 28 issued a notice regarding the assessment, which also mentioned: “The university cannot allow any further spending on RUSA 2.0 projects in view of the fact that the central government has not released the second installment of money.” The scheme was to end on March 31, 2020, but the Centre extended it till March 31, 2021. “The university has spent from its own coffers to buy high-end machinery for research, sanctioned funds for undertaking civil construction since the Centre extended the scheme. Till July onwards, when the ministry had started dropping broad hints about the non-release of funds, substantial expenditure had already been made,’’ said the official. A state government official said JU was told at a meeting between the education ministry and VCs on July 7, 2020, that the second installment was not being released because 70 per cent of the teaching posts were vacant. Das had written to Sunita Siwach, the national coordinator, RUSA, in September: “It was not stated that having 70 per cent of all teaching posts filled up was an essential precondition for receiving the grant.” The notice issued by pro-VC Bhattacharya says: “A comprehensive assessment of all liabilities in respect of committed expenditure in all RUSA 2.0 areas, including civil works, project works undertaken by the teachers and departments… has to be completed before final closure. Submission of all bills and claims (as spent up to March 31, 2020) under RUSA 2.0 must be completed by the first week of February, in order to facilitate this assessment.” The Union education ministry’s decision to hold back the money has left 200-odd research scholars in the lurch. The PhD scholars had quit a fellowship provided by the state government to opt for the Centre’s scholarship, which was offering four times more money than the state scheme. “PhD and MPhil scholars were getting Rs 8,000 a month as scholarship from the state higher education department. Under RUSA, the scholarship was Rs 30,000 for both categories,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||Sourav discharged after stent implant, advised  rest||Former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly, who underwent angioplasty and had two stents implanted in coronary arteries on Thursday, was discharged on Sunday morning. The 48-year-old was admitted to Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, where the procedure was performed, on Wednesday following a severe chest discomfort. “He has been advised to be on rest for a few days. He will be able to return to normal life soon,” said one of the doctors treating Sourav. “He needs to come for check-ups regularly.” According to doctors, the BCCI president will have to initially undergo check-ups frequently, but later a check-up should be done once a year. On January 2, Sourav had suffered a heart attack at his Behala home and was admitted to Woodlands Hospital, where an angiography revealed blockages in three coronary arteries. He underwent angioplasty to remove the blockage in one of the arteries and had a stent implanted. Doctors deferred the plan to implant two more stents fearing blood clots if a second angioplasty was done then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||Water crisis in Salt Lake||A number of underground pipes that carry water to at least four blocks in Salt Lake’s Sector III have sprung leaks, triggering a water crisis in the area. The leaks were noticed around a month back, when water was seeping into the black top of the Broadway, which connects EM Bypass with Salt Lake near the FE Block island. On Sunday, several blocks that get water through this network faced an acute water shortage. Metro had in August reported how such leaks had triggered road cave-ins near the Salt Lake stadium and the FE Block island. Although both sites were repaired, the pipes at the FE island sprang leaks again a few months after they were repaired. Now, multiple craters have formed on the artery as the asphalt layer has disintegrated following sustained water seepage. Many of the craters are hidden under pools of water. The leaked pipes carry water from Salt Lake’s tank number 13 to FE, GC, FD, IA, HA, GC, IC and KD-KC blocks, among others. Many residents of the area said their water supply had been erratic over the past month and despite complaints to the civic body, no repairs had been undertaken. “The leaks have reduced our water supply to a trickle,” said Sarswati Halder, a resident of IC Block. A resident of FE Block said they were storing water in containers and tubs as the supply was not adequate. “This is turning out to be quite a chore for us,” said Samaresh Bhattacharya, an FE Block resident. “The leaks have developed under the main road and are visible to everybody, but still they have been lying unattended for a month.” A traffic policeman posted at the crossing said the craters had caused multiple accidents. “On Sunday, a man riding a gearless scooter with his five-year-old son lost control of the vehicle when the front wheel fell into a water-filled crater. The young man escaped unhurt but his father was injured. The craters are a trap for commuters in cars as well as two-wheelers,” said the cop, who spoke on condition that he would not be named. On Sunday, Metro saw cars and two-wheelers swerve dangerously in a bid to avert the water-filled craters. Everybody, however, was not successful. Raunak Pal, a resident of Phoolbagan who rode a bike through the stretch during the day, said it was unthinkable that such craters were allowed to grow on a busy road. “This is extremely dangerous. At night, this is a potential death trap,” said Pal. Officials of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority said they had surveyed the affected stretch and would start repairs soon. Engineers at the civic body said the joints in the ageing pipe network were springing leaks because they were not sturdy enough to handle high pressure over a prolonged period. “We will also have to inspect the pipes… to do this we need to dig up the stretch,” said an engineer of the civic body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||CMC vaccine call to push up numbers||The state health department and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation are not relying solely on text messages to bring health workers to vaccination sites, but are also calling them up to try and push up the number of vaccinated. Many health workers told Metro they received calls from vaccination sites where their names were enrolled. A doctor attached to a private hospital, who had already received the first dose, got a call from the CMC about the second dose. Another doctor who got the first dose at the hospital where he works said he got a call and was told that his name figured on the list sent to another hospital. Though it points towards a lack of coordination, sources said this was happening because the department was pushing hard to achieve high vaccination numbers in the state. Health officials said they would push further by increasing the number of vaccination sites. Bengal is now third among all states in the number of vaccinations per session and seventh in the number of persons vaccinated. Officials of the health department said their aim was to further improve the state’s position. According to the website of the Press Information Bureau, Bengal vaccinated 2,42,761 people till 7pm on Saturday. “We were running about 430 Covid-19 vaccination sites in the past week. We want to raise the count to 500 this week,” said an official in the health department. “There are 54 vaccination sites in Calcutta. The count in the city, too, will increase.” The high turnout in the state can be linked to good advocacy and to the fact that many senior doctors took the vaccine in the initial days, sending out a message to doctors junior to them and other health workers that Covid shots are safe. That the authorities are keen on speeding up the Covid vaccination is evident from the CMC’s directive to employees to call up every name on the next day’s list. “Just a text message may not convince a person to turn up at the vaccination site. A call urging the person to take the shot will be more effective. We have told our staff to call up each and every person whose name figures on the list,” said a CMC official. The authorities are realising the importance of awareness campaigns and measures such as calling up each and every recipient as the state gets ready to inoculate almost seven lakh frontline workers. The health department is organising seminars among health-care workers to ensure no one refuses to take the homegrown Covaxin, one of two vaccines against Covid-19 granted emergency use approval in India, the other being Covishield. The health department is aiming to complete the administration of the first dose to all 6 lakh health workers in the state in another month and a half. Vaccination of frontline workers will start on February 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||Dhiren Cabin stands still in its own time||At 11.30am on a late January day the inside of this landmark “cabin restaurant” in Sovabazar Street looks a bit like a battlefield gearing up. Inside Dhiren Cabin, the floor is strewn with chairs — small, wooden ones with sun mica seats, the tables are old-world, stone tops on wooden frames, and all surfaces are covered with heaps of filleted fish, minced mutton and pieces of chicken. (“Country chicken,” you are informed.) People come from far for the fish pakoras here: chunks of flaky fish crisp-fried in a light batter that crunches gently in your mouth, spreading joy. The fish fries, fish fingers and the mutton braised cutlets close rivals. The restaurant opens at 4.30. So around noon the seven or eight men are readying the stuff on a war-footing. Three of them belong to the family that owns the small two-room restaurant, boasting of two “cabins” in the outer room. The rest of the men are employees who do everything: cooking, cleaning, serving the food and getting the fish and meat cleaned, breaded and coated. Outside the late morning market in the street is drawing to a noisy close. Vegetables, fruits and all kinds of fish, spread on blue plastic sheets, are choking the street, even as a swarm of vehicles is trying to push its way through the remainder of the street, drowning your voice. Even as you stand inside Dhiren Cabin, the street seems to come in. Everything, inside, outside, is frantic. Yet the restaurant stands still in its own time, retaining its distinction, dignity, and a legacy, with no concession to contemporary “cool”. Every evening, its old hand-painted signboard beckons you into a different world. Apart from the delight of the fish pakoras, fish fingers and the occasional pudding, on offer is the pleasure of sitting in the cabins, being attended briskly and kindly by a handful of men not in uniform and being served tea in those tiny ceramic cups and saucers that come with small motifs and have disappeared more or less from sight. And being remembered. “You had a fish fry and fish pakoras last time, didn’t you?” you are asked. “We have always resisted fast food,” says Prabir Kumar Dey, 63, one of the proprietors of the restaurant. No roll or chow mien ever. Dey sits behind the counter, running the restaurant with his three brothers, Mritunjoy, Biren and Tapan Kumar. Dhiren Cabin was established by Dhiren Dey, their father, in 1938. Then it was only a “kitchen”. “My father sold tea, biscuits and breakfast items at first,” says Dey, the third among the brothers. The family comes from north Calcutta and still lives there. This part of the city takes special pride in its savoury snacks, as it does in its sweets. Both constitute revered traditions. Dhiren had a passion for the savoury. Now, within the savoury, “chop cutlet” is another distinct tradition, but this too has two genres. One is the heavily Bengalified version that opts for spicy, deeply coated fries. The other tries to hold on to the less fiery “sahebi” flavours. “Chop cutlets”, after all, were given to us by the British, though we have made them our own. Dey’s father did not want to smother his creations with spices or arrowroot. He began to sell moglai parota and kabiraji, but kept the flavours light. As his business grew, the restaurant, from a tiny kitchen, expanded to two rooms. After his death in 1972, his sons took over, though they had been involved from earlier. “I had joined the business in 1970,” says Dey, who could not continue his studies after the school final examination. “But we have preserved what our father taught us. Then we innovated, keeping our style,” says Dey. Thus was born doi chicken, another signature dish at Dhiren Cabin, as also the blockbuster fish pakoras. Biren, the second brother, also a regular at the restaurant. adds that the pudding, available mostly in summer, is unique, as it contains chhana (cottage cheese), which is usually used in making sandesh. And sometimes the pudding is made with a duck egg. Small adjustments have been made to recipes. Only the braised cutlet was previously made from meat from the ribs. Now regular mutton keema is used. Tradition, too, has to evolve. But no change has been made to the structure. The two cabins have not been touched. “We only removed the curtains,” says Dey. The only attempt at decoration is a curved metal lampshade hanging above the cabins, painted over with the same green of the walls. Dhiren Cabin remains the same, more or less, not only to conserve heritage, but also to continue the business. Because heritage is business, Dey and his brothers assert. “Our customers come here for the old ambience. This place would lose its charm if we changed anything,” says Dey. Yet to maintain business, you lose out on business. “The other thing we have not changed much is the pricing,” says Dey. A plate of fish pakoras — four pieces — is priced at Rs 90. “But if we change the price people will stop coming here,” says Dey. Maybe sustainability is more important than profit. “We will continue this business,” says Dey. He adds with some pride that the younger generation is interested in the family business. Dey’s son and his elder brother Biren’s son, an M.Com student and a W.B.C.S. aspirant respectively, do not mind the idea of working at the restaurant. They were there in the morning at the filleting of the fish. Some good things persist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Business||Sensex climbs 2,315 points as market cheers Budget 2021||The BSE benchmark Sensex skyrocketed 2,315 points on Monday, propelled by gains in financial stocks, as market participants cheered a growth-oriented Union Budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. After touching an intra-day high of 48,764.40, the 30-share Sensex ended 2,314.84 points or 5 per cent higher at 48,600.61. The broader Nifty soared 646.60 points or 4.74 per cent to finish at 14,281.20. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank was the top gainer, rallying over 14 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finserv, SBI, L&T and HDFC. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Tech Mahindra and HUL were the laggards. Indian markets opened on a positive note tracking positive global bourses. During the afternoon session, the markets reacted positively to the Union Budget, traders said. All the key market indices witnessed a sharp rise as investors welcomed the big infrastructure and healthcare boost provided in the Budget. "This is indeed a bold growth-oriented budget. Absence of the much-feared COVID tax and the surcharges on income tax is a great relief. Privatisation of two nationalised banks and proposal of monetisation of assets like land are clear positives," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "Raising FDI in insurance from 49 per cent to 74 per cent is welcome. Market response to the Budget reflects growth optimism. In brief, the FM has presented a pragmatic, bold and visionary budget in these difficult times," he added. According to Lav Chaturvedi, ED and CEO at Reliance Securities, the single securities market code announced in the Budget speech will bring about ease of doing business in the Indian financial markets. This, along with FDI regime and development financial institution, would be transforming for the financial markets, he added. Sitharaman on Monday proposed more than doubling of healthcare spending while imposing a new agri cess on certain imported goods and raising customs duty on items ranging from cotton to electronics in a bid to pull the economy out of the COVID-induced trough. She also allocated Rs 20,000 crore to recapitalise state-run banks that are saddled with bad loans and have been a drag on growth. The revenue target from privatisation of PSUs was put at Rs 1.75 lakh crore with a planned initial public offering (IPO) of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) among the state-run companies that will be sold in the next fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 1,700 points as Sitharaman presents Budget 2021||The BSE benchmark Sensex zoomed over 1,700 points and the NSE Nifty reclaimed the 14,000-level driven by gains in financial stocks on Monday after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented the Union Budget, which anlaysts believe is a "growth-oriented" effort. After touching an intra-day high of 48,004.71, the 30-share Sensex was trading 1,660.99 points or 3.59 per cent higher at 47,946.76; and the broader Nifty surged 462.15 points or 3.39 per cent at 14,096.75. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank was the top gainer, rallying over 11 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, SBI, HDFC, M&M and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Tech Mahindra and TCS were among the laggards. To push growth via infrastructure creation, "This is indeed a bold growth-oriented budget. Absence of the much-feared Covid tax and the surcharges on Income Tax is a great relief. Privatisation of two nationalised banks and proposal of monetisation of assets like land are clear positives," V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, said. "Raising FDI in insurance from 49 per cent to 74 per cent is welcome. Market response to the budget reflects growth optimism. In brief, the FM has presented a pragmatic, bold and visionary budget in these difficult times," he added. According to Lav Chaturvedi , ED and CEO, at Reliance Securities, the single securities market code announced in the Budget speech will bring out ease of doing business in Indian financial markets. This, along with FDI regime and development financial institution, would be transforming for financial markets, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open higher ahead of Budget presentation||The BSE benchmark Sensex surged over 443 points and the NSE Nifty advanced 115 points in opening trade on Monday, ahead of the Union Budget 2021-22 presentation in Parliament. The 30-share Sensex was trading higher by 443.06 points or 0.96 per cent at 46,728.83; and the broader Nifty was up 114.85 points or 0.84 per cent at 13,749.45. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC, ONGC, Titan and HDFC Bank were prominent gainers. Of the Sensex constituents, 16 shares were trading in the green. On Friday, the Sensex had closed 588.59 points or 1.26 per cent lower at 46,285.77, and the Nifty had settled 182.95 points or 1.32 per cent down at 13,634.60. Over the previous six sessions, the Sensex has lost 3,506.35 points or 7.04 per cent, and the Nifty has shed 1,010.10 points or 6.89 per cent. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will present the Union Budget 2021-22 in Parliament on Monday. Market experts and economists are of the view that this budget will be critical in terms of picking up the pieces after the economic destruction caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) offloaded shares worth a net Rs 5,930.66 crore on Friday, according to exchange data Elsewhere in Asia on Monday, stock markets were in recovery mode in afternoon session, after four sessions of losses. The global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.32 per cent to USD 55.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||Beyond Street Skirmish||It’s a nippy Monday morning, barely hours away from the presentation of the Union Budget 2021. Homes and offices would soon switch on the telly, while mobile phones would light up like Christmas trees with budgetary highlights, news snippets and, afterwards, reactions from all quarters, commoners and industry stalwarts included. A lot of build-up has been evident this time for what would presumably carry the most tell-tale batch of proclamations ever on the present government’s reformist agenda. The investor fraternity, for its part, wants the finance minister to signal clear policy initiatives covering critical areas of the economy. Specific demands raised on various fora have related to various aspects of personal finance, securities regulations, banking, insurance, direct taxes and so on. The individual investor, forever looking at ways to allocate more resources to create a bigger asset base, would want the budget to spell out reforms on all major fronts, especially equity and debt markets. The Average Joe, following what the FM may deliver today, may just feel encouraged to save and invest more doggedly. Perhaps he would opt for more market-driven performance this time and depend less on assured returns. At the same time, with dark visions of Covid-19 still etched in his mind, he would really want to de-risk his exposure, and even direct a bigger share of his portfolio towards life and health insurance. Quo vadis? Never mind the forthcoming budgetary provisions, forget the anticipated reforms, banish all ideas of new initiatives from even the farthest recesses of your brain. Instead, train your mind to consider only the opportunities and the challenges that the rest of 2021 is quite likely to pose. The scope and impact of these would have probably elicited mixed feelings deep inside you already. Let me come to the headwinds first, and reserve the tailwinds for another day. First and foremost, an ordinary investor would have to overcome a set of stiff challenges, including an extremely unstable equity market that lately seems to have entered the overbought zone. I am specifically referring to the relentless advance recorded by the premier indices in recent months. The bellwether BSE Sensex has topped the 50,000 points mark already (Thursday, January 21, 2021, would forever remain in the record books) though it couldn’t sustain at that levels in the subsequent trading sessions. However, the upward trend has added an edge to the view that plenty of fresh money has already come into play. It must be pointed out in this context that the advance is rather one-sided; after all, only a limited number of large-cap stocks have propelled the market to the height it has reached. The mid-cap story is considerably different in comparison. Much to investors’ discomfort, stocks of many smaller yet prominent companies have not kept pace in recent days. The debt market has meanwhile remained uninspiring. Investor sentiments here have turned somewhat cooler. Returns from actively-managed debt are nothing to write home about these days. Deposit rates are far too frigid — a matter of concern for senior citizens who greatly depend on these instruments.Investments in sundry fixed-income paper hardly beat inflation. Further,if you add the burden of income tax to your woes, the tale turns rather sour indeed. Your deliverables Whichever way the market moves, you need to pay consider a few things while working out your financial plan. The last word Remember, every budget is special, each is foreshadowed by unique circumstances. The 2021 edition would be no different, coming at a time the world is still reeling under the effect of a lethal disease. And the economy, where green shoots are just getting evident, is teetering on the brink in more ways than one. Common investors, many of whom have fallen back on household savings during the past few months, have sacrificed a lot in these uncertain times. The fact that a few aspects of the market have been reinforced is a boon for those who kept their faith. Equities, for instance, have advanced markedly — for those who have actively participated in it, there is reason to cheer. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||GST collections in January touch an all-time high of about Rs 1.20 lakh crore||GST collections in January touched an all-time high of about Rs 1.20 lakh crore, the finance ministry said on Sunday. The ministry said in line with the trend of recovery in the GST revenues over the past five months, the revenues for the month of January 2021 are 8 per cent higher than that in the same month last year. ‘‘The gross GST revenue collected in January 2021 till 6pm on January 31, 2021 is Rs 1,19,847 crore, of which CGST is Rs 21,923 crore, SGST is Rs 29,014 crore, IGST is Rs 60,288 crore (including Rs 27,424 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 8,622 crore (including Rs 883 crore collected on the import of goods),’’ the finance ministry said in a statement. The number could be upped further as more number of GST sales returns get filed. GST revenues had topped Rs 1 lakh crore in nine out of the 12 months of the 2019-20 fiscal. However, in the current fiscal, the revenues have taken a hit because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Revenue in April was Rs 32,172 crore, followed by Rs 62,151 crore in May, Rs 90,917 crore in June, Rs 87,422 crore in July, and Rs 86,449 crore in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Lower taxes, job creation on wish list||All are waiting for Union Budget 2021-22 to be presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday at 11am. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said the budget for 2021-22 will be seen as a continuation of the string of economic packages that the finance minister had announced in the last few months. The finance minister has also indicated that this will be a unique budget to boost the economy of the nation.  Several sectors of the economy have their hopes pinned on the upcoming budget. Some of the expectations are here as follows: The writer is a tax advocate||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||CEA makes strong case for setting up private sector led bad bank to deal with NPAs||Chief economic adviser K. V. Subramanian has made a strong case for the setting up of a bad bank led by the private sector to deal with the non-performing assets of the financial sector which may see a surge once regulatory forbearance to deal with the impact of Covid-19 is withdrawn. The proposal to set up a bad bank has been under the consideration of the government for long and some steps may be announced in Union Budget 2021-22 to be unveiled by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday in  the Lok Sabha. Bad bank refers to a financial institution which takes over the bad assets of lenders and undertakes resolution. Lenders have been making a case for setting up a bad bank to ease out the pressure of bad loans on them in these difficult times. “The bad bank will certainly help in consolidating some of the non performing assets. It’s important to also think about implementing the bad bank in the private sector that enables (faster) decision making,” he said in an interview. The resolution of bad assets with alacrity is impacted  in the public sector  because of the fear of 3Cs, he said. 3Cs refer to the Central Bureau of Investigation, the Central Vigilance Commission and the Comptroller and Audit General. “So, the bad bank idea itself is actually something which is required at this point in time, but also designing it in the private sector actually has a lot more possibility for it to be effective,” he said. The Economic Survey of 2017 had proposed this idea, suggesting the creation of a bad bank called Public Sector Asset Rehabilitation Agency (PARA) to help tide over the problem of stressed assets. Earlier this month, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das indicated that the central bank can consider the idea of a bad bank to tackle non-performing assets (NPAs). “If there’s a proposal to set up a bad bank, the RBI will look at it. We have regulatory guidelines for asset reconstruction companies,” Das had said. Subramanian, the lead author of Economic Survey 2020-21, has made a case for carrying out a fresh asset quality review once the ongoing forbearances related to Covid-19 come to an end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||Centre may give Cairn Energy one of the surrendered oilfields as compensation||The government may give Cairn Energy one of the surrendered oilfields such as Ratna R-Series in lieu of the $1.4 billion it has pay to the British firm, helping prevent the seizure of foreign assets in the case of default as well as get an experienced operator in the struggling E&P sector, sources said. Cairn Energy gave India its biggest onland oil discovery but exited the country after it was slapped with a Rs 10,247-crore tax demand using a legislation that gave the government the powers to tax companies retrospectively. The firm has now won an international arbitration against the tax demand and the government has been ordered to return the value of shares of Cairn it had sold, dividends it had seized and tax refund it had withheld to recover the tax demand. For a government struggling to find revenue to boost a Covid-19 battered economy, options of appeal against the arbitration award are limited and it may not have the financial bandwidth for such a payout, two sources with knowledge of the development said. “One option is to give Cairn one or more of the oil and gasfields that the government now owns after they are surrendered by operators for various reasons,” one of them said. “The government could give the Ratna and R-Series oil and gas fields in the Arabian Sea that were taken away from the Essar Oil-Premier Oil consortium in 2016 because of a change in contractual terms.” The Barmer oilfield in Rajasthan, which was originally discovered by Cairn Energy, could be another option. Vedanta Ltd, which now operates the field after it bought out Cairn’s Indian subsidiary a decade back, has so far not agreed to the government’s conditions to get an extension of the contract beyond its original end date of May 2020. Under Vedanta, which continues to operate the field on monthly extensions till its legal challenge to the government conditions is settled, the Rajasthan oilfields have seen a steady decline in output. “It’s a win-win — the government settles it liability without paying a single penny or upsetting investor sentiments by not honouring the arbitration award through endless legal challenges and at the same time get back an established exploration and production (E&P) firm back,” another source said. No major oil and gas discovery has been made in the past seven years since the retrospective tax demand was raised. If the government chooses not to honour the arbitration award, it risks the prospect of its assets in foreign countries being seized just like US oil firm ConocoPhillips did with Venezuela to recoup multi-billion dollar of compensation awarded in arbitration. Earlier this month, Cairn Energy’s chief executive officer Simon Thomson wrote to the Indian government that the arbitration ruling is final and binding, and failure to comply would breach the international rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||Healthcare sector likely to get maximum attention in budget: Survey||India’s healthcare sector is likely to get the maximum attention of the government in the budget to be unveiled on Monday as it comes in the face of the country braving a once-in-a-century global pandemic, says a survey. The Assocham-Primus Partners survey covered more than 550 industry participants, and 39.7 per cent of the respondents said healthcare would receive the highest priority in terms of resource allocation and policy support in the budget. Manufacturing emerged as the second key sector expected to be in focus, with 14.7 per cent respondents expecting it to receive the finance minister’s attention, followed by MSMEs (11.4 per cent), real estate (10.7 per cent) and infrastructure (9.6 per cent). “The Covid-19 pandemic tested the limits of the global healthcare system. While the government’s proactive measures and the frontline workers’ tireless efforts have helped tide the way, the pandemic has also brought forth the fragility of the healthcare system,” the survey stated. On measures which can strengthen the healthcare and pharma sector, 67.3 per cent of the respondents expect the allocation of a fund to modernise the existing primary healthcare infrastructure. This was followed by an expectation (by 62.9 per cent) that the government should increase investments in creating new primary healthcare infrastructure. With regard to aspirations of individual taxpayers, 79.3 per cent respondents said they would like to see a cut in personal income tax rates, especially in the wake of pressure on their earnings in the pandemic-hit economy. Rationalising taxes for the individuals is critical as reducing the tax burden on individuals would enable further spending. According to the survey, this much-needed push to demand would help in creating a multiplier effect in the economy. “A significant increase in public expenditure is inevitable. The pandemic has taught us there are no choices other than large-scale public investment in building primary health centres, hospitals at the district, state capital level,” Assocham secretary-general Deepak Sood said. As has been stated in the Economic Survey, there is a strong feeling within the government to raise public expenditure on healthcare three-fold from 1 per cent of GDP to 3 per cent of GDP, he added.   Moreover, Sood said, at the same time, to support the economic health of the nation, amidst the rising green shoots of recovery, the upcoming Budget must frontload infrastructure investments.   "The Budget's allocation towards infrastructure and housing development will create a much-needed multiplier impact in the economy," he observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-02-2021||Business||Centre has room to present high growth figures for the next fiscal||The low base on which the national income projections will be made for the next fiscal provides the Centre some room to present high growth figures for the next fiscal along with lower fiscal deficit but that will hurt the credibility of the budget exercise, analysts said. The economy is expected to contract 7.7 per cent in the current financial year compared with the growth rate of 4.2 per cent in 2019-20, according to the first advance estimates of national income. Nominal gross domestic product (GDP) or GDP at current prices in the year 2020-21 is likely to attain a level of Rs 194.82 lakh crore against the provisional estimate of GDP for the year 2019-20 of Rs 203.40 lakh crore, released on May 31, 2020. The contraction in nominal GDP during 2020-21 is estimated at 4.2 per cent, the statistical ministry said. Nominal GDP measures a country's gross domestic product using current prices, without adjusting for inflation. Contrast this with real GDP, which measures a country's economic output adjusted for the impact of inflation. Economists have expressed concern over the possibility of an unrealistic assumption of economic growth because of the lower base. “The finance ministry faces a tough balancing act in the Union budget as it aims to stabilise the public finances while avoiding economically and politically-damaging spending cuts,” Shilan Shah, senior India Economist, Capital Economics, said. “The most likely outcome is that it will set ambitious revenue targets and quietly shift some spending off- balance sheet, allowing it to present a smaller headline deficit. This may keep the bond market on the side for the time being. But obfuscation of the true fiscal position risks undermining credibility over the long term,” Shah said. N.R. Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of the Bangalore-based Dr B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics University said “fiscal deficit as a ratio of GDP will see a significant improvement compared with what is expected in the current year, assuming that next year is going to be a normal year. Though the NSO (National Statistics Office) has projected (-) 4.2 per cent as nominal growth for the current year, but, my own projection is that we may be somewhere close to zero. If the NSO numbers are right, the budget may assume nominal GDP growth of somewhere close to 15 per cent for next year, if you assume zero growth. “But, if its NSO estimate, then it may go to 16-17 percent. If that is the case, revenue projection is going to be substantially higher next year. Although there may be some slippage on the expenditure side, especially since we may want to spend more on vaccines and other health-related activities, the fiscal deficit could fall by at least 1.0-1.5 percentage points next year from the current year.” “I think most people are projecting a 7 per cent fiscal deficit for the current year, so the next year could be somewhere closer to 5.5-6.0 per cent,” he added. Sonal Varma, chief economist of Nomura, said, “We expect the central government’s fiscal deficit to widen to 6.8 per cent of GDP in 2021021, nearly double the original budget target of 3.5 per cent , but better than previously feared 8 per cent), aided by a sequential improvement in revenues and a muted rise in spending. “With expenditures supported by strong nominal growth, optimism on tax collection and the government’s aggressive estimates for disinvestment and non-tax proceeds, we expect the fiscal deficit target to be set at 5.3 per cent of the gross domestic product in 2021-22.” Shah said “historically, the Finance Ministry has been adept at masking policy looseness in the budget figures when it wants to give an impression of fiscal consolidation. Typically, this is done by adopting ambitious revenue assumptions for the Goods and Services Tax and asset sales. The Finance Ministry is highly likely to use this strategy once again. Another trend over recent years has been for the Finance Ministry to shift some of its expenditure off-balance sheet. Given the conflicting pressures, we suspect that the authorities will continue to ramp up off-budget activities in FY21-22. Taken together, we think that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will announce a central fiscal deficit target of around 5% of GDP for FY21-22, and outline a roadmap to bring the deficit down to 3% of GDP over the next few years. The Finance Ministry will hope that is sufficient to keep bond yields close to their current lows.” The budget document of the past 10 years shows that nominal GDP growth of 14 per cent was projected in fy12 and fy 13. However, fy14 and fy15 including the interim budget projected nominal GDP growth of 13.4 per cent. Since then the finance ministers have been projecting nominal growth between 11 and 12 per cent with the budget for fy21 projecting nominal growth of 10 percent. N.R. Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of the Bengaluru-based Dr B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics University said “fiscal deficit as a ratio of GDP will see a significant improvement compared with what is expected in the current year, assuming that next year is going to be a normal year. Though the NSO has projected (-)4.2% as nominal growth for the current year, but, my own projection is that we may be somewhere close to zero. If the NSO numbers are right, then the Budget may assume nominal GDP growth of somewhere close to 15.0% for next year, if you assume zero growth. But, if its NSO estimate, then it may go to 16-17 percent.” “If that is the case, revenue projection is going to be substantially higher next year. Although there may be some slippage on the expenditure side, especially since we may want to spend more on vaccines and other health-related activities, the fiscal deficit could fall by at least 1.0-1.5 percentage points next year from the current year. I think most people are projecting a 7.0% fiscal deficit for the current year, so the next year could be somewhere closer to 5.5-6.0%,” he added. Bhanumurthy said “for the next year, I am hoping that the 15th Finance Commission would have provided a clear roadmap so that the government may start from there and suggest how they are going to bring down the fiscal deficit to whatever the targeted level at the end of five years. Hoping that it would have suggested some range targets with every year some leeway clause for the government to work around.” “The prepone-ing of the budget has led to deterioration of fiscal marksmanship. If the first advance estimates undergo significant revision, then nominal GDP growth keeps changing. We go badly in the next year’s GDP forecast, and other projections like revenue collection, which is the core of any budget exercise,” he added. Sonal Varma, chief economist of Nomura said “we expect the central government’s fiscal deficit to widen to 6.8% of GDP in FY21, nearly double the original budget target of 3.5%, but better than previously feared 8%), aided by a sequential improvement in revenues and a muted rise in spending. With expenditures supported by strong nominal growth, optimism on tax collection and the government’s aggressive estimates for disinvestment and non-tax proceeds, we expect the fiscal deficit target to be set at 5.3% of GDP in FY22.” She said “a combination of factors – the lagged impact of easy financial conditions, the ‘vaccine pivot’, and improving global growth prospects should lead to a strong growth outturn in FY22 real GDP growth of 13.5%, on our estimates. Consequently, we expect the government to assume nominal GDP growth of 15% y-o-y inFY22, more conservative relative to our estimate of 17% from -4.2% y-o-y in FY21 (advance estimates).” “The GDP to witness a turnaround in FY2022, with 10.1% growth in real terms, in contrast to the 7.8% contraction expected in FY2021. We expect the Union Budget for FY2022 to assume a nominal GDP growth of 14-15% in FY2022, higher than the 10% assumption that was made in the Budget for FY2021. In this note, we are using our projections for nominal GDP of Rs. 194.2 trillion for FY2021 and Rs. 221.4 trillion for FY2022,” rating agency ICRA in a research note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-02-2021||Business||Budget 2021-22: Stock investors not expecting any market-specific measures||Stock investors are not expecting any market-specific measures in the budget though sectoral reliefs across the economy may perk up specific scrips, the sombre mood reinforced by a more-than-2500 crash in the Sensex last week. The budgets have largely been disappointing to markets during the tenure of the NDA since 2014: they have fallen on five occasions the day of its presentation. Exactly a year ago, the Sensex had crashed 988 points — its steepest fall on a budget day in six years . However, this time around, there may be some relief for investors as the markets have seen a sell-off before the budget presentation. During the week before the key event, the 30-share BSE benchmark crashed 2592.77 points or 5.30 per cent while the Nifty has lost more than 737.30 points and it is now below the psychological 14000 mark at 13634.60. “Two good things have happened before this budget. First there has been a correction in the markets and second we do not have high expectations about this budget. In fact, less than 24 hours before its presentation, we are wondering what it could bring to the table. Therefore, the markets may not see a big fall,’’ says Arun Kejriwal, director, KRIS an investment advisory firm. An analyst with a domestic brokerage here added that investors are going into the budget with lighter positions and that expectations are muted as the government has so far desisted from announcing big-bang stimulus measures to boost growth after the Covid-19 pandemic. He, however, added that the markets will also focus on the proposals and that any coronavirus cess on high income individuals or companies may not be taken positively. Brokerages, however, do have sector-specific expectations. For the banking sector, it includes a bad bank, a bank investment company  that will take over the government’s stake in the 12 public sector banks. Some even expect a bold announcement in the form of privatisation of some of these banks apart from continuing their consolidation so as to bring down the number of state-owned lenders to four. They also expect a higher deduction on housing loans and reduction in long term capital gains rate on real estate assets to 10 per cent with their holding period also reduced to 12 months from 24 months. Some optimists are looking forward to some good news on the long-term capital gains (LTCG) on listed shares. “Among the key expectations, the investors will look forward to the abolition of long-term capital gains tax or redefining long term to two years and reducing the taxation to nil, while further allow indexation benefits to equity mutual funds and some relief on dividend distribution tax in hands of investors,’’ says Nitin Aggarwal, CEO, Religare Broking. A note from Centrum says that the budget will prioritise growth-oriented measures so that the momentum of recovery is sustained. The emphasis is likely to be on the revitalisation of durable consumption impulses as the supply side measures have already been implemented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest: A fortress in making in Ghazipur||With parked DTC buses sealing main entry points, multi-layered security arrangements and checkpoints -- both by police and farmers' union volunteers -- Ghazipur, the new focal point of the ongoing farmers' agitation, witnessed heightened restrictions on Monday. The Delhi-UP border site, which is galvanising farmers from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand days after BKU leader Rakesh Tikait's emotional appeal is a fortress in the making with security arrangements being amplified with every passing day. Concertina wires -- a new addition in at least three points -- boulders in between the barriers. No major road is open for movement of vehicles and people which is proving to be a growing problem for many passing the stretch. Rakesh Tikait, the star farmer leader, while addressing a packed crowd from the main stage also mentioned the newly put barbed wires in his speech. "They (the administration) have put these barbed wires, not us. They are not allowing people to come to Delhi. We are not the one blocking the roads. If we block roads, they ask us to vacate, but no action is taken when the same is done by these security forces," he said to a cheering crowd. On Wednesday night, the atmosphere was tense at Ghazipur. The Ghaziabad administration had issued an "ultimatum" to the protesters to vacate a stretch of the Delhi-Meerut expressway they were occupying as the January 26 clashes painted a not-so-peaceful picture of the peasant community. As security presence at the site escalated, fears grew that the protesters would be forcibly evicted, but the emotional outburst of Rakesh Tikait saved the day -- and possibly the whole movement -- and people in tens of thousands started converging at the protest site in support of the agitation. Many commuters complained that the heightened security measures and new restrictions on routes day after day are affecting their daily commute. "Since December we were facing problems with this stretch, but the security and restrictions have been grown by leaps and bounds. The interior routes which they have not barricaded -- as of yet -- are not only congested but are in a pathetic condition, making them too dangerous to travel on," said Navdeep Kumar, a regular commuter of the National Highway-24. To keep at bay an unruly crowd and any possible plot to disturb the peaceful movement, the volunteers have taken the matter into their own hands. They are maintaining high vigil in the area by setting up multiple-check points. "We don't allow locals to enter without any rhyme or reason. Even if you are media, you have to show your id-card for entry. The drill is applied round the clock," said a volunteer, standing next to a make-shift checkpoint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Union Budget opts for massive hike in healthcare spending||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has unveiled a growth-oriented budget that included a nearly 140 per cent hike in healthcare spending and declared the government was “fully prepared” with measures to pull the Covid-hit economy out of an unprecedented contraction. At the same time, she blew out the country’s hitherto conservative fiscal deficit target. First, the key budget takeaways for taxpayers: there’ll be no change in tax rates and there also won’t be any need for senior citizens over 75 to file tax returns if their only income is from pensions and interest income. Also, the budget got a big thumbs-up from investors who drove the benchmark 30-share Sensex 5 per cent higher in its biggest budget day rally since 1971. This is “a bold budget in many senses. The central intent has been to use expansionary fiscal policy to support growth sidestepping concerns over debt sustainability and sovereign ratings,” said HDFC chief economist Abheek Barua. The fiscal deficit will be 9.5 per cent for this fiscal year ending March 31, way beyond the 3.5-per-cent target set in the last budget. For next year, the government targeted a deficit of 6.8 per cent. Covid-19 has slashed growth, reducing tax revenues at the same time as increasing the need for higher spending to bolster the economy. The nearly Rs 35-trillion budget, which emphasises fiscal stimulus, envisages a “self-reliant India” that provides “every opportunity for our economy to...capture the pace it needs for sustainable growth,” said Sitharaman, who set a precedent by reading her speech to Parliament from a computer tablet to reflect the country’s digital drive. The government’s proposals will benefit the health care, real estate and construction, metal makers, state-run banks saddled with bad loans and textiles, innovation and research and development, among other areas, she said. "The government is fully prepared to support and facilitate the economy's reset," she said. The key thrust of the budget on healthcare which has been a neglected priority under successive governments drew praise from all parties. Sitharaman said the government would increase healthcare spending by 137 per cent to Rs 2.2 trillion to bolster the badly ailing public healthcare system and administer Covid vaccines to nearly 1.4 billion people. Also, under the budget, a new centrally sponsored scheme, PM AtmaNirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, will be launched with an outlay of Rs 64,180 crore over six years. “This will develop capacities of primary, secondary, and tertiary care health systems, strengthen existing national institutions, and create new institutions, to cater to detection and cure of new and emerging diseases,” said Sitharaman. The government also announced plans for “one nation, one ration card” to simplify distribution to the poor. Growth over fiscal consolidation “It is a growth-oriented budget with a lot of positive interventions, and with something in it for everyone. On healthcare, the Government has taken a big step with an outlay of Rs 2.23 lakh crore, a 137 per cent increase from last year, a step that was long overdue,” said Satish Reddy, chairman of Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, one of the country’s biggest drugmakers. But he added a strong note of caution: “As with all budgets, there are concrete proposals that are encouraging but it is the execution that finally matters and I hope this time the government gets it right.” The swing to high fiscal deficits drew only praise from business leaders. Uday Shankar, president of FICCI, who called the budget “outstanding, clear-headed and growth-oriented… (one) that lays a strong foundation for an Atmanirbhar Bharat.” He said, “the fact that the government chose growth over fiscal consolidation is indeed heartening. There is a sharp focus on capital expenditure.” No cushion for pandemic stressed sectors Critics, though noted, the budget contained no specific support for pandemic-stressed sectors like the hospitality sector. There was also no cushion provided for households – especially in the informal sector hit the most by the pandemic which was likely to push the economy toward a K-shaped recovery in which the rich get richer and the poor become poorer. Former Congress Union minister Anand Sharma tweeted that the budget was “without a roadmap for accelerating growth & revival of consumer demand... The nation needed a bold budget & more direct transfers to the weaker sections to revive demand, restart job creation.” Prices of gold and silver fell after Sitharaman said the government would slash customs duties on the precious metals to 7.5 per cent from 12.5 per cent to bring them more into line with 2019 levels when the duties had been hiked from 10 per cent., Rise in tax revenue forecast The government’s spending plans involve raising levies on imports such as mobile phone components to increase self-reliance, selling state assets and dividend income. The budget forecasts a 16 per cent rise next year in tax revenues to Rs 15.5 trillion rupees from the current year. The government also is aiming to cut its stakes in at least two public-sector banks and in an insurance company as well as monetise land banks that it hopes will reap at least Rs 1.75 lakh crore. That target is lower than the Rs 2.1 lakh crore it hoped to gain from disinvestment in the current financial years that was badly hit by the pandemic. Privatisation sales under not only the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi but also preceding administrations have rarely reached their targets because of the political sensitivity of such disposals and union opposition. Plans to pull in investment The budget sets out plans to draw investment to bolster the economy, raising the foreign investment ceiling in insurance to 74 per cent from 49 per cent in an attempt to draw long term funds for meeting the investment requirements of the sector. Among other moves, it also proposes simplifying the rules governing REITS and inVITS to attract foreign money. REITs and InvITs are both popular in global markets. REITs involve commercial real assets. InvITs are made up of infrastructure assets like highways. The government will also raise capital expenditure by more than Rs 1 trillion to Rs 5.54 trillion. The government has said the economy will grow by 11 per cent in the coming financial year, making it the fastest-growing worldwide, helped by the rollout of the Covid vaccine and hoped-for continued fall of Covid patient numbers. That growth will be a rebound from an unprecedented 7.7 contraction in the current year. While headline growth for 2021-22 looks impressive, in reality, it will be only a little over two per cent more than in 2019-20. Still, the government’s overall spending for the next coming fiscal year is only going to rise only 0.8 per cent to almost Rs 35 trillion, raising questions about the funding feasibility of the government's ambitious schemes. The government has also earmarked Rs 20,000 crore to recapitalise state-run banks that are groaning under the weight of bad loans. The aim is to allow them to give them leeway to meet the credit demands of a growing economy. Manufacturing companies hold the key For India to attain its target of becoming a $5-trillion economy, Sitharaman said the manufacturing sector must post double-digit growth and its manufacturing companies need to become an integral part of global supply chains, possess core competence and cutting-edge technology. In a bid to increase domestic manufacturing the government announced an up to 10-per-cent hike in customs duties for mobile chargers and phone parts which could mean costlier mobile handsets. To achieve these goals, schemes to create “manufacturing global champions for an AtmaNirbhar Bharat” have been announced for 13 sectors, she said. For this, the government has committed nearly Rs 1.97 lakh crores over five years in the next fiscal year starting April 1. “This initiative will help bring scale and size in key sectors, create and nurture global champions and provide jobs to our youth,” Sitharaman said. Textile parks To enable the textile industry to become globally competitive, attract large investment and boost job creation, a Mega Investment Textiles Parks or MITRA scheme will be launched. Sitharaman said this will create world-class infrastructure with plug-and-play facilities to create “global champions in exports.” She said seven textile parks will be established over three years. She said the government’s National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP), “a first-of-its-kind, whole-of-government exercise,” was launched in December which included 6,835 projects. The project pipeline has now expanded to 7,400 projects. Around 217 projects worth Rs 1.10 lakh crore under some key infrastructure ministries have been completed. She said the NIP is a specific target which the government is committed to achieving over the coming years and will require a major increase in funding both from the government and the financial sector. To accomplish these objectives, she said she would in this budget create the institutional structures; put a big thrust on monetising assets, and thirdly enhance the share of capital expenditure in central and state budgets. She also announced plans to create a Development Financial Institution (DFI) to act as a provider, enabler and catalyst for infrastructure financing and provided a sum of Rs 20,000 crore to capitalise the institution. “The ambition is to have a lending portfolio of at least Rs 5 lakh crore for this DFI in three years time,” she said. Investors cheered the budget, pushing up the Sensex by over 2,300 points to close at 48,601 while the broader NSE Nifty ended up 4.74 per cent or 674 points higher at 14,281.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Tourism sector unhappy with 19 per cent reduction in budget||The budgetary allocation for the ministry of tourism has been slashed from Rs 2,500 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 2026.77 crore this year, in a blow to the tourism industry which is reeling from huge losses due to the coronavirus crisis. The budget has allocated Rs 1088.03 crore for development of tourism infrastructure. With the coronavirus crisis restricting not just foreign tourist footfalls into the country but also keeping domestic tourists at bay, the budget has focused on pushing funds for promotion and publicity to help woo tourists back. Out of the Rs 668.72 crore allocated towards promotion and publicity, Rs 524.02 crore is for the overseas market and Rs 144.70 crore has been kept for domestic tourists. With the coronavirus crisis bringing the tourism sector to its knees, the union budget has allocated a sum of Rs 63.65 crore for capacity building for service providers and Rs 138.65 crore for training and skill development. FAITH, the policy federation of all the national associations representing the complete tourism, travel and hospitality industry of India said that lack of immediate direct support in budget has disappointed the Indian travel and tourism industry. In a statement, Nakul Anand, Chairman-FAITH said there was a need of corpus of at least Rs 2,500 crore for global branding budget to enable sub-branding of three tourism segments -- Indian MICE, Indian adventure, Indian Heritage under the Incredible India main brand to enhance each of these verticals' global outreach. "Not addressing any of these critical measures in the budget announcement has thrown the industry into a state of shock and deep dismay. The tourism, travel and hospitality industry is battling the worst in century crisis from the impact of Covid 19, revival from which will not be seen minimum for the next financial year till vaccination is fully undertaken with no observed side effects in all source and destination markets," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Twitter 'withholds' multiple accounts linked to farmers' protest||Twitter on Monday withheld multiple accounts on its social media platform including those linked with the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi borders against the new contentious central farm laws. Among the accounts withheld are Kisan Ekta Morcha (@Kisanektamorcha) and BKU Ekta Urgahan (@Bkuektaugrahan), both having followers in thousands. Besides these, several other individual and organisational accounts, including one of a media outlet, were also withheld, even as debates started on social media over the development. According to Twitter, when an account is withheld it means the social media platform was compelled to withhold the entire account specified (e.g, @username) in response to a valid legal demand, such as a court order. The development comes in the wake of violence in Delhi on Republic Day on January 26 during a tractor parade of farmers protesting the new agriculture laws which resulted in the death of one person and injuries to over a hundred people, including police personnel. The Delhi Police is currently probing the Republic Day violence wherein it has lodged multiple FIRs and booked, among others, several farmer leaders leading the protests at the national capital's borders since November-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Govt rationalising customs duties on gold, silver: FM||The government on Monday announced cut in import duty on gold and silver, a move that will help bring down prices of these precious metals in the domestic market and boost exports of gems and jewellery. The duty was reduced on other precious metals including gold dore bar, silver dore bar, platinum, gold/silver findings, and precious metal coins. "Gold and silver presently attract a basic customs duty of 12.5 per cent. Since the duty was raised from 10 per cent in July 2019, prices of precious metals have risen sharply. To bring it closer to previous levels, we are rationalising customs duty on gold and silver," Finance Minister Nirmala Sitahraman said while presenting the Union Budget 2021-22. The customs duty on gold and silver was reduced to 7.5 per cent. The duties on other precious metals were cut down to 6.9 per cent on gold dore bar from 11.85 per cent; 6.1 per cent on silver dore bar from 11 per cent; 10 per cent on platinum from 12.5 per cent; 10 per cent for gold/silver findings from 20 per cent; and 10 per cent on precious metal coins from 12.5 per cent. All these sectors, however, would also attract 'Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess' at a rate of 2.5 per cent. Welcoming the decision, Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) Chairman Colin Shah said that it would help in promoting domestic manufacturing and boosting exports. "It was our long-pending demand to cut the import duty on gold and silver. It is a welcome move for the domestic organised sector," Shah said. Gold imports, which have a bearing on the current account deficit, fell 27.20 per cent to USD 16.8 billion during April-December 2020-21. Silver imports during the period too dipped 67 per cent to about USD 762.31 million. India is the largest importer of gold, which mainly caters to the demand of the jewellery industry. In volume terms, the country imports 800-900 tonnes of gold annually. Gems and jewellery exports declined by about 40 per cent to about USD 17 billion during the nine months of the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Government raises import duty on mobile phone parts, chargers||The government on Monday proposed to impose import duty on components of mobile phones and chargers, to enhance local value addition. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a review of 400 exemptions in customs duty including those applicable on the mobile devices segment. "For greater domestic value addition, we are withdrawing a few exemptions on part of chargers and sub-parts of mobiles. Further, some parts of the mobile rate will move from nil rate to moderate 2.5 per cent," Sitharaman said. She added that the customs duty policy must have twin objectives of promoting domestic manufacturing and helping India get on to global value chain and export better. "The thrust now has to be on easy access to raw materials and exports of value addition," Sitharaman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Self-reliance at the heart of budget, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday hailed the Union Budget, saying it has the vision of 'Aatmanirbharta' (self reliance) and addresses all sections of the society while keeping farmers and villages at its heart. "This Budget has a special focus on strengthening the agriculture sector and boosting farmers' income. Villages and farmers are at its heart," Modi said. The budget will bring several positive changes for individuals, investors, industry and infrastructure sector, the Prime Minister said in his televised remarks on the Union Budget 2021-22 presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Parliament. Modi said the Budget has been presented in extraordinary circumstances and has a sense of reality as well as a confidence of development in it. It has the vision of Aatmanirbharta' and addresses all sections of the society, he asserted. "We have taken the approach of widening new opportunities for growth, creation of new opportunities for our youth, giving a new dimension to human resources, develop new sectors for infrastructure development, and moving towards technology and bringing new reforms in this Budget," he said. It's a pro-active Budget that gives boost to wealth as well as wellness, Modi said. This Budget talks of all-round development for all parts of country, he said, adding that it has provided for a record increase in allocation towards infrastructure building.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Union Budget proposes 140 per cent hike in healthcare spending||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled a growth-oriented budget that included a nearly 140 per cent hike in healthcare spending and declared the government was “fully prepared” with measures to pull the Covid-hit economy out of an unprecedented contraction. The budget targeting a “self-reliant India” provides every opportunity for our economy to "capture the pace that it needs for sustainable growth,” Sitharaman said, who set a precedent by reading her speech to parliament from a computer tablet. Sitharaman said her budget rested on various pillars that included spending on health infrastructure, physical and financial capital and infrastructure, inclusive development for an “aspirational India”, innovation and R&D, and minimum government and maximum governance. "The government is fully prepared to support and facilitate the economy's reset," Sitharaman said. Highlighting the difficulties of the government’s financial situation during the ongoing pandemic, Sitharaman announced a massive fiscal deficit of 9.5 per cent for the current fiscal year, blowing out the 3.5 per cent target set in the last budget. For the next year, the government targeted a deficit of 6.8 per cent. Covid-19 has slashed growth, reducing tax revenues at the same time as increasing the requirement for higher spending to bolster the economy. Under the budget, a new centrally sponsored scheme, PM AtmaNirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, will be launched with an outlay of about Rs 64,180 crore over six years. “This will develop capacities of primary, secondary, and tertiary care Health Systems, strengthen existing national institutions, and create new institutions, to cater to detection and cure of new and emerging diseases,” she said. For the current year, the Budget outlay for health and wellbeing will be increased by 137 per cent to Rs 223,846 crore. For India to attain its target of becoming a $5 trillion economy, Sitharaman said the manufacturing sector must post double-digit growth and its manufacturing companies need to become an integral part of global supply chains, possess core competence and cutting-edge technology. To achieve these goals, schemes to create “manufacturing global champions for an AtmaNirbhar Bharat” have been announced for 13 sectors, she said. For this, the government has committed nearly Rs 1.97 lakh crore over five years starting in the next fiscal year starting April 1. “This initiative will help bring scale and size in key sectors, create and nurture global champions and provide jobs to our youth,” Sitharaman said. To enable the textile industry to become globally competitive, attract large investment and boost job creation, a Mega Investment Textiles Parks or MITRA scheme will be launched. Sitharaman said this will create world class infrastructure with plug-and-play facilities to create “global champions in exports.” She said seven textile parks will be established over three years. She said the government’s National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP), “a first-of-its-kind, whole-of-government exercise,” was launched in December covering 6,835 projects. That the project pipeline has now expanded to 7,400 projects. Around 217 projects worth Rs 1.10 lakh crore under some key infrastructure ministries have been completed. She said the NIP is a specific target which this government is committed to achieving over the coming years and will require a major increase in funding both from the government and the financial sector. To accomplish these objectives, she said she would in this budget create the institutional structures; put a big thrust on monetizing assets, and thirdly enhance the share of capital expenditure in central and state budgets. She also announced plans to create a Development Financial Institution (DFI) to act as a provider, enabler and catalyst for infrastructure financing and provided a sum of Rs 20,000 crore to capitalise the institution. “The ambition is to have a lending portfolio of at least Rs 5 lakh crore for this DFI in three years time,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Internet suspension at Delhi borders extended till Tuesday ||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has extended the suspension of internet services at the farmer protest sites in Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders till Tuesday night, officials said. Apart from the three border points, where farmers have been protesting since November against the Centre's three new farm laws, internet services will remain suspended in their adjoining areas too. The suspension is effective from 11 pm of January 31 to 11 pm on February 2. The decision has been taken to 'maintain public safety and averting public emergency' under Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017, a Home ministry official said. The suspension of internet services at the three border points and their adjoining areas was imposed at 11 pm on January 29 and was initially effective till 11 pm on January 31. The Union home ministry invoked the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017 in the Indian Telegraph Act to shut down the Internet in these areas where tens of thousands of men, women and children have been agitating peacefully since November-end for the repeal of three new farm laws. The clampdown came after the protesting farmers succeeded in turning the narrative built against them, through television media in particular, since the chaos during the Republic Day tractor rally. Flow of information out of the protest sites had helped mobilise farmers over the past few days, with visuals of the crackdown at Ghazipur on Thursday night shared over social media turning the tide against the government. Internet services were also temporary suspended in some parts of Delhi on January 26, when large scale violence was reported during the farmers' tractor rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Congress slams Union budget, terms it 'disappointing'||The Congress on Monday strongly criticised the Union budget, saying Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's speech was oblivious to the declining GDP and the budget was a case of "wrong diagnosis and prescription". "The FM could have been brave but chose to be timid. The nation needed a bold budget and more direct transfers to the weaker sections to revive demand, restart job creation," senior Congress leader and Deputy leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma tweeted. The budget is "disappointing" and without a roadmap for accelerating growth and revival of consumer demand, he said. Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari also alleged that the budget was a "national monetisation plan -- short hand for National Sell out" and there was "no central focus in Budget". "FM's Talkthorn (sic) oblivious that growth rate of GDP is in a record 37th month decline.Worst Crisis since 1991. Except for a National Monetisation Plan - short hand for National Sell out no Central Focus in Budget. Bottom line-Will not grow economy but sell the family silver," he tweeted. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor also took a dig at the Centre over the budget, saying "this BJP government reminds me of the garage mechanic who told his client, 'I couldn't fix your brakes, so I made your horn louder'." Another Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said the budget has left the middle class "bruised and wounded" by not changing tax slabs, not increasing deductions, not making new deduction slots like home loans, not bringing fuel under GST, not sharing Rs 19 Lakh crore gain from fuel taxes, not reducing GST rates. "After promising a century, FM is out hit wicket at Zero !! Instead of calling it as 'budget of the century' it will be remembered as 'blunder of the century' by BJP Govt #Budget2021," he tweeted. "Budget case of 'wrong diagnosis and wrong prescription' by BJP government which instead of healing, reforming and rejuvenating has chosen to adopt a damaging, disappointing and destroying approach to push the economy further into vortex of recession," he tweeted. The TMC also lashed out at the Centre over the Union Budget on Monday, saying it was 100 per cent "visionless" and its theme was "sell India". "India's first paperless budget is also a 100% visionless budget. Theme of the fake budget is Sell India!" TMC spokesperson Derek O'Brien said. "Railways: sold, Airports: sold, Ports: sold, Insurance: sold PSUs: 23 sold!" O'Brien claimed common people and farmers were ignored, adding that the Budget would make the rich richer and the poor poorer, while the middle class got "nothing". The Rajya Sabha MP also highlighted statistics to show how West Bengal had developed rural roads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Pandemic led to weak revenue flow: FM||The coronavirus pandemic relief measures resulted in a rise in expenditure to Rs 34.50 lakh crore in the current fiscal as against Rs 30.42 lakh crore budgeted a year back, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday.  The pandemic also resulted in weak revenue inflow and higher expenditure was incurred to provide support for the economy and people, she said while presenting the Union Budget for 2021-22.  Sitharaman also provided Rs 35,000 crore towards COVID-19 vaccination in 2021-22 fiscal.  "I have provided Rs 35,000 crore for COVID-19 vaccine in this year 2021-22. I'm committed to provide further funds if required. The Budget outlay for health and well being is Rs 2.23 lakh crore in 2021-22 as against BE of Rs 94,452 crore and marks an increase of 137 per cent," she said while presenting 2021-22 Budget in the Lok Sabha.  India had earlier in January approved two vaccines -- Oxford's Covishield manufactured by SII and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin -- for restricted emergency use. The country launched its COVID-19 vaccination drive from January 16 in what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called the world's largest inoculation programme with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers.  According to the COVID-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities based on evolving pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Govt committed to farmers’ welfare, says FM||Stressing that the government is committed to farmers' welfare, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the MSP regime has undergone a "sea change" to assure price at least 1.5 times of production cost with sharp increase in procurement of foodgrains and payment to farmers.  In her budget speech for the next fiscal, she said the procurement of crops like paddy, wheat, pulses and cotton has jumped manifold in the last six years.  "Our government is committed to the welfare of farmers. The MSP (minimum support price) regime has undergone a sea change to assure price that is at least 1.5 times the cost of production across all commodities," Sitharaman said.  "The procurement has also continued to increase at a steady pace. This has resulted in increase in payment to farmers substantially," she said.  As the minister started highlighting the government's initiatives and achievements in the agriculture sector, opposition members started demanding repeal of three new farm laws.  Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi borders for more than two months seeking repeal of three laws and a legal guarantee of the MSP.  Sharing the procurement data and amount paid to farmers under MSP operation, Sitharaman said: "In case of wheat, the total amount paid to farmers in 2013-14 was Rs 33,874 crore. In 2019-20, it was Rs 62,802 crore."  In 2020-21, she said the amount paid to farmers is over Rs 75,000 crore.  "The number of wheat growing farmers that were benefited increased in 2020-21 to 43.36 lakh compared to 35.57 lakh in 2019-20. That much of an increase within one year," the finance minister said.  For paddy, Sitharaman said the amount paid in 2013-14 was Rs 63,928 crore. In 2019-20, this increased to Rs 1,41,930 crore. Even better in 2020-21, the minister said this is further estimated to increase to Rs 1,72,752 crore.  Number of paddy farmers benefitted increased from 1.2 crore in 2019-20 to 1.54 crore in 2020-21.  In pulses, Sitharaman said Rs 236 crore was paid to farmers in 2013-14. "In 2019-20, this was increased to Rs 8,285 crore. Now in 2020-21, it is at Rs 10,530 crore, more than 40 times increase from 2013-14."  Similarly, Rs 90 crore was paid in 2013-14 to cotton farmers while Rs 25,974 crore has been paid in 2020-21 as of January 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||India logs 11,427 fresh Covid cases, 118 casualties in a day||With 11,427 new coronavirus cases being reported in a day, India's Covid-19 tally has increased to 1,07,57,610, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,04,34,983, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The national recovery rate surged to 97 per cent. The death toll increased to 1,54,392 with 118 daily new fatalities. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh for the 13th consecutive day. There are 1,68,235 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.56 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,70,92,635 samples have been tested up to January 31 with 5,04,263 samples being tested on Sunday. The 118 new fatalities include 40 from Maharashtra, 21 from Kerala, 9 from West Bengal, 8 from Uttar Pradesh, 6 each from Punjab and Tamil Nadu, 4 each from Delhi and Karnataka. A total of 1,54,392 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,082 from Maharashtra followed by 12,356 from Tamil Nadu, 12,217 from Karnataka, 10,853 from Delhi, 10,173 from West Bengal, 8,658 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,153 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Budget Live: Rs 35,000 cr for Covid vaccination in 2021-22, says FM||Finance minister Nirmala Sithraman while announcing Budget 2021 in Parliament said that it was prepared in circumstances -like never before- and that the government was fully prepared to back and facilitate a reset of the economy. According to her, the total impact of Atmanirbhar Bharat and Covid relief measures was Rs 27.1 lakh crore, which amounts to 13 per cent of the GDP, reported ndtv.com. "Faith is the bird that feels the light and sings when the dawn is still dark" she quoted Rabindranath Tagore, adding that this moment in history is the dawn of a new era, where India is well-poised to be the land of promise and hope". The Atmanirbhar Bharat schemes announced in 2020 were like five mini budgets themselves, said the Finance Minister. Highlights of the Union Budget:  Cabinet nod The Union Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday approved the Budget 2021-22, sources said. The Budget will be presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in a short while from now in the Lok Sabha. In a first, the Budget 2021-22 would be in a paperless format. Markets Stock investors are not expecting any market-specific measures in the budget though sectoral reliefs across the economy may perk up specific scrips, the sombre mood reinforced by a more-than-2500 crash in the Sensex last week. Disappointing The budgets have largely been disappointing to markets during the tenure of the NDA since 2014: they have fallen on five occasions the day of its presentation. Exactly a year ago, the Sensex had crashed 988 points — its steepest fall on a budget day in six years. Banking Brokerages, however, do have sector-specific expectations. For the banking sector, it includes a bad bank, a bank investment company that will take over the government’s stake in the 12 public sector banks. Some even expect a bold announcement in the form of privatisation of some of these banks apart from continuing their consolidation so as to bring down the number of state-owned lenders to four. Housing loan Many brokerages expect a higher deduction on housing loans and reduction in long term capital gains rate on real estate assets to 10 per cent with their holding period also reduced to 12 months from 24 months. Long-term capital gains Some optimists are looking forward to some good news on the long-term capital gains (LTCG) on listed shares. “Among the key expectations, the investors will look forward to the abolition of long-term capital gains tax or redefining long term to two years and reducing the taxation to nil, while further allow indexation benefits to equity mutual funds and some relief on dividend distribution tax in hands of investors,’’ says Nitin Aggarwal, CEO, Religare Broking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Farmers protest: Govt moves to isolate Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur ||A concrete mixer was at work at the Ghazipur border on Sunday, pouring cement mixture between two barricades under the supervision of police to build a wall that would cut off the protesting farmers, a day after Internet was shut down at all three protest sites on Delhi’s borders and one journalist was arrested. Over the weekend the government has moved to isolate all three big protest sites — Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur — by choking physical access and flow of information. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which farmers are agitating for repeal of three new farm laws and the enactment of a legal guarantee for minimum support prices, condemned the clampdown and revealed that more than 100 protesters were missing since Republic Day. The clampdown was an attempt to prevent “real facts” about the peaceful conduct of the protest from getting out, the Morcha said, adding that having “manufactured” a narrative, the government was trying to ensure it did not change. Union leaders pointed to the Prime Minister’s radio show Mann Ki Baat in which he said the nation was saddened by the “insult to the National Flag”. While some protesters had raised the Nishan Sahib and farmer union flags at the Red Fort, these were hoisted on an empty pole beneath the Tricolour. “The government does not want the facts to reach the protesting farmers.... It is fearful of the coordinated work of the farmers’ unions across different protest sites and is trying to cut off communication between them. This is undemocratic and illegal,” the Morcha said in a statement. It questioned the sequestering of the protest sites “from a long distance, disallowing common people and mediapersons from reaching the Singhu border”, and said this was “also to disrupt the supply of food and water”. Many Delhi residents had been regularly visiting the protest sites and volunteering there. The crackdown was criticised also by Meghalaya governor Satyapal Malik, who was the governor of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019 when the state was split into two Union territories. “I would warn that suppressing any issue in the world is not a solution. By pressing, it goes down for some time, but then it emerges with even bigger force,” Malik was quoted by news agency ANI as saying. The Morcha, which represents around 500 farmer groups from across the country, condemned the detention of journalists, Mandeep Punia in particular, in connection with “false and fabricated charges out of the government’s fear of being exposed for its real conspiracy and out of fear of the rising strength of the farmers’ movement”. Punia, who had reported on the fracas at Singhu on Friday when a group of men walked into the heavily barricaded protest site and attacked the farmers in front of a large police contingent, was arrested on Saturday on charges of “misbehaving” with the police. While the Morcha will meet on Monday to chalk out its future course, the 32 Punjab unions that are part of it met on Sunday and decided to form a six-member committee to gather information on those missing since the tractor rally and provide legal assistance to those arrested, including journalists. PTI reported that the Morcha had asked for any information on those missing to be shared on the phone number 8198022033. The barricading has made it difficult for people to access the protest sites from the highways and to send supplies, but the pathways from the adjoining areas are being used and local residents are extremely supportive, farmer leaders said. Reacting to the Prime Minister’s statement on Saturday that the offer to suspend the three farm laws for 18 months still stood, farmer leader Buta Singh Burjgill said at a news conference at Singhu: “Mercy petitions only delay the inevitable; it seldom stops the execution.” The farmers describe the three laws as their “death warrant”. Since January 28, the fastest mobilisation among the three sites has been at Ghazipur, where Rakesh Tikait has become a rallying point. Former BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal’s Sukhbir Singh Badal visited him on Sunday to honour him and promise full support. Several Opposition leaders have visited Ghazipur since Thursday, when the Uttar Pradesh government tried to evict the protesters. Referring to Modi’s statement, Tikait said he too wanted the issue resolved through talks that would respect the Prime Minister’s “honour” and that of the farmers. His elder brother Naresh Tikait said in Muzaffarnagar that these bills were “fire” that would cause damage. “If the laws are repealed then the government does not stand to lose anything…. Accept your fault, and hold talks,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Delhi police arrests freelance journalist||Delhi police on Sunday arrested freelance journalist Mandeep Punia who had in a Facebook Live session on Friday accused BJP workers of posing as local people and unleashing violence at the farmers’ protest site on the Singhu border. The police had detained Punia on Saturday night, saying he had tried to dismantle barricades at Singhu and misbehaved with security personnel. A video has emerged purportedly showing a group of policemen shoving Punia and dragging him away. The FIR says Punia was arrested for his “misbehaviour” with a station house officer at the Singhu border. Sitting in a police jeep on Sunday afternoon, Punia chanted “Free Press” as he was being taken to court. He has been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. Journalists protested outside the Delhi police headquarters, demanding Punia’s release. Punia has been booked under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). Punia had posted a video on Facebook giving a personal account of the violence at Singhu. He said mobs chanted anti-farmer slogans and threw stones at the protesters in the presence of policemen. A group of 150-200 people had stormed the Singhu protest site on Friday amid heavy security, hurled stones at the farmers and vandalised some of their tents. While members of the mob claimed to be “local residents”, the farmers alleged they were BJP supporters. Punia, a regular contributor to The Caravan magazine, had been on assignment to cover the farmers’ protest at the Singhu border on Friday. Rahul Gandhi on Sunday shared a video that shows Punia being detained by the police and tweeted in Hindi: “Those who fear the truth arrest true journalists.” The Indian Women’s Press Corps, Press Club of India and the Press Association condemned the police’s use of “brutal force” against Punia and demanded his immediate release. They said that no journalist should be disturbed while carrying out their duties at any place. “Delhi police used brutal force while picking up Mandeep and did not share his whereabouts to other media colleague entire night,” a joint statement said. “Mandeep has been reporting on the present farmers’ agitation right from the beginning and his arrest is part of the government crackdown on journalists to prevent them from doing their job independently and freely. “Such crackdowns impinge on the media’s right to report freely and interferes with our right to freedom of expression, and freedom of the press as guaranteed by the Constitution of India.” Another journalist, Dharmendra Singh, was picked up on Saturday night from the Singhu border. Police sources said he was released later in the night after he showed his press identity card. Officers wouldn’t say why he had been detained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Tractor march was set up to fail: Cardiologist from US||Cardiologist Swaiman Singh came from the US to volunteer for medical aid at the farmers’ protest right when it began. Nothing had prepared him for the scaremongering and police highhandedness he experienced while treating patients, including policemen, during the tractor rally on Republic Day. He doesn’t understand why he and his team of medical personnel got beaten up by the police — ironically, they spent several hours treating injured cops — why he saw no government ambulances despite the size of the event, or why some people spread rumours of violence and confusion about the routes through the day, aggravating matters. A cardiology fellow at the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in Newark, Singh took a break from his studies to come to the Tikri Kalan protest site and start a medical camp, library and night shelter. The Five Rivers Heart Association, the NGO he runs in the US, has 220 medical personnel and 32 ambulances at Tikri. He told this newspaper that on January 26, he was in Nangloi, a place on the designated route for the tractor rally from Tikri, where some farmers breached barricades. “We were there from around 10am. Twelve of our ambulances were stuck in traffic. Suddenly people from across the barricade (the Delhi side) came over and said that Nihang Sikhs had cut off policemen’s legs,” he said. “Others came and said the police were beating people up. I initially sent two doctors, who couldn’t find any clash, but as these unknown men kept coming and telling us this, we all moved across the barricade, which the police let us do. Once we had crossed over, we confirmed there had been no clashes there and that the farmers had not breached the barricades (at the time). “After an hour or so, when news started coming in about protesters (storming) the Red Fort, trouble began at the Nangloi barricades. Some of our medical volunteers who were at the barricades told me later that the farmers were talking to the police, saying, ‘Jai jawan, jai kisan, let us advance’, when two policemen came and slapped some boys. “The police started firing tear smoke, aiming it at the heads of the protesters. I saw a shell hit a man on a tractor, almost taking off half his face. He drove his tractor into a barricade and sped away. Our ambulance tried to chase him but could not catch him.” Dr Singh added: “There were no government doctors or ambulances. I had volunteered as a doctor at Black Lives Matter. How can there be a protest without ambulances and fire engines? As the trouble worsened, we set up a field hospital on the spot. We were suturing (the wounds of) Delhi police and CRPF men. Our ambulances took some 15 of them, and probably more than 100 farmers, to hospitals for further treatment. “Around two hours after we had started, two men came and stood near us and the police began beating them. Then the police began to hit us with lathis.” A Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to this newspaper’s queries about the emergency medical personnel deployed and why they were absent along the route of the Tikri march. In a video posted on Facebook on Thursday, Dr Singh said the march had been “literally set up to fail” as the participants did not know the routes thoroughly. “The pain was seeing our brothers, our policemen, the CRPF, they didn’t have backup…. Where were the doctors, where were ambulances for them? Even they were set up to fail and die. If we weren’t there so many people would have lost their lives that day,” he wrote. A video shot by a person at the spot shows Delhi police in riot helmets hit two unidentified men who have sticks in their hands. This happens close to medical personnel who are on a pavement wearing neon jackets, and who shout, ‘This is a hospital.’ The police wield their sticks on the doctors. The images then end but the audio of the beating continues. In all, six medical volunteers — doctors, nurses and a pharmacist, from Punjab, Delhi, Bengal and Karnataka — from Dr Singh’s NGO suffered injuries. Three of them have broken arms, one has a deep gash on the head, and two have severe bruises on their thighs. Another video, shared by Dr Singh on his social media accounts, shows two policemen in motorcycle helmets and a third in riot gear chasing a medical volunteer and beating him after he falls. The policemen are then pulled back by CRPF personnel. “They hit a doctor who was holding an intravenous (infusion) line for an injured policeman. These policemen were stopped by other policemen,” Dr Singh said. “We thought of leaving and going back to the farmers’ side but the policemen begged us not to go as they did not have their own doctors. We stayed and treated whoever came to us, and moved to Peeragarhi and other places on the route until the rally ended. Our hospital functioned till 10pm.” In another video, a CISF jawan is seen pleading with folded hands to the medical personnel not to leave. “It seemed to me like there were people misleading the farmers (into violating the designated routes) and the police (into beating the doctors). Most farmers did not know the routes. They are from out of town and have no clue about Delhi,” Dr Singh said. “I want to know why the government shut off the Internet (on Tuesday afternoon at many places in Delhi). There was no information coming and both the police and the farmers were confused. I also want to know why the police have cut the supply lines of food, water, even electricity (at the protest sites). I’m unable to get my supply of medicines. The way things are, we can work for only three more days.” The Union home ministry’s order on Tuesday that cut off Internet services where protests were taking place cited “the interest of maintaining public safety and averting any public emergency”. Dr Singh, settled in the US for more than two decades, grew up in Amritsar. Hailing from a family of activists, he visits different parts of India annually to hold medical camps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
01-02-2021||India||Country saddened by insult to Tricolour: Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the “country was saddened by the insult to the Tricolour on January 26 in Delhi”, appearing oblivious to the fact that the man accused by farmers of perpetrating the Red Fort chaos had been seen posing with him in a picture earlier. “Amidst all this, the country was saddened by the insult to the Tricolour on January 26 in Delhi,” Modi said in his monthly radio address Mann ki Baat. However, this was the only reference the Prime Minister made to the Republic Day violence. He broached the topic while talking about the Indian cricket team’s series win in Australia, terming the victory “inspirational”. Deep Sidhu, an actor who was present at the Red Fort when the flags were put up, has been seen in pictures with BJP leaders, including Modi. Police are yet to locate Punjabi actor and pro-Khalistan activist Deep Sidhu who is accused of inciting farmers to deviate from their assigned route and storm the Red Fort on Republic Day. “We have not been able to track him down. Police teams have been sent to Punjab but so far they have not been able to locate him,” said a senior police officer. The failure to nab Sidhu is in sharp contrast to the police action against several journalists over the past few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
01-02-2021||India||Red Fort breach was a conspiracy to defame farmers: Congress||The Congress on Sunday confronted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, alleging Tuesday’s Red Fort breach was a conspiracy by his government to defame the farmers and wondering why main suspects Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana had not yet been arrested. It also questioned Modi’s assertion in his Mann Ki Baat radio address that the nation had been saddened by the insult of the national flag on Republic Day, citing how the RSS had for decades refused to fly the Tricolour. “The Prime Minister says the nation was saddened by the insult of the national flag on Republic Day. Why have the main culprits — Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana — not been arrested six days after the incident?” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said. “The critical question is, how did these people enter the Red Fort? Nobody could have done that unless police allowed them to enter.” “We are sad that policemen got injured that day. But on whose orders was such a situation created?” Shrinate said. “Are our security forces fodder for political conspiracies? Your RSS didn’t fly the Tricolour for decades. You wiped your face with the Tricolour. Your supporters hail Nathuram Godse on Gandhi’s death anniversary. Your party leaders attack farmers in the garb of locals and journalists who expose this conspiracy are put in jail.” “The nation was shocked to witness the insult of the Tricolour on January 26, said the Prime Minister,” senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh tweeted. “Shocked!! Why were you not shocked to be associated with RSS which refused to fly our national flag for decades after the Independence? Crocodile tears, Mr Prime Minister. “What about Deep Sidhu, Mr Prime Minister? How was he allowed to come up to Red Fort when other kisan leaders were not allowed? What was Delhi police doing when this was happening? By the way, where is Deep Sidhu? I am sure your home minister would know about his whereabouts! Stop fooling now!” The police have registered an FIR against Sidhu and Sidhana but they remain free. The Congress attacked the government for targeting journalists such as Punia. “Those who fear truth arrest true journalists,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “Journalists covering farmers’ movement are being arrested, cases are filed against them. Internet is being shut down. The BJP intends to crush farmers’ voice. The government has also violated democracy’s dignity by filing FIRs against senior editors and journalists.” A sedition case has been lodged against six senior journalists and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor for “spreading violence and disharmony” through social media comments about a farmer’s death during the tractor rally. Shrinate said: “This barbarism by elected governments — of filing sedition cases against journalists for speaking the truth — is worse than the cruelty of the colonial regime. This should shame every citizen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
01-02-2021||India||Bengal’s performance poor on certain primary health measures: Survey||The Centre’s Economic Survey has attributed Bengal’s poor performance on certain primary health measures to the state’s decision not to adopt the nationwide health insurance scheme that covers hospitalisation costs for poor households, baffling health experts who say the connection is far-fetched. The survey, released by the Union finance ministry on Friday, has said Assam, Bihar and Sikkim, which have adopted the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (PMJAY), have shown greater improvements in infant mortality, family planning services and vaccinations than has Bengal. But sections of health experts and health economists have questioned the wisdom of citing the PMJAY — a scheme that pays for hospitalisation — as a source of gains in primary health measures. One expert said the PMJAY chapter’s reference to Bengal appeared to have been crafted with “a political motivation” to cast Bengal in poor light. The PMJAY, launched by the Narendra Modi government in September 2018, is a government-funded insurance scheme that provides cashless hospitalisation services to eligible households, paying up to Rs 5 lakh per year per household. Since its launch, it has supported over 1.5 million hospitalisations, providing treatment and surgical services to patients with cancers, cardiovascular diseases, kidney failure, bone problems, obstetric and gynaecological conditions and other health disorders. The survey said the proportion of households covered by health insurance had increased overall by 54 per cent in states that had implemented the PMJAY, but only by 10 per cent in the four states — Bengal, Delhi, Odisha and Telangana — that have not adopted it. In Bengal, the proportion of households covered by health insurance has fallen by 12 per cent between 2015-16 and 2019-20, while the proportion of such households has increased by 89 per cent in the three neighbouring states, the survey said. The survey has cited differences in infant mortality, under-five child mortality, usage of contraception pills and family planning services and postnatal care between Bengal and the three states to argue that the PMJAY has had a beneficial impact on health measures. For instance, infant mortality fell by 20 per cent in Bengal between 2015-16 and 2019-20, but by 28 per cent in Assam, Bihar and Sikkim. The adoption of contraception and family planning services increased by 22 to 36 per cent in the three states but showed negligible changes in Bengal. Vaccination coverage for three doses of the pentavalent vaccine (against five infections) or the hepatitis B vaccine increased by 5 per cent in Bengal but by 19 per cent in the three states, the survey has said. The survey has said while some of these measures “stemmed directly from enhanced care enabled by insurance coverage, others represent spill over effects”. But health analysts have pointed out that the PMJAY supports hospital admissions and does not include primary health services. “It is disconcerting and disappointing to see a prestigious government publication offer such incorrect analysis using inappropriate indicators and single out one state to argue that the PMJAY has been a successful scheme,” said Indrani Gupta, professor in the health policy research unit at the Institute of Economic Growth, New Delhi. Gupta said since the PMJAY was not designed to address primary and preventive health, the only relevant indicator to evaluate its performance and impact would be household out-of-pocket expenditure on hospitalisation costs. Another health economist, Indranil Mukhopadhyaym who teaches at the OP Jindal University and is a member of the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, a non-government network of health groups, also said the analysis linking the PMJAY with primary health measures “makes no sense”. “Claims that the improvements in the uptake of family planning services or vaccination coverage are because of the PMJAY are to say the least far-fetched,” Mukhopadhyay said. “They appear to be politically motivated and it is surprising to see such content in the Economic Survey.” A senior official in the National Health Authority that manages the PMJAY told The Telegraph that while the scheme itself provides only hospitalisation support, it has “indirect benefits” that could emerge from “enhanced awareness” about health care among the population. But Gupta and others point out that the Economic Survey has a wide readership that includes economists, researchers and students within and outside India that requires the architects of the survey to remain objective. “The content of the chapter on the PMJAY raises the question whether the survey can be still treated as a reliable source of objective and analytical situational assessments of the country,” Gupta said. On some measures cited by the report, Mukhopadhyay and others point out, Bengal has higher absolute scores than the three states. Bengal, for instance, had 92 per cent institutional births in 2019-20 compared with 85 per cent in the three states. Bengal also had a higher proportion of births managed by a skilled birth attendant (94 per cent) compared with 87 per cent in Assam, Bihar and Sikkim. The survey itself has said Bengal has had larger increases in institutional births and births managed by skilled attendants than the three states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
01-02-2021||India||Webinars on internal matters can only be conducted with govt’s nod||Government institutions can hold virtual conferen­ces on subjects touching on In­dia’s security and internal ma­tters, including topics related to the country’s borders, No­rtheast or Jammu and Ka­shm­ir, only with the government’s approval fr­om now on. So say the education mini­s­try’s revised guidelines of January 15 for “online/ virtual ­conferences/ seminars/ tra­i­n­i­ng, etc”, which have spa­r­ked concern in academia abo­ut the future of research and free online debate on subjects the go­vernment considers sensitive. Several academics suggested these guidelines would affect research in certain subjects and prompt speakers at webinars to be guarded at the cost of frank discussion. One part of the guidelines that has caused particular concern mandates, apparently in the context of webinars with foreign participation, “appropriate level of scrutiny to identify the nature and sensitivity of data or content of the presentations or the information to be shared by an Indian delegation”. It doesn’t clarify who will do the scrutiny — the government or the organiser — the vagueness adding to the academics’ unease. “Research scholars make presentations at national and international seminars. In ma­ny areas now, they will face co­nstraints in making their presentations because of the sc­rutiny,” said Nandita Nara­in, a teacher at St Stephen’s College. “The speakers will prefer to self-censor themselves. The quality of research in many areas and that of debate will be affected.” She said that earlier guidelines required institutions to take permission for physical seminars, and that requirement has now been extended to virtual conferences, practically the only kind of confere­nces possible in a pandemic hit world. Academics said it was not possible for the government to have people attending or rec­ording all physical conferenc­es, so the regulations had lesser bite. Virtual conferences, ho­wever, can be easily monitored live and again scrutinised later. The guidelines say that all ministries and departments, public sector undertakings, central educational institutions, public-funded universities and organisations owned and controlled by central, state and Union Territory governments must seek approval of the administrative secretary concerned — for the event as well as the list of partici¬ pants. But the guidelines are silent on virtual conferences held by private universities, think tanks or research organisations. “This will also make it difficult to invite speakers,” Narain said, alluding to the possibility of the guidelines putting off some potential participants or government officials scuttling invites to particular speakers. While physical conferences had their own constraints when it came to inviting foreign speakers, webinars had so far offered a huge freedom in this respect. “While giving permission, the ministry should ensure that the subject matter for online events is not related to security of State, border, northeast states, UT of J&K, Ladakh or any other issues which are clearly/ purely related to India’s internal matter/s,” the guidelines say. They advise the organisers to be judicious in their choice of infotech applications, platforms and mediums of interaction: “Preference should be given to those apps having servers not controlled/ hosted/ owned by countries/ agencies hostile to India.” The guidelines make the foreign ministry’s clearance compulsory for events having foreign funding, sponsorship or participation as well as those involving “sensitive” subjects — political, scientific, technical, commercial, or personal — with provisions for sharing data in any form. While seeking approval or after obtaining approval, the link of the online event should be shared with the foreign ministry. Care should be taken to ensure that India’s “map, flag, emblem, etc, are correct and rightly displayed”. Foreign ministry clearance will be required also for “Union/ state ministers, constitutional functionaries and government officials/ scientists/ doctors, etc, of the rank of JS (joint secretary) and above in online/ virtual/ physical international conferences/ seminars/ training, etc”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
01-02-2021||India||Clerk axed over fake certificate in Odisha||A woman working as senior clerk in the tribal-dominated Malkangiri district was sacked after an inquiry revealed that she got the job by producing fake caste certificates. The woman, who had submitted a Scheduled Tribe (ST) certificate to get the job, was in service for the past 24 years. She was not only drawing salary but also availing herself of other financial benefits of government employees. Sources said the accused Laxmipriya Behera, who belongs to the socially and educationally backward classes, had married an ST man. Later, she obtained the ST certificate using her husband’s identity. The authorities had failed to make proper inquiry into her case at the time of appointment. But some people who knew about it had filed a petition challenging her appointment on the ground that she had got the job by producing fake certificates. Later, a probe was conducted by the southern division revenue commissioner. Based on the report, Malkangiri collector Y. Vijay dismissed her from the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
01-02-2021||India||Royal Bengal tiger found dead in Bihar ||A Royal Bengal tiger was found dead at the Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in Bihar’s West Champaran district, with forest officials saying circumstantial evidence pointed to the involvement of poachers. A patrolling party of forest officials found the carcass late on Saturday in the forested areas of the VTR division-I. Its post-mortem was conducted on Sunday. “The tiger was about five-years-old. Its post-mortem has revealed injuries and cut marks on its front and hind legs. A half-eaten goat was also found nearby. Portions of the goat were found in the tiger’s stomach in the post-mortem,” VTR director and conservator of forest Hem Kant Roy told The Telegraph. Roy said the findings of the post-mortem indicate “either the tiger was baited by poachers with the help of a goat and then killed, or it died in afracas with some other tiger or tigress. We are not ruling out any possibilities right now.”The VTR director said that no body parts of the tiger, including its nails and teeth, were missing. The forest department has sent samples of the carcass to the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun; Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Izzatnagar; and the Bihar Veterinary College, Patna for further research on the cause of its death. Combing operations are being conducted in the tiger reserve and people living in villages nearby are being questioned. The VTR is spread over 899sqkm, including 598km of core area and 301km of buffer or peripheral area in West Champaran district. It lies contiguous to the Chitwan National Park in Nepal across the border and adjacent to the Sheopur Range of Sohagibarwar wildlife sanctuary in Uttar Pradesh. It was declared a tiger reserve in 1994, and currently has anywhere between 28 to 37 tigers. The animals keep moving freely to and fro to the Chitwan National Park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
01-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP seeks Bengal govt permission for rath yatra||The Bengal BJP has sought permission from the state government for its month-long 'rath yatra' across the state ahead of the assembly polls. BJP state vice-president Pratap Banerjee, in a letter to Chief Secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, said the saffron camp, beginning February, intends to take out five rallies, as part of the 'rath yatra', crisscrossing the entire state. "West Bengal State Bharatiya Janata Party has decided to carry out a peaceful political programme throughout West Bengal in the form of 'yatra' in the months of February and March 2021. "There will be five segments -- covering all the assembly constituencies of West Bengal. Each yatra will include a 'rath' and will run simultaneously in different segments/territories of the state," the letter said. The duration of each yatra would be of approximately 20 to 25 days, it stated. Several top BJP leaders are scheduled to arrive in Bengal during the month-long campaign, set to take off from Nabadwip, Coochbehar, Kakdwip, Jhargram and Tarapith on February 6, 8 and 9. According to sources, the state secretariat has received the letter. "The broader purpose of this communication is to appraise you about the gamut of the program so that the administration may prepare the modalities of relevant support system for the peaceful conduct of the programme. "We want to seek an appointment with you..." Banerjee said in his letter to the chief secretary. Earlier, in 2018, the BJP had planned a similar rath yatras across the state, but the programme was called off at the very last moment as the state government refused to give permission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-213
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee slams Union Budget as ‘anti-people’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Monday slammed the union budget as "anti-people" aimed at deceiving the masses and said the BJP talks about nationalism, but in practice, they are the ones who are selling resources of the nation to the private players. Iterating the demand for withdrawal of the new farm laws, Banerjee wondered if the Centre can waive off NPAs running into crores of rupees then why is it hesitant to write-off farm loans. "They (BJP) lectures others on nationalism, but in practice, they are the ones who are selling the nation. They are selling everything from PSUs, Insurance, Railways and Ports. "This is a budget to deceive the masses. It's an anti- farmer, anti-people and anti-country budget," Banerjee said while addressing the inaugural ceremony of Uttar Banga Utsav here. Referring to the BJP sending a chartered plane to fly TMC leaders to Delhi for induction into the saffron camp, Banerjee mockingly said they don't have money to pay for the travel of migrant workers but have money to fly corrupt leaders in chartered planes. "During COVID period we paid for the transportation of migrant workers. But, they (BJP) have money for using chartered planes to fly corrupt leaders to New Delhi. This only shows their true colour," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-213
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah targets Mamata over farm dole||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday accused Mamata Banerjee of coming in the way of the Centre’s attempt to ensure a minimum income for farmers in Bengal. Shah’s comments came against the backdrop of the farm protest at Delhi’s borders that has made an invigorating turnout after the Republic Day setback. In a virtual address to BJP supporters who had gathered at Dumurjola stadium in Howrah, Shah tried to turn the tables on the Bengal chief minister who has vowed support to the protesting farmers. Shah said the Centre was unable to send money to farmers in the state because the Bengal government had not shared the names and account details of farmers who qualified for the Centre’s PM Kisan scheme. “She was opposing the scheme…. A few days ago, Mamatadidi wrote to us that her government was willing to implement the scheme. But whom are you fooling Didi? We need a list of farmers and their bank account details with the letter. You’ve sent nothing. You are again trying to fool the farmers by sending only a letter. If Modiji wants to send money, how will he do it?” Shah asked while addressing the crowd from New Delhi. The Union home minister was supposed to be physically present at Sunday’s rally, but could only join virtually since he had to cancel his tour in the aftermath of a blast near the Israel embassy in Delhi. Union minister of textiles Smriti Irani replaced Shah at the venue, a day after the BJP had inducted several Trimanul leaders to its fold. A chartered plane had been sent to fly Trinamul turncoats Rajib Banerjee, Baishali Dalmia, Prabir Ghoshal, Rathin Chakraborty and Parthasarathi Chattopadhyay to Delhi on Saturday afternoon. All the five former Trinamul members and actor Rudranil Ghosh, who also switched to the BJP, were present at Sunday’s rally, which the party had hyped as a mega joining rally. Former Trinamul minister Suvendu Adhikari, who had earlier joined the BJP, was also present at the rally. BJP sources, however, said Shah’s physical absence took the sheen off the rally, which according to the party was attended by barely 15,000 people. The Union home minister tried his best to enthuse the crowd by attacking the Mamata government. “The BJP workers of Bengal will visit the houses of the farmers in the state and make them understand that Mamata Banerjee is not allowing them to receive money sent by Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said.Sources in the state government said the allegation by Shah didn’t hold ground, referring to the communication between Nabanna and New Delhi that the state government would verify the details of the farmers who had applied for the central scheme online. Under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, all farmers, except those paying income tax, are supposed to get an annual sum of Rs 6,000 from the union government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-213
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s Covid-19 recovery rate up for 100 days ||Bengal on Sunday reported a rising Covid-19 recovery rate for 100 days stra­i­g­ht to tou­ch 97.24 per cent. The national average is 96.97. The state also logged 338 Co­vid-19 recoveries, 229 new cases and nine deaths, including one from Calcutta, on the la­st day of the first month of 2021. In January, the state saw so­me 24,000 recoveries, 18,000 cases, and 461 deaths, the lowest in months. The state also saw a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 97th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 last year, when there were 37,190 cases across the state, to 5,553 now. Bengal now has 3.33 per cent of India’s total Covid-19 active cases, around half of what it was last month. “January 2021 has been as good to us as the last two months of 2020. We are confident of keeping up this momentum and ending February with even better figure,” said a minister. “The daily toll has come down drastically from the 50-60 till about six weeks ago to single-digit figures. Calcutta alone used to report 20-30, which has come down to one or two now,” the minister pointed out. However, Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate also was unchanged at 1.43 per cent. The state government attributed 8,541 deaths or 84 per cent of the total toll to comorbidities. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.13 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 72 days ago. On Sunday, the state reported 25,046 tests, taking the total past 79.95 lakh, at 88,843 tests per million people. The state’s total of Covid-19 cases is nearly 5.7 lakh now, including over 5.54 lakh recoveries and 10,173 deaths. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. A similar set of instructions came from the high court, to ensure the outbreak did not worsen over the New Year celebrations. The number of infections between October and January has shown that the court’s instructions were effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-213
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Modi to inaugurate road, fuel projects in Haldia on February 7||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate multi-crore infrastructure projects in oil and gas and road sectors in poll-bound Bengal at an event in Haldia on February 7. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been invited to the event for which Union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday oversaw the preparations at the venue. Modi is scheduled to dedicate a 347km Dobhi-Durgapur natural gas pipeline, built at a cost of Rs 2,433 crore by GAIL, and an LPG import terminal built by Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) at an investment of Rs 1,100 crore to cater to the growing demand of LPG in the east. Modi will also inaugurate a four-lane ROB (road over bridge)-cum-flyover at Ranichak, Haldia, on NH41, and lay the foundation stone for Haldia Refinery’s second catalytic de-waxing unit. Pradhan took a tour of the BPCL refinery before surveying the Helipad Maidan. Speaking to journalists after exiting the BPCL refinery, Pradhan said Mamata would be expected to attend the event, which is being perceived as a high-profile show of industrial strength by the Centre ahead of the Bengal polls. A local BJP leader, quoting Pradhan, said at least one lakh supporters would have to be accommodated during the Prime Minister’s speech on February 7. At the news meet, Pradhan said: “The state government has certainly helped us in organising this visit.” “The second phase of the Durgapur-Haldia pipeline is held up over land acquisition issues. We hope the state government cooperates so that the project is over by 2022,” he added. Pradhan said the new oil field find in North 24-Parganas’ Ashoknagar was “good news for Bengal’s economy”. “Conducted an oil industry meet at Haldia ahead of PM @narendramodi ji’s visit where he will dedicate to the nation oil, gas & road projects worth Rs 4742 cr. I invited family members of our oil industry to be a part of this momentous occasion in the developmental journey of Bengal,” Pradhan tweeted. Dibyendu at news meet Trinamul’s Tamluk MP Dibyendu Adhikari, brother of Suvendu Adhikari, was seen at the news meet in conversation with Pradhan. Dibyendu, not seen at Trinamul events since November, including Mamata’s January 18 mega rally in Nandigram, insisted his presence at the news meet was “apolitical”. “I did not come to Tekhali (Nandigram) for the rally because there was a family puja that day,” he added. BJP sources admitted Pradhan had invited Dibyendu to the news meet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Sikkim chief minister promises two new districts by 2022  ||Sikkim chief minister P.S. Tamang (Golay) declared on Sunday that two new districts — Soreng and Pakyong — would be created by carving out the existing West and East districts, respectively, by next year. Speaking at the foundation stone-laying of a community health centre (CHC) at Soreng, Golay said the upgrade of Soreng and Pakyong subdivisions to districts could have happened this year itself, but couldn’t because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We will upgrade Pakyong subdivision and Soreng subdivion to districts by 2022,” he said. Sikkim now has four districts. The chief minister, who was born in Soreng and had represented the Chakung Assembly constituency from the area for three terms, said he was in favour of upgrading the subdivision not because it is his birthplace, but because both in terms of its geographical area and population, the place deserved to be a district. “Even before the formation of our government, we had declared it in our election manifesto,” he said. The Sikkim Krantikari Morcha, of which Golay is the president, had promised to upgrade Soreng and Pakyong to districts in its manifesto for the 2019 Assembly elections. A year before the election, Pawan Chamling, then the chief minister and president of the Sikkim Democratic Front, had also promised to consider the demand for upgrading the two places, but had failed to deliver. The creation of the districts is a poll promise of the SKM. “The SKM had made a host of political promises, including providing Assembly quota for Limbu and Tamang communities, tribal status to be left out Nepali communities and regularisation of jobs of temporary employees, among others, but has nothing to show as yet. If it creates the two districts, Golay and his party can justifiably take credit,” said one of analysts. Soreng is the largest among the four subdivisions of West Sikkim consisting of 34 gram panchayat units and 52 revenue blocks. It has four primary health centres, four police stations and five block administrative centres. In terms of geographical area, Pakyong, too, is the largest in East Sikkim. However, it has fewer administrative units than Soreng. The demand for upgrading Pakyong was raised afresh earlier in the programme by P.K. Pradhan, the former chief secretary of Sikkim, who had donated almost six acres of his ancestral land for the construction of the community health centre. Pradhan also offered the use of his house in Soreng to set up offices till physical infrastructure for the new district was set up. The Indian Army evacuated five persons, including drivers of three trucks, after their vehicles had been stuck on a snow-covered road between Samdong and Lachen in the North district of Sikkim on Friday. Two feet of ice had accumulated on the road because of heavy snowfall from Friday afternoon. The army carried out the rescue operation (in picture) from 9pm to 11pm. The trucks were returning from Samdong to Siliguri. The rescued people were taken to a nearby army post where they were provided with medicines, food and warm clothes for the night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Joint forum of tribal communities to skip mass marriage event on February 2||A joint forum of five tribal communities in north Bengal has decided to skip the February 2 mass marriage organised by the Alipurduar district police to press for their demand for a separate development council. On February 2, marriages of 450 couples of Rajbanshi and tribal communities are scheduled at Falakata. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, due in Siliguri on Monday, is supposed to attend the event. Ravi Rava, convener of the joint forum, explained why they were staying away from the event. “Time and again, we have demanded a separate development council for five tribes (Mech, Rava, Boro, Garo and Toto). The state has come up with many development boards but our demand has not been met. That is why we have decided not to attend the mass marriage ceremony and we would discourage any couple from any of these communities from joining the event,” Rava said. The five tribes form a vote bank of five lakh in the Dooars. Forum members said they had sent many letters to the chief minister and other members of her cabinet for the development council. “If our demand is not met, we may think whether or not to vote in the Bengal polls,” added Rava. The forum’s stand is a fresh poser for Trinamul that is largely banking on the tribal population to win the Assembly seats of Dooars and Terai. District Trinamul leaders declined to comment and were waiting for Mamata’s arrival, sources said. In North Dinajpur, trains were disrupted for over three hours on Sunday afternoon as hundreds of tribal people reached the tracks at Dalkhola station to demand the recognition of Sarna as a religious code by the Centre. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling MLA claims Ajit Doval held two meetings during hill agitation||Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba on Sunday claimed that national security adviser Ajit Doval had held two meetings with Gorkha National Liberation Front president Mann Ghisingh during the 2017 statehood agitation, as a result of which the party had written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee “for a high-level intervention”. Soon after the 104-day violent Gorkhaland movement had ended in 2017, Mamata has pointed to the GNLF letter, which was unknown to the public until then, to call an all-party meeting to discuss the Darjeeling issue. Addressing a public meeting in Darjeeling on Sunday, Zimba said: “I got a call from a big man, well let me name him, Ajit Doval, national security adviser…. He said, call your president, there was a meeting in Dehradun.” During the agitation, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha was an ally of the BJP that was in power at the Centre. However, Morcha general secretary Roshan Giri said he was not aware of the meeting between Ghisingh and Doval. “I had not heard about the meeting.” Zimba’s claim has raised questions among many in the hills on whether the BJP government had bypassed its ally Morcha. The context of the speech by the GNLF leader — who had won the Darjeeling bypoll on a BJP ticket — was to defend an allegation that Ghisingh’s party was responsible for derailing the Gorkhaland agitation by writing to the chief minister seeking a dialogue when the hills were in the middle of the movement. The letter was written when the strike had just crossed two months. Zimba, however, said the GNLF had intervened in “national interest” and cited the standoff on the India-China border at Doklam in Sikkim. “The Doklam standoff was a threat to national security,” said Zimba, suggesting that the boundary issue was the trigger for the Doval-Ghisingh talks. Ghisingh was present when the Darjeeling MLA spoke. While speaking to this correspondent on the sidelines of the meeting, Zimba refused to name Doval but said a meeting “with a very senior high intelligence officer” had been held in Dehradun followed by another in Delhi. “As a result, we had to write a letter to the state government to invite all parties (for a meeting).” Asked if the GNLF had been directed to write to the government, Zimba said: “It was advised to us, he talked to us about the national interest and we thought it was wise enough to write.” The GNLF leader also said the Centre or the BJP had not uttered a word during the 2017 movement for fear that “the agitation would flare up” which would be detrimental to national interests. Mann Ghisingh declined comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul’s central leadership places faith in Gautam Deb ||Trinamul’s central leadership has tasked state tourism minister Gautam Deb with monitoring the party’s activities in five districts of north Bengal ahead of the Bengal polls. The decision at a party meeting in Calcutta on Friday indicates that chief minister and party chief Mamata Banerjee — who will reach north Bengal on Monday on a four-day trip — has retained her faith in Deb, a trusted lieutenant since Trinamul’s inception in 1998. “I have been assigned by the leadership to look after party activities in five districts of north Bengal, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling (plains), North and South Dinajpur. I will be in Calcutta to attend a special session of the Assembly on February 5 and 6. After that, I will start visiting all these districts and meet leaders and party workers,” said Deb. These past few months, Trinamul has been steadily working in north Bengal where the BJP — winning seven of eight parliamentary seats of the region in 2019 — has set a target of 50 of 54 seats. Party insiders said Deb had his work cut out. “In 2019, the BJP won in all these five districts… this is the primary challenge. Also, in districts like South Dinajpur and Alipurduar, Trinamul has internal differences. Earlier, Deb acted as a crisis manager and succeeded…. It will be interesting to see if he delivers this time,” said a party leader in Raiganj. On Sunday, Jalpaiguri district Trinamul chief K.K. Kalyani also said while they were mulling new candidates in four of six Assembly seats in the district, they never had second thoughts about Deb for the Dabgram-Fulbari. The party is also pushing the development agenda that yielded results for it in earlier elections. On Monday, Mamata will reach north Bengal on a four-day visit and is scheduled to attend a number of government events. Among these include the inauguration of Uttarbanga Utsav and a mass marriage in Falakata of Alipurduar. She will also visit Alipurduar town on Wednesday to speak at a public meeting organised by her party at Parade Ground of the town, said sources. “In course of her visit, the chief minister will inaugurate a number of infrastructure projects. She will attend a social event (the mass marriage) and a public meeting. The itinerary shows that in north Bengal, Trinamul wants to play the development card on one hand and launch the poll campaign on the other,” said an observer. Additional inputs by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Three held from Kaliachak with 2,000 tablets consumed by addicts||Three persons, including one from Assam, were arrested from Kaliachak on Saturday night with 2,000 tablets consumed by addicts. The tablets known as Yaba or “madness drug”, are a mix of methamphetamine and caffeine. Malda SP Alok Rajotia said the trio were nabbed on a tip-off and the tablets were possibly being smuggled to Bangladesh. “Cases have been registered against the trio under Narcotics, Drugs & Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act,” he said. According to police sources, Safiqul Islam of Nagarjhar under Howly police station of Barpeta district in Assam reached Malda to deliver the tablets. “He was supposed to deliver the illegal consignment to Samiul Sheikh and Muktezam Sheikh Shershahi when all three were nabbed,” said a source. TMC worker beaten up Ambar Ali, a Trinamul leader in Rampur under Harishchandrapur police station of Malda district, was assaulted by some suspected BJP supporters on Saturday evening. Sources said Ali was campaigning in the locality when he was attacked. Among the attackers include some of his relatives who have fled, police sources said. Ali is hospitalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Hundreds of dead fish in Kurti stream, poison suspected||Hundreds of dead fish of different varieties were found floating in Kurti, a stream in Matialli block of the Dooars region of Jalpaiguri district on Sunday. Block administrative official who visited the site suspect that unscrupulous fishermen might have poisoned the stream. An inquiry has been initiated into the fish deaths, officials said. Dead fish were spotted first by morning bathers who carried them home. “It seems some people have put poison in the water. There had been similar incidents earlier in rivers like Teesta and Karala that move through Jalpaiguri town. But in recent years, this is the first time that such an incident has been witnessed in Kurti,” said Jugal Chandra Roy, a member of Matialli panchayat samiti. Later in the day, officials from the state fisheries department who visited the spot, cautioned people not to consume the dead fish. “Samples of water and dead fish have been collected for testing. People should abstain from consuming the dead fish,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
01-02-2021||North East||IIT Guwahati, Kaziranga University sign pact||The Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati, has signed a memorandum of understanding with Kaziranga University in Jorhat to “enable” both the institutes to closely engage in areas of curriculum enhancement, collaborative research and development of the entrepreneurship ecosystem in the Northeast. Apart from “modernising” the curriculum of the private university, IIT Guwahati will also assist the varsity in setting up advanced laboratories for experimental work in various areas of engineering and sciences, the institute said on Friday. The MoU was signed between IIT Guwahati director Prof. T.G. Sitharam and Kaziranga University vice-chancellor Dr P.K. Mishra on Thursday. Sitharam said: “IIT Guwahati through its highly qualified faculty and excellent research infrastructure will extend every possible support to Kaziranga University... the institute will provide necessary support and guidance to both student entrepreneurs as well as aspiring investors of KU to facilitate their growth and prosperity.… This MoU signing with KU is a step towards connecting with institutes in Northeast India and will contribute towards our goal of building a ‘network of excellence’.” IIT Guwahati is at the “forefront” of imparting courses related to data science, artificial intelligence, robotics and e-mobility, among others. Mishra said he had great expectations from IIT Guwahati in the role of an “elder brother” to support various educational initiatives of KU, beginning with the science and engineering streams. According to IIT Guwahati, Mishra invited the institute’s faculty members to play advisory roles in developing the curriculum as well as implementing other major plans of KU as well as to join the university board in advisory roles so that the aspirations of the students of the Northeast for quality education are fulfilled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-24
01-02-2021||Opinion||Eerie silence: undeclared emergency||Is India in a state of ‘undeclared emergency’? Several media organizations — the Press Club of India, Editors Guild of India, Indian Women’s Press Corps, Indian Journalists Union are among them — think this is, indeed, the case. Their concerns cannot be brushed away. ‘Democratic’ India has developed a new brash rash of intimidating members of the fourth estate who still have the spine left to be objective and critical. Legal provisions, some of which are legacies of colonial law, are being blatantly used to impose a culture of silence. Consider the latest transgression — the media bodies were protesting against this — of the slew of sedition cases filed against several senior journalists as well as a prominent member of the Opposition across five states for their alleged ‘misleading’ tweets on the violence and the death of a farmer during the disturbances on Republic Day. This particular incident reveals the dual nature of the challenge that confronts Indian media today. First, a partisan, competitive ecosystem and commercial imperatives are forcing journalists to express opinions that do not, on some occasions, reflect ground realities. The faulty interpretation of the death of the farmer — one of the accused acknowledged the credibility of the police version quickly — is a case in point. The occasional slip of veracity — this cannot be ruled out, as the Editors Guild rightly pointed out, during a fluid situation — has been exploited by a cynical administration to slap serious charges, ranging from sedition to the endorsement of communal tensions, against the accused. Yet, the twisting of facts by a media fraternity perceived to be the cheerleaders of the present dispensation is seldom scrutinized. This is unmitigated hypocrisy and intimidation. Worse, it has acquired a pattern. Data from the National Crime Records Bureau in 2019 indicated that there had been an astonishing 165 per cent rise in cases of sedition, many of which targeted journalists. The weaponization of sedition — a point that the Editors Guild has drawn attention to — as well as of other draconian legislations can have only one intent: the stifling of expression of independent, critical opinion not just by journalists but also comedians and citizens. This warrants serious reflection on the part of institutions that claim to be the custodians of democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
01-02-2021||Opinion||Not enough: deficits in justice system||In 2016, the Supreme Court had ruled that access to justice is a fundamental right. But the universality of justice does not necessarily translate to its even dispensation. This inference can be drawn from the findings of the India Justice Report 2020, a comprehensive study of the prevalent nature and reach of the legal system. The report’s examination of seven small and 18 major states has not yielded heartening results. Not even the best-performing states — Maharashtra tops the list while Telangana has climbed eight spots to the third place — scored above 60 per cent in terms of justice delivery across four crucial institutions — the police, the judiciary, prisons and legal aid — that were assessed on parameters such as human resources, budgets, personnel workload, infrastructure and representation. That glaring lacunae in these critical spheres exist even in the best-performing state indicates the challenges that confront India’s justice delivery mechanism. The reasons behind the bottlenecks are manifold. One is the appalling number of vacancies in judges’ posts. India has one judge for every 50,000 citizens; Bengal’s lower courts have the highest number of pending cases for over a five-year period. In spite of the presence of undertrial review committees, India’s prison occupancy rate stood at a shocking 119 per cent at the end of 2019; two-thirds of the inmates are undertrial detainees. Although 80 per cent of the Indian population is entitled to legal aid, a paltry 1.5 crore people have received it in the last 25 years. Some of the other contradictions are illustrative of several deepening chasms. Maharashtra topped states in providing legal aid, but witnessed a decline in the already-meagre number of women police officers. Indeed, the representation of women across institutions has not been proportionate to scale — women comprise only 29 per cent of India’s judges — and often registers a growth in the lower ranks only. The dispensing of justice is not merely about verdicts: it must also take into consideration what constitutes the idea of justice. Problematic readings of the law and perceived governmental overreach are setting worrying precedents. The recent controversial judgments by a bench of the Bombay High Court on sexual offences against minors as well as the incident of cases of communal violence being dropped by Karnataka’s courts last year may lead to public confusion and even disenchantment. The institutional deficits prevailing within the justice delivery system must be addressed. But that will not be all. It is crucial for its stakeholders — the police, judges and the State — to reinstate citizens’ faith in the pledge to uphold justice fairly and quickly for all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
01-02-2021||Opinion||One Donald, many Trumps||Donald Trump is gone, marking the end of one of the lowest points in American democracy. In this heady moment, there will be a temptation to believe that his presidency was an aberration, and that with the man gone it will be happy days once again. The truth, however, is that Trump represents a far more common phenomenon in liberal democracy than is generally acknowledged. The difference is that he stretched it to an extreme whereas the other Trumpians of the world have taken care not to cross the line. Liberal democracies are facing a wider crisis. Trump’s exit doesn’t mean that the profound issues of democratic governance thrown up by his presidency will go away. What is known as Trumpism — crude populism, demagoguery, personality cult, the undermining of democratic institutions, racial and religious prejudice — was not invented by Trump. It already existed across Europe, Asia, and large parts of the Muslim world when he burst on the scene. Indeed, elements of it were minted nearer home — in India — first, by Indira Gandhi back in the 1970s, and then it was revamped and rebranded in a more divisive form by Narendra Modi who rode to power on the back of a polarizing, majoritarian, populist agenda two years before Trump came on the scene. Likewise, Boris Johnson and his Brexiteers were already riding a wave of divisive populism when Trump made his political debut. They won the June 2016 referendum to leave the European Union on a xenophobic, anti-globalization and isolationist agenda similar to one that was to define Trump’s victory five months later. Trump, who was in Britain when the referendum result came, did a victory lap and said he saw “a big parallel” between the Brexit vote and the broader populist, anti-establishment sentiment he was banking on to win him the presidency. Remember that by the time Trump became president, much of Europe and Asia — France, Germany, Austria, Poland, Hungary, Turkey, Thailand, Philippines, India — was already in the grip of an anti-liberal-establishment backlash, which the Hungarian prime minister, Viktor Orbán, proudly hailed as the rise of “illiberal” democracy. It was against this backdrop that Trump ran for election using the prevailing anti-liberal backlash to his own advantage. Far from being an American aberration, Trump was very much the product of a wider trend. Trumpism had its origins in the exclusivist nationalism of Boris Johnson, Marine Le Pen, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Narendra Modi, Viktor Orbán et al. In his book, How Democracy Ends, the British academic, David Runciman, identifies them as original cheerleaders of a tendency that gave us Trump. The moral outrage we have heard from these leaders after the Capitol Hill incident and the scramble to denounce Trump would have carried greater conviction had they not been complicit in emboldening his excesses over the past four years. They continued to indulge and court him long after he made known his contempt for any notion of civilized conduct of international relations, let alone for democratic practices and institutions. His support for far-right white supremacists and his abuse of people of colour barely caused a ripple at the high table of international diplomacy. Modi left no stones unturned to play to his ego — inviting him to grace the Republic Day celebrations of 2019, hailing him as “my friend, India’s friend” at the ‘Namaste Trump’ event at the Motera stadium in Ahmedabad, and declaring, “There is so much that we share: Values and ideals, spirit of enterprise and innovation, opportunities and challenges, hopes and aspirations.” Likewise, Theresa May was so keen to please Trump that during the three years of her prime-ministership she invited him to visit Britain twice within a gap of a few months — a “working visit” in July 2018 and a full-blown all-singing, all-dancing three-day state visit that included an audience with the Queen and a Buckingham Palace banquet despite widespread public opposition. Johnson is on record saying that Trump was as worthy of the Nobel Peace Prize as Barack Obama, describing him as a standard New York liberal. Another prominent Brexiteer and, effectively, Britain’s deputy-prime minister, Michael Gove, had himself photographed with Trump giving a thumbs-up to the president. Emmanuel Macron’s famous ‘bromance’ with Trump was much debated. He was the first European leader to be invited by Trump on a state visit after becoming president. Soon after, Macron reciprocated the gesture by offering him a lavish welcome to France. The BBC reported that their “rapport has pushed France ahead of Germany and the UK, to become America’s primary European contact”. The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, is the only European leader who kept Trump at arm’s length. It is argued that their attempts to please Trump were prompted by pragmatism and their country’s national interests. The real explanation is that broadly they shared Trump’s ‘strong man’ vision of leadership, his impatience with constitutional constraints, and his protectionist “America First” worldview reflected in Johnson’s exhortation to ‘Take Back Control’ and Modi’s passion for “Make in India”. They saw in him a kindred spirit and fed on each other. Trump’s exit may have ended the immediate crisis in American politics but the larger threat to liberal democracy would remain as long as the other Trumps of the world are allowed to flourish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
01-02-2021||Opinion||Unquiet waters||China has launched a concerted charm offensive aimed at shoring up its influence in Southeast Asia amid fears that India and Japan are making significant inroads into the region, especially in Myanmar. It is also part of a pre-emptive strike in readiness for expected changes in US policy towards Asia by the Joe Biden administration as well as for the changed regional environment and economic recovery needs in a post-Covid era. The Chinese diplomatic assault not only poses problems for the three informal allies — Japan, India and the United States of America — but also creates tensions within the regional bloc, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, over bilateral and multilateral relations with Beijing on a number of fronts: strategic, economic and cultural. Much of China’s strategy centres around what diplomats are describing as Covid or vaccine diplomacy. But it is also concerned with Chinese and regional security, stability and interconnectivity. Beijing has a proprietorial attitude towards this since it regards Southeast Asia to be its backyard. Although it may not want to exert direct control over the region, it does not welcome foreign influence or interference — it deems Indian, Japanese and especially American involvement as such — in these countries. So Beijing has reacted strongly to what it perceives to be trespassing in its domain. One of China’s biggest concerns is the control of maritime cooperation and shipping lanes from the Indian Ocean around the Asian archipelago to Shanghai and China’s eastern sea border. Myanmar, which straddles South Asia to the west and Southeast Asia to the east, is central to this diplomatic drive to strengthen Beijing’s influence. China’s foreign minister, Wang Yi, is heading Beijing’s blitz in the region: he recently made a critical visit sometime ago to key parts of Asean — Myanmar, Indonesia, Brunei and the Philippines — on his way back from an important tour of Africa. This trip follows his visit three months ago to the other countries in the regional bloc: Cambodia, Laos, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand. Noticeably, he is yet to visit Vietnam as part of this surge. But Beijing’s biggest concern is its position in Myanmar, and Wang Yi started his most recent thrust into Asean with an important two-day trip to Myanmar’s capital Naypyidaw. It was intended to further consolidate Chinese influence in the country, which has become increasingly dependent on China since Aung San Suu Kyi was swept to power in the 2015 elections. However, Beijing has increasingly become alarmed at the changing international dynamics in the region: principally the deterioration in relations with Delhi since the middle of last year and Tokyo’s aggressive and concerted push into the region, especially in Myanmar over the last 12 months. And now, there is the prospect of Washington re-engaging with Asia after four years of neglect during Donald Trump’s insular and idiosyncratic approach. Officially, Wang Yi’s primary purpose on this Myanmar visit was to show China’s unswerving support for the country and its civilian leader, the State Counsellor, Aung San Suu Kyi. But foreign diplomats believe that Naypyidaw was extremely reticent about the timing and the purpose of the visit, which was seen to be part of ‘vaccine diplomacy’. Wang Yi promised a gift of 300,000 doses of China’s CoronaVac vaccine, which is expected to be delivered within the next few months. China’s donation came on the heels of Myanmar’s deal with India to buy some 30 million doses of an Indian-produced vaccine, according to the president’s spokesman, Zaw Htay. The government has already paid US $75 million upfront or half the amount as a deposit. Covishield is produced by the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, and developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca. The first batch of 1.5 million doses arrived in Myanmar recently. Indian officials say that this consignment is, in fact, a donation in the spirit of mutual cooperation under the Indian government’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ and ‘Act East’ policies. This vying for influence using the Covid vaccines represents a microcosm of the competition between the two regional rivals. Western diplomats believe Beijing may be upset that Myanmar has turned to India first for the vaccine instead of China. This has put a significant dint in China’s planned diplomatic offensive. On his recent foray abroad, Wang Yi has been promising support to combat the countries’ fight against the pandemic and in their post-Covid recovery. Almost all countries in the region have accepted Beijing’s offer of vaccines, to a greater or lesser extent, albeit with increasing reticence amongst most government’s in Asean. Myanmar, for example, is planning to get the supplies of the vaccine from several sources, including India, Russia, the United Kingdom and China. On his most recent visit, the Chinese foreign minister met President Win Myint, the State Counsellor and the Commander-in-Chief, as is his usual protocol. But the latter meeting was perhaps the most critical for there are growing concerns in Beijing that Myanmar’s military is veering away from their previous cozy relationship and leaning towards Russia and India. There is also concern that the Biden administration may resume US-Myanmar military cooperation. While the recent acquisition by the Myanmar military of a submarine of Indo-Russian make may not pose too many problems, it is seen as a significant reflection of Myanmar’s military’s pronounced tilt towards the West in general and a preference for Indian and Russian equipment in particular. The symbolism of these submarines has also alarmed Beijing whose overall strategic objective in the region is to ‘command’ the shipping lanes and develop transport and communications interconnectivity throughout the region to access sentinel points. China has already built or is in the process of building ports and naval bases in the Philippines and Cambodia which are part of the planned network. The key concern is Myanmar. Beijing has already secured the most important shipping base in Western Myanmar — Kyaukphyu in northern Rakhine — which would give China unfettered access to the Indian Ocean besides offering a significant trading route linking it to South Asia and the Middle East. China also has a strong foothold in the Yangon port, and there are tentative plans to rebuild the port at Mawlamyine, south of Myanmar’s commercial capital. The possibility of building a port in Myeik, further south on the Andaman Sea, is being explored. This would provide an access point to southern Thailand. But Japan and India have frustrated Beijing’s hopes of securing the full-maritime encirclement of Myanmar. India and Myanmar are working on opening the Sittwe port in the Rakhine, north of Kyaukphyu, in the next few months. The port is part of the Kaladan multi-modal transit transport project, which Delhi hopes will function as India’s gateway to Southeast Asia. Further south and adjacent to Thailand, the Japanese have beaten off Chinese interests in the Dawei special economic zone and its planned port, much to Beijing’s chagrin. In Bangladesh, Japan is building the Matarbari deep-sea port, close to Cox’s Bazar, to complement Bangladesh’s main trading port and entrepôt at Chittagong after the plans for a Chinese-backed port at Sonadia were cancelled late last year. There is a battle brewing over patrols and safeguarding shipping lanes in the Andaman Sea and the Indian Ocean. China fears that Myanmar has opted for an Indo-Russian option for sea security. Indian and Chinese submarines need qualitatively different naval base facilities for docking, refuelling and repairs. So Myanmar’s acquisition of a second-hand Indian submarine and the Tatmadaw’s pending order for more Russian vessels mean that its strategic choice is incompatible with Chinese equipment. More ominously, it points to a possible naval arms race around the Indian Ocean as Delhi must prepare to confront China in its own backyard. The author is a former BBC World Service news editor for Asia and is based in Myanmar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||One killed and one injured in 2 separate firing incidents||One person was killed and another injured in two separate firing incidents that took place in Hazaribagh on Monday. The shootings came as a big shock for the police and was seen as a serious law and order problem, by many. In the first incident, Korra police found the dead body of Rajendra Kumar Mehta from Deepugarga locality of Hazaribagh. A bullet injury was spotted on his head suggesting that he was murdered on wee hours of Monday. Mehta, a resident of Kurha village of Ichak block, was living in a rented house at Deepugarha mohalla for the education of his three children including two sons and a daughter, who are studying in a town school. His relatives said he was a farmer and was living a simple life. Police officials investigating the case said they had been informed about Mehta being a moneylender. “We are interrogating people close to him as well as his partner, a moneylender too,” police said. The dead body was handed over to his relatives after postmortem. The second incident took place at 7:30 pm on Monday when two bike-riding men opened fire at a tea seller named Dharmendra Chourasia (39). The victim was sitting at his tea kiosk, when he was attacked. He has suffered bullet injuries in one of his hands. The incident took place in the Panchsheel Colony in Madsipiddi area situated on Ranchi-Patna Highway (NH-33). Local people rushed to his help and sent Chourasia to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal also reached hospital and made arrangements for an ambulance to send Chourasia to a Ranchi hospital for better treatment. The police team reached on the spot and have initiated a checking drive to nab the culprits. However, the officials chose to remain tightlipped over the two incidents. Jaiswal expressed his anger and said it was a failure of law and order. “The two incidents in Hazaribagh town are enough to understand the poor law and order of the state,” he said targeting the JMM government. He urged officials to take both the incidents as challenges and crack it as soon as possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-154
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Singhbhum industry body welcomes Union budget||The Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry welcomed the Union budget on Monday presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. SCCI, the leading trade body of Kolhan region termed it a bold budget. "Bold because, inspite of a huge deficit, spending has not been curtailed, rather it has been qualitative spending. Welcome because unexpectedly the deficit has not been tried to fill up by way of tax,” said Bharat Vasani, general secretary of SCCI to The Telegraph Online. Vasani said the biggest announcement for Jamshedpur in the Union budget has been the Voluntary Vehicle Scrappage Policy. "This was in discussion for a long time. Auto sector was relying heavily on this to fight the cyclical nature of their industry. This will help Tata Motors, and this will enable the demand of more steel too. This will give a fillip to the entire economy of this region, as ancillaries too will benefit," he explained. The senior functionary of the trade outfit said that the healthcare spending of Rs 35000 crore on vaccine would mean affordable vaccine for all. Referring to the announcement of seven textile parks, he hopes they are put up where there is abundance of labour. "In a state like Jharkhand where cheap labour is available this would mean lesser migration of labour, and cost effective production," he pointed out. In response to Rs 18000 crore allocation for urban public transportation he said, " Every city of Jharkhand has very little public transportation. People have to rely on their own vehicles for commuting, which means increase in traffic density and paying huge fines for small errors. Jharkhand should get the best of this scheme. We had made a pre-budget demand that prices of industrial metals like steel, aluminium, copper etc should be checked, as they are the raw materials for many manufacturing industries." CEO and managing director of Tata Steel T.V. Narendra said the finance minister presented a very progressive and growth oriented budget while retaining the government’s focussed approach on infrastructure-led economic revival. "We welcome all the proposed reforms. However, the implementation of these reforms will be critical for the benefits to percolate across the economy. The increased Capex in the infrastructure sector, including the healthcare infrastructure, will have a multiplier effect as it will create demand across product categories, including steel, " he said adding that overall, it can be  called  a reformist budget as it recognises and emphasises the participation of private players in all key areas, including the financial sector. Commenting on the budget Prof. K. R. Shyam Sundar of HRM Area at XLRI said the Union budget is rather disappointing for the income-earners and the working people. "The two labour market outcomes from the Covid-19 hit economy are, unemployment and underemployment and diminution in incomes. The Union Budget does not address either, " he said. According to him, the economic survey did not acknowledge the problem of unemployment during the Covid-19 situation and skirted the whole issue. "Rather it sought to create a feel good factor by relying on annual and quarterly data unrelated to Covid-19 period," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-154
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Now Covaxin shots available at Nirmal Mahto hospital ||A total of 464 doctors and medical personnel were vaccinated in Dhanbad on Monday. Health personnel from different hospitals including 56 at Central Hospital Dhanbad, 80 in Patliputra Nursing Home, 67 at Asharfi Hospital, 80 at Jalan Hospital, 93 at Sadar Hospital Dhanbad and 20 at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) were vaccinated. Meanwhile, at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital where Covaxin administration started from Monday, the response was slightly timid as only 20 doctors and medical personnel took the vaccine. While Covishield vaccination is going on at all centres like Patliputra Nursing Home, Central Hospital, Asharfi Hospital, Jalan Memorial Hospital, Sadar Hospital and Railway Hospital, SNMMCH is the only hospital where the administration Covaxin has started from Monday. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Dr Rajkishore Verma co-nodal officer of Covid vaccination at SNMMCH said, “The Covaxin administration which began at our hospital from Monday will continue till February 6 and though we have a target of 100 vaccination per day, only 20 persons turned for vaccination out of which my daughter-in-law Kislaya Verma, a senior resident, took the first Covaxin at the hospital today.” “We carried out awareness among the doctors about Covaxin benefits. The efficacy of Covaxin is more than Covishield. The Covishield efficacy is around 60 per cent and Covaxin is 75 per cent. There was no reaction on Dr Kislaya Verma who took the vaccination along with the 19 other doctors and medical staff on Monday,” said Verma. “We appeal to more doctors and medical staff to come forward to take Covaxin and we expect that the number will increase from tomorrow,” further said Verma and added that Dr Kislaya Verma’s mother who is a doctor at Patna Medical College and Hospital took Covaxin last month in Patna and there are no side effects till now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-154
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Migratory bird festival held in Palamau Reserve||A first of its kind bird festival was held in the Betla range of Palamau Tiger Reserve on Monday where the presence of 169 species of birds was recorded. During the festival, school children wrote essays on the birds and drew colour painting depicting birds in the air and sitting close to the Kamaldah jheel. The participants watched the birds using binocular sets given by the tiger reserve officials. The bird festival, which lasted for around four hours, saw more participation from the younger generation than the elderly people. The bird festival was held at such a time when scare of bird flu is raging around the country. The festival was like a pressure release function as Palamau Tiger Reserve had plunged into sorrow following deaths of the two elephants Kaal Bhairav and another aged female elephant in a span of less than 10 days and there was a palpable anger against the tiger reserve officials over such deaths of the elephants here. South division deputy director of the Palamau Tiger Reserve Mukesh Kumar said, “We understand our bird festival is a first of its kind in the state of Jharkhand. It will go a long way to help conserve birds also.” Mukesh Kumar said, ‘The bird festival, held on Sunday near our watchtower at the Kamaldah jheel in the Betla range was the brainchild of our field director of PTR and chief wildlife conservator Y K Das.” “We chose the venue of the bird festival at the Kamaldah jheel because this lake plays a big host to many migratory birds like bar-headed goose, lesser whistling duck, common pochard, godwall and black headed ilbis, etc.” he added. The aim and purpose of holding the bird festival was to connect common people to the birds. “It was to generate awareness about the importance of birds in life,” he stated. “There was the august presence of the birdman of Jharkhand Panna Lal Mahto of the Ramgarh district in this bird festival here in Betla regaling the audience with voices of as many as 40 species of the birds,” informed Kumar. The field director of PTR and chief conservator of the forest Y K Das urged the youth of the villages to shun using the slingshots to bring the birds down on the ground. Last year an advisory was issued by Y K Das to keep a tab on youths with slingshots roaming dangerously for hunting birds. There are around 192 villages in and around the Palamau Tiger Reserve and villagers are pretty fond of killing birds for their food. Mukesh Kumar said he was delighted to spot the Malabar pied hornbill in the Bareysarn range of the Palamau Tiger Reserve recently. A noted environmentalist D S Srivastava said, “This tiger reserve has a good variety of owls like barn owls, horned owls, jingle outlet owls, etc. which face jeopardy during Diwali when people try to capture them for a good harvest of wealth.” He also said that one migratory bird named brain fever, which gives incessant calls during its visit hereis easier to kill as youths find it easy to locate it for her nonstop call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
01-02-2021||Jharkhand|| Budget pro-capitalist, says JMM-Congress-RJD alliance||The JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government of Jharkhand termed this year’s Union Budget as pro-capitalist, something that had failed to provide any hope to the common man, migrants and the marginalised. State transport minister Champai Soren, who is an MLA from Seraikela, said he was always prepared to be disappointed with the 2021 budget. “It doesn’t say anything about providing relief to the aam-admi. On the contrary, it is aimed at further burdening the common man as fuel is set to get costlier further with introduction of new agri-cess. Insurance (LIC) will provide less returns in the coming days with a hike in FDI from 43 per cent to 74 per cent. “Also, there’s been no relaxation in taxation for the salaried class, while there’s no word on improving the lives and livelihood of migrants, labourers and the like,” he said, adding that the BJP’s capitalist friends would be elated with the Budget as it had laid the groundwork for the “sale of all other remaining government entities”. “Airports, roads, ports, railways will further get privatized in the name of proper operation and maintenance, which in turn will cost the pockets of the aam-admi,” he noted. JMM’s ally, Congress reacted on similar lines. Congress party’s state spokesman Rakesh Sinha said, “Did anyone hear about farmers and common-man in this budget? In a nutshell, we see it as a template to sell India and its assets to crony capitalists.” Notably, Congress president and state party president Rameshwar Oraon in his wish list to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitarama last month, had asked for an IIT in Ranchi to boost higher education, increase in central assistances, special road projects under Bharatmala project and rail links to districts that are untouched. RJD, another constituent of the ruling alliance, also snubbed the budget. State labour and employment department minister and Chatra MLA Satyanand Bhokta said, “Budget 2021 clearly shows that in the coming years, the central government will sell all government resources. A state like Jharkhand which is on the path of development did not get any benefit.” The BJP in Jharkhand, however, hailed the Budget as a step towards achieving the Prime Minister’s goal of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Former chief minister Raghubar Das said, “The first ever Union Budget coming amid the covid-19 global pandemic embodies the spirit of ‘vocal for local’ to make India self-reliant in coming years. The highest takeaway in this budget is the government’s commitment to spend towards public health and infrastructure by allocation of Rs 2.23 lakh crore, which is perhaps the highest ever.” The former chief minister also said that the Sonnagar-Gomoh eastern freight corridor project (263.7km rail network) would also benefit Jharkhand in the coming years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand may get more Eklavya schools, benefit from freight corridor||The Union Budget 2021-22, tabled by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman on Monday, does not have much in store for the people of Jharkhand, barring the dedicated Eastern Freight Corridor that would pass from Gomoh and Eklavya Schools likely to come up in places that have a high tribal population, economists said on Monday. While the budget promises road infrastructure development in four poll-bound states – West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam _ economists who have been studying the trends in Jharkhand fear that it would encourage migration from states like Jharkhand and Bihar, which have a high number of labourers. “Our labourers have expertise in building roads. So, it is obvious that they will migrate to the poll-bound states to work in construction of roads there. This budget is encouraging migration instead of creating equal job opportunities in all the states,” said eminent economist, social activist and critic Ramesh Sharan, former HOD of economics department in Ranchi University. Sharan said that the Centre has decentralized development work by focusing only on the poll-bound states and neglecting states like Jharkhand. “There is nothing specific for a state like Jharkhand barring a few general decisions which may improve the health and education sectors in the state,” he added. Chief Minister Hemant Soren criticised the Centre for focusing only on privatization of public enterprises and agencies in the budget. He also mocked Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat slogan, claiming that the current situation reflects the idea of “atma-becho Bharat”. “From banks to ports and airports to railways, the Union government is hell bent on privatising everything. There is nothing for the poor in this budget, and no efforts have been made to revive the ailing enterprises and sectors,” said Hemant. Sitaraman, during her budget speech, said that the government would construct at least 750 Eklavya Vidyalayas in tribal-dominated areas, and Jharkhand is likely to benefit from it due to its high tribal population, say experts. The finance minister also announced the opening of 100 Sainik Schools in Private Public Partnership mode across the country, and Jharkhand may get one of these schools. As per government data, Jharkhand already has 23 Eklavya schools and is likely to get 69 more schools. If the government’s plans are materialized, then Jharkhand will have as many as 92 Eklavya schools, especially in tribal dominated areas, by 2022. However, the much talked about Metro Light and Metro Neo schemes for providing metro rail facilities to the residents of tier 2 cities in India are unlikely to benefit Jharkhand. Ranchi is the only tier 2 city in Jharkhand, and research conducted earlier showed that the soil here was not fit for setting up a metro rail network. Economist Harishwar Dayal, the Director In-Chief, Centre for Fiscal Studies, however, said that the Centre’s focus on improving health infrastructure will benefit Jharkhand, which is in need of better health facilities in the rural areas. “The budget promises investment of Rs.2.2 lakh crore in health. Jharkhand, along with other states, will benefit from it. The Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor will also benefit Jharkhand along with other eastern states,” said Dayal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Coldest day in Ranchi as state set to witness extended winter||Jharkhand is likely to witness an extended winter, weathermen predicted on Monday, explaining that the frequency of western disturbances would ensure that the season will be extended well beyond February second week. Both IMD's Ranchi and Patna Met centres issued an alert of rain and thundershowers in isolated pockets of the state around February 5-6. Again, adverse weather conditions were expected around mid-February. Weather officials forecast light to moderate rain in western, central and southern Jharkhand on February 5 and 6 due to the impact of a western disturbance passing through higher latitudes. "An induced cyclonic circulation is expected to form over western Rajasthan due to the impact of the western disturbance. The cyclonic circulation would move towards eastwards resulting in unseasonal showers over Jharkhand. A trough formation was also expected in mid and upper layers of the atmosphere about 1.5 km above the mean sea level," said a duty officer at the Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He added that this would extend the winter's stay in Jharkhand beyond February 15 as night readings would again witness an abrupt fall after the system waned. He said another western disturbance was expected around February 15-16 which would result in light rains in some parts of the state in the third week of February. Weathermen at the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore, Calcutta, confirmed a longer winter for Jharkhand. “Several western disturbances had impacted Jharkhand's weather in January coupled with the formation of anti-cyclonic circulations due to the confluence of northerly and easterly winds. Such western disturbances would continue to impact Jharkhand's weather in February, thereby prolonging winter's stay," said a weather official at the Calcutta-based Regional Meteorological Centre. Officially, India Meteorological Department (IMD) declares winter's adieu when minimum readings rise over 13°C for a consistent number of days. Cold wave conditions prevailed for the second consecutive day in several districts across Jharkhand, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Koderma, Lohardaga, Chatra, Garhwa, Hazaribagh, Latehar, Palamau, Gumla, Simdega and West Singhbhum. On Monday, Ranchi experienced the coldest day of this winter with a reading of 6.3 degree Celsius. Kanke on the outskirts of the state capital recorded the day’s lowest minimum reading across the state a minimum temperature of 5.2 degree Celsius. Daltonganj recorded a minimum temperature of 5.8 degree Celsius while Bokaro recorded 6.1 degree Celsius. Severe cold wave conditions continued to prevail at Chaibasa in West Singhbhum for the second consecutive day on Monday. The local observatory at Chaibasa recorded a minimum temperature of 5.8 degree Celsius, which was eight notches below normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Salaried class disappointed with Budget 2021||Dhanbad residents have termed the Union Budget a mixed bag, but the salaried class dubbed it a disappointment as no income tax concessions were announced. Also upset were insurance employees who termed the Union finance minister’s announcement of increasing FDI in the sector to 74 per cent from 49 per cent as discouraging. But doctors and the medical fraternity at large welcomed the Union Budget for its increase in allocation for the health sector. Traders and industrialists also welcomed the budget. Pramod Pathak, former head of the department of management studies of IIT (ISM), said the budget was a mixed bag. The focus on the health sector was much needed. But the excessive focus on privatization, especially the increase of FDI in the insurance sector, was not required, he explained. “Though some sops have been given to the MSME sector and micro industries, until and unless the confidence of the common consumers is increased, the economy will not improve,” said Pathak, who is also president of Jharia Coalfield Management Association. On start-ups, he said that although promotional steps were announced for the development of mobile apps, the focus should have been on the promotion of cottage industries. General Secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association Rajiv Sharma said, “The Budget is more or less on expected lines. We expected it to be an extension of the announcements made by the finance minister in May last year. “The focus on industries will help boost the economy, and considering that we are battling a  pandemic, the budget seems to be good enough,” he said. IMA state president Dr A.K. Singh termed the Budget as forward looking because of increased allocation for the health sector. “Learning lessons from the pandemic, the government has taken pragmatic steps to increase spending on the health sector which was most needed,” said Singh, who lives in Dhanbad. Hemant Kumar, the Dhanbad based general secretary of Insurance Employee’s Association, Hazaribagh division, termed the Budget “disgusting, discouraging” and “pro-capitalist”. “It will lead to more inequality. The Budget is anti-farmer, anti-labour and we vehemently oppose the increase in FDI in the insurance sector,” he said. “The government has announced nothing about restoring jobs of crores of migrants who have had to return to their homes in the absence of work,” he rued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||State reports less than 50 fresh Covid cases in a day||Jharkhand on Sunday reported less than 50 cases of Covid-19 infection for the third consecutive day, while recoveries outnumbered fresh cases, bringing the total count of Covid-19 patients in the state down to 553, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. Ranchi reported 21 of the 41 cases that surfaced in Jharkhand on the day, while it also accounted for 44 of the 63 recoveries. Ranchi is the only district in Jharkhand with more than 100 active cases of infection. All the remaining 23 districts either have less than 100 active cases or no cases at all. As many as 279 people were battling a Covid-19 infection in Ranchi by the end of Sunday. While the trend of a rapid fall in the number of patients continued on the day, a resident of Bokaro died of Covid-19 during treatment, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1072, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 6600 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, as many as 1,18,296 people have been infected by the deadly virus in the state and more than 98% of them have recovered. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.04 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent. At the current rate, it would take more than 1700 days for the number of cases to double in Jharkhand. The national doubling rate was 662 days. The government also inoculated 139 people in Hazaribag against the Covid-19 virus on Sunday, the NHM stated in a separate report. Vaccination was not held in other districts on the day. So far, as many as 40,855 people have been administered the Covishield shots in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Over 10,000 people join Congress’s ‘Hul tractor rally’ for farmers||The Congress held a tractor rally that traversed the 80km stretch from Godda to Deoghar on Sunday to express solidarity with protesting farmers on the borders of Delhi with state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh promising to raise the Rs 50,000 farm loan waiver limit once the health of the state exchequer improved. The party later said that over 1,200 tractors and close to 10,000 people took part in the rally. Speaking at Godda’s Kargil chowk before the start of the rally around noon, Patralekh accused the Narendra Modi government of betraying the country’s farmers when he took a U-turn from his 2014 promise of waiving loans. Playing an old speech of Modi from one of his rallies during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Patralekh asked the gathering if anyone had received any waivers. “Did any farmer here get loan waivers from Modiji which he had promised before coming to power in 2014? But despite poor resources, our government here has implemented a farm loan waiver scheme within the first year itself. “Due to a funds crunch, we could manage to give waivers up to Rs 50,000 only. But we will increase it substantially once the financial condition of the state improves,” he announced and called on farmers to stand united and take on the Modi government for its wrong policies. “Demands of our farmers are genuine. We stand by their demand to repeal all three farm laws. The new laws are anti-farmer and are intended to privatise agriculture,” he said in the presence of Jamtara MLA Irfan Ansari, Poriyahat MLA Pradeep Yadav and close to 1,000 people, including party workers and farmers of Godda. Patralekh’s attempt to further consolidate farmers in Santhal Pargana, Jharkhand’s tribal heartland, is also an attempt to keep the electorate happy in the run-up to the bypoll to the Madhupur Assembly seat that fell vacant after the  demise of JMM minister Haji Hussain Ansari last year. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, Mahagama MLA Deepika Pandey Singh and many others were present at Deoghar even as many others joined the rally en-route. According to Congress workers, more than 1,200 tractors and close to 10,000 people took part in the rally titled “Hul tractor rally” since it commenced from the land of freedom fighters Sidho Kanho who led the Hul rebellion marking the rise of tribal uprising against the British in Santhal Parganas. Yadav said that Sunday’s tractor rally would similarly mark a farmer’s uprising from Jharkhand. “The farmers’ roar from this pious land will resonate in Delhi,” he said before driving a tractor bearing a giant poster of AICC leader Rahul Gandhi with Ansari and Patralekh seated in it. The state BJP ridiculed the Congress’s efforts, saying it was shedding crocodile tears for farmers at a time when paddy procurement in the state had been derailed. Part spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “The Congress is known for deceit and duping farmers. Congress in its election manifesto had announced farm loan waivers to the tune of Rs 2 lakh. But, in reality it is only Rs 50,000. They also promised Rs 2,500 as minimum support price but failed to do so. The situation is such that because of shoddy paddy procurement, farmers are forced to sell their produce to middlemen at throwaway prices.” Congress dubbed the rally “historic” and “successful”. But there was blatant violation of Covid-19 safety norms as almost everyone. including MLAs. Weren’t wearing masks. In Jharkhand, Covid seems to be on a downward trend with the total number of active cases standing at less than 600, according to a January 30 bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Active Covid-19 cases decline across Jharkhand||The number of active Covid-19 cases has declined across Jharkhand but Ranchi district has more than half of the total active cases in the state. According to the data released by the government at 9pm on Saturday, the number of active cases stood at 576 in Jharkhand after the detection of 49 new cases, 100 recoveries and one casualty. With 31 new cases detected on that day, Ranchi district had 63.25 per cent of the total new cases while the active case count stood at 302, accounting for 52.43 per cent of the total cases in the state. The number of active cases in East Singhbhum district came down to 55 though it recorded one-thirds of the state’s total casualty — 356 out of 1,071. Among other districts, Gumla had 39 active cases, Dhanbad 34, Latehar 25, Lohardaga 19, Palamau 15 and Bokaro 14. While the number of active cases in 15 other districts was six or less, Pakur continued to be the only district with not a single active case. The recovery rate in the state on Saturday was 98.61 per cent, better than the national rate of 97 per cent. The state’s mortality rate of 0.90 per cent was also less than the national rate of 1.40 per cent. “Ranchi being the state capital, more new people are coming here everyday and more people are also being tested here,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar, head of the Covid task force at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
