03-02-2021||Calcutta||Covaxin jab from today in Calcutta||Covaxin, a home-grown Covid vaccine, will be administered to health-care workers from Wednesday at three medical colleges in the city, health officials said on Tuesday. The three venues are the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and SSKM Hospital. Covaxin shots will be administered at the same sites where doses of Covishield, the other Covid vaccine approved for emergency use in India, are being given. Health department officials said the respective medical colleges would decide who would be administered Covaxin doses on Wednesday. A recipient has to sign a consent form. Covaxin, unlike Covishield, is still undergoing phase III trial. The consent form that the recipients of Covaxin need to sign mentions that the person receiving the vaccine has read the information sheet or has been told about it and he/she has understood the “benefits and risks of the vaccination”. Metro has reported that the consent form does not mention that the data on the efficacy of the home-grown vaccine is still pending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Republic Day spirit goes online||St Augustine’s Day schools Both the Barrackpore and Shyamnagar branches of St Augustine’s Day School observed the 72nd Republic Day to pay tribute to those national heroes, who had helped us attain the purna swaraj. Students of pre-primary and primary sections of the Barrackpore branch excelled themselves online. The pre-primary kids proved their zeal for creativity through craftwork, while the primary students gestured in excitement to the live broadcast of the Republic Day Parade 2021 directly from the Red Fort, New Delhi, which was uploaded in Google Classroom. Principal Jhuma Biswas said: “We should teach our children to cherish our culture, and celebrating the Republic Day is a step in that direction. Students will know and, thus, respect the freedom fighters’ sacrifices which will encourage them to cross every hurdle for a better future.” On the other hand, primary and secondary students of the Shyamnagar branch put up week-long activities as part of the celebrations. The primary kids made paper crafts such as cards and designs, including the colour of the Indian flag. Virtual classrooms became lively with display of the crafts and interesting talk sessions on national heroes and the freedom struggle. Senior students paid their homage digitally by posting speeches, paintings, poems, slogans and presentations in their Google Classrooms. Class-wise special online assemblies on Google Meet were conducted where teachers and even parents witnessed the presentations by students on the theme, Republic of India. “Celebrating events such as Republic Day has its own importance because it makes children aware of their own country. This time, the mode of celebration was different. But the essence remained the same,” said principal A.D. Gomes. “What better way to engage the tiny tots than art and craft? And if that helps raise awareness about our Independence struggles and build their national pride, it is a double win. This is what we attempted through online means this Republic Day with great response from the students,” said St Augustine’s Education Society president Janet Gasper Chowdhury. JD Birla Institute JD Birla Institute sustained the patriotic sentiment and promoted the spirit of brotherhood even amid the ongoing pandemic by observing the 72nd Republic Day, virtually. Teachers, students, staff members and many from the management attended the programme. The students made videos, depicting the history and glory of the Indian republic. They even depicted the contributions of B.R. Ambedkar in drafting the Indian Constitution. A plethora of events was put up, showcasing the cultural diversity of India. The programme commenced with hoisting of the national flag, followed by a speech on our motherland. “Earlier, we used to celebrate only the Independence Day. But from now on, we have started to celebrate the Republic Day to make our students learn the difference between both the occasions. Yes, we did miss the physical touch, but I am glad that we managed to keep up the patriotic fervour,” said principal Deepali Singhee. St Stephen’s School, Dum Dum Prayers and patriotic songs ruled the Republic Day celebrations at St Stephen’s School, Dum Dum. The guests included Rev Arabinda Mandal, the presbyter in-charge of St Stephen’s church under Dum Dum pastorate. Principal Ela Chowdhury delivered a speech where she asked the teachers to follow the Covid norms while serving the nation to their best. The portrait of Mahatma Gandhi was garlanded and the teachers sang Otho go Bharata Lakshmi and Vande Mataram to cap the day. “Around 70 teachers and staff members gathered on the school premises to make the event special. The students could not attend because of safety issues. We still wanted to pay our tribute in a small way,” said Chowdhury. Vivekananda Mission School, Joka Vivekananda Mission School, Joka, celebrated the Republic Day virtually. Few were present on the school premises for the flag hoisting ceremony, strictly following all the protocols of Covid-19. Principal Sarmistha Banerjee hoisted the national flag and delivered a motivational speech. “Only commemorating the day is not enough since we have a lot of responsibilities to fulfil as Indian citizens. Leaders are not born but made. The teachers and parents have to inculcate among the children the urge to take up the responsibility to make a better India tomorrow,” said the principal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Surgery botch-up order to Calcutta nursing home||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has asked Heritage Nursing Home on Ripon Street to pay Rs 10 lakh as interim compensation to a family after it found that the doctor who performed a Caesarean-section surgery did not have any specialisation in gynaecology despite claiming so. The 30-year-old woman, who underwent the surgery, is admitted to SSKM Hospital and is in a coma, said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. The doctor claimed in her prescription pad that she was a specialist in gynaecology though she only had an MBBS degree, said Banerjee. He said she should not have made the claim without a degree in gynaecology. The principal of a medical college in Calcutta said doctors with only an MBBS degree should not perform surgery. The principal added that to claim oneself as a specialist in gynaecology, the doctor must either have a postgraduate diploma or a masters’ degree in gynaecology. “Someone with only an MBBS degree should not perform a C-section surgery, though in rural areas, where there are hardly any specialists, an MBBS degree holder performs C-section,” said the principal. The woman’s family told the commission that they had to admit the woman to two other private hospitals after shifting her from Heritage. “The bill of her treatment in the other two hospitals reached Rs 23 lakh. They have already paid Rs 12 lakh,” said Banerjee. “We have asked Heritage Nursing Home to pay Rs 10 lakh to the family as interim compensation in 10 instalments, though the hospital did not charge them anything. The family may approach the West Bengal Medical Council as this is a complaint against a doctor. If they get any verdict against the doctor from the council, they can come back to us. We will award the final compensation then,” he said. The commission also asked AMRI Salt Lake to pay Rs 3 lakh for refusing to admit a Covid patient in June citing no vacancy, though the commission found beds were vacant at the time. “We have asked AMRI Salt Lake to pay Rs 2 lakh as compensation to the family and Rs 1 lakh to Shramajibi Hospital in Belur as corporate social responsibility spending,” said Banerjee. The 67-year-old man was taken to the hospital on June 22 and was refused admission. “While refusing admission the hospital said there was no vacant bed, but we found that beds were available at that time,” said Banerjee. The commission also asked R Flemming Hospital on Topsia Road to return Rs 2 lakh to a patient after it found that the hospital had overcharged the patient on medicines, consumables and for pathological tests, said Banerjee. “The total bill came to Rs 6.23 lakh. We have asked the hospital to refund Rs 2 lakh in 10 instalments,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Hair transplant client allegedly duped in Salt Lake||A 50-year-old man has complained to the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission that he has been duped by an institute in Salt Lake that claimed to conduct hair transplant. The institute apparently asked the man to sign an agreement with a private finance company for an interest-free loan to pay for the procedure in instalments. The complainant told the commission that Rs 10,000 was deduced from his account after the agreement had been signed even though he did not go for the transplant, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “The man went for a hair transplant to an institute named Richfill Health and Beauty, which is apparently located in Salt Lake,” he said. The commission has forwarded the complaint to the Bidhannagar City Police and asked them to start a probe. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they would ask the man to hand them all relevant documents. “The finance company made him sign a lot of documents. He complained that money had been deducted from his bank account though he never underwent the implant because doctors advised him against it because of his high blood sugar,” Banerjee said. The complainant went back to the institute following the deduction of the amount. “The man asked officials at Richfill to return the money... but they said they did not receive any payment from him. They said they got the money from the finance company,” said Banerjee. “When he got in touch with the finance company, they said he had to pay back the amount since he took out a loan from them. The man said he had been duped.” During his discussions with Richfill, the institute had told the 50-year-old that the procedure would cost Rs 44,000. Banerjee said the man feared that money would again be deducted from his account. “He is in a strange situation. He has issued a post-dated check. He is afraid that the finance company might lodge a criminal complaint against him if the cheque is dishonoured,” said Banerjee. “Since we cannot do much about this, we forwarded it to the Bidhannagar City Police.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Women take lessons, hold first exhibition||A group of women, who lost their livelihood during the pandemic, learnt to stitch and made bags and masks that flew off the rack during an exhibition on Republic Day. The women sold goods worth Rs 14,000 in their first exhibition held at Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas. One of the women was Anita Halder, 33, who lost her savings and had to take a loan for her husband’s treatment and provide for her two-year-old child. Her husband, a labourer, returned home from Tamil Nadu and fell ill. On most days, she took her child to the training centre, since there was no one to look after the baby. Altogether 17 women had enrolled for the training, which started in November. Some of them, holding graduate and postgraduate degrees, gave tuitions but parents stopped sending their children. “We want to make it a sustainable project. But for now it is a fight for bread and butter for all of them,” said Pulak Roy Chowdhury, the headmaster of Kanaknagar SD Institution in Hingalganj, who initiated the training. Metro reported about the training weeks after it had started. The initiative, titled Mom Sundarban Society, was started to empower women in the area. Roy Chowdhury has also created the self-help group and opened a bank account so that transactions can be done from that account, he said. “These women have to learn to manage their own businesses, from sale to accounts. We don’t want middlemen to walk away with their profits,” said Roy Chowdhury. The women have received further orders of Rs 10,000 and will participate in an exhibition in the city. It is not easy, as one of the women said, because it means balancing work at home and at the workplace. “We all go to the centre and work together. We also look after our homes,” she said. The first taste of earning in 10 months has made many of them shift their focus on tailoring. Twenty-five-year-old Soumita Kayal, a postgraduate in English, realised that she could have other sources of earning too. “The fact that people were buying has made me realise that there is a market we can cater to. When I enrolled for the training in November, I didn’t expect that within two months we would have an exhibition and earn from it,” said Kayal. “I had never done stitching before that. There is a lot to learn,” she said. Before the lockdown, Kayal was teaching a few children at home but parents stopped sending them during the pandemic. “If the children come back, I will teach them. But I will continue my business, too,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Tragedy reminder on forgotten flyover lessons||One man could have been still alive and another could have been saved from being accused of causing death due to negligence had both followed road rules while commuting through the Parama flyover on Monday afternoon. Arijit Maitra, 26, had allegedly stopped his scooter on the flyover to answer a phone call and died after being hit by a car from behind. Fahin Halder, in his 20s, who was at the wheel of the car — a Maruti Suzuki Alto — has been arrested for the death of the scooterist. If convicted, he can be jailed for up to two years. Senior officers in the traffic department said the scooterist violated a basic rule by suddenly stopping on the flyover. “No vehicle is allowed to stop on a flyover. That is the most important rule that all motorists must follow,” an officer said. The second violation committed by Maitra, the officer said, was to make an attempt to talk over the phone while driving on a flyover. The police have learnt during investigation that Maitra had suddenly stopped on the flyover to answer a phone call. “We always encourage people to stop the vehicle and make a call, if at all it is necessary. But in this case, to stop in the middle of the flyover was a wrong step. No one should talk over the phone while driving on a flyover,” the officer said. Several officers feel the crash could also have been averted had Halder, who was driving the Maruti Suzuki Alto, maintained enough braking distance and stopped the car before hitting the scooter. Halder, who was with his mother and younger brother, faces charges of causing death due to negligence. According to the rule, his driving licence will be suspended for at least three months and may remain impounded for a maximum period of one year. Apart from the criminal charge of causing death due to negligence, which will be probed by the fatal squad of the traffic police, Halder will face a separate trial headed by the deputy commissioner of the traffic department to get back his driving licence. The rulebook says that once a driving licence is suspended, the details are sent to the public vehicles department to update their records so that the offender cannot re-apply for a licence during the period of suspension. Halder has told the police that a white four-wheeler was in front of his Alto. It had allegedly suddenly steered right to overtake the two-wheeler in front of it, leaving Halder with no time to react. Officers said they were probing the presence of the white vehicle. “If at all there was a white vehicle in front, it is apparent that it was not maintaining the braking distance. Else, it could have pressed the brake in time to prevent a pile-up,” said another officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta educational institutions weigh resumption options||A number of schools said they were ready to resume in-person instructions for half the students of a class, while the other half can continue attending online sessions from home. The principals of several schools said they would seek consent from parents before calling the children back to the campus. Schools said online classes and blended learning would have to continue for some time even for the students of Classes IX to XII. “We have to see what percentage of students will be allowed in the school. We will have to work out a schedule with the teachers so that one group of students attend classes in school and the other group attend online classes,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. Schools are planning to let half the students of a class, or even fewer, sit in one room and spread out the remaining students in rooms that won’t be occupied in the absence of juniors on the campus. “In a single classroom we will have 25 to 30 per cent of the original capacity, and we will be using three to four times the number of classrooms they usually occupy,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of South Point. “Initially, different classes could be allotted different days.” The director of Sushila Birla Girls’ School said they had planned “live streaming of classes” for those who would stay away from the campus. “In a room there will be half the number of students that originally used to sit,” said Sharmila Bose, the director of Sushila Birla Girls’ School. Every alternate seat will be vacant, she said. “We will not give up virtual lessons completely and we have to plan and execute sensibly. It has to be a combination of online and offline classes and then gradually return to normalcy without giving up on the advantages of online mode,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls. Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Tuesday that schools could reopen from February 12 for Classes IX to XII. Many private schools had been waiting for the go-ahead so they could at least call senior students to the campus for practical classes and rehearsal examinations. “We will start with practicals for students who will write board exams and also some form of pen and paper assessment before the boards,” said Bose. Many schools will not be open for full duration initially. “We can have four periods a day initially and gradually increase the number of periods after assessing the parents’ response,” said Ireland. The Heritage School has twice conducted a survey among students and parents as preparation for the reopening. “We did the survey for senior students and found that not more than 50 to 60 per cent of the parents are ready to send their children to school,” said principal Seema Sapru.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Parama flyover repair from today ||The road surface of the Parama flyover will be repaired over the next 10 days. Engineers from the urban development department, which will supervise the project, said repairs on the EM Bypass-bound flank will start first. “The repairs will start on Wednesday. Work will con-tinue from 11pm to 5am to ensure minimum rush-hour traffic diversion,” an official said. “All necessary formalities for the repairs, including getting permission from police to block traffic on the flyover during the duration of work, are over.” The repair of the 7.5km-long road surface on the main trunk of Calcutta’s longest flyover will start two days after a 26-year-old man died following an accident on the flyover. Arijit Maitra, who was riding a two-wheeler, apparently stopped on the flyover to answer a phone call when he was hit from behind by a car. Maitra was flung off the flyover before he landed on the road below. “The repair will basically be patchwork. A layer of mastic asphalt will be laid to cover the parts that have worn off on either flank of the flyover,” said an official of the CMDA, which is the custodian of the flyover. “Since mastic asphalt was used when the road was laid, we will stick to it for the repairs.” A section of road engineering experts has questioned the decision to use mastic asphalt, instead of bituminous concrete, on the Parama flyover, where vehicles tend to move at a speed higher than most of Calcutta’s thoroughfares. Several engineers said bituminous concrete was the choice for all high-speed co-rridors across the world. National highways, too, don’t have a mastic asphalt layer on them. “The friction factor for mastic asphalt is low. Unfortunately, for patchwork you can’t try bituminous concrete,” said Samiran Sen, a member of the committee set up by the state government to monitor the health of bridges and flyovers. Engineers said the width of the carriageway of the Parama flyover is 7.5m and there is no space for the shoulder, unlike other bridges or roads. As a result, motorists have to be extra careful while driving down this flyover. Besides repairing the road surface, engineers have decided to use the 10-day period to give a fresh coat of blue and white on the inner surface of the walls. “We will also complete the work of installing nets as a measure to prevent kite strings from falling on motorists,” the CMDA official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Why is Calcutta feeling so cold||The unusual cold spell that has gripped Calcutta at a time winter should have been on its way out is largely because of the low day temperature. According to the Met statistics compiled over the past 30 years, February’s average maximum temperature in the city is around 29 degrees. In comparison, the maximum temperature on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday was 22.7 degrees, 22.9 degrees and 25 degrees respectively. The Met office attributed the biting chill to the day temperature’s yawning deviation from the usual for this time of the year. “Both the minimum and maximum temperatures have been unusually low for the past few days. But the effect of the minimum temperature is felt for a much shorter time than the effect of the maximum temperature,” said a Met official. A weather scientist explained the impact of the maximum temperature. “If the maximum temperature is in the range of 27 degrees, chances are that the Celsius will remain above 20 degrees for the better part of the day, say from 9am to 7pm. But if the maximum temperature is around 22 degrees, the Celsius is likely to stay under 20 degrees for most of the day, barring perhaps three-four hours in the afternoon,” he said. The minimum temperature over the past three days was 12.1 degrees, 11.4 degrees and 11.5 degrees respectively. The average minimum temperature for February is around 17.5 degrees, according to the Met records. “The minimum temperature is usually recorded before sunrise. The effect is felt late into the night and the early hours. Morning walkers feel the bite of that chill to an extent. The maximum temperature is recorded around the time the sun is directly overhead and has an effect on the entire day,” said the Met official. Monday was the coldest February day in over a decade and the second coldest this winter. The coldest day of this season was December 27, when the minimum temperature was 11.2 degrees. But February 1 felt much colder because of the difference in the day temperature on the two days. The maximum temperature on December 27 was 24.5 degrees. The average maximum and minimum for December are 15 and 27 degrees. The deviation in the maximum temperature on December 27 was only 2.5 degrees. On February 1, it was over six degrees. The city’s official minimum temperature is recorded by the Met office in Alipore. The Dum Dum observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 9.6 degrees on Monday. Some districts in south Bengal witnessed a minimum temperature of below 8 degrees on Monday, prompting the Met office in Alipore to issue a cold wave alert for the state. The mercury in Calcutta was tipped to dip further on Tuesday but it went marginally up instead. “The north-westerly winds had not picked up pace as expected,” said the Met official. But the chill is not going anywhere soon, according to the Met forecast. The minimum temperature is likely to be in the 12-13 degrees range over the next “two to three days”. “There is a possibility of the formation of a trough of low pressure over central India. It could lead to cloud formation in south Bengal and trigger some rain. The system is also expected to halt the flow of the north-westerly winds and the Celsius in the city could go up a few notches,” said the Met official. But a fresh round of snowfall is expected in Kashmir over the next few days. “The trough should dissipate in 24 hours, paving for the entry of a fresh round of cold winds from Kashmir that will again take the temperature down,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta schools to open for classes IX to XII on February 12||Schools in Bengal will reopen from February 12 for students of Classes IX to XII, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Tuesday. The minister said the schools had already started sanitising their premises for the resumption of on-campus activities. “We will reopen the schools from February 12 adhering to the health protocols. We have already started the sanitisation drive — IX, X, XI and XII. We will also tell the schools to hold practical classes,” minister Chatterjee said at the Trinamul Congress headquarters in response to a question. “Saraswati Puja will be held in a few days’ time. Schools will hold Saraswati Puja. Where is the problem in it?” Saraswati Puja is on February 16. Chatterjee will meet the vice-chancellors of state universities on Wednesday to decide whether in-person classes could be allowed in universities and colleges as well. “We will act based on their suggestions,” said Chatterjee. Campuses have been shut since March 2020 following the outbreak of Covid-19. An official of the school education department said a detailed advisory on the protocols to be followed by students and teachers had been drawn up in consultation with the health department. “The various offices of the department in the districts will liaise with the schools on the protocols,” said the official. A section of teachers, however, said the government should leave it to individual students to decide whether they would want to attend in-person classes while the pandemic was still on. “It should not be made mandatory as one might argue that it is safer to attend classes from home. The parents might fear that their wards could catch the virus in schools. Therefore, a student who is unwilling to go to the school should be allowed to attend classes from home,” said Saugata Basu, a teacher of Uttarpara Government School, who is also the secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association. Another teacher said the school education department must seek parental consent before calling a student to the campus. A school education department official said several plans were in consideration. “Classes could be held on alternate days at the beginning, something chief minister Mamata Banerjee had proposed in August,” the official said. Many schools have sought the government’s consent to hold at least on-campus practical classes for the students who will write their board exams in a month. Teachers were worried about their lack of basic hands-on training. Headmasters were repeatedly getting in touch with the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, seeking to know when in-person classes could resume. Calcutta University has been holding practical classes at the postgraduate level since January 18. “We are looking forward to Wednesday’s meeting, which will decide whether in-person classes could resume in the colleges,” said an official of CU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
03-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 458 points to end above 50,000 for first time||Extending its Budget bull run for the third day, the Sensex rallied 458 points to end above the 50,000 mark for the first time ever on Wednesday, led by broad-based gains amid positive cues from global markets. After touching a record intra-day high of 50,526.39, the 30-share index ended at 50,255.75, up 458.03 points or 0.92 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 142.10 points or 0.97 per cent to its fresh closing record of 14,789.95. It touched an all-time high of 14,868.85 during the day. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, zooming around 8 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma, NTPC and Axis Bank. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Maruti, ITC, Kotak Bank and Asian Paints were among the losers. "Domestic equities continued to remain in the grip of bulls and broader indices made fresh record highs today," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Optimism, created after the announcement of bold measures in the Union Budget continued to attract investors. Favourable global cues also supported the market rally. Notably, market cap of Indian market is just fraction away from surpassing Rs 200 trillion levels, he added. Growing optimism among investors after bold and pro-growth Budget helped market to rebound sharply in the last three days, he said, adding that the underlying strength of the domestic market remains intact. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.36 per cent higher at USD 58.01 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
03-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty overcome early losses to turn positive in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex pared early losses and turned positive in opening trade on Wednesday amid gains in index-heavyweights Reliance, TCS and Infosys. After shedding over 60 points, the 30-share index made a U-turn and was trading 130.17 points or 0.26 per cent higher at 49,927.89. The benchmark indices turned choppy in the first hour of trade. the broader NSE Nifty gained 53.85 points or 0.37 per cent to 14,701.70. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4.50 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, PowerGrid, Tech Mahindra, M&M, Sun Pharma and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Maruti, Kotak Bank, SBI and UltraTech Cement were among the losers. "The risk-on is back in the market with massive FII inflows. There is huge delivery-based buying in HDFC twins, Tata Motors, RIL, ICICI Bank and many other bluechips," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Vijayakumar further noted that the growth-oriented bold budget, with emphasis on privatization, has facilitated this return of risk-on in the market with the Nifty spiking by 7 per cent in 2 days. "The fundamental support to the market comes from the surprisingly good results from companies. If the present steadily declining COVID incidence trends continue, the economy will bounce back sharply, supporting the rally," he noted. In the previous session, the 30-share BSE index ended 1,197.11 points higher at 49,797.72; and the Nifty advanced 366.65 points to close the session at 14,647.85. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 6,181.56 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Shanghai were trading with losses, while Tokyo was in the green. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.42 per cent higher at USD 57.70 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
03-02-2021||Business||Govt mulls next move on Cairn case after examining international tribunal order||The government is “examining” the recent international tribunal order passed against India in the high-profile Cairn Energy plc retrospective tax case even as CBDT chairman P.C. Mody said the law that was extant at that point of time had to be enforced. He said while the government has filed an appeal after a similar verdict was delivered against the country in the Vodafone case, it will soon come out with its decision to go in for an appeal or not in the Cairn case. “We have already taken a decision in the case of Vodafone to go in for a further appeal. So far as Cairn is concerned, we are examining the issue and very soon we will come out with a decision on that,” the CBDT chief said. He was asked if the ground of “taxation being a sovereign function of the government” was used to file an appeal in the Vodafone case. “Apart from sovereign function, that (retrospective taxation) was the law at that point of time... so that has to be carried out or given full effect to,” he said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) frames policy for the income tax department. India, in December last year, has been ordered to return up to $1.4 billion to Cairn Energy after the government lost an international arbitration over the retrospective taxes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
03-02-2021||Business||LIC IPO likely after October this year||LIC’s initial public offering (IPO) is likely after October this year, a top official said on Tuesday, laying out the government’s divestment calendar that includes completing the sale of flag carrier Air India and oil firm BPCL within the first half of the next fiscal. Targeting to raise Rs 1.75 lakh crore from the asset sale to finance projects aimed at reviving the pandemic-battered economy, the government is also looking to sell Shipping Corporation of India (SCI), IDBI Bank and two other public sector lenders in the financial year beginning April 1. Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary in the department of investment and public asset management, said the government has introduced the legislative amendments required for disinvestment of a stake in Life Insurance Corporation of India and IDBI Bank through the Finance Bill, 2021 presented on Monday. The Modi government is targeting record capital expenditure next fiscal to pull the economy out of the trough. Additional resources required for that are to be raised through divestment and monetisation. It has already received the preliminary expression of interest for the sale of stake in BPCL and Air India while the same for SCI is due on February 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
03-02-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India rolls out borrowing timeline||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has issued a revised borrowing calendar of the government for the rest of this fiscal, following an announcement by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to borrow another Rs 80,000 crore in the next two months in the budget. The government raises money from the market to fund its fiscal deficit through dated securities and treasury bills. The fresh issuances will see the gross market borrowing rising to Rs 12.80 lakh crore. The initial estimate was Rs 7.8 lakh crore which was subsequently raised to Rs 12 lakh crore. After the announcement in the budget, the yields on government securities which are inversely related to their prices have risen as the bond markets reacted negatively to the supply of more paper. The yields on Tuesday on the benchmark 10 year paper ended at 6.12 per cent — a gain of over six basis points. In all, the Centre will raise Rs 2,16,000 crore in the two months of February and March. The programme will kick off with bonds worth Rs 31,000 crore to be sold this week. While five, 11 and 14-year tenures dominate the list, the government will be also raising money through 30- and 40-year paper. For the next fiscal, the gross market borrowing is set at Rs 12 lakh crore which is also higher than market expectation. This comes as the government is looking to boost growth leading to higher expenditure. Fiscal deficit for this year has been set at 9.5 per cent of GDP and for the next fiscal, it is expected to come at 6.8 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
03-02-2021||Business||Steel companies hike prices by Rs 1500 a tonne||A day after the Union budget slashed customs duties on a gamut of steel products with the aim to rein in escalating domestic prices, steel producers in the country have increased prices by Rs 1,000-1,500 a tonne. Primary producers such as state-run Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) raised prices of benchmark hot rolled coil prices as well as cold rolled items. Private player JSW Steel also raised prices by Rs 1,000 a tonne on certain products. Other large producers are likely to follow suit. While reacting to the budget proposals, primary producers had pointed out on Monday that the duty cut would have limited impact on domestic prices given that steel prices across the globe were firm. Moreover, around 60 per cent of imports come from countries with which India has free trade agreements such as Japan and Korea. In short, these imports can anyway come at zero per cent duty even before the budget move. Steel prices in the domestic market have rallied nearly 50 per cent from the low it fetched in July, backed by a robust domestic demand and buoyant international prices. Benchmark HRC is now hovering around Rs 54,000 a tonne. The budget had cut duties by 2.5-5.5 per cent on a range of products. It also temporarily suspended countervailing duties and anti dumping duties on certain products coming from a few countries, notably China. “There was a general expectation that with reduction of duty in the budget, steel prices should come down considerably, but it is the reverse what happened today,” Sanjay Budhia, managing director of Patton International, an engineering exporter out of Bengal, said. A source close to the steel mills argued that prices in India would not come down unless the prices in the international markets, especially China, come down. “Steel prices in the US are ruling at $680 a tonne. Adding freight charges and the reduced customs duty, the price goes to $758 a tonne or Rs 55,334 tonne, while domestics’ prices are hovering around Rs 53,000-55,000 a tonne,” the source said. User industries also pointed out that the impact of the reduced duty would not be felt here before 2-3 months. “It would at least take that long if someone contracts steel today to reach his factory. Till such time, mill prices in India would rule firm,” a user industry official said. Rising steel prices are putting pressure on the user industries, especially those who have entered into long term contracts with buyers, in India or overseas. “We have been pleading with our customers to raise prices given the unprecedented rise. However, they are not ready to offer more than a low single digit hike. We are really at a bind,” Budhia complained, urging the government to take more steps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
03-02-2021||Business||HDFC Ltd on reports consolidated profit after tax of Rs 5,177 crore||Mortgage lender HDFC Ltd on Tuesday reported a consolidated profit after tax of Rs 5,177 crore in the December quarter compared with Rs 3,835 crore in the year-ago period. On a standalone basis, net profit for the December quarter stood at Rs 2,926 crore against Rs 8,372 crore a year ago. For the nine-month period ended December 31, 2020, profit after tax was Rs 8,847 crore compared with Rs 15,537.12 crore in the year-ago period. The company’s vice-chairman and CEO Keki Mistry said the profit numbers for the third quarter are not comparable with the last year because of the profit on the sale of a part stake in HDFC Life and dividend, which stood at Rs 159 crore in the reporting quarter compared with Rs 4 crore last year. The merger of GRUH Finance with Bandhan Bank was effective October 17, 2019, it added. “Under IndAS, the Corporation had on derecognition of the investment in GRUH, recorded a fair value gain of Rs 9,020 crore through the statement of profit and loss during the quarter ended December 31, 2019,” HDFC Ltd. In the third quarter of 2020-21, the net gain on fair value changes and income on loans assigned stood at Rs 641 crore against Rs 209 crore a year ago. The lender’s provisioning (including for the impact of Covid-19) stood at Rs 594 crore in the reporting quarter as against Rs 2,995 crore in the previous year. Net interest income rose 26 per cent to Rs 4,068 crore compared with Rs 3,240 crore. HDFC Bank IT audit HDFC Bank on Tuesday said that the RBI has appointed an external firm for carrying out a special audit of its entire IT infrastructure. In December 2020, the banking regulator had temporarily barred HDFC Bank from issuing new credit cards and launching digital banking initiatives becasue of various service outages over the last two years. After that, HDFC Bank had submitted a detailed plan of action to the RBI to address repeated service disruption issues and the lender said that it was hopeful of improving its technology platform in three months. A senior official of the bank had also said at an analysts meet that the action plan will take 10-12 weeks for implementation, and further time-frame will depend on the RBI’s inspection. Based on the satisfaction level, the central bank will lift the ban. The identity of the external firm was not disclosed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
03-02-2021||Business||Narendra Modi to unveil Rs 4,700-crore projects in poll-bound West Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unveil about Rs 4,700-crore projects in poll-bound West Bengal on Sunday, including the Dobhi-Durgapur natural gas pipeline. The 347km pipeline from Dobhi (in Gaya, Bihar) to Durgapur will revive HURL Sindri (Jharkhand) fertiliser plant, supply gas to Matix fertiliser plant at Durgapur and will supply gas to industrial, commercial and automobile sectors and city gas distribution across all major towns in these states, including the cities of Purulia, Asansol and Durgapur of West Bengal. This pipeline is part of the ambitious Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga project. “Conducted an oil industry meet at Haldia ahead of PM Narendra Modi ji’s visit where he will dedicate to the nation oil, gas & road projects worth Rs 4,742 crore,” Union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan said. Modi will inaugurate the project virtually from Haldia. Pradhan said the Prime Minister will visit Haldia on February 7 to dedicate several infrastructure projects in the oil and gas sector. He will also dedicate an LPG import terminal at Haldia, built by Bharat Petroleum at a cost of Rs 1,100 crore, to meet the demand of cooking fuel of the region. He will also lay the foundation stone for the second catalytic dewaxing unit of IOC at Haldia refinery and a road- overbridge  at Ranichak. This has been built at the cost of Rs 190 crore. After the launch of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna (PMUY), LPG penetration has witnessed a phenomenal growth in the entire country. West Bengal, along with other eastern states has also witnessed similar growth in LPG consumption. LPG penetration in West Bengal, which was only 41.4 per cent in April 2014 has increased to 99.5 per cent as on date, the release said. He will also lay the foundation stone for the second catalytic dewaxing unit of IOC at Haldia refinery and a road- overbridge (ROB) at Ranichak. This has been built at the cost of Rs 190 crore. The commissioning of this flyover will result in uninterrupted to and fro traffic from Kolaghat to Haldia Dock Complex and other surrounding areas. There will be a substantial saving in travel time and operating cost of heavy vehicles plying in and out of the port. Haldia dock complex is the main gateway for import and export of cargo destined/originating from Eastern and North-Eastern part of country as well as land-locked countries like Nepal and Bhutan. The second catalytic dewaxing unit at the refinery with a capacity of 270 TMTPA is estimated to cost Rs 1019 crores and will produce advanced Group III Lubes Oil Base Stock (LOBS), which will be first of its kind installation in India. Once commissioned, this will lead to import-substitution in the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat.  Currently around 70% of LOBS requirement is being met through imports. With the commissioning of CIDW at Haldia Refinery, LOBS Production of the country will be enhanced and LOBS import dependency will reduce by around 8%. This project is expected to result in saving of foreign exchange to the tune of $185 million.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
03-02-2021||Business||Delhi high court directs Future Retail not to proceed with Reliance merger||The Delhi high court on Tuesday has directed Future Retail Limited (FRL) not to proceed with its merger with Reliance Retail as it reserved its verdict on US online giant Amazon’s plea against the merger. While ordering status quo on the Rs 24,713-crore deal between Future and Reliance, the court upheld the judgment of the Singapore Emergency Arbitrator (EA) which in October had ruled in favour of Amazon that triggered a bitter feud between Future and Amazon leading to an earlier verdict by the Delhi high court followed by conditional approval of the Future-Reliance deal by Sebi, the BSE and NSE as well by the Competition Commission of India. The court on Tuesday directed Future Retail Ltd (FRL) to maintain status quo in relation to its deal with Reliance Retail. Justice J.R. Midha said the court was satisfied that an immediate interim order was required to be passed to protect the rights of Amazon. “Respondents (FRL) and other respondents are directed to maintain status quo as on today at 4:49pm till pronouncement of the reserved order,” the judge said. Amazon has approached the high court seeking direction to order enforcement of the award by Singapore’s Emergency Arbitrator (EA) restraining FRL from going ahead with its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. The high court, which heard the matter for four consecutive days, reserved its order on the main petition and also directed all other concerned authorities to maintain status quo in relation to the matters which are in violation of the emergency award and to file status report with regard to the present status within 10 days. While pronouncing the interim order, the high court said it was of the prima facie view that the emergency arbitrator is an arbitrator and he has rightly proceeded against FRL and its order was not in nullity. The court said it was clear that the October 25, 2020 order of the emergency arbitrator passing the award was enforceable and appealable under the relevant provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. The high court directed FRL to file an affidavit stating the steps and actions taken by it from October 25, 2020, when the emergency award was passed, till now in connection with the deal with Reliance. The high court had earlier issued notices and sought responses of FRL, Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL), Biyanis and other related parties on the petition by Amazon. Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC, in its plea, also sought detention of the Biyanis, directors of FCPL and FRL and other related parties in civil prison and attaching of their properties for alleged “wilful disobedience” of the emergency arbitrator's order. It also sought to restrain Future Group from taking any steps to transfer or dispose of FRL's retail assets or the shares held in FRL by the Biyanis in any manner without prior written consent of Amazon. The Future Group and Amazon have been locked in a battle after the US-based company took FRL into the emergency arbitration over alleged breach of a contract between them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
03-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Investor wealth zooms over Rs 10.48 lakh crore||Investor wealth zoomed over Rs 10.48 lakh crore in two days as the Budget-driven market euphoria continued to galvanise bulls on Tuesday. The Sensex jumped 1197.11 points, or 2.46 per cent, to close at 49797.72 on Tuesday. During the day, it zoomed 1553.87 points to 50154.48. Tracking the extremely positive investor sentiment, the market capitalisation of BSE-listed companies jumped Rs 10,48,253.99 crore to Rs 1,96,60,898.02 crore in two days of market rally. On Tuesday, the m-cap of BSE-listed companies advanced by Rs 4,14,184.32 crore. Investors became richer by over Rs 6.34 lakh crore on Monday as markets gave a big shout-out to the Budget 2021-22. Cheering the Budget proposals, the Sensex zoomed 2314.84 points, or 5 per cent, to close at 48600.61 on Monday. This was the best Budget-day gain for the markets since 1997, analysts said. “It has been a picture perfect rally in the last two sessions with the broader indices clocking record Budget day gains and extending them today as well. Although some profit-booking can be expected, we expect stock-specific action to continue,” said Rahul Sharma, head technical and derivatives Research, JM Financial Services. On Tuesday, on the BSE 1,755 companies advanced, while 1,184 declined and 175 remained unchanged. “Budget 2021 was a dream Budget which brought with itself a remarkable rise in Nifty-50, the highest in the past 10 years. Such buoyancy might be momentary but this budget truly caters to revive the Indian economy which plunged to the nadir amidst the pandemic. “No new Covid tax/cess or no increase in wealth or other direct taxes also amused investors. Overall, the budget truly hit the mark since there wasn’t anything negative from a consumer or industrial perspective,” Umesh Mehta, head of research, Samco Securities, said. According to Jaideep Hansraj, MD and CEO, Kotak Securities, it has been a great budget in the current pandemic. The market has given a clear thumbs-up. “No tinkering on taxes, including personal tax and a giant leap of divesting two state-run banks and opening up of market by making way for the LIC IPO and foreign ownership in insurance companies has been a welcome move and the primary reason for the rise in the stock market,” he stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
03-02-2021||Business||Budget 2021-22: Rating agencies go soft on deficit spike||Rating agencies have demurred from passing any scathing comments on the greater than expected fiscal deficit announced in the budget just days after the Narendra Modi-government dared them on downgrades in the Economic Survey last week. Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s on Tuesday came out with their initial reaction to the budget and it did not indicate any major concern on their part about the government’s decision to set fiscal deficit at 6.8 per cent of GDP in the next fiscal while keeping the deficit at an awning 9.5 per cent for the current fiscal. The Centre has also decided to throw away any figleaf of fiscal rectitude by jettisoning the mandate to attain the fiscal deficit of 3 per cent of GDP by 2020-21 under FRBM Act even as it committed itself to an aggressive spending exercise that removes the possibility of bringing down the deficit to below 4.5 per cent of GDP in another four years. At present, India’s sovereign rating is one notch above junk, and any downgrade will  increase borrowing costs both for the government and companies. In June last year, Fitch had revised India’s outlook to negative from stable and affirmed the rating at BBB- while Moody’s had downgraded the rating to Baa3 from Baa2, the lowest investment grade. On the other hand, S&P has a BBB- rating. S&P Global Ratings on Tuesday said that the fiscal deficit of 9.5 per cent of GDP in this fiscal was greater than its estimates. It cautioned that the prospect of consolidation from these levels, while maintaining a significant degree of support for the economy, poses a “stout” challenge to India’s policymakers. The rating agency was, however, quick to add that the budget represented a comprehensive effort by the government to shore up the country's nascent economic recovery. “While we currently see no material effect from the budget on India’s key credit factors, the economy’s brightening growth prospects will be critical to maintaining the sustainability of India’s public finances, with general government debt likely to hover at more than 90 per cent of GDP over the next few years,’’ the rating agency noted. On the other hand, Jeremy Zook, director in Fitch Ratings’ Asia-Pacific Sovereigns team, said that the deficit targets presented in the budget are higher even as the medium-term consolidation is more gradual than  expected. “The wider deficits and more gradual pace of consolidation will lift government debt and put more onus on the nominal GDP growth outlook in our assessment of the medium-term debt trajectory, which is core to our view of sovereign rating,” Fitch said. Signs of a weaker-than-anticipated economic recovery or a reassessment of medium-term growth potential would make it more challenging to achieve a downward trend in the debt ratio. “We view the economic and revenue assumptions underpinning the budget to be largely credible, although the disinvestment revenue target appears optimistic at over three times higher than the level achieved in 2019-20.” “This budget also takes further positive steps toward improving fiscal transparency, particularly by bringing the loans from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) onto the budget,” Fitch said. The extended fiscal glide path — in the government’s refusal to keep the deficit high till 2025-26  —  means the present dispensation has given a quite a burial to late finance minister Arun Jaitley’s promise in his budget for 2017 to strive for fiscal prudence even as he refused to trigger the escape clause from the mandated glide path of the deficit. Sitharaman has not only activated the escape clause this year but also promised to amend the FRBM Act. Chief economic advisor K.V. Subramanian in the Economic Survey had set the stage for the ballooning fiscal deficit and the long rope for the glide path when he slammed the methodologies of the rating agencies. “India's sovereign ratings do not reflect the fundamentals of Indian economy. Ratings methodology needs correction. Ratings basically reflect the probability of default which corresponds to willingness to repay or ability to repay. India's willingness to repay is gold standard,” the survey said. India has never defaulted even in 1991. Our ability to repay is also very very high," Subramanian said. Pointing towards India's bulging foreign exchange reserves to make the case for a significant ratings upgrade, he said the reserves currently stand at $585 billion, which is close to all time highs. "To understand whether our reserves cover our debt, we need to take into account private sector debt. Our short term debt, a default by India is a 0.1 percent probability event," he said. "Our total debt obligation in foreign exchange, the amount is less than reserves….which is why India should have the highest rating. And that is one of the reasons why our stock markets do not react to (adverse) credit ratings changes," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
03-02-2021||India||No more internet ban at Delhi borders for now, says MHA||There has been no further extension of the Internet suspension at Delhi's borders which was till the night of February 2, a Union Home Ministry official said on Wednesday. The ministry had announced suspension of Internet at the three Delhi border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur where farmers protests are underway from 11 pm on January 29 effective till 11 pm on January 31. Later it had extended the suspension till 11 pm on February 2, with a ministry official saying the decision was taken to "maintain public safety and averting public emergency" under Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017. "The MHA has not further extended the suspension of internet in Delhi's borders as of now," the ministry official told PTI. Thousands of protesters are camping at Delhi's borders since November with a demand that three new agri-marketing laws be repealed and minimum support price for crops guaranteed, even as the government has maintained that the legislations enacted in September are pro-farmer. The ongoing protests also resulted in violence in the national capital on Republic Day during which hundreds of people, including policemen and women, were injured and one protestor died after his speeding tractor overturned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
03-02-2021||India||Haryana farmers’ Mahapanchayat: Rakesh Tikait warns Centre of ‘gaddi wapsi’||In a show of strength here by protesting farmers, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday warned the government that it could find it difficult to stay on in power if the new agri-marketing laws are not repealed. Just before Tikait was to begin his speech at the 'mahapanchayat' in Kandela village, the stage on which the farmer leaders had gathered collapsed under their weight. Nobody was reported hurt and the BKU leader went on to address the large gathering. Calling for a wapsi (withdrawal) of the three new central laws, the BKU leader indirectly warned the Narendra Modi government that it could lose its gaddi (power) if the agitation continues. “We have so far talked about ‘bill wapsi’ (repealing the farm laws). The government should listen carefully. What will you do if the youth call for gaddi wapsi (removal from power)?” he said. He asked the Centre to repeal the three laws and frame a new one to assure the continuation of the minimum support price (MSP) system. The BKU leader from Uttar Pradesh has been camping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-UP border as part of a campaign by farmer unions against the central laws enacted in September. Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are also massed at Tikri and Singhu on the Delhi-Haryana border for two months. After violence on Republic Day, police barricaded these protest sites with cement barriers and spikes on the roads leading to them. Criticising the restrictions, Tikait said, “When the king is scared, he secures the fortress.” He suggested that he would lay down on the nails embedded on the roads there so that others can cross them by stepping on him. He said the Centre must talk with the farmer unions spearheading the agitation. The 'mahapanchayat' was attended by Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni and BKU leader from Punjab, Balbir Singh Rajewal. Over 50 khap leaders were also present. Jind is often considered part of Haryana's political heartland and the 'mahapanchayat' was meant to muster support for the agitation. It was organised by Sarva Jatiya Kandela Khap headed by Tekram Kandela. Shortly before Tikait was to speak, the makeshift stage collapsed. He appealed to the gathering not to panic and began his speech. Farmer leaders said there were no reports of anyone being hurt. Tikait said the campaign against the farm laws was going strong. The way we are getting support from khap panchayats, we will win this fight. He urged everyone involved, particularly the youth, to keep protesting in a peaceful manner. Tikait underlined the role played by farmers and their unions from Punjab. We need their help. Haryana and Uttar Pradesh will back them. We will maintain the prestige of the farmer's turban, he said. Five resolutions were passed at the mahapanchayat. These urged the government to repeal the new laws, give a legal guarantee for the MSP, implement the Swaminathan Commission report, waive farm loans and release farmers arrested after the events in Delhi on January 26. Khap leader Kandela said the prime minister and the Union home minister should directly talk with the protesting farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
03-02-2021||India||Lok Sabha disrupted over Opposition demands on farmers’ protest ||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned repeatedly on Wednesday as the protesting Opposition members demanded a separate discussion on the farm laws issue. As soon as the House met at 4 PM, Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury tried to raise the issue of farmers' agitation against the agri laws, saying the matter is maligning the image of the country. "We are concerned," he said. Several Opposition members trooped into the Well, protesting against the farm laws. Urging the members to return to their seats, Speaker Om Birla said they should maintain the dignity of the House or else he will have to take disciplinary action. He said the Question Hour is important and it should go on. But the Opposition members refused to relent, forcing him to adjourn the proceedings till 4.30 PM. When the House reassembled, Chowdhury demanded that there be a separate discussion on the Presidential address and the farmers' issue. The Speaker said the members should return to their seats and assured them of sufficient time and opportunity to express their views. Birla urged AAP leader Bhagwant Mann to go to his seat if he wanted a discussion and warned him of action. But the Opposition members refused to relent, forcing him to adjourn the proceedings again till 5 PM. Similar scenes were seen when the proceedings resumed, with many Opposition members trooping into the Well again and shouting slogans against the farm laws. After various documents were tabled, the Speaker requested the agitating members to go back to their seats as he wanted to start the Zero Hour, saying it is important to talk about the problems faced by the people in the members' constituencies. However, the sloganeering continued. Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal was also in the Well, holding a poster against the farm laws. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said he had discussions with the leaders of Opposition parties but was not taking their names and that they had agreed to start a discussion on the motion thanking the President for his address. "Now, they have made a U-turn and that is also like an insult to the President," Joshi said. There were more than 20 members, including from the Congress, DMK, AAP and the SAD, protesting in the Well. Amid the din, Birla adjourned the House till 7 PM. Several farmer unions have been staging protests at various border points of Delhi since late November demanding the repeal of the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Farm hashtag: Govt asks Twitter to comply or face penal action||The government on Wednesday ordered Twitter to immediately take down handles and hashtags that suggested a farmer genocide was being planned, saying such misinformation and inflammatory content would incite passion and impact public order.  It warned Twitter of penal action in case of failure to comply with its directive. In a strongly-worded notice to Twitter, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said it had on January 31 asked the micro-blogging site to block 257 URLs (web addresses) and one hashtag under the relevant provision of the law as they were "spreading misinformation about (farmer) protests and has the potential to lead to imminent violence affecting public order situation in the country."  Twitter, however, chose to sit over the request for one full day before blocking them, only to unblock them a few hours later.  This was not taken kindly by the government and a fresh order/notice has been issued to Twitter to comply, failing which penal action under sections that provide for fine and jail up to 7 years has been warned, sources with direct knowledge of the development said.  Section 69A of the Information Technology Act gives the central government powers to direct an intermediary like Twitter to "block for access for the public any information generated, transmitted, received, stored or hosted" in any computer if it is "satisfied that the same is necessary or expedient in order to prevent incitement" of any offence, the notice said.  The accounts that were blocked - and then restored - included those of news magazine Caravan, Kisan Ekta Morcha, tribal leader Hansraj Meena, and actor Sushant Singh.  According to Twitter, it held meetings with government officials and conveyed that the accounts and posts in question constitute free speech and are newsworthy.  The company then "unwithheld" the accounts to protect public conversation. The other accounts that were initially withheld included those of CPM politician Mohd Salim, farm organisation BKU Ekta Ugrahan and Tractor2Twitter.  The move was criticised by politicians and civil rights activists.  On Twitter's plea of such blocking impacting freedom of speech, the notice said Twitter has no constitutional, statutory or any legal basis to comment upon the interplay of statutory provisions with constitutional principles.  The hashtag '#ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide' has been found to be instigating people to commit cognizable offences in relation to public order and security of the state," it said, adding the impracticability or disproportionality of the said measure cannot be decided by an intermediary which is bound by the orders of the central government.  It sought banning of the hashtag accompanied by the content that is attached to it by the users using the same.  "Apart from the fact that the hashtag itself is provocative, the assertion of Twitter in its letter dated February 1, 2021, that stock phrases and exaggerations/crude emotional appeals do not constitute inflammatory speech in light of the judgments of the Supreme Court, is meritless as the content attached to the said hashtag has been found to be directly falling afoul" to law, it said.  The ministry said a committee that reviewed the January 31 order and the reply by Twitter a day later, has confirmed the decision to block the said handles and hashtag.  "After the hearing was concluded on February 1 also the interim order continued to remain in operation despite which you chose not to comply with the mandate of law and the order passed by the competent authority legally endowed with the jurisdiction to pass the same.  "Instead, you chose to send a communication dated 1.2.2021 received by the undersigned on 1.2.2021 at 19.37, attempting to give justification, thereby not only admitting that you have not complied with the order, but also seeking to justify non-compliance," it said.  It went on to state that Twitter cannot assume the role of a court.  Having considered Twitter's response, "the competent authority is satisfied that it is necessary and also expedient in the interest of public order and also for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence relating to public order that Twitter... is once again directed to block for access by the public, the said Twitter handles and also the said hashtag with immediate effect," the notice said giving details of the handles to be blocked.  Failure to do so would invoke Section 69A[3] for specific penal consequences, it added.  Section 69A(3) in The Information Technology Act, 2000 provides that "the intermediary who fails to comply with the direction issued under sub-section (1) shall be punished with an imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Opposition unites against govt, demands repeal of farm laws||Several Opposition parties including the Congress and the DMK on Wednesday asked the government to withdraw the three contentious farm laws without making it a prestige issue and not to treat the agitating farmers as "enemies". Participating in the discussion on the Motion on Thanks to President's Address to the joint sitting of Parliament, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha and Congress member Ghulam Nabi Azad suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself should make the announcement on the repeal of the laws. Modi was present in the House at the time. Declaring that disrespect to the national flag cannot be tolerated, he also condemned the violence at the Red Fort during the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day. "I urge the government to withdraw these three bills," he said, and added that the government should set up a committee to find out the whereabouts of people "who have gone missing" during the farmers' protest. The senior Congress leader cited several examples, including one during his own party's rule in 1988, of the government giving in to the demands of farmers. Highlighting the problems which farmers would face because of the new laws, Azad said government should not see repealing of the legislations as a "prestige issue". Describing farmers as "annadata", the Congress veteran said there was no point in confronting them. Instead, the government should focus on other important issues, including on revival of the economy. DMK MP Tiruchi Siva sought assurance from the government and the prime minister on the repeal of the three contentious laws that have led to protests at border points of the national capital and several parts of the country. He also expressed concern over the manner in which the farm bills were passed last year, but Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said that everything was done according to rule. "As per the demand of our party president M K Stalin, I would urge the government, the prime minister in his reply should assure repealing of these farm laws," Siva said. Attacking the Centre for heavy barricading of farmer protest sites in the national capital, Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav urged the government not to treat farmers as "enemies" and concede to their demand for repeal of these laws. Yadav alleged that the government has become "merciless and cruel' as it is not even been affected by the death of some farmers during the ongoing agitation. Warning that bigwigs in power have to step down when farmers revolt, the SP leader said, "People should not be power-drunk. You should talk with farmers. This is democracy. They are a larger chunk of our population. Please go and convince them.... Tell that you will withdraw these laws and bring a new bill." He also demanded the government announce a compensation of Rs 20 lakh to family of those who died during the protest and a government job to their children. "Our farmers are sitting for months on protest. Many farmers have lost their lives due to cold, hunger and other reasons. But the government has become merciless and cruel. Nothing is affecting it. There is no impact," he said. On the security at the three protest sites, Yadav said, "Be it Ghazipur, Tikri or Singhu, roads are cemented with a bed of nails and concrete walls. The security at protest sites is more than (that in) our Parliament. Even at Pakistan borders, such security is not there. Are they coming to attack Delhi?" "Are they (farmers) enemies?" he asked. "Farmers not only feed the country, but those protecting our borders also come from their families. They don't come from families whom you are working for," he told the government. CPI(M) member Elamaram Kareem said these laws were enacted "without proper consideration or taking into confidence the Opposition parties". He alleged that many farmer leaders have been booked under "fake" charges after the "unfortunate" incident which took place on January 26. "It (violence) was condemned by the organisers and the Opposition parties who are part of the peaceful protest," he said and charged the government with trying to weaken the democratic protest by perpetuating violence and using force. "Even electricity and water supplies to the protest sites have been disconnected by the government. I urge the government to yield to the demands of the farmers and withdraw the farm laws immediately," he added. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the three laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. Eleven rounds of formal talks between the government and the protesting farmer unions failed to break the deadlock. While unions have stuck to their main demand of repeal of the laws and legal guarantee of MSP, the government has offered some concessions including keeping these laws on hold for 1-1.5 years. Even the Supreme Court has stayed the laws for two months and set up a panel to look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Barricading protest sites a local administrative issue, says Tomar||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar Wednesday said the Centre is not holding any informal talk with protesting farmers and described putting up of more barricades and suspending internet in and around agitation sites as law and order issues related to local administrations. The last and 11th round of meeting between the government and 41 protesting unions, held on January 22, was inconclusive. The Centre had asked unions to reconsider the government's proposal to suspend new farm laws for 18 months. Asked when the government will hold the next round of talks and if it was engaging with the unions informally, Tomar replied in the negative. "No. We will inform when formal talks will be held," Tomar told PTI. When told that protesting unions demand that no formal talks with the government can be held until the police and the administration stop "harassing" them and release the detained farmers, the minister said, "They should talk to the Police Commissioner. I don't want to comment on the law and order issue. That's not my job." Since the January 22 talks, there has been no meeting between the farmer leaders and the Centre to discuss the farm laws although the government reiterated that its offer stands and doors are open for discussion. On Tuesday, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) -- the umbrella body of farmers' unions protesting the Central farm laws -- had said that there can be no "formal" talks with the government until the "harassment" of different kinds against the farmers' movement by the police and administration is "immediately stopped". The SKM had also said no formal proposal for talks has been received by it. "Though no formal proposal for talks came from the government, we clearly state that the talks will be held only after the unconditional release of farmers who are in illegal police custody," SKM had said in a statement. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an all-party meeting on Saturday had said the government's offer to suspend the farm laws for 18 months was still on the table and the agriculture minister was just a phone call away to take the talks forward. The sites of the farmer protest at Delhi's borders have turned into fortresses with police beefing up security and putting up multi-layer barricades to stop the movement of vehicles. Concertina wires and metal spikes have also been put up to keep off people on foot. The strengthened security measures come after the violence during the Republic Day tractor parade by the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Bolly stars back govt's efforts to deal with protest, calls for united front||Bollywood stars Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, filmmaker Karan Johar and Suniel Shetty on Wednesday said citizens should focus on the government's efforts to resolve the ongoing farmer crisis rather than paying attention to "half-truths" and those "creating differences." Their comments came after the Ministry of External Affairs reacted sharply to comments by international pop star Rihanna, teen climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on farmers' protests. In a statement, the MEA said a very small section of farmers in parts of the country have some reservations about the farm reforms and a proper understanding of the issue is needed before rushing to comment on the agitation. Rihanna, who has 100 million followers on Twitter and is among the most followed people on the microblogging site, on Tuesday tweeted, "why aren't we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest, linking a CNN report on the internet shutdown near the protest site. Sharing the MEA statement on Twitter, Akshay said that the efforts by the government to solve the issue are "evident". "Farmers constitute an extremely important part of our country. And the efforts being undertaken to resolve their issues are evident. Let's support an amicable resolution, rather than paying attention to anyone creating differences. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda," Kumar wrote. Devgn urged the people to be wary of "false propaganda against India or Indian policies". "Don't fall for any false propaganda against India or Indian policies. It's important to stand united at this hour w/o any infighting #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda" he posted. Johar said the country shouldn't let "anyone divide us". "We live in turbulent times and the need of the hour is prudence and patience at every turn. Let us together, make every effort we can to find solutions that work for everyone our farmers are the backbone of India. Let us not let anyone divide us. #IndiaTogether" he said. Shetty also shared the MEA on Twitter, saying nothing is "more dangerous than half truth". "We must always take a comprehensive view of things, as there is nothing more dangerous than half truth. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda" he said. Without naming anyone, singer Kailesh Kher said that anti-India can stoop to any level to defame the country. "Even in this sad phase of pandemic, India is helping all nations with vaccine supply for the sake of Humanity. Let all realise that India is ONE & will not tolerate comments against it. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda" he tweeted. On Tuesday night, international pop star Rihanna became the first global name to voice her support to the ongoing farmers agitation while criticising the internet shutdown at the protest site. Later, Thunberg, Swedish environmental activist, also backed the agitation, tweeting, "We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India." In its response, the MEA said the Parliament of India passed the reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector, and noted that some of the vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against India. "We would like to emphasise that these protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse. The minister asserted that facts should be ascertained and a proper understanding of the issues must be taken "before rushing to comment on such matters". "The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible," the statement said. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November last year, demanding the government to repeal the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Sites of the farmer protest at Delhi's borders have turned into fortresses with the police beefing up security and putting up multi-layer barricades to stop the movement of vehicles. Barbed wire has also been put up to keep off people on foot. The strengthened security measures at the agitation sites across the Delhi borders come after the violence during the Republic day tractor parade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Farmers protest: India’s global reputation has taken massive hit, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi "to do his job" of protecting farmers and claimed India's reputation has taken a "massive hit" with its soft power being "shattered" by the ruling BJP with its handling of the agitation against the new agri laws. The Congress leader, however, refused to comment on some international celebrities, including American singer Rihanna, extending support to the farmers' protest, saying "this is our internal matter". Addressing a press conference, he said that the farmers' issue needs to be resolved by the government as soon as possible as delaying it further was not good for the peace and harmony in the country. Training his guns at Prime Minister Modi, he claimed there is no leadership in the country at present. Asked if India's image at the international level has taken a beating over reports of the treatment being meted out to the protesting farmers at Delhi's borders, Gandhi said, "Absolutely, the reputation of India has taken a massive hit. Not only on how we are treating our farmers but on how we treat our people, how we treat journalists." "Our biggest strength, you can call it soft power, has been shattered by the BJP-RSS, their mindset," he said. Referring to the multi-layered barricading and roadblocks at protest sites, the former Congress chief asked why the national capital was being converted into a "fortress" and asserted that farmers work hard for the country and should not be treated in this manner. "My constant request to the prime minister is 'do your job'. Your job is not to sell this country to one percent of the population. Your job is to protect the farmers who are standing outside (Delhi). Go hold their hand, give them a hug and tell them 'what is it that I can do for you'," the former Congress chief said. "So the PM has basically given up, he is now on a different plane...we are going somewhere else now and the country is not being run. It is my request to the prime minister that please gather up your courage and run the country," he said. Gandhi said the prime minister's offer of postponing the implementation of the laws does not mean anything as the laws should be done away with once and for all. "...Why is the government not resolving this problem? It is not good for the peace and harmony of our country. It is not good for the future of our 'kisans' (farmers)," he said. Asked about the events that took place at the Red Fort on the Republic Day, he said the Home Minister Amit Shah needs to explain how the people entered the monument. Gandhi alleged that the government is unable to control the situation and its "incompetence is now coming to the fore". "They have messed up the economy, they have messed up the harmony, they have messed up the defence and they want to keep distracting India with non-events. I am saying that the country is in a dangerous position," he alleged. Noting that the world is in flux, he said an aggressive China is on the border with a clear vision of what it wants to achieve, while "we do not have" that vision. Criticising the Union Budget, he said it was for one percent of the population and gave a wrong message to China as there was no significant rise in the defence allocation. "It (conditions) requires that the prime minister put money immediately into the hands of our people and revive the economy, it requires that he protects the small and medium businesses who give us jobs...it requires a clear message to China that 'you cannot do this with us, you cannot be sitting inside our land and expect that nothing is going to happen," he said. "There is just talk, there is no understanding, no strategy. What is there is a media that is controlled so the reality of what is going on is not coming out. This 'maya' is going to break." Gandhi argued that India needed money in the hands of the people, asserting that the economy can be revived only through consumption and it cannot happen from the supply side. He also stated that had the government introduced a scheme like 'Nyay' by giving money into the hands of the poor and small businesses, the economy would have revived. "My expectation from the Budget was that government will provide support to 99 percent of India's population. But this Budget is for one percent population. You (the government) snatched away money from people in the small and medium industry, workers, farmers, forces, and put it in the pockets of 5-10 people," he alleged. "China enters into India and takes away thousands of kilometres of our land. What message do you give them in our budget-- that we won't increase our defence expenditure. You raised it by Rs 3000-4000 crore. What message did you give? 'You can enter India and do whatever you want, we won't support our defence forces'," Gandhi said. "The commitment of forces is cent percent, the government's commitment should be 110 percent. Whatever our army, navy and air force need, the government should give them," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest grabs international spotlight||Several international personalities, including singers Jay Sean, Dr Zeus and former adult star Mia Khalifa, have joined pop star Rihanna in supporting Indian farmers who have been protesting for over two months against the three contentious agri laws. Besides the celebrities, climate activist Greta Thunberg and US Vice President Kamala Harris' niece have also come out in farmers' support. India has reacted strongly, indicating its discomfort with the celebrity reactions. In a statement, issued by the external affairs foreign ministry, India asked the international community to refrain from commenting without knowing the full picture. On Tuesday night, Rihanna shared a CNN news article with her 100 million followers on Twitter, calling out the internet shutdown at the protest site. "Why aren't we talking about this? #FarmersProtest," the 32-year-old singer wrote. Soon after, Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg also came out in support of the protesters as she shared the same article and wrote, "We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India." Nine-year-old climate activist Licypriya Kangujam had asked Thunberg to support the protest, saying farmers were already battling the climate crisis. "Hi @GretaThunberg! Please extend support to the voice of millions of Indian farmers. This is the world''s biggest historic protest for their rights," Kanjugam, who is also called "India''s Greta Thunberg", tweeted. Meena Harris, an American lawyer who is the niece of Kamala Harris, had said: "It's no coincidence that the world''s oldest democracy was attacked not even a month ago, and as we speak, the most populous democracy is under assault." "This is related. We ALL should be outraged by India's internet shutdowns and paramilitary violence against farmer protesters," she tweeted. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November last year, demanding the government to repeal the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Hollywood star John Cusack, who previously voiced support to anti-CAA protestors in February 2020, retweeted a post by Vanessa Nakate, a Ugandan climate activist, reading, "Let us talk about what is happening in India right now #FarmersProtest." The Hollywood star had previously posted in support of the agitation on January 30 with the tweet, "Sikhs farmers are amazing." Kamaljit Singh Jhooti, popularly known by his international stage name Jay Sean, took to Instagram and wrote that despite the farmers agitation being one of the largest protests "ever in history", there has not been enough mainstream coverage of the event. "I live in the US and I've barely seen it on the news or mainstream media. I don't know what needs to be done to raise more awareness and have more eyes on this but I've seen videos that are far too graphic and heartbreaking to post. "People that are old enough to be my grandparents being trampled over with no remorse or regard. Please go to my story where I will post a petition link and something actionable," the Indian-origin British artiste wrote. Baljit Singh Padam aka rapper Dr Zeus retweeted Rihanna's tweet and wrote that "everyone with sense" across the world are wondering about the lack of spotlight on the protests. "World media needs to wake up. #FarmersProtest," the Indian-origin British singer said. Khalifa took to Twitter and criticised the treatment being meted out to the protesting farmers. "What in the human rights violations is going on?! They cut the internet around New Delhi?! #FarmersProtest," she wrote. In a subsequent tweet, the 27-year-old Lebanese American took on those who called farmers "paid actors" as she reiterated her support to them. "'Paid actors' huh? Quite the casting director, I hope they're not overlooked during awards season. I stand with the farmers. #FarmersProtest." Indo-Canadian YouTube star and late-night talk show host Lilly Singh thanked Rihanna for bringing the protests to global spotlight. "Thank you so much @rihanna. This is a humanity issue! #IStandWithFarmers and this narrative is tired," Singh wrote. US-based Indian filmmaker Ritesh Batra, known for films like "The Lunchbox" and "Photograph", tweeted that the "whole world is watching the farmer agitation in India." Popular Punjabi actor-singer Diljit Dosanjh, one of the first celebrities to voice his support for farmers, came up with a song dedicated to Rihanna, title Ri Ri. American social media star Amanda Cerny also took to social media to support the farmers. "The world is watching. You don't have to be Indian or Punjabi or South Asian to understand the issue. All you have to do is care about humanity. Always demand freedom of speech, freedom of press, basic human and civil rights-equity and dignity for workers," she wrote. However, support from all the international celebrities did not go down well with the government with the Centre issuing a statement asking the celebrities to refrain from commenting on the issue without seeing the full picture. India reacted sharply on Wednesday, saying a very small section of farmers in parts of the country had some reservations about the farm reforms and a proper understanding of the issue was needed before rushing to comment on the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Govt asks Twitter to block accounts related to ‘farmer genocide’ hashtag||The Centre has ordered microblogging site Twitter to comply with its directives of removing content and account related to farmer genocide hashtags. It also warned the platform that it may face “penal action” for non-compliance of its order, according to sources. Government sources said that Twitter had unilaterally unblocked accounts and tweets despite specific order for blocking. Twitter is an intermediary and is obliged to obey the directions of the government, sources said. They added that the platform may face penal action for not complying with the Centre’s orders. The government notice quoted more than half a dozen Supreme Court judgments including those of constitutional benches as to what is public order, and what the rights of authorities are. IT ministry sources asserted that Twitter cannot assume the role of court and justify non-compliance. The Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) had recently directed Twitter to block around 250 tweets/Twitter accounts that were making “fake, intimidatory and provocative tweets” using the hashtag #ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide without any further substantiation, on January 30. The blocked accounts included the official handle of the Kisan Ekta Morcha, the one-stop source of information set up by the protesting farmers, several accounts created to propagate the farmers’ version in the face of the “godi (lapdog) media’s biased coverage”, and the account of The Caravan magazine. Late in the evening, Twitter started restoring some of the accounts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Centre reacts sharply to comments of foreign celebrities on farmers' protest||India on Wednesday reacted sharply to comments by foreign celebrities and others, including pop singer Rihanna on farmers' protests, saying a very small section of farmers in parts of the country have some reservations about the farm reforms and a proper understanding of the issue is needed before rushing to comment on the agitation. "The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible," the Ministry of External Affairs said in a curt statement. The MEA's reaction came after several international celebrities and activists including American pop singer Rihanna and Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted about the farmers' protest in India. The ministry also said the Parliament of India passed the reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector, and noted that some of the vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against India. "We would like to emphasise that these protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse," the statement said. Asserting that "before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken", the ministry said the "temptation of sensationalist" social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is "neither accurate nor responsible".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||AAP MPs marshalled out of Rajya Sabha over unruly behaviour||Three Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MPs, including Sanjay Singh, were on Wednesday marshalled out of Rajya Sabha after they disrupted proceedings over the three contentious farm reform laws and refused to heed to Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu's plea for order. The slogan-shouting AAP members stormed into the Well of the House just as the Rajya Sabha took up a discussion on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament. Naidu repeatedly asked them to return to their seats and not disrupt the proceedings. But with his requests going unheeded, the chairman invoked rules of the House to suspend them for the rest of the day and asked them to withdraw from the House. As they refused, he briefly adjourned the proceedings. The MPs, however, did not go out of the House and continued raising slogans when the Rajya Sabha resumed functioning. Naidu again asked them to withdraw from the House and upon their refusal, he ordered marshals to escort them out. The unruly scenes started soon after the Chair announced consensus between the government and the opposition on extending the duration of the debate on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha at the start of the Budget session last week. An extra five hours that took the duration to 15 hours was to allow members to raise the issue of farmers' protests. As the AAP MPs stormed into the Well, Naidu warned that he would name them if they did not go back to their places. When a member is named by the Chair, he or she has to withdraw from the House for the rest of the duration of the day. But the AAP members refused to heed to his pleas. "I am compelled to use Rule 255...Sanjay Singh, Sushil Kumar Gupta, N D Gupta, all of these members are named as per Rule 255. Please withdraw from the House. Please go out of the House," Naidu said as they continued raising slogans. Rule 255 of Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States (Rajya Sabha) is regarding 'withdrawal of member'. Under the rule, the chairman may direct any member whose conduct is in his opinion grossly disorderly to withdraw immediately from the Council, and any member so ordered to withdraw shall do so forthwith and shall absent himself during the remainder of the day's meeting. After asking the three members to withdraw, the Chairman briefly adjourned the House till 9.40. When the Rajya Sabha re-assembled, Naidu again asked the three AAP members to leave the House. "Please withdraw from the House, otherwise I will have to send you out...Please leave the House. Don't create a situation where I have to call the marshals and send you out. That is most unpleasant," Naidu said. As the AAP MPs did not withdraw, the Chairman said: "Please Marshals, help them to leave the House". As members continued to raise slogans from the lobby after they were removed from the House, Naidu said that they be cleared from there so as not to distract other MPs. The trouble started when Naidu called for taking up the 'Motion of Thanks on the President's Address'. Sanjay Singh started speaking, but Naidu asked him to return to his seat saying he would get a chance to speak. "This is not the way. One person disturbing the House and not allowing the discussion to take place, including on farmers issues," the chairman said. The other two AAP members too joined the issue with Singh. "You are not doing anything good to the kisans (farmers). You are hurting their interest by stopping the discussion. We are going to discuss President's address and also farmer issues," Naidu said and warned them. However, the AAP members continued to protest in the Well. "They want a discussion. When the discussion is going to begin, they obstruct the House, and the House, the entire country watches this. "And this is the behaviour of people who want to rule or are ruling in certain parts of the country. This is not fair for anybody, any party. I am not naming any party," Naidu said before adjourning the House briefly till 9.40 am. The chairman said stressed the debate on farmers issue should happen and the government and opposition together should find a solution. Later, members started speaking on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address. Bhubaneswar Kalita of BJP moved the motion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||SC steers clear of pleas on R-Day violence||The Supreme Court Wednesday referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's statement that law will take its own course on the Republic Day violence here and refused to entertain pleas for time-bound probe by an apex court-appointed panel, saying it doesn't want to "interfere at this stage". One of the pleas filed by an advocate had sought setting up of a three-member inquiry commission under the chairmanship of a former apex court judge and comprising of two retired high court judges for collecting and recording evidence and submit a report on the violence during tractor rally in Delhi on January 26. "We are sure that the government is inquiring into it (violence) and they are doing it. We have read statement made by the Prime Minister in the press that the law will take its own course. That means they are inquiring into it. We do not want to interfere in it at this stage," a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, asked lawyer Vishal Tiwari, who had filed the PIL, to give a representation to the central government for taking necessary action and directed him to withdraw the plea. The bench also refused to entertain a similar plea related to the tractor rally violence and asked petitioner Shikha Dixit to file a representation with the government. During the brief hearing, the bench took note of the submission of a lawyer and said as to how he can assume that the police probe into the January 26 violence will be one-sided. "They will obviously investigate everybody. How can you assume that it will be one-sided? They are doing it and obviously, they will investigate everything," the bench observed and allowed Tiwari and Dixit to withdraw their PILs. The bench, however, dismissed the third plea filed by lawyer M L Sharma related to the tractor violence. Sharma had sought a direction to the concerned authority as well as the media not to declare farmers as "terrorist" without any evidence. He claimed there was a planned conspiracy to sabotage the protest by farmers' and they were allegedly declared as terrorist without any evidence. The tractor parade on January 26 that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Tiwari had also sought direction to the concerned authority to lodge FIRs against individuals or organisations responsible for the violence and causing dishonour of the National Flag on January 26. He had also said that farmers' protest against the three new agri laws is going on for over two months but it took a violent turn during the tractor parade. Unfortunately, the tractor march took a violent turn leaving injuries and destruction of public property. This incident also effected the daily life of the public. The internet services were interrupted as government ordered the operators to suspend the same. In the present time, the internet services are very essential to carry out the work in different professions especially in advocacy as the courts and our Supreme Court of India is functioning online, Tiwari had said in his plea. It said clash between the farmers and police on the Republic Day has caught the attention of the entire world. The plea said there may be some conspiracy by some notorious forces or organizations to cause disturbance and damage the peaceful protest and create clash between police and protesting farmers. On January 20, the Centre had withdrawn its application, filed through Delhi Police, seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march on January 26 after the apex court had said that issue of tractor rally by farmers protesting against the new farms laws was in executive domain. On January 12, the apex court had stayed the implementation of the contentious new farm laws till further orders and constituted a four-member committee to make recommendations to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||Congress asks govt to withdraw farm laws, restore J&K status||Leader of the Opposition and Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Wednesday asked the government to withdraw the three contentious farm bills without making it a prestige issue. Declaring that disrespect to the National Flag cannot be tolerated, he also condemned the violence at Red Fort during the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day. Participating in the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address in the Rajya Sabha, he suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself should make the announcement on repeal of the laws. Modi was present in the House at the time. Azad also made a case for restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir and holding Assembly elections, saying that people of the area were not happy and development work had come to halt. In 2019, the erstwhile state was bifurcated into the Union territories of Ladakh, and Jammu and Kashmir following the abrogation of Article 370. Earlier in the day, five hours were added to the discussion on the President's address to also allow the raising of issues related to farm bills. The new farm laws have led to protests at border points of the national capital and several parts of the country. "I urge the government to withdraw these three bills," he said, and added that the government should set up a committee to find out the whereabouts of people "who have gone missing" during the farmers' protest. The senior Congress leader cited several examples, including one during his own party's rule in 1988, of the government giving in to the demands of farmers. Referring to the violence that broke out in Delhi during farmers tractor rally on January 26, the Congress leader said the entire opposition condemns the incident as "it is against democracy". "Disrespect to the National Flag cannot be tolerated," he said while demanding the strictest of actions against the culprits. Highlighting the problems which farmers would face because of the new laws, Azad said government should see repealing of the legislations as an a "prestige issue". Describing farmers as "annadata", the Congress veteran said there was no point in confronting them. Instead, the government should focus on other important issues, including on revival of the economy. Azad also raised the issue of registration of cases under stringent provisions against certain media persons and also his party colleague Shashi Tharoor. "Shashi Tharoor was minister of state for external affairs. He has represented the country outside. How can he be an anti-national...then we all are anti-nationals," he said, and demanded withdrawal of sedation cases against them in the interest of democracy. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the three laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||Farmers' blockade inconveniencing people, govt tells Rajya Sabha||Blocking of borders by agitating farmers is causing inconvenience to residents of Delhi and neighbouring states, besides the financial loss to the people and the exchequer, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said large convoys of protesting farmers in tractors tried to "furiously" force their way and go past police barricades to enter Delhi on January 26 in protest against the farm laws. "They aggressively resorted to rioting, damage to government property and used criminal force to deter public servants from discharge of their duty, thereby inflicting injuries to the on-duty police personnel," Reddy said. "The Delhi Police has informed that Gazipur, Chilla, Tikri and Singhu borders of the national capital have been blocked by agitating farmers and it is inconvenient to the residents of Delhi and neighbouring states. In any agitation, there is financial loss incurred by people and governments, he said in a written reply to a question. Reddy added that social distancing was not followed by the farmers and protesters, and they gathered in large numbers without face masks amid the coronavirus pandemic. "The farmers' actions left the Delhi Police with no option but to use tear gas, water cannons and mild force to control the crowd," he said. The minister denied that the National Investigation Agency and the Enforcement Directorate issued summons against 40 people related with voluntary agencies, groups and individuals who are providing humanitarian support to farmers agitation. However, he said, with a view to address the apprehensions of the farmers and resolving the issues raised by them, the government has held 11 rounds of meetings with the leaders of the farmer unions leading the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||Five more hours added to Rajya Sabha schedule to allow discussion on farmers||Five extra hours have been added to the duration of discussion in Rajya Sabha on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament to allow debate on the farmers' protest against three agri reform legislations. The Rajya Sabha, which following Covid-19 protocols meets for five hours daily, will dispense with the scheduled Question Hour, Zero Hour and Private Member Business for the 15-hour discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address beginning Wednesday, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said. This comes after the government and opposition parties said a consensus has been reached to extend the duration of the allotted time on the discussion on a Motion Thanking the President for his Address to the Joint Sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajaya Sabha at the beginning of the Budget Session, from the currently allocated 10 hours to 15 hours. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said,"Consensus has been arrived that more time should be given for discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President." Requesting the Chair to agree to extend the time, he said the Question Hour can be dispensed with on Wednesday and Thursday, and the Zero Hour on Thursday to allow for the 15 hour for the debate. Joshi said that also, as already agreed in the Business Advisory Committee (BAC), private member business scheduled for Friday can be dispensed with for the same purpose. The House proceedings begin with the Zero Hour where members raise issues of public importance and is followed by the Question Hour where MPs put questions to the government on any issue. Leader of the Opposition and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said that 18-19 opposition parties had sought a discussion on the more than two-month-long agitation by farmers at Delhi borders before the Motion of Thanks is taken up. But the government informed that there was no precedence of taking any business ahead of the Motion of Thanks to the President, he said, adding that the opposition parties felt that if the farmers' agitation cannot be discussed as the first item of the session, extra time should be allocated in the debate on Motion of Thanks. "So five extra hours should be allocated to discuss the subject (farmers' protest) during the Motion of Thanks debate... five standalone hours," Azad said, adding that he was thankful to the government for agreeing to the demand. Naidu said it has been agreed to extend the duration to 15 hours. "We will go by that," he said. Accordingly, instructions have been issued to reallocate the business, Naidu said and added that the duration of discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President would now be 14 and a half hours after considering that the debate would start after the Zero Hour on Wednesday. Naidu said normally suspension of Zero Hour and Question Hour is not done but there have been precedences and now there is a broad agreement so "I am willing to go by that." Amendments to the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address will be taken up after the debate. The first Parliament session of 2021 began on Friday with President Ram Nath Kovind addressing members of both Houses of Parliament. In the days following the President's address, a motion is moved in the two Houses thanking the President for his address. This is an occasion for MPs in the two Houses to have a broad debate on governance in the country. The prime minister replies to the motion of thanks in both Houses. Opposition MPs have been successful in getting amendments passed to the motion of thanks in Rajya Sabha on five occasions (1980, 1989, 2001, 2015, 2016). Rajya Sabha Chairman Naidu had on Tuesday said that members can raise the issue of farmers' protest during the debate on the motion as the President had mentioned the agitation in his speech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||R-Day violence: Shashi Tharoor, Rajdeep Sardesai move SC against FIRs||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and senior journalist Rajdeep Sardesai have moved the Supreme Court against multiple FIRs registered against them over their alleged "misleading" tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally here on Republic Day. Journalists Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath and Anant Nath also approached the top court on Tuesday evening against the FIRs. On January 30, Delhi Police had filed a case against Tharoor, Sardesai, The Caravan and others. Earlier, Tharoor and six journalists were booked by the Noida Police for sedition, among other charges, over the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi, officials had said. Madhya Pradesh police have also filed a case against Tharoor and the six journalists over their alleged ''misleading'' tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi. On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||Greta Thunberg extends support to farmers' protest||Climate and environmental activist Greta Thunberg has come out in support of the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi's borders against the Centre's new agri laws. "We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India," she tweeted. Thunberg tweeted soon after singer Rihanna shared a news article highlighting the Centre's crackdown on the farmers by cutting off internet services in many regions. "Why aren't we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest," Rihanna tweeted. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at the national capital's borders for over two months against the laws. They are demanding that the government repeal the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||More than 11,000 fresh Covid cases, 110 casualties in a day||India's COVID-19 tally of cases rose to 1,07,77,284 with 11,039 new infections, while the recoveries surged to 1,04,62,631, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,54,596 with 110 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,04,62,631 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.08 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total COVID-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,60,057 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.49 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,84,73,178 samples have been tested up to February 2 with 7,21,121 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 110 new fatalities include 30 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 12 from Punjab.A total of 1,54,596 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,139 from Maharashtra followed by 12,367 from Tamil Nadu, 12,223 from Karnataka, 10,858 from Delhi, 10,188 from West Bengal, 8,668 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,156 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||Delhi court  grants bail to freelance journalist Mandeep Punia||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to freelance journalist Mandeep Punia, whose arrest from the Singhu border on Sunday had been widely seen as part of the Centre’s attempt to cut off the protesting farmers and muzzle the media. The police had detained Punia, a regular contributor to The Caravan magazine, on Saturday night, saying he had tried to dismantle barricades at Singhu and misbehaved with security personnel. The court noted that the alleged scuffle took place around 6.30pm on Saturday but the FIR was registered close to seven hours later, at 1.21am the next day. The chief metropolitan magistrate’s court said “it is a well-settled legal principle of law that ‘bail is a rule and jail is an exception’”. It also pointed out that since the alleged victims and eyewitnesses in the case were police personnel, there was no chance of the journalist influencing them if set free. Granting bail to Punia on a bond of Rs 25,000, the court said no recovery of evidence was required from the accused and keeping him further in judicial custody would not serve any “cogent purpose”. Delhi police had on Sunday arrested Punia who had in a Facebook Live session on Friday accused BJP workers of posing as local people and unleashing violence at the farmers’ protest site on the Singhu border. In his order the chief metropolitan magistrate said: “It is alleged that the accused had pushed Ct. (constable) Rajkumar towards the protesting place, therefore, the police called minimal force to control the situation. Thereafter, the protesters went away backside and the accused/applicant fell in the drain, upon which he was overpowered and arrested.” “It is pertinent to mention here that the alleged scuffle… (took place) around 6.30pm. However, the present FIR was registered at around 1.21am the next day. Moreover, the complainant, victims and witnesses are police personnel only. Hence, there is no possibility that the accused/applicant can able to influence any of the police officials,” the court added. In his bail application, Punia had asserted that he was innocent and had been falsely implicated. He had also contended that he was merely carrying out his journalistic duties when he was apprehended by Delhi police. The plea had pointed to the delay of seven hours in filing the FIR. Opposing the bail application, the public prosecutor had said Punia “may again indulge in instigating the protesters and may create nuisance at the protest site with a group of different people and may hamper the investigation”. The police had booked Punia under IPC Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). Punia had posted a video on Facebook giving a personal account of the violence at Singhu. He had said mobs chanting anti-farmer slogans had thrown stones at the protesters in the presence of policemen. A group of 150-200 people had stormed the Singhu protest site on Friday amid heavy security, hurled stones at the farmers and vandalised some of their tents. While members of the mob had claimed to be “local residents”, the farmers had alleged they were BJP supporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 epidemic shrinks as virus leeway ‘dwindle’ : Survey||A third nationwide survey has suggested that the novel coronavirus has already infected one in four people, corroborating speculation that India’s Covid-19 epidemic is shrinking as opportunities for the virus to spread are dwindling. The survey whose findings are yet to be made public has estimated that India’s actual number of Covid-19 infections is nearly 30-fold larger than the 10.7 million lab-confirmed cases, researchers who are familiar with the findings have told The Telegraph. A 30-fold factor would imply the number of Covid-19 infections in India has ballooned to over 320 million. The researchers declined to share details of the findings but the Indian Council of Medical Research, which conducted the survey, is expected to disclose the results within days. The earlier two surveys had estimated 6 million infections in May and 74 million in mid-August. The second survey had predicted a doubling time of 30 days, which would mean the 74 million estimated cases in mid-August would have more than quadrupled by December. But these calculations had hinged on the then prevalent pace of the epidemic, which subsequently slowed down. Many experts, however, believe that India’s daily new Covid-19 cases have steadily declined from a peak of around 92,000 cases in mid-September because the fraction of the population infected is approaching the herd immunity threshold — a critical value beyond which the remaining population is too small to support a continuing epidemic. An epidemic slows down as a population nears herd immunity and stops beyond that threshold. The third survey in December and January looked for antibodies against the coronavirus in blood samples of 400 people from randomly selected households from each of the same 70 districts where the ICMR had conducted the earlier surveys in May and August. The methodology to seek samples from the same districts has allowed researchers to track how infection prevalence rates have changed over the months — from an average of 0.73 per cent in May to 7.1 per cent in August to a higher figure in December. Unlike earlier surveys that screened blood samples for one type of antibody against the coronavirus, the third survey looked for two types of antibodies and has estimated the average infection prevalence — on the basis of the two antibodies — to be about 25 per cent. Independent city-based surveys have earlier suggested even higher infection prevalence levels in some urban pockets — 50 per cent in Mumbai, 60 per cent in Pune and 30 per cent in Chennai — prompting researchers to speculate India is approaching herd immunity. Scientists had in the early months of the Covid-19 pandemic used classical infectious disease models to predict that 60 to 65 per cent of a population needs to be infected to reach the herd immunity threshold. But others have argued that heterogeneity in contacts and the individual variations in infectivity and susceptibility may reduce the herd immunity threshold to 35 to 48 per cent. Researchers caution that herd immunity does not mean the infection will vanish. The virus will likely continue to circulate in the community, infecting susceptible persons whenever the opportunity emerges but infections will ebb to a trickle. “The spread of the infection across India has not been uniform. There are pockets of susceptible people almost everywhere in the country and we could see some local clusters emerging here and there, but not at the scale we did a few months ago,” said a senior public health researcher. “The vaccination campaign currently underway would play a critical role in accelerating India’s move towards the herd immunity threshold and in protecting individuals from the virus,” the expert said. Many countries have conducted similar surveys. A global analysis of infection prevalence published in the journal Clinical Microbiology and Infection last October had noted prevalence of 5.6 per cent in England, 5.1 per cent in Spain and 4.1 per cent in the US. A November study by the US Centers for Disease Control in the Journal of the American Medical Association had estimated overall seroprevalence across the country in mid-September to be 10 per cent, ranging from 1.1 per cent to 23 per cent in different states. The latest serological survey by the Delhi government has found that 56.13 per cent of people in the capital have antibodies to the coronavirus. The fifth such survey in the city covered 28,000 people — at least 100 from every municipal ward in Delhi. It was conducted from January 15 to 23. Territorial health minister Satyendar Jain said: “I don’t want to get into a debate about herd immunity…. The cases have gone down considerably and have been lower than 200 for the last 10-12 days. The positivity rate is less than 1 per cent for the last one month. I want to request you to please wear a mask….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||Union budget 2021-22: Rs 3,416 crore for Dalit students' scholarship||The Union budget has allocated Rs 3,416 crore in 2021-22 for the post-matric scholarship scheme for Dalit students, less than half the amount the cabinet had earmarked a month ago. On December 23 last year, the cabinet had approved a proposal to bear 60 per cent of the spending of Rs 59,048 crore for the scheme, which provides scholarships to about 60 lakh Dalit students every year. According to the cabinet decision, the central government will spend Rs 35,534 crore over five years. According to this figure, the government should have allocated around Rs 7,106 crore for this year. “It is disappointing that the central government has allocated much less than what the cabinet had approved for the scholarship scheme,” said Beena Pallical, general secretary of the National Campaign for Dalit Human Rights (NCDHR), which works for the welfare of the community. Lakhs of Dalit students in several states have not been receiving the fellowship after filling up the form since states are not taking interest in the scheme due to paucity of funds. The scholarship covers the actual tuition fee and a maintenance fee ranging between Rs 230 and Rs 1,200 per student per month. In last year’s budget, the government had allocated Rs 2,987 crore for the scheme, which had been revised to Rs 3,816 crore. The allocation for the welfare of persons with disabilities has also been reduced in the latest budget. The allocation to the department of empowerment of persons with disabilities has declined from Rs 1,325 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 1,172 crore in 2021-22. The National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD) protested the reduction in budgetary support. “This substantial reduction of nearly 12 per cent will adversely impact various schemes and programmes that are being undertaken by the department,” NPRD general secretary Muralidharan said. The department undertakes welfare programmes for persons with autism, cerebral palsy, intellectual disabilities and other forms of disabilities. The allocation for the National Programme for Prevention of Blindness has been reduced by nearly 50 per cent from Rs 20 crore to Rs 10.5 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||Proceedings in both Houses of Parliament stalled on Tuesday||Proceedings in both Houses of Parliament were stalled on Tuesday as Opposition MPs demanded repeal of the farm laws in the Lok Sabha and a separate discussion on the farmers’ protests in the Rajya Sabha. Both houses witnessed frequent adjournments before the presiding officers called it a day. In the Rajya Sabha after chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu turned down the demand for suspension of business listed for the day to discuss the ongoing agitation of farmers, Opposition MPs staged a walk out and returned to press for their demand. The chairman said the issue could be taken up during the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President’s address, scheduled to begin on Wednesday. The Lok Sabha, too, witnessed uproarious protests by Opposition members against the farm laws, leading to adjournments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
03-02-2021||India||Letter to PM Modi on raid on Delhi riots-case lawyer ||Parliamentarians from five Opposition parties have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighting the inaction over a police raid on a lawyer representing victims of the Delhi riots and those accused of inciting the violence in February last year. Eleven Rajya Sabha MPs, including CPM leader Elamaram Kareem, have signed the letter. The letter says: “A Supreme Court lawyer, Mr Mehmood Pracha, who is representing a number of cases of communal violence and other cases involving members of the ruling party at the Centre, was subjected to search and seizure by a large group of armed police personnel of the special cell of Delhi police who barged into his office and conducted searches for over 12 hours. The purpose was to access computers, which had files of many of these sensitive cases. “This sets a shocking precedent. If a lawyer is representing cases not to the liking of the government, has the police the right to raid the lawyer’s office and break a primary principle of justice which is the confidentiality between a lawyer and a client?” Pracha’s firm Legal Axis is handling around 150 cases related to the riots in which 53 people were killed. The police are investigating Pracha for allegedly coercing a witness to make a false statement — a claim the witness has denied. The police searched Pracha’s office on December 24, examined his email outbox and later charged him with obstructing their search. The signatories include the CPM’s Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya, CPI’s Binoy Viswam, Congress’s Syed Nasir Hussain, Akhilesh Prasad Singh and Shaktisinh Gohil, DMK’s Tiruchi Siva, N.R. Elango, M. Shanmugam and P. Wilson, and the RJD’s Manoj Jha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
03-02-2021||India||Gutless on China, ‘at war with our protesting farmers’, says Congress||The Congress on Tuesday expressed outrage at the unprecedented barricading at farm law protest sites along Delhi’s borders with barbed wires, iron spikes, concrete walls and unusually heavy deployment of forces, wondering if the government that didn’t have the “guts” to confront China was “at war with our own farmers”. Posting several photographs of barbed wires and concrete structures raised on the roads along the protest sites at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, images that have triggered shock and disbelief across the nation, Rahul Gandhi said in a Twitter message: “Government of India, build bridges, not walls.” Congress leaders feel this exceptional barricading betrayed the government’s belligerence and complete lack of trust in farmers. While Priyanka Gandhi Vadra asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi whether he was “at war with our own farmers”, Rahul in another tweet said: “Modi style of governance — Shut them up, Cut them off, Crush them down.” In another tweet in response to a report about a huge build-up of Chinese soldiers and tanks along the Line of Actual Control, the Congress leader said: “China continues to prepare, build up and position its forces while our Prime Minister is scared to even say the word China. Firm action is needed to avert a catastrophe. Unfortunately, Mr Modi doesn’t have the guts.” That the frightening images from the protest sites has forced the Congress to compare the government’s bellicosity against the farmers with the response against the Chinese intrusions in Ladakh was manifested again in a tweet by party communications chief Randeep Surjewala. “Modi ji, we wish you did this fortification on the border with China instead of the Delhi border. What kind of a Prime Minister are you? You are scared of taking China’s name and stop the farmers with barbed wires, iron spikes and concrete structures. Farmers sow crops to feed the nation and the government sows nails on the road to stop farmers. Is this the new India of Modi-Shah?” he said. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot also came out strongly against the central government’s handling of the situation, arguing a dangerous precedent was being set in this democratic country. “Digging up roads, planting nails and barbed wires is not a good policy. Several big agitations happened during the UPA regime but the police and armed forces were never used to execute such policies of coercion. The government itself damaging public property is condemnable. The Modi government must shed its ego and accept the demands of the farmers,” Gehlot said. The Congress core committee met on Tuesday morning and decided to stand with the farmers with full might. While the party forcefully raised the issue in both Houses of Parliament, leading to adjournments, the leaders lamented why the government was not willing to discuss the crisis. Arguing that no issue could be bigger than this standoff as lakhs of farmers are sitting in the cold at Delhi’s borders, many Opposition MPs felt no activity can be allowed in Parliament unless this crisis is resolved. While participation in the farmers’ movement at the highest level is on the cards over the next few days, senior leader Digvijaya Singh on Tuesday asked every political party to tell its workers to step out of their homes and sit on the road from noon to 3pm on February 6 when the farmers have given a call for a countrywide “chakka jam”. At an all-party meeting called by Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh on Tuesday, the dominant sentiment was to extend direct support to the farmers’ movement. The meeting, boycotted by the BJP, passed a resolution asking the Centre to withdraw the three farm laws immediately and introduce a statutory provision for minimum support price. The resolution also condemned the “sponsored violence in Delhi” and demanded a judicial investigation into the laxity/complicity of the administration in the Red Fort incident. Amarinder has also hired a team of lawyers to fight the cases lodged against the protesting farmers. The head of the Congress’s legal and human rights cell, Vivek Tankha, announced in Delhi that a committee of lawyers had been formed to give legal assistance to all the farmers and journalists who have been either arrested or to whom notices have been sent in connection with the farmers’ movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
03-02-2021||India||Farmers signal protest till October if required||Protesting farmers have compared the government’s fortification of Delhi with the fencing along the borders with Pakistan and China and signalled their resolve to continue with the movement with increased vigour. As the Kisan Ekta Morcha’s “FencingLikeChinaPak” hashtag dominated social media, the farmers’ mahapanchayats in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh in support of the peasants picketing Delhi’s borders have been drawing massive crowds. Rakesh Tikait, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) leader who has become a rallying point of the farmers’ movement, is slated to attend a mahapanchayat at Kandela village in Jind district of Haryana on Wednesday. The Kandela khap is one of the prominent social structures of the state and this village was the first to send out tractors on January 28 after Tikait refused to court arrest and broke down, upset with two BJP legislators joining a mob that was planning to attack the protest site at Ghazipur. Tikait, who hails from Muzaffarnagar district of western Uttar Pradesh that has been pro-BJP since the riots of 2013, has time and again expressed disappointment over the manner in which the Yogi Adityanath government has treated farmers since the protests began — blocking their movement towards Delhi and filing cases galore against them. On Tuesday, Tikait announced that the farmers’ agitation could continue till October if need be, extending the earlier timeline that Punjab farmers had been suggesting. Given that their next crop harvest is in April, Punjab and Haryana farmers had moved to Delhi in November prepared with rations for a six-month haul. Speaking to reporters in Ghazipur after Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut called on him at the protest site, Tikait said: “Our slogan is — ‘kanoon wapsi nahi, toh ghar wapsi nahi (Without repeal of the laws, we will not return home)’.” With Ghazipur becoming the big draw for farmers with even the Punjab-based Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Ugrahan) group heading there through alternative routes as the main highway from Delhi has been blocked off with multi-level barricades, the police are now digging up side roads. Accessing Singhu and Tikri has also been made practically impossible for even journalists from Delhi as part of a strategy to blackout the information flow that has not stopped despite the Internet shutdown that was extended for another 24 hours on Tuesday. The Narendra Modi government informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that it would not pay compensation to the farmers who have died during the protest that has been going on in Punjab since June and along Delhi’s borders since November 26. Replying to a question jointly put by 28 MPs from various political parties on whether the government proposes to give compensation to the families of the farmers who have died during the agitation, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said in a written reply: “No Sir.” Tomar, who led the government’s interlocutors during the 11 rounds of negotiations with the farmers, had along with the other ministers observed a minute’s silence with union leaders in one of the meetings in memory of those who had died. The legal team set up by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha to help the farmers arrested during the chaos at the tractor rally on Republic Day met Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and secured from him an assurance that those imprisoned in Tihar jail would be taken care of well as prisons come under the Delhi government. As for the cases, Kejriwal is said to have told the delegation that he has no say as the Delhi police force comes under the Centre. In all, 115 farmers are in prison while about 29 are said to be missing since January 26. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), which had given the call for a “Dilli Chalo” march on November 26 and 27, has decided to conduct a weeklong village outreach from Wednesday to apprise farmers about the repression of the protest by the government. “If the farmers’ movement fails, then this kind of repressing and barricading that we are seeing at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri could become the template, the new normal, for all protests,” said P. Krishnaprasad of the All India Kisan Sabha, a constituent of the AIKSCC. With support for the farmers’ movement growing, the smaller sites of protest that had been vacated in the wake of the events of January 26 have once again been occupied by the peasants, the latest being Palwal on the Delhi-Agra highway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
03-02-2021||India||SC poser on uniform marriage age||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notices to the Centre and the Delhi and Rajasthan governments on a plea to transfer from high courts pending petitions on laying down a uniform minimum marriageable age for men and women. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde sought the response of the authorities concerned after senior advocate Geetha Luthra sought the transfer of the multiple petitions to the apex court for an authoritative pronouncement. The transfer application was filed by Ashwini Upadhyay, an advocate on whose earlier writ petition challenging the different marriageable ages prescribed for men and women the apex court had issued notices to the respective governments. The present transfer application has urged the Supreme Court to fix a uniform marriageable age for men and women as all laws of the country mandate a minimum of 18 years for women and 21 years for men, which the petitioner complained was discriminatory against women due to traditional and stereotypical approaches considering them subservient to men. The following laws lay down the different ages for men and women: Section 60(1) of the Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872; Section 3(1)(c) of the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 1936; Section 4(c) of the Special Marriage Act, 1954; Section 5(iii) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955; and Section 2(a) of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. Assailing the different age thresholds for men and women, the transfer petition says: “While men are permitted to get married at the age of 21, women are married (off) when they are just 18. The distinction is based on patriarchal stereotypes, has no scientific backing, perpetrates de jure and de facto inequality against women, and goes completely against global trends.” It pointed out that the law commission had earlier observed that there exists no scientific basis for such distinction and that differential limits “simply contribute to the stereotype that wives must be younger than their husbands”. The Committee on Elimination of Discrimination against Women had noted that some countries provide for different ages for marriage for men and women. As such provisions assume incorrectly that women have a different rate of intellectual development than men, or that their stage of physical and intellectual development at the time of marriage is immaterial, these provisions should be abolished, the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
03-02-2021||India|| BJP puts onus on Nitish to decide when to induct more ministers in his cabinet||The BJP on Tuesday put the onus on Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar to decide when to induct more ministers in his cabinet and said there was no reason for delay from its side. Nitish had earlier blamed ally BJP for the delay in the cabinet expansion by asserting that the party was supposed to finalise the names of the legislators that were to be inducted and provide the list to him. “There is no delay from our side in the expansion of the state cabinet. We hope the chief minister will expand it soon,” Bihar deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Tarkishore Prasad told mediapersons in Patna on Tuesday. Prasad attended a marathon meeting chaired by BJP national president J.P. Nadda in Delhi on Monday night. The meeting discussed the shortlisted candidates for the ministerial berths as well as the 12 seats in the Legislative Council for which Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan is expected to make nominations on the recommendation of the state government. BJP national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh, general secretary (organisation) Nagendra Nath Tripathi, Bihar in-charge Bhupender Yadav, state party chief Sanjay Jaiswal, Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi, another deputy chief minister Renu Devi and other leaders attended the meeting at Nadda’s residence. Asked about the BJP legislators who have been finalised for the post of ministers, Prasad said he “cannot make any official comment about it, but the criteria of the organisation and development of the party has been kept in mind in their selection”. Prasad’s comments meant that his party has kept the caste and regional equations in mind while choosing its leaders who could be inducted into the cabinet. Sources in the BJP said that Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, Nitin Navin, Sanjeev Chaurasia, Sanjay Singh, Rana Randhir, Niraj Singh Bablu, Gyanendra Singh Gyanu, Samrat Chaudhary, Nitish Mishra, Sanjay Saraogi, Pramod Kumar, Krishna Kumar Rishi, Rajneesh Kumar and Devesh Kumar are some of the probable ministers. “These leaders have figured in our previous lists too but Nitish is objecting to the inclusion of some of them. Let us see how the matter is sorted out. This is one reason that our party has now included several names from the castes and regions from which it wants its ministers to be inducted,” a senior BJP leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. The Bihar cabinet can have 36 ministers according to the constitutional provision that mandates that their numbers cannot exceed 15 per cent of the size of the Legislative Assembly. The lower House in the state has 243 seats. At present there are 14 ministers in the cabinet, including the chief minister, leaving 22 berths to be filled up. The BJP with 74 MLAs has seven ministers, while Nitish’s Janata Dal United with 44 MLAs has five ministers. One minister each are from smaller allies — Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) and Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) — which have four MLAs each. This situation has led to several ministers being given charge of two to six departments. “The number of ministers who will be sworn in will depend on the numerical strength of the parties. Our party will have more ministers than the JDU which has lesser MLAs than us,” a senior BJP leader said. Sources also said that Nitish was not happy having to play second fiddle to the BJP and has been asking an equal number of berths in the cabinet for both the parties. Nitish has also been aggrieved over the way the BJP patronised the Lok Janshakti Party and its leader Chirag Paswan, who put up candidates against all JDU candidates in the Assembly elections, with the sole intention of harming its prospects. Meanwhile, the Opposition hit out once again on the two-and-a-half month delay in the cabinet expansion. “The BJP and JDU are fighting with each other. It seems there are some serious issues between them and the government will fall down the day the cabinet is expanded,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said. On the other hand, JDU legislator and spokesperson Niraj Kumar said: “Cabinet expansion is the chief minister’s prerogative and will happen at the opportune moment. The delay has not led to any slowdown in development work in the state.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
03-02-2021||West Bengal||College, university campuses not to reopen immediately: Partha ||Colleges and universities in West Bengal, closed since mid-March due to the Covid-19 outbreak, will not reopen campuses immediately, Education Minister Partha Chatterjee said on Wednesday. The vice chancellors urged the state government to allow institutions to conduct classes and exams of odd- semesters on online mode till March, Chatterjee told reporters after a meeting with the VCs. "The VCs said, since a month's time is left (for completion of exams) for odd-semesters (like 1, 3, 5, 7) let us continue with the online mode. The government agreed to their proposal. "The varsities also communicated to the government about their inability to reopen hostels immediately due to the pandemic situation," the minister said. About the request by guardians and other stakeholders to take a quick decision about the modalities of 'even semester' academic activities, he said, "The possibility of elections being held in April and the poll schedule clashing with semester classes and exams also figured in the discussion with the VCs. "They said a decision based on mutual discussion, considering all aspects, will be taken up by them. The government left the decision to them, saying students should not be inconvenienced," he said. With online classes in vogue, students and faculty in all higher educational institutions are gradually getting used to it and some varsities have also helped students so that they can participate in the classes without any difficulty, Chatterjee said. It was also decided that laboratories will be kept ready for use by PhD researchers on case-by-case basis, the minister said. To another question about reopening of state-run and state-aided schools for beginning classes in higher grades from February 12, Chatterjee said, "We will issue specific notification about reopening of schools for higher classes at the appropriate time." "That notification will give every details - about the measures and how many students will be allowed at a time," he added. Earlier, spokesperson of the West Bengal Vice- Chancellors' Council (WBVCC) said after meeting the minister that laboratories of the institutions will be opened for the benefit of research scholars. "Several VCs told the minister that with the Covid-19 pandemic still raging, and students from outside Bengal and abroad studying in many universities and colleges here, it will not be feasible to either reopen the hostels or campuses just yet. The minister concurred with our views. "Therefore, it was decided that classes and semester exams should continue to be held through virtual mode at present," the spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Irregularities in recruitment during Rajib’s tenure, alleges Mamata||Irregularities have been detected in the recruitment of forest department personnel during turncoat minister Rajib Banerjee’s tenure, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Wednesday, without naming him. Banerjee, who was a forest minister in the state cabinet, had quit Mamata’s party last week to join BJP. The TMC supremo, training her guns at all deserters, said they would be defeated in the upcoming assembly polls and "their shops will be closed after the elections". "A person who was responsible for the recruitment of 'Bana Sahayaks' in the forest department indulged in corrupt methods. We will investigate it. Everything will be investigated. The person after indulging in corruption has now joined the BJP. He is now lecturing others," she said. Slamming turncoats, who left the TMC to cross over to the BJP, Mamata claimed that only the "greedy ones" are joining the saffron party. "Those who want to leave the party should do so. The doors are open. But if you are in the party you have to work like a disciplined soldier. Let me tell you, those who have switched political allegiance will be defeated in the assembly polls, their shops will be closed after the polls," she said. The BJP can buy some corrupt leaders but it can never buy a dedicated member or cadre of the TMC, she asserted, while addressing a party meeting here. The chief minister, raking up the "insider versus outsider" debate, also said that people of Bengal state will rule this state, and not those coming from Gujarat. Taking a dig at the BJP for sending a chartered plane to fly TMC turncoats to Delhi for induction in the saffron camp, Mamata said they don't have funds to bear the travel expenditure of migrant workers, but would not mind shelling out money to transport corrupt leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: Come and see what BJP did in Tripura, warns Manik Sarkar||Take a train to Tripura, talk to rickshaw pullers and grocers and learn from them what a blunder they committed by voting the BJP to power in the state. The extraordinary appeal to Bengal was made on Tuesday by Manik Sarkar, the former chief minister of Tripura and one of the most respected Left leaders in the country. “Don’t even think of bringing the BJP here merely because they did not rule Bengal. You can understand from the experience of Tripura and the entire country. You saw the government’s role against farmers, minorities and others,” Sarkar told an impressive rally on the Town Hall ground in Burdwan. The CPM politburo member was unsparing of the Trinamul Congress also, criticising the party’s 10-year rule and referring to “cut money”. But what stood out was the 72-year-old leader’s narration of the events in Tripura during the 34-month rule of the BJP that had ousted the Left from its one-time bastion. “This BJP is now trying to grab power in West Bengal. They will tell you about your experiences of the governments of the Congress, the Left and Trinamul here in Bengal and request you to see the BJP once,” Sarkar told the rally that drew 10,000 people. Sarkar added: “They will convince you with several assurances and request you to vote for them…. But don’t ruin the state by inviting that force. “Take a train and visit Tripura.… You don’t need to talk to CPM leaders but you talk to common people like rickshaw pullers, grocers… to know the reality. They will surely tell you what a blunder they committed by voting for the BJP. They are now waiting for the next poll to repair their mistake.” He urged the people of Bengal not to vote for the BJP in the name of “paribartan (change)”, underscoring how the BJP was replicating in Bengal the strategy it had adopted in the run-up to the polls in Tripura in March 2018. “They had started visiting Tripura in chartered planes in the months ahead of the elections, and they are doing the same thing here in Bengal.… The Prime Minister and Amit Shah have started visiting Bengal,” said Sarkar. “They lured the people of Tripura by assuring guaranteed jobs for 200 days.… They told government employees that they would set up a pay commission for them like (the one for) central government employees. They assured the people that jobs would be provided for each household,” he said, recalling the pre-poll narrative that was spun in one of the most backward states in the country. “People are hardly getting jobs for 45-56 days. The pay commission hasn’t been set up and the jobs for each household have not been delivered upon,” the CPM leader added. With 43 per cent of the votes, the BJP secured 36 seats in the Assembly elections held in 2018 in Tripura and formed the government with Biplab Kumar Deb as the chief minister. The Left Front, after ruling the state for 25 years in a row, bagged a little over 42 per cent votes, but its tally did not cross 18 seats. Sarkar took care to explain how things have changed in Tripura. “Some teachers who have been protesting for months went to meet the chief minister and were attacked by masked goons.… The people are not getting justice by going to police stations,” he said, referring to a lack of democratic space in Tripura. Sarkar also criticised the 10-year rule of the Mamata Banerjee government. “You are seeing the culture of ‘cut money’ here. The same culture the BJP has launched in Tripura and now the RSS-BJP leaders are extorting money there,” he said. CPM leaders said they witnessed such a big gathering in the area for the first time after they lost power “We could not accommodate all our supporters on the ground and so they assembled on different roads of Burdwan. It was so encouraging for us,” said Amal Haldar, the East Burdwan district committee secretary of the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Tibetan youths walk 2,000km to spread awareness of Chinese activities against India ||Two Tibetan youths reached Gangtok on Tuesday after trekking for over 2,000km from Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh in their mission to spread awareness of Chinese activities in Tibet and against India. Tenzin Dhondup, 28, and Tenzin Nima, 24, had entered the Himalayan state on Monday morning through Rangpo, about 40km from Gangtok, where they were given a rousing welcome by Tibetan activists and local people. They were offered khadas (traditional scarves) and feted at a small programme where speakers hailed their mission. Dhondup started the trek, ‘Dharamsala to Nathu La’, from the Himachal Pradesh town, where the Tibetan government-in-exile is headquartered, on November 2. Nima joined him later from Chandigarh. They then jointly traversed through seven states before entering Sikkim. Dhondup said three objectives of his mission were to spread awareness of China’s continuing degradation of Tibet’s environment, urge the global community to recognise Tibet as an occupied country, and boycott goods made in China in view of the country’s recent attacks against India on the Indo-Tibet border. “I chose to hike because I felt I would be able to meet and interact with more people and spread my message. I managed to achieve that during my journey till here,” said Dhondup. Asked if he encountered any problem during his long walk, Dhondup said it was not worth talking about them since the mission was more important. During his and Nima’s onward trek from Rangpo, scores of members of six Tibetan associations based in Sikkim gave them company. They plan to resume their walk to Nathu-la on the Indo-Tibetan border, provided the state government gave them permission. Visitors are barred from travelling to Nathu-la. Nima said he chose to join his namesake Tenzing on his walk from Chandigarh in order to support him. “Environment is a global responsibility. Human rights, too, is everybody’s responsibility. I did this (walk) to spread awareness (of those issues),” he said Uden Aukartsang, a member of the Tibetan parliament-in-exile, said any initiative and activism that aided the overall freedom struggle was essential. “Most importantly, we want India to have a very clear policy on Tibet, and recognise Tibet is an occupied country. It is in India’s interest to really support, you know, Tibetan freedom struggle. I think it is very crucial,” she said. R. P. Poudyal of the Bharat-Tibet Sahyog Manch lauded the Tibetan youths on their mission and urged all the people to extend support to them. “The larger message of these youths is freedom for Tibet, halt to the continued oppression of Tibetans and protection of the Himalayan environment. We the Sikkimese people congratulate them,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri MLA seeks improvement in sports infrastructure||Asok Bhattacharya, the MLA of Siliguri, has sent letters to state and central ministers of sports and youth affairs, seeking improvement in sports infrastructure of the city. While one of the letters has been sent to Kiren Rijiju, the Union minister of state for sports and youth affairs, the second letter has been sent to Aroop Biswas, the state minister of sports. In his letter to Rijiju, Bhattacharya urged him to take necessary steps and shift the campus of the Sports Authority of India to Siliguri from Jalpaiguri. In 2015, the campus was shifted to Jalpaiguri. As of now, it runs at the Biswabangla Krirangan in Jalpaiguri. “When the SAI campus was operational here, many budding talents benefited. But for some unknown reasons, it was shifted to some other place. It is a major demand of Siliguri residents and hence, I have written to the Union minister, seeking his intervention to re-establish the sports facility in Siliguri. We are ready to extend all necessary help,” said Bhattacharya, who is also chairperson of the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation. On the other hand, he has requested Biswas to take necessary steps for the renovation of the Kanchenjungha Stadium and the construction of a cricket stadium. “The stadium is in a dilapidated state and that is why, no major soccer tourney has been organised here these years. It is time that the state government carries out a comprehensive renovation of the facility,” said Bhattacharya. It was a longstanding demand of Siliguri residents that a cricket stadium be developed in the city. In the past few weeks, the demand has again gained ground at different quarters. “The state has a major role in this regard,” added the MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Over 100 ‘land-losers’ demonstrate for jobs in Siliguri||Over 100 people held a demonstration in front of the office of Bengal irrigation department in Siliguri on Tuesday, demanding jobs and more compensation for plots they had purportedly parted with for the Teesta Barrage Project. The Teesta Barrage is the largest irrigation project in north Bengal and was initiated in 1976. The demonstration was held at Tinbatti More, barely a kilometre from Uttarkanya, the north Bengal branch secretariat in Siliguri. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had stayed at Uttarkanya before leaving for Alipurduar on Tuesday morning during her ongoing north Bengal tour. The demonstrators also  tried to raise a blockade on Asian Highway 2 and stopped the entry of officials to the irrigation department office. The protest was held under the banner of the Jalpaiguri Land Losers Committee. They said they had provided land for the project between 1984 and 2006 — the Left Front was in power then — and were assured of a job for each family and adequate compensation. “Many years have passed since then, but till date, we have not yet received anything from the state government. When we came to know that the chief minister would be here, we wanted to draw her attention through our demonstration,” said Debasish Adhikary, a protester hailing from Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri. Another resident of the same block said they had attended a number of meetings convened by government officials, ministers and MLAs to discuss the demands. “But there has been no change in the situation. This is why we organised the agitation,” he said. Irrigation department officials said they couldn’t immediately verify the demonstrators’ allegations as the purported land acquisition had taken place several years back. A demonstration was held by the committee at the same spot on Saturday also. New Jalpaiguri police asked the protesters to disperse on Tuesday, but they refused. They were whisked away to the New Jalpaiguri police station around 2pm. Then, the employees could enter the office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Taxi owners start indefinite strike at Bagdogra airport over revision of fares and waiver on taxes  ||The car parking area at the Bagdogra airport wore a deserted look on Tuesday as taxi owners and drivers started an indefinite strike. As 13,00 cabs kept off road, hundreds of passengers faced inconveniences. While some of them could travel by NBSTC buses, others had to walk with their luggage out of the airport and scout for vehicles. Last month, representatives of taxi owners and drivers' associations had announced an indefinite strike over a series of demands, including immediate revision of fares and waiver on taxes for the lockdown period. Since 2008, there has been no change in the fares they charge from passengers, the owners and drivers had said. The authorities intervened and promised to look into their demands soon. Based on the assurances, the cab owners had postponed their strike for a fortnight. “We waited till January 29, that is, for 15 days but there was no change in the situation. That is why we decided to stop running our vehicles from February 2. Accordingly, taxis are not running from Bagdogra from today. We will not resume the services unless the government comes up with a concrete assurance,” said Siraj Bhowmik, the president of the Bagdogra Taxi Owners’ Welfare Association. There were 44 flights at Bagdogra and altogether, 5,971 passengers moved through the airport on Tuesday, said an official of the Airports Authority of India. A hotel owner in Siliguri said: “A three-day tourism carnival will start in another three-four days to promote the region. The taxi strike at the airport now will send a wrong message. We hope the administration will take necessary steps to end the impasse.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Push for Biswa Bangla University in Santiniketan||Administrative operations and physical classes will start within three months on the Santiniketan campus of Biswa Bangla University, a brainchild of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The varsity authorities headed by vice-chancellor Swapan Kumar Datta, along with state government officials led by Hidco chairman and managing director Debashis Sen, on Monday held a meeting on the under-construction campus to speed up the infrastructure work. The officials said infrastructure, including furniture, required for the varsity would be in place at the earliest. The state government has already allocated Rs 30 crore to set up the infrastructure. The Biswa Bangla University is being built close to the Visva-Bharati campus. “Six rooms are ready for use and the main administrative block will be equipped with proper infrastructure very soon. We are hopeful of starting activities on the campus in the next three months,” said Datta. Sources said the state government wanted to make the campus functional before the Assembly polls and showcase it as an achievement of the ruling party. The varsity has already started online classes for Bengali, English and history. The varsity officials said they would soon launch the departments of music and fine arts as soon as possible. “The varsity will carry forward the ideas of Rabindranath Tagore and be a replica of Visva-Bharati. The state government wants to make the varsity an example at a time allegations of saffronisation have gripped Visva-Bharati,” said a government official. State government  sources said once the university became fully functional, 14 colleges of Birbhum district would be affiliated to it. These 14 colleges are now affiliated to the Burdwan University. The university is coming up at Shibpur, around 4km from Santiniketan. The university’s appointed day is December 10, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee to hold pre-poll meeting in Suvendu Adhikari's home turf||Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee will hold a pre-election meeting in East Midnapore’s Contai, the home turf of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, on Saturday, more than six years after he last visited the district for a rally in the same town. Mega rallies have been organised in the district by chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul Congress turncoat Suvendu, whose recent defection to the BJP has reportedly triggered the plan for Abhishek’s return to the district. During his rally in Chandipur on January 4, 2015, Abhishek had been slapped by a purported Trinamul supporter, an incident that was believed to have widened the Diamond Harbour MP’s rift with the Adhikaris. “Now that Suvendu has left the party, Abhishek is willing to return to campaign in this district,” a Trinamul leader said on condition of anonymity. On Tuesday morning, contractors began constructing the dais on a paddy field adjacent to NH116B. Trinamul sources said the rally would attract “over 2 lakh people”. Superintendent of police, East Midnapore, Praween Prakash and senior police officers also made an inspection of the site along with party leaders. Later in the day, district leaders organised a preparation meeting for Saturday’s rally. The meeting was attended by Contai coordinator Akhil Giri, panchayat samity deputy chief Abu Taher and district core committee member Mahmood Hossain. “Suvendu has repeatedly levelled baseless allegations against Abhishek at his recent rallies and has disrespected him by name. It is Abhishek’s turn to respond,” said Hossain. Starting mid-December, Suvendu has repeatedly levelled the moniker of “extortionist nephew” against Abhishek at his BJP rallies and even named the Diamond Harbour MP on some occasions. Hossain added that the Contai Trinamul leadership had petitioned Abhishek to speak on their turf ahead of the Assembly polls to respond to Suvendu’s slurs. “He agreed especially because the chief minister is set to contest from Nandigram,” added a senior leader. Sources said state Trinamul president Subrata Bakshi would also hold a district-level meeting in Contai on Wednesday to finalise preparations for the rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||North East||Union Budget 2021-22: Boost to Assam road and tea sectors||The 2021-22 Union budget tabled in Parliament on Monday has given a huge boost to the road and tea sectors in poll-bound Assam with the BJP-led state government thanking the BJP-led Centre for the “landmark allocation”. Presenting the first ever digital Union budget, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman proposed over Rs 34,000 crore to be allocated for 1,300 km of NHs to be undertaken in the next three years in Assam. This is in addition to Rs 19,000 crore of work on national highways currently in progress in the state, she said. Similarly, Rs 1,000 crore was proposed by for the welfare of tea workers, especially women and their children in Assam and West Bengal through a special scheme. A senior NHIDCL official told The Telegraph that it is a massive infusion of funds in the road sector, which will help helping agencies such as his, the NHAI and the state PWD (National Highway Division) not only take up “mega” projects that will fill up “critical gaps” in surface transport. According to him, with a funding of this scale district-to-district connectivity could be improved along with converting up two-lane highway into four land depending on traffic volume. “Though we are yet to see details but it is undoubtedly a huge boost to the road sector,” he said. The tea industry also hailed the budget proposal for the tea sector. The Tea Association of India (TAI) is optimistic that the emphasis on ‘Health & Well Being’ and ‘Reinvigorating Human Capital’ that has been highlighted as six pillars of the Budget 2021 proposals would prove to be all inclusive and the industry would benefited by it, PK Bhattacharjee, TAI secretary-general, said in a statement. Welcoming the provision of the special scheme for welfare and women and children in Assam and West Bengal, Bhattacharjee also said, “This holds promise for the residential women workers and their children which comprise more than 50 per cent of the labour force. The ‘Atamnirbhar Bharat Swasthiya Yojna’ is expected to offer medical succour to the tea gardens population as well.” The push for road projects in Assam and West Bengal would provide infrastructural push in the state, particularly in the interiors of the respective states, he said. The budget proposals have also given a “huge boost” to the ruling BJP in the state before the polls. “The budget allocation once again establishes the seriousness with which the Centre is focusing on the development of the northeast and Assam. This has nothing to do with election. In the last budget too there was a big push for infrastructure development,” state BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami told The Telegraph. The party has gone all out to retain power in the April-May Assembly polls, making development its key poll plank. Almost every day, one project or the other is being announced or inaugurated at massive public rallies besides laying of foundation stones of projects. The Rs 1000 crore for the welfare of women and children from the tea community will make it difficult for the BJP’s political rivals to woo the community which has decisively tilted towards the BJP since 2014. The tea community has a decisive say in about 42 of the 126 constituencies in the state. “The budget has once again underlined the importance the Centre gives to Assam and the northeast. A lot more development and welfare schemes can now be announced in the party’s poll manifesto with this kind of funding,” a BJP insider said. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the finance minister for making “landmark allocation” for improvement of road infrastructure and welfare of tea workers of the state. Allocating Rs 1,000 crore for the tea workers will have long-term impact on the healthcare, he said. The Opposition Congress, however, was critical of the budget proposals. “So, the BJP government has made parliament the place to launch election manifestos for assembly elections. This Budget is nothing more than an election manifesto full of jumlas!” PCC chief Ripun Bora tweeted. Congress legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia said, “ First and foremost its an election oriented budget. Announcements have been made targeting election bound states like Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.” “For example BJP Govt had earlier announced minimum wage for tea garden workers at Rs 351/- but it has not yet been implemented. Scheduled Caste status for 6 communities, revival of the two paper mills remained promises on paper only,” Saikia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-24
03-02-2021||Opinion||Boots return: Myanmar military seizes power||History has repeated itself both as farce and tragedy in Myanmar. In 1990, the military junta had refused to recognize the electoral triumph of the National League for Democracy, preferring to hold on to the sceptre through a proxy. Three decades later, after yet another electoral landslide in favour of Aung San Suu Kyi’s NLD — the party won close to 400 seats in the last elections in November — the Tatmadaw has stepped in with another coup against Ms Suu Kyi’s government, detaining the top leadership of the NLD as well as the president of the nation. On this occasion, alleged poll irregularities have been cited as an excuse by the military to quash democracy under its boots. There is speculation that the real reasons behind this military insurrection lie elsewhere. The word is that Min Aung Hlaing, the commander-in-chief of the armed forces, took this extreme measure having been rebuffed as a potential candidate for the presidency. The general’s political ambitions are not benign. A seal on the presidency could act as a significant deterrent against any push by the NLD and the broad national coalition it sought to forge to amend the Constitution in order to reduce the military’s imprint on the political landscape of the nation. After 1990, the military’s intervention had plunged democracy into darkness for a while. There is a possibility that the script would unfold differently now. Myanmar occupies a critical geo-strategic niche, being the gateway to the restive Indo-Pacific stretch that is witnessing the Great Game at play. It is, therefore, unlikely that the global powers would remain passive about these developments. The president of the United States of America has already threatened sanctions; China, which was attempting to deepen its engagement with Ms Suu Kyi’s government, would not be pleased by this sudden turn, especially since Beijing was eyeing the Tatmadaw’s tilt towards other partnerships with concern. The coup has thrown the rehabilitation process of the Rohingyas into jeopardy, causing further consternation in the international community. The challenges before New Delhi are equally stark. Given India’s deepening military and strategic involvement with Naypyidaw, New Delhi cannot afford to be atop the moral high horse. It must explore ways of testing the deep waters with the new leadership while, simultaneously, pressing for democracy’s revival at the earliest. It is going to be a tricky balancing act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
03-02-2021||Opinion||Speak freely: FIRs against journos||Sir — The Editors Guild of India, as well as citizens, has rightly condemned the filing of first information reports against senior editors and journalists for reporting on the tractor parade undertaken by protesting farmers and the ensuing violence in Delhi on Republic Day, calling it an attempt to “intimidate, harass and stifle” the media (“Eerie silence”, Feb 1). The Guild has demanded that such FIRs be withdrawn immediately and the media be allowed to report freely, without fear. It has been claimed that the journalists have been specifically targeted for reporting about the death of a protester on their personal social media handles as well as on those of the publications they lead and represent. The intimidating tactics used by the police in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh must be strongly criticized. Besides the Congress member of parliament, Shashi Tharoor, six journalists have been booked by Noida police for sedition, among other charges. The FIR was lodged following a complaint by a resident who alleged that ‘digital broadcast’ and ‘social media posts’ by these people were responsible for the violence during the rally. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The FIRs lodged in Noida and Bhopal against six senior journalists and the Congress MP, Shashi Tharoor, accusing them of several offences ranging from sedition to harming national integrity and promoting communal disharmony smacks of intimidation rather than any real concern for the rule of law. Along with police personnel, journalists were also at the front lines of the chaotic tractor rally on Republic Day. At the time, some accounts of a protester’s death did the rounds claiming that he died of a bullet injury. But when the Delhi police released the video of his tractor overturning, those like the journalist, Rajdeep Sardesai, promptly switched to the official version. As the Editors Guild of India has emphasized, it is common in journalism for fresh information to contradict earlier accounts, especially when there is action on multiple fronts. To construe these accounts as malicious, with the intent to destroy communal harmony and incite violence, is like shooting the messenger. The fact that the police in two states lodged similar FIRs prodded by private complainants highlights how accusing journalists of sedition is becoming a fairly common tack. A few weeks ago, three journalists in Manipur became victims of a similar chain of events. It is ironical that the provision of sedition, which used to be invoked by the British against Indian nationalists, accusing them of traitorous behaviour, is now being invoked against the country’s own citizens. Repurposing sedition against journalists negates the founding tenets of the Indian democracy, recognizing the rights of news media to report without fear or favour. The press has stood tall alongside the other organs of the Indian State in discharging its duties. Private complainants are entitled to their opinion. But the police is expected to understand the critical role of the free press in protecting democratic institutions. These cases may therefore be immediately withdrawn. The Supreme Court, too, must take note of how its guidelines on narrowing the application of the sedition law have fallen on deaf ears. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — It is shocking how biased governments and the police can be when it comes to the freedom of the press. While officials go out of their way to defend certain journalists who openly support the ruling dispensation, the freedom of some others is encroached upon by using any possible excuse. The press is the fourth pillar of democracy, and must be allowed to function freely. Sambit Sharma,New Delhi Better path Sir — Artisans of Calcutta are constructing one of the tallest statues of a reclining Buddha in India to be transported to Gaya, the birthplace of the spiritual leader. Almost every year, hundreds of tourists visit Gaya to pay their respects to the Buddha. This project is good news for the artisans of Bengal whose livelihood had suffered last year owing to the pandemic. It is also expected to boost tourism in Bihar. Yet, one cannot help but wonder if the amount of money allocated for this project could not be used to build educational institutions or hospitals given the trying times we are living in. Aratrika Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
03-02-2021||Opinion||New heights: tricolour tribulations||Anything goes. If the prime minister of India declares with calculated vagueness that the nation has been pained by an insult to the national flag, the nation immediately feels pained. Vagueness helped the prime minister avoid a direct reference to the protesting farmers towards whom the Union government has been rather less than friendly. One of the first labels for the protesters, led by farmers from Punjab and Haryana, was ‘Khalistani’, a condemnatory appellation they have not forgotten. This time, however, there was no direct hit; the prime minister just omitted certain facts from his comment. The situation was certainly undesirable. Some protesting groups — it is not known where their allegiance lies — had deviated from the agreed routes of the protest on Republic Day and had hoisted a Sikh religious flag on a mast in Red Fort. While violence and indiscipline should be penalized, the emphasis of the prime minister on the insult to the national flag made the protesters out to be disrespectful to the nation. This strategy to alienate people’s sympathy for the farmers relied on the transmission of some falsehoods, although the prime minister never uttered them. As usual, it was social media’s duty to spread these: the protesters put up the Khalistani flag; the Indian flag was taken down; the protesters’ flag was higher than the tricolour. Lies masquerade as facts in these hyper-patriotic times. Protesters hoisted the Khalsa flag — nothing to do with Khalistan — on an empty mast; no national flag was lowered. The form of the protest may be questioned, but there was no insult to the national flag. It is more than a little funny that the prime minister, who is reported to have autographed a national flag to give to Barack Obama and used another as a wipe-cloth during a yoga session, should be so pained by the non-existent insult. What is funnier is that his apprenticeship in the Hindutva brand of nationalism began with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, which openly rejected the tricolour as the national flag until recently. At the time of Independence, for example, the RSS had felt that the tricolour would never be “respected and owned by the Hindus”, and that sentiment persisted for years. So an excess of patriotism via the national flag might even erase that history while portraying the protesting farmers in a negative light.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
03-02-2021||Opinion||Safai karamcharis: Listen to the voices from below||Last year, in November, the Centre proposed a landmark amendment to the existing manual scavenging legislation, aiming to mechanize sewer cleaning across urban India. It announced that 243 cities are eligible to participate in the initiative to mechanize sewers and, pending inspection in 2021, could receive prizes of Rs 8-12 crore. This is certainly a welcome step. Yet, caution is warranted because we know that similar initiatives to ban forms of manual scavenging are hardly new. From the Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1955 to various state and regional committees in the 1960s and 1970s, multiple efforts have involved banning the casteist practice of manual scavenging and outlining rights for those engaged in it. More recently, a sweeping 1993 Act outlawed the hiring of manual scavengers and the construction of new dry latrines over water-sealed ones. The 2013 Act, which the current proposal seeks to amend, updates the 1993 laws to focus on sewage workers and guarantee certain entitlements to cleaners and their families. Despite such measures, at least 39,000 manual scavengers were counted across 18 states in a 2018 study by the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis. Why do these numbers persist? The implementation of laws enacted in Parliament is ultimately left to the discretion of state governments that are frequently in denial. For example, in 2005, in response to a public interest litigation from the Safai Karamchari Andolan, the Supreme Court directed all state governments and Central corporations to report on the prevalence of manual scavenging. In response, nearly all states claimed that there was no evidence of manual scavenging. This is not new. Even prior to Independence, colonial authorities exploited and benefited from the entrenched caste system that placed Dalits in an intergenerational cycle of sanitation occupations without rights, even as other processes became mechanized. In a culture of nonchalance towards caste-based occupations, repeatedly banning a practice without meaningful change is unlikely to work. We should not presume that by merely existing, laws would serve as a mediating force by themselves. The proposed amendment also fails to clarify who counts as a manual scavenger. While the 2013 Act mentions sewage workers, it also holds that any person who handles excreta with “protective gear” is no longer a manual scavenger. This confers weighty implications on protective gear, which is — conveniently — not defined. Is a single glove ‘protective’? Moreover, gear that is improperly designed means that cleaners may not move or see well and are likely to forgo them. Similarly, the emphasis on eliminating dry toilets ignores the manual work that persists in processing water-based sewage. Even with appropriate gear, physically entering a sewer hardly constitutes something other than manual scavenging, but this is exactly what the law implies. This seems to support the assertion of the SKA’s convenor, Bezwada Wilson, that such measures prioritize “toilet users, not toilet cleaners”. These ambiguities are reflected in the data — or lack thereof. The 2011 census counts 2.6 million “dry” toilets that are serviced manually, but it does not count those who clean sewers or septic tanks. The Socio Economic Caste Census, 2011 reports over 1,82,505 manual scavengers nationally — but only in rural areas, leaving out urban sewer workers. The SKA estimates 7,70,000 people entering sewers. A recent survey on sewer deaths across several states found that not a single family member of workers who died received due rights accorded in the Rehabilitation of Manual Scavengers Scheme. Again, we are left with a puzzle: manual sewer cleaning is (sort of) outlawed, so supposedly it does not occur. How do you implement measures to eliminate something that doesn’t officially exist? Several other changes are needed for this amendment, or any other, to work. For one, a better definition of the labour is needed. The Dahlberg Advisers outline no less than nine types of manual scavenging, categorizing factors such as urban/rural, level of frequency, and type of exposure. Based on this, they estimate five million sanitation workers nationally, with two million in high-risk sanitation work. This offers a clearer way to identify those in this occupation and to meaningfully incorporate protective solutions into each type. Second, agencies like the NCSK should be better supported to guide cities to comply with the law. Of particular importance is contract labour — it is largely unregulated — that offers few protections on working conditions and often serves as an easy way for ULB’s to outsource responsibility. Rehabilitation — connecting workers to other trades without fear of stigma — will be a major concern as mechanization could lead to a need for fewer workers and, thus, result in layoffs. Movements with a track record of advocacy and mobilization, such as the SKA, Rashtriya Garima Abhiyan and others should be consulted on these processes. Finally, social sensitization could go a long way. Instead of a mass campaign to ‘beautify’ the city, how about a mass campaign educating the public about how improper waste disposal affects sanitation workers? The Red Dot campaign by the Pune wastepicker union, SwaCH, is a good example. Much more is involved than just mechanization in stopping manual entry of sewers and septic tanks. While some areas have piloted technologies to clean sewers, let’s be clear: changes are needed at every level of society. The Centre has taken a step forward with this amendment, but the transformational work is yet to be done.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
03-02-2021||Opinion||Viral entity||On January 3, 2020, a YouTube video had gone viral showing an aggrieved, middle-aged, stocky Imran Chishti screaming on his smartphone, asking his friends to use social media platforms to mobilize a crowd outside Nankana Sahib, a site near Lahore, Pakistan, where Guru Nanak was born. The message spread like wildfire and a mob gathered as a consequence of incitement by Chishti in the name of religion. Chishti had tried to provoke the majority community against the Sikhs, a minority community, because of a family dispute. The mob was dispersed after a few hours by the police. From the micro to the macro level, social media platforms have often been instrumentalized to mobilize violent mobs against ethnic, religious and racial minorities. However, after the attack on Capitol Hill in Washington DC on January 6 — the president of the United States of America, Joseph R. Biden, called it an “insurrection” — the issue of regulating social media content has acquired urgency. Global social media giants such as Twitter and Facebook suspended the accounts of the former president, Donald Trump, who had infamously spouted online canards against ethnic and racial minorities for almost a decade, apart from being a source and amplifier of hate speech and fake news. Apple, Google and Amazon acted against Parler, a micro-blogging website widely popular among right-wing extremists and conservatives in the US, by withdrawing their digital operational support, thereby practically paralyzing the site. Some viewed the actions of social media companies as opportunistic as they coincided with the new, post-electoral reality in theUS. The Democratic Party has gained control of the executive and both Houses of the legislature. President Biden is seen to be more sensitive to the argument that unfiltered social media messaging is exacerbating social and racial tensions and had reportedly called for revoking Section 230. (In the past, Trump and some Republicans had also expressed concerns about Section 230 since they viewed the moderating practices of social media companies to be discriminatory.) Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, 1996 of the US Congress grants them immunity from liabilities related to third-party-hosted content while allowing them flexibility to moderate content. The evidence of social media platforms such as Facebook being used in large-scale killings by inflaming passions against vulnerable minorities is well-documented. The Myanmar military’s disproportionate response to the attacks by militants of the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army on more than 30 police posts in 2017 is a classic example of Facebook being weaponized by the Tatmadaw to wage an anti-Rohingya propaganda. At least 6,700 Rohingyas, including an estimated 730 children under the age of five, were killed in the violence, according to Médecins Sans Frontières. A total of over 700,000 Rohingyas had to flee Rakhine in Myanmar to neighbouring Bangladesh as the military, in the backdrop of a nationwide frenzy against the Rohingyas, went on a rampage and attacked Rohingya-inhabited villages. In 2018, a fact-finding mission set up by the Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council found that in Myanmar “Facebook has been a useful instrument for those seeking to spread hate, in a context where for most users Facebook is the Internet.” The 440-page report compiled after 15 months of examination gave detailed examples of how the Rohingya community was demonized and recorded many cases “where individuals, usually human rights defenders or journalists, become the target of an online hate campaign that incites or threatens violence”. In its response, Facebook acknowledged the problem and noted that it was focused on overcoming technical challenges that could target hate speech. Forewarnings about social media’s potential to inflict greater social harm in Myanmar were repeatedly made, including by leaders of the tech industry. In 2013, in their book, The New Digital Age: Reshaping the Future of People, Nations and Business, Eric Schmidt, the former CEO of Google, and Jared Cohen, a policy wonk, had already shone a light within the industry on the role of social media in exacerbating tensions in the communal violence in Rakhine in May 2012. The social media and technology companies were never short of resources in exploring ways to meet the multi-dimensional challenges. The only plausible explanation is the profit motive, which means that these companies have consistently ignored the catastrophic potentiality of online malfeasance in the interest of scaling up their online client base to garner more and more digital advertising revenue. The regulation debate is likely to acquire greater urgency in the mainstream, including Biden’s team and the legislative branches in the US, because of the incident on January 6 that has shaken the political and security establishment. Those in favour of a greater government role in regulation point out that giving censorship and gatekeeping powers to a young tech workforce is inherently anti-democratic. It can lead to arbitrary decisions that could also curb legitimate democratic dissent, particularly in an authoritarian political context where other sources are unavailable. There is also the argument that social and political problems cannot be fixed by technological and legal means. Based on researching historical patterns of similar debates around the regulation of content on television, movies and video games, a recent Harvard Business Review article, “Social Media Companies Should Self-Regulate. Now.”, argued that companies have often risked creating a “tragedy of the commons” when they put their short-term, individual self-interests ahead of the good of the consuming public or the industry and, in the long term, destroyed the environment that made them successful in the first place. The article, co-authored by three academics, concluded that, “going forward, governments and digital platforms will also need to work together more closely. Since more government oversight over Twitter, Facebook, Google, Amazon, and other platforms seems inevitable, new institutional mechanisms for more participative forms of regulation may be critical to their long-term survival and success.” One cannot adopt a one-size-fits-all approach as the challenges in developing countries are multi-layered compared to those in advanced countries. Mass-scale educational and economic deprivation with deep-seated ethnic, religious, economic and social fault lines abound in a toxic ecosystem that can be exploited easily. This is coupled with the lack of institutional autonomy of civil servants compared to countries like the US. Poorly trained in digital forensics and, sometimes, compromised, law-enforcement authorities have been complicit in the lack of action on a number of reported social media threats, particularly against women. What compound these deficiencies are the ideological biases and proclivities of the decision-making staff of social media companies in the developing world. The practical realities of the Global South, particularly in multi-religious, multi-ethnic set-ups, underscore the need for rigorous artificial intelligence filters, protocols and the scaling-up of more knowledgeable, efficient and context-sensitive content moderators. One of the many solutions can be that senior staff members responsible for supervising social media content moderation come from neutral countries to avoid perceived or real conflict of interests. The lessons of the last decade that have coincided with the stupendous global growth in social media users indicate that the status quo is unsustainable and one needs to find creative, participatory, bottom-up, customized and grounded solutions to evolve a democratic, fair and efficient social media regulatory framework. Meanwhile, a year after the incitement and the international outcry over the attempted attack on the Sikh temple, Pakistan’s anti-terrorism court reportedly awarded up to two years’ imprisonment to the three accused, including Imran Chishti, after they were tried under terrorism and blasphemy charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Chandil forest range receives Rs 28 lakh as compensation for villagers||Chandil forest range has received Rs 28.2 lakh from the state forest department on Wednesday for making payments of compensation to the villagers for the damage of crops and houses by wild elephants in the range area. An amount will also be given to the kin of those who were trampled to death by wild elephants during the year 2020-21. Revealing about the fund, Chandil range officer Ashok Kumar said, “During the current financial year a total of five villagers were trampled to death, about 70 houses partially damaged and over 100 acres of paddy fields were destroyed by the migratory elephants in the range.” "The kin of those killed by wild elephants are paid the compensation through cheques on an individual basis, but the compensation to those who suffered a loss due to damage of houses or crops are paid through banks on the advice by the forest department. The fund of Rs 28.2 lakh has reached belatedly due to the pandemic, but we will start making the payment to the victims soon," said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The Chandil range officer also stated that in the financial year 2019-20, a total of Rs 41 lakh was disbursed to those who were the victims to elephant menace in the Chandil forest range, but in the current financial year the amount of compensation will surpass that of the last financial year. "The Rs 28.2 lakh fund that has come for making the compensation will hardly meet the demand of the victims.  We are in process of sending a fresh petition for more fund so that all the victims may get their compensation by the end of the financial year 2020-21 i.e. March 31," said the ranger. Kumar said that the forest department has to spend a large amount of money on protecting the human lives in the man-elephant conflict area every year. "We have to spend money on buying crackers, torch-lights and diesel oil that we provide to the villagers for keeping the herd of wild elephants away from the human habitat. Then we have to spend a large amount towards the teams of ‘mahouts’ who are engaged for driving away the migratory elephants and finally we have to pay heavy compensation to the villagers for the damage caused to the paddy crops and houses by the wild elephants, besides the compensation to the kin of those killed in the elephant attacks," said the ranger while talking to this website. The range officer said being close to Bengal border and also close to Tamar as well as Seraikela jungle and Dalma elephant sanctuary, Chandil forest range area turns into a central place for the herds of migratory elephants to visit the area regularly. "As the wild elephants tend to graze paddy crops and also eat up stocks of paddy, herds of migratory elephants use to enter into human habitat and destroy houses on a regular basis, often leaving a trail of destruction in the villages. The forest department has to incur heavy loss as it has to pay the compensation for every bit of damage and the destruction that the migratory wild elephants do," said Kumar, adding that the elephant menace is increasing in the Chandil forest range.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Covaxin drive in Dhanbad picks up pace after initial reluctance||The Covaxin vaccination drive at the Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) in Dhanbad accelerated on its third day, having received a dull response on the first two. A total of 88 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Wednesday, while on Monday and Tuesday only 20 of them came to receive the jabs. The elevated response was spurred by a meeting with all the doctors and staff held under the chairmanship of SNMMCH Principal Shailendra Kumar. During this he and Arun Kumar Chaudhary, Superintendent of the hospital, exhorted the doctors and staff to come forward and take the vaccine to spread a positive message in the society. Talking to the media, Kumar said, “The administration of Covaxin began at our centre on February 1. The drive picked up pace on Wednesday with doctors and took the lead after a meeting.” The Principal and I took the lead and carried out the drive. All the heads of departments  and other doctors came forward to take the vaccine,” Chaudary told the media. Dr Asutosh Kumar, who took Covaxin, explained that initially there were some confusions as to why Covaxin was being administered at their hospital but others received Covishield. “It came to an end after the meeting on Wednesday and all the staff showed up to receive the shots.” District Reproductive and Child Health Officer of Dhanbad, Dr Vikash Rana said, “The response during the third day of drive at SNMMCH is really encouraging. We urge everyone to come forward and take the vaccine as it meant for their safety.” Meanwhile, 754 beneficiaries were administered the vaccine at different centres of the district on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Budget session of Assembly from February 26 to March 23||The Budget Session of the Jharkhand Assembly will be held from February 26 to March 23 with the state budget being tabled on March 3, the cabinet decided on Wednesday. This will be the second budget tabled by the Hemant Soren-led coalition government in Jharkhand. The Cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod to 45 proposals from various departments. It gave its approval to Jharkhand Good Samaritan Policy under which those who help victims of road accidents reach hospital on time will not be interrogated by the law enforcement agencies and instead rewarded for their efforts, said Cabinet Secretary Ajoy Kumar Singh. “Many people are reluctant to help victims of road accidents as they fear legal complications. This decision is intended to encourage people to help road accident victims without any fear of getting framed,” said Singh. The Cabinet also decided to withdraw cases against at least 204 migrant labourers for violation of lockdown guidelines last year. As per government records, at least 30 such cases were lodged in various parts of the state wherein migrant labourers were named on charges of violating the lockdown norms. As of now, there are commercial courts only in Ranchi, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur. However, in the wake of the growing number of cases, the Cabinet on Wednesday decided that civil judges and district judges in all the 24 districts will now be able to hear cases that were till now only heard at commercial courts, Singh said. Cases involving Rs 3 lakh to Rs 1 crore will be heard by civil judges, while cases involving more than Rs 1 crore will be heard by district judges, he added. The Cabinet also approved the signing of an MoU with the Airport Authority of India (AAI) for expansion of the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi. Accordingly, 27.34 acre land will be transferred to the AAI, while 276.28 acre land will be given to the AAI on lease by the state government. A total of 303.62 acre land will be provided to AAI for expansion of the largest airport in Jharkhand, officials said. The Cabinet also decided to give grace marks to members of displaced families for grade three jobs in the state government. The candidates who have lost less than 2 acre land will get two extra marks, while the ones who have lost more than five acre of land will get 10 extra marks in exams for grade 3 level jobs in Jharkhand, Singh said. Besides, GAIL India Ltd will now be supplied biodegradable waste free of cost from Ranchi, which they will process and sell, the Cabinet decided. A MoU for 22 years will be inked with GAIL, under which the company will be provided 8 acre land in Jharkhand, where they will set up processing plants. These processing plants, officials said, will have a capacity of 300 metric tonne.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Over 300 activists stage sit-in at Goelkera rail station||Over 300 activists of Nagrik Ekta Manch on Wednesday staged a Rail Roko agitation at the Goelkera Railway Station of the Howrah-Mumbai main line, demanding the stoppage of mail and express trains there. Men and women sat on the railway tracks and started their agitation from 8:45 am, disrupting train movement along the route. Several senior railway officials of South Eastern Railway's Chakradharpur  division including the senior divisional commercial manager Manish Pathak rushed to the spot. Deployment of Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) was also made in adequate numbers to prevent any untoward incident. Leading the agitation, the president of the outfit, Laxman Malgandi said that Goelkera Railway Station assumes importance as several mail and express trains running in Howrah- Mumbai main trunk route passes through it. "We want stoppages of all mail and express trains at Goelkera. We have been fighting for this demand for quite some time but to no avail," said Malgandi. The agitators were refusing to speak to the railway officials who were present at the spot. They were demanding the divisional railway manager of Chakradharpur division V K Sahu to come to the spot. The local administration had sent Block Development Officer of Goelkera, Sudhir Prakash for tackling the situation. The six-hour-long agitation was called off at around 3 pm. "The agitation was peaceful. No damages were caused to railway property," said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. The agitation affected movement of several trains, including South Bihar Express and Howrah- Mumbai Mail. Several trains had to be halted at the Rourkela Railway Station. They resumed journey after the agitation was called off at 3.10 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Senior citizens demand launch of OPD services, resumption of city bus||A delegation of senior citizens of Sindri on Wednesday met Dhanbad DC Uma Shankar Singh, demanding a host of services, including the launching of an OPD facility and resumption of bus operations among others. Comprising former employees of the Fertilizer Corporation of India factory at Sindri, the delegation led by Sewa Singh (73), also demanded ambulance service in the town and the deputation of a local doctor at the  Additional Community Health Centre. “The DC assured to solve our issues by constituting a committee to look after the problems faced by the Sindri residents. The meeting was held in a cordial atmosphere,” Swea Singh told The Telegraph Online. Giving more details about the issues, another member DN Singh (72) said, “Due to lack of any government or private hospital in Sindri, more than one lakh residents  are compelled to visit Dhanbad for treatment.” In November last year, the medical officer-in-charge of Jharia took some initiatives to launch a 24x7 OPD facility at the Additional CHC building in Sindri with the help of industrial bodies. However, that operation is yet to begin. “Sindri had one of the best medical facilities till 2001 when the FCI factory was still operational. But after its closure, the hospital shut down as well,” DN Singh noted. Sewa Singh also said that the representatives wanted a resumption of the city bus services, which have been disrupted due to the lockdown. “The disruption causes difficulties for Sindri residents to reach the district headquarters, which is 30 kilometres away. We have to undertake uncomfortable auto-rickshaw journeys. The fares are exorbitant too,” the former Public Relation Officer of FCI Sindri said. “Due to the suspension of passenger train service between Sindri and Dhanbad since March last year the residents are facing a lot of difficulties. The worst victims are senior citizens like us as we can neither afford to carry out the long journey in auto-rickshaws, nor we can pay the exorbitant fares charged by the operators,” DN Singh complained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police detain 17 in Parsudih for raping minor girl||Parsudih Police on Tuesday detained 17 men for allegedly gangraping a minor at the locality on Sunday night. The 17-year-old girl, who works as a daily wager, has accused as many as 22 men for committing the crime when she went out on a picnic to the nearby Hata area on Sunday morning. She alleged that the youths raped her one after the other through Sunday night, as a result of which she could not even bring herself to the police station. However, on Tuesday morning, she filed a complaint with the police, accusing the youths of stopping her at a secluded place in Parsudih where they committed the crime. On the wee hours of Monday, the accused men dropped her off near her rented house at the Chandni Chowk area in Shankarpur. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) at the Parsudih Police Station Alok Ranjan confirmed the incident to this website. "Though the girl had named about 22 youths, we are verifying whether they are the ones who have been accused of raping her. As of now we have picked 17 of the accused. We are getting the facts verified before making any formal arrest," Ranjan told The Telegraph Online. The families of the accused men were seen gathering at the police station, asking officials to verify facts before making any arrests. Interestingly, the father of one of the accused claimed that his son had gone to duty on Sunday and had not gone to picnic. Despite that, his name was there in the list of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||52-year-old man dies 33 hours after vaccination  ||A 52-year-old Ranchi man, who was vaccinated against the coronavirus on Monday afternoon, died on way to hospital 33 hours later on Tuesday night after complaining of discomfort in his chest, officials of the hospital where he worked said on Wednesday. Mednata Hospital where the deceased, Mannu Pahan (52), was working, had initially said Mannu did not have any of prior ailments. But by evening, the state health department issued a press communique clarifying that Mannu suffered from a tendency of high blood pressure. Superintendent of Medanta Hospital, Dr Madan Mohan Pandey told the health department that Mannu also complained of difficulty in breathing a day before his death. Mannu returned home after completing his day's work on Tuesday evening, the health department said. He woke up to answer nature's call around 9.30pm and fell unconscious on the ground. His family rushed him to Medanta Hospital, where he was declared dead at 10.10pm. This is the first fatality following Covid immunisation reported in Jharkhand, officials said. The Covishield dose administered to Mannu (on Monday, February 1 at 12.55pm) was manufactured on November 1, 2000, and its expiry date was April 29, 2021, health department said. At least 351 people have been administered Covishield shots at Medanta Hospital and all of them were doing fine, the communique added.  “Any connection between Mannu’s death and the Covishield vaccine could not be established. The state AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) committee will investigate the matter and submit a report to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,” the health department said in its communique, asking people not to panic nor spread rumours about “side effects” of vaccination.  According to Medanta Hospital, Mannu worked in the hospital’s housekeeping department. He was a resident of Ormanjhi in suburban Ranchi. As many as 151 health workers were vaccinated at Medanta Hospital along with Mannu on February 1, hospital authorities said. At least nine more health workers were administered shots from the same vial, but none of them reported of any discomfort or weakness since vaccination, authorities added. Mannu’s body has been sent to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi for post-mortem, said a hospital spokesperson. As per data with the National Health Mission (NHM), more than 55,000 people, mostly health and sanitation workers, have been administered Covishield shots in Jharkhand so far. While at least 229 AEFI cases have been reported in the state, doctors maintained that none of these was severe. Government figures highlight that almost 70 per cent of the AEFI cases reported in Jharkhand occurred in Ranchi district. As per NHM data, as many as of 160 of the 229 people, who suffered from adverse effects following immunisation, were residents of Ranchi. (An earlier version of the story has been updated with details from a communique issued by the state health department)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||First direct flight to Ahmedabad from Ranchi takes off||The first-ever direct flight from Ranchi to Ahmedabad took off from the Birsa Munda Airport in the state capital on Tuesday evening, adding up to the fleet of new flights that are connecting Ranchi to important cities across India, airport authorities said. The airport director, Vinod Sharma said that Indigo Airlines will run the flights to the Gujarat capital thrice every week – Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The flights will ferry passengers from Ahmedabad to Ranchi on the aforementioned days, and land here at 7.20 pm, Sharma added. From Ranchi, the flight will take off at 8.20pm. “There was demand for starting flights to Chennai and Ahmedabad. We have already started direct flights to Chennai, and the first flight to Ahmedabad took off today (Tuesday),” Sharma said on Tuesday afternoon. Daily direct flight service to Chennai from Ranchi started on November 18, and the response, airport authorities said, was positive. “Indigo Airlines offered to start services from Ranchi to Ahmedabad as well as to Chennai, and we gave our nod to them. We are in talks with the state government to start more flights from Ranchi as the demand for flights to various destinations is increasing here,” Sharma said. Sources said that Ranchi may soon get direct flights to Pune and Chandigarh as well and some private airline companies have shown their interest in the same. Several students and working professionals from Ranchi stay in Pune, and a direct flight would make travelling easier for them. Besides, flights to Darbhanga may also start in the days to come, sources from the Ranchi airport said. “The proposal to start direct flights to Chennai and Ahmedabad came to us before the lockdown was enforced. The process of starting the flights got delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. There are proposals to start flights to Chandigarh and Pune as well, but no official decision has been made yet,” said an official at the Ranchi airport, requesting anonymity. The passenger footfall at the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi has tripled since June, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) stated in December. However, the passenger footfall here was still less than half of what it used to be in pre-Covid times, local airport officials said. The AAI stated that the passenger traffic at the Ranchi airport had dropped down to 57,749 in the month of June, when travel restrictions were relaxed after strict lockdown since March. The passenger traffic shot up to 1,41,268 in November this year when more flights were allowed to ply, the AAI stated, lauding the airport staff here for their dedication. The Birsa Munda Airport, which bagged the top position in Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) last year, at present has a 75 meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport. The length of the basic strip, the airport director said, will be increased to 140 meters once the expansion plan is approved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||State's active Covid caseload falls below 500||Active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped below the 500 mark on Tuesday as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases in Jharkhand. The state reported 59 cases against 81 recoveries on the day, bringing the count of Covid patients down to 489, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. Meanwhile, two more Covid patients died during treatment in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1075. Dhanbad and Saraikela reported one Covid casualty each in the past 24 hours. Ranchi reported 30 fresh cases against 39 recoveries on the day, while all the remaining districts reported a single-digit-spike. As per government data, more than 98 per cent of the over 1.18 lakh people found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand have recovered so far. The growth rate of cases in Jharkhand was 0.04 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent. Jharkhand achieved less than 50 per cent of its vaccination target on Tuesday for the second consecutive day, bringing the total vaccination target achieved so far in the state to 53 per cent, figures compiled by the health department revealed. As many as 7389 of the 17,686 people registered for vaccination against Covid-19 virus were administered the Covishield shots on the day, a report released by the NHM stated. As per the report, at least 985 people were inoculated in Ranchi, about 52 per cent of the total target of 1897. Palamu achieved the highest vaccination target of 72 per cent by administering the vaccine shots to at least 681 of 940 beneficiaries registered for vaccination there. Only three cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) were reported in Jharkhand on Tuesday – one in Ranchi and two in Koderma. As per data with the NHM, at least 229 cases of AEFI have been reported in the state so far, and 160 of them occurred in Ranchi. By the end of the vaccination programme on Tuesday, as many as 55,441 people were inoculated in the state and at least 5,669 of them were residents of Ranchi. As many as 2,630 people were inoculated in East Singhbhum, while as many as 1882 people were administered the shots in Dhanbad, highlighted the NHM report. So far, Palamu, Giridih and Bokaro are the only three districts that have achieved more than 70 per cent of their vaccination target. While Ranchi has achieved 55 per cent of its target, only 41 per cent of the registered beneficiaries were inoculated in Pakur – the lowest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. As per government data, East Singhbhum has achieved 64 per cent of its target, while Dhanbad has vaccinated 54 per cent of the registered beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Farmers protest: Jharkhand Christian Youth Association express solidarity||The Jharkhand Christian Youth Association, a conglomeration of inter-denomination members, has expressed solidarity with the farmers’ protest. The association has backed the message of the All India Catholic Union (AICU) on Monday in support of the farmers. “We fully align with the solidarity message of the AICU reaffirming the demand for the withdrawal of the new farm laws and empathise with the agitating farmers. We stand with our peasants during this time when they need the support of all sections of India’s society and would extend our contribution in whatever manner possible to their cause,” said Kuldeep Tirkey, central president of the Jharkhand Christian Youth Association, a religious and social organisation, and a resident of Ranchi. The Auxiliary Bishop of the Ranchi Archdiocese, Theodore Mascarenhas, had on Monday released the message of the AICU, a 101-year-old organisation that has members in all states of India. “The members of the AICU are professionals, servicemen and small businessmen, and many of them work on the land as farmers of paddy and other grains, as owners and workers. We, therefore, are naturally in solidarity with people of all faiths who are farmers, fishermen and workers in factories. We know and understand how much labour and sweat of the farmer goes into producing food for the country, and cash crops for export,” AICU national president Lancy D’Cunha had said in a podcast in several languages. The AICU drew attention to the love the farmers have for the land, the animals they breed and the environment in which they labour. “This cannot be measured in terms of just money,” the outfit said in a statement dated January 31 and released by AICU spokesperson John Dayal. “We also know that in Europe and many other countries, the governments honour this labour of the farmers. Governments, therefore, give huge subsidies to their farmers,” the statement said. The situation in India, it pointed out, varies from state to state, and farmers are under great stress. If there is a drought or a hailstorm or a flood, their entire labour is lost, the AICU said. According to the statement, more than 350,000 farmers have committed suicide in the past 10 years because of failure to repay loans. “We stand in total solidarity with the farmers who are now agitating at the gates of the national capital, New Delhi. The farmers have been in a struggle to save agriculture and thus save India from disaster,” the AICU said. D’Cunha said: “These agriculture laws and the proposed electricity amendments are detrimental to all people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi hotels limping back to business as usual||Hotels in the Jharkhand capital that were allowed to operate over three months ago during the unlock phases are still slowly limping back to business as usual. “It’s (business) picking up slowly,” said Shantanu Guha Roy, general manager of Radisson Blu Hotel in Ranchi, that claims to be “the only international hotel of Bihar and Jharkhand”. Asked about the present occupancy position, he said: “Our guest count is about 75 to 80 per cent of our capacity during normal times but we are now getting a maximum of around 60 per cent.” Chandrakant Raipat who owns two hotels — Green Acres and Green Horizon — in the city, said: “In real terms, that actually means the hotels are now running with an occupancy rate of around 45 per cent of their capacity, which is far from satisfactory.” “The hotel business here depends mostly on corporate guests,” Raipat further said, adding that his hotels would run satisfactorily only when the business activities become normal. “Our present occupancy rate is even less; it now varies between 30 to 40 per cent of our capacity,” said the front office manager of another posh hotel of Ranchi who did not want to be identified. In order to boost business, Radisson Blu started a nine-day food festival from Tuesday. “This is for the first time after about a year that we are organising a food fest — Jharkhand Food Promotion — at one of our restaurants called Waterfront Cafe,” said Devesh Kumar, the hotel’s associate director of sales. He said they would serve Jharkhand specialities at dinner every evening to interested guests even if they are not staying at the hotel. “We have found that guests like indigenous dishes from across Jharkhand,” said executive chef Ramchandra Oraon. He said these traditional dishes are cooked in various ways — boiled, roasted, fried or in curry. He said some of the dishes are prepared in less oil and spice. “This event is a step taken to rediscover many untapped treasures and secret recipes of Jharkhand that could make forgotten dishes a preferred meal offering health benefits with great taste,” Oraon said, adding that their main ingredients would be locally sourced organic vegetables and tubers. Asked to name a few dishes, he said dhuska, rugra, dobki, phutkal saag, bathua bori, sanai phool bori, chhilka roti, dudhori, mudaua maas (mutton curry), murga jhoor (chicken curry), fish items, arsa and meetha khaja were on offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Kids hurt in crude bomb explosion at Kendua Macchli Patti area||Three children were injured when a crude bomb exploded while they were playing near a ditch at Kendua Macchli Patti area in Dhanbad district of Jharkhand on Monday morning. Locals claimed that the blast was of such intensity that the walls of the nearby houses shuddered. Vivek Turi, 13, Dinesh Hadi, 10, and Badal Hadi, 8, who sustained injuries in the blast, were rushed to Pataliputra Medical College and Hospital for treatment where their condition is stated to be stable. “Locals informed that the children were playing near the ditch. One of them spotted a plastic bag lying in the drain partially hidden by the muck. The children then took out the bag and started playing with it when the bomb exploded,” said Vinod Oraon, OC of Kenduadih police station. Dhanbad senior superintendent of police Aseem Vikrant Minz said they are investigating the incident. “We are probing the involvement of some criminal elements who might have hid the crude bomb in the drain. We are looking into the incident as it is a crime-prone area. Though the police have not found any other bomb from the site, we are keeping a close vigil in the area,” Minz said. The area is around 150km from state capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
