04-02-2021||Calcutta||Message of unity and integrity||Krishnagar Public School Students of Krishnagar Public School observed the Republic Day, spreading the message of unity and integrity. The tiny tots of the pre-primary section made flags with ice-cream sticks and Tricolour badges. The middle-school students showed their creative expression through skillfully designed tri-coloured rangoli patterns. Students made picture collages and vibrant, visually-impactful presentations on the Republic Day procession on Rajpath, New Delhi. The children from across grades performed on patriotic songs. They danced and indulged in recitation on the virtual platform. Senior students also took part in the special activity on mygov.in portal as advocated by the CBSE. They took part in online quiz, essay and poem writing competitions. The management, principal and staff members gathered on the school premises to unfurl the national flag. “We need to be thankful and grateful to the founding fathers, who formulated and drafted an exemplary Constitution that has steered India towards progress and development. Let us help our future generation, too, to establish a strong bond with the nation and unite and respect the culture of India,” said principal Sankar Prasad Dutta. Griffins International School celebrated the Republic Day on its premises, where some teachers, staff members, head boy and assistant head boy were present and others watched it online. The event began with unfurling the Tricolour and continued with paying tribute to the great souls of India. The celebration was followed by programmes showcasing our cultural heritage and patriotic fervour. The teachers presented a skit related to the pandemic and some even recited poems on the theme, freedom. “Any school events, minus the students, are incomplete. Celebrating the Republic Day is all about making students, who are the future of the country, learn about our nation. This year, the objective was fulfilled, but on a small scale,” said principal Sarbari Brahma. Chairman Abishek Kumar Yadav said: “Challenges will come, and we will have to face them – for example, conducting online classes. Everyone should take lessons from the pandemic and proceed with the thought that one can defeat everything with sheer dedication and hard work.” Delhi Public School, Joka celebrated Republic Day with a small ceremony consisting of teachers and staff members on the school premises, adhering to the rules of the new normal. The celebration commenced with the flag hoisting ceremony and singing of the national anthem. Teachers also sang patriotic songs on the occasion. “I am glad that despite the pandemic-induced odds, nothing could stop the teachers and the staff members from paying their tribute to the motherland and vouch for shouldering their responsibilities as worthy citizens of India on the Republic Day. Such a synergised team with its commitment and efforts shall succeed in its mission to contribute in nation building,” said principal Writuparna Chatterjee. Both the Park Street and Salt Lake branches of Apeejay School organised the flag hoisting and investure ceremonies to mark the Republic Day. The chief guest for both the events was CEO of Apeejay schools Kiranjit Singh Pannu. Students performed and young leaders were selected at the virtual programme, Ma Tujhe Salam, organised by the Park Street branch. A presentation on Babasaheb Ambedkar set the ball rolling, and the students sang inspiring songs. Finally, the investiture ceremony began with the newly elected head boy and girl — Adarsh Anil Pillai from Nehru House and Diksha Malhotra from Tagore House — being honoured. Kazi Rashik Ali from Gandhi House became the sports captain and Koyena Das from Tagore House the vice-captain. The house captains, prefects and monitors of all the four houses were also announced and the oath taking ceremony followed. Principal Paromita Guha-Ray encouraged the students to be dutiful and responsible while taking the school to new heights. “Students took pride in glorifying and celebrating the spirit of unity and brotherhood. The children also took part in quiz competitions and essay writings to reaffirm their love and commitment for our nation,” she said. The flag hoisting ceremony at the Salt Lake branch was performed by 85-year-old Aparna Mukherjee, a grandmother of a student. Principal Anindita Banerjee talked about self-discipline. “It is now more important for our students to stay safe and follow all the rules, as we are planning to open schools shortly,” she said. Finally, the new student leaders were named. Head boy Ayush Zaffar announced Akansh Gupta and Ahona Rudra as the new head boy and girl, respectively. Dhruv Agarwal became the sports captain and Snehashish Shaw, his deputy. The names of council members and other office holders were also announced and the oath taking ceremony followed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
04-02-2021||Calcutta||Multi-level car park project at New Town for 3,000 vehicles||A multi-level car park with a capacity to accommodate around 3,000 vehicles will be constructed in New Town, said an official of Hidco that builds infrastructure in the township. The parking lot has been planned keeping in mind the fact that the number of vehicles are expected to go up in the next few years when more people move into New Town. Hidco wants to build the parking lot drawing from the experiences of office goers and people forced to park on the streets of Sector V because of lack of proper infrastructure. The New Town car park when finished will be one of the largest in all three Action Areas and will come up on a plot measuring nearly one acre in the central business district or the financial hub opposite Biswa Bangla Convention Centre. Parking already become an issue near Eco Park as Calcuttans make a beeline for the 480-acre recreational park on holidays. According to Hidco, the estimated population of New Town is expected to go up by at least 20 per cent in the next couple of years and nearly double once Metro trains start plying on the Airport-New Garia Metro line that cuts across the township. Several offices and banks are already functional in the area where the proposed parking lot will come up and several more are under construction. Also nearby is the new campus of the Presidency College and a couple of private nursing homes. Debashis Sen, the chairman cum managing director of Hidco, said they want to start building the parking lot in the coming few months. “We will call for a tender soon and construction is expected to start later this year,” said Sen. According to the plans, the parking lot will be a multi-storied structure. The first couple of floors will have places for retail outlets as well as food and beverage joints while the upper floors will be dedicated to parking cars. A Hidco official said they were planning to adopt the FASTag-RFID infrastructure used to collect payments at toll gates on highways. The tags pasted on vehicle windscreens enable motorists to drive through toll plazas, without stopping to pay the tax. The amount is automatically deducted from the owner’s account. “FASTag is vehicle-specific. Once it is affixed on a vehicle, it cannot be transferred to another vehicle,” the official said. A mobile app will be launched that will guide vehicles towards empty parking spots including the multi-level parking lot, officials said. Pins in green and red will denote availability or otherwise of parking lots in a particular area. A detailed list of the number of spots available for four-wheelers and two-wheelers will also be displayed as soon as the destination is keyed in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
04-02-2021||Calcutta||In-person degree certificate distribution at JU||Jadavpur University announced on Wednesday that the distribution of “original final degree certificate for the year 2020” will be in-person as the university could not hold its convocation because of the pandemic. The distribution of certificates will start on February  8 and continue till February 22. The notice issued to all the departments under the three faculties — science, engineering and arts — mentions specific dates for each department for the distribution of certificates. The certificates of those who will fail to collect them will be dispatched to their mailing addresses within India. The university has yet to decide what it will do in respect to international students. A total of 4,700 students (undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD put together) graduated last year. They could not be handed over the certificates as the university cancelled the convocation to avoid any assembly at the time of the pandemic. Those who will come to the campus to collect their certificates have been asked to maintain “health precaution” and produce documents like original marksheet/final grade card, library clearance. The distribution will take place on the campus between noon and 4pm. A resolution adopted by JU’s executive council at a virtual meeting in mid-December had said: “Neither in physical mode is feasible... nor the university has the necessary infrastructure to organise the annual convocation on virtual mode for four thousand and seven hundred recipients” The university had also uploaded digital versions of the degree certificates on the National Academic Depository, from where recipients downloaded them from December 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
04-02-2021||Calcutta||CMC gives more time for property tax relief ||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has extended till February 28 the deadline for sending applications for a waiver on the penalty and interest for unpaid property tax, an official of the civic body said. The earlier deadline was January 31. The penalty and interest waiver scheme is for unpaid bills raised till March 31. The scheme, launched on October 1, 2020, does not offer any relief to property owners who have not paid the tax for the last three quarters of financial year 2020-21. “We have extended the deadline for application for the waiver scheme. The earlier last date was January 31,” said an official of the CMC. An application form has to be submitted to any treasury office of the CMC, an e-Calcutta citizen service centre or any common collection centre of the civic body. The list of the centres where the form can be submitted is available on the “e-Kolkata Citizen Service Centre” menu of the CMC’s website. The form can be downloaded from the website of the CMC — https://www.kmcgov.in/KMCPortal/jsp/KMCPortalHome1.jsp. Those who want to download the form have to take the cursor to the “online services” option in the menu on the left side of the home page. Then one has to click on assessment collection>make online payment>waiver LOI 2020. The menu will open on the left side from where the application form can be downloaded. “This scheme is not an automatic waiver on reaching the counter for payment. One has to apply to get benefits of the scheme,” said the official. A bill with the total dues and the amount that has to be paid after the penalty and interest are waived will be given to the applicant at the CMC’s offices. The outstanding dues and the amount to be paid can also be ascertained from the CMC’s website. According to terms of the scheme, defaulters who will clear their dues by February 28 will get the entire penalty and interest waived. Those who will pay their dues between March 1 and May 31 will have 60 per cent of the interest and 99 per cent of the penalty waived. “The deadline for taking the full waiver remains the same. We have only extended the deadline for applications,” an official said. The civic body, the official said, has received about Rs 180 crore of property tax dues till January 30. The total outstanding property tax is around Rs 2,500 crore. “We are expecting more applications, which is why we have extended the deadline for applications,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
04-02-2021||Calcutta||Mosquito menace in Salt Lake, New Town||Mosquitoes are laying siege to Salt Lake and its adjoining areas including New Town, several residents and office-goers said. Places along VIP Road including Lake Town, Baguiati and Teghoria, too, are facing an onslaught of mosquitoes, people from the area said. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, which has areas like Salt Lake, Baguiati, Lake Town and Teghoria in its ambit, said that many of their larvicide-spraying equipment had become defunct. “We are planning to launch a drive to check all septic tanks. Salt Lake does not have open drains unlike places in Baguiati and it’s perplexing how there has been such a rise in the number of mosquitoes,” said Pranay Kumar Ray, member of the civic body’s board of administrators. In Salt Lake, many blocks off the Kestopur canal, in sectors I and II, and off the Eastern Drainage Channel, in sector III, have reported an increase in the number of mosquitoes in the past weeks. “The water in the canal that flows in front of our house has turned stagnant. It is a perfect breeding ground for mosquitoes,” said Sampriti Bhattacharya, a resident of AL Block. An official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority, which provides civic services to Sector V, said that they were spraying larvicide regularly but a dip in temperature had led to a spurt in mosquitoes. On Wednesday, The Telegraph saw accumulated water thrown from pavement eateries on the sides of the roads in Sector V. Public health experts have warned that throwing water in places where it can accumulate can provide breeding grounds for mosquitoes. The Aedes aegypti mosquito that causes dengue can breed in a coin-sized pool of water. A resident of New Town’s Rosedale Garden, Rubina Choudhury, said: “If windows are open after dusk, swarms of mosquitoes enter the house.” An official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority, which looks after civic amenities of the township, said that they were conducting intensive spraying of larvicide and checking water bodies. Several residents of Salt Lake and New Town are down with dengue, another official said. “New Town has vast open space so we are concentrating our efforts in places where there are housing complexes and commercial establishments. We are also releasing guppy fishes in water bodies and have asked contractors and builders to ensure that freshwater does not accumulate in their sites,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
04-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta schools gear up to assure parents||St James’ School wrote to parents of Class X and XII students on Wednesday seeking their consent for their children’s return to the campus. Several other schools said they would seek consent after preparing a detailed note on the steps taken to ensure a safe environment on their campuses. Besides these measures, the schools will also have to adhere to government guidelines. Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee had on Tuesday said schools would reopen for in-person classes from February 12 for students of Classes IX to XII. A number of schools are awaiting the government notification before announcing their preparedness to parents. The bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India, Reverend Paritosh Canning, has asked CNI school heads to send him details of their “preparedness and arrangements for adherence to health protocols” by February 9. The letter from St James’ principal Terence Ireland to the parents states: “We have taken all the mandatory and necessary measures to sanitise the classrooms, laboratories and School thoroughly and will also ensure that the social distancing norms are strictly followed. Thus we ensure the safety and protection of your ward….” The areas of concern among parents include how many children will be seated in a classroom and how they will be monitored during lunch and other breaks. “In my view there should be no lunch break or assembly to avoid any kind of contact. The school has to tell us clearly about its plans,” said Manish Dalmia, whose daughter is in Class XI. The Heritage School in its communication with parents will cover areas like transport,  classrooms and common areas. “We are trying to cover all aspects so that parents do not have to worry and are comfortable sending their children to school,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. South Point, Delhi Public School New Town and Mahadevi Birla World Academy are in the process of preparing their consent notes. “The consent form will contain a detailed note of the SOPs that the school will follow to ensure a safe environment as far as possible,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point. DPS New Town is planning to ask parents to keep children home if they are unwell. “We will also reassure parents that if a child is unable to attend school, he will not miss out on anything. Because of online classes, that communication has been firmly established,” said principal Sonali Sen. Rammohan Mission High School started sanitisation of the campus on Wednesday. “Once classes resume, we will sanitise the classrooms every day,” said principal Sujoy Biswas. “There are students who use public transport and that fear and concern for safety is there amongst parents,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
04-02-2021||Calcutta||What schools need to keep in mind as in-person classes resume ||Students will take time to get back to the pre-Covid “normal” once in-person classes resume and schools need to be more relaxed on discipline and rules in the initial months, psychologists and teachers said. It will be a challenge for teachers to make students shift from the “home mode to the school mode,” said a counsellor, pointing out that they could initially be “restless” at the school desk. The pandemic and the lockdown allowed young learners to take certain leeway such as sitting on a couch to attend online classes, using a footstool, waking up 10 minutes before the day’s first class and taking a break between classes. Also, unlike the pre-Covid days, they are not required to attend eight periods a day. During the transition, teachers will have to be more patient and empathetic to the students and help them get back to a routine they have been detached from for 10 months. “There is a huge change in lifestyle and we have to give children that space and opportunity to adapt,” said psychologist and counsellor Ruvena Sanyal. For the students, the boundary between home and classes have become blurred and most of them have stopped following hygiene routines or setting themselves academic goals. A Class X boy said that thanks to online classes, he can get up at 8.45am to attend a class at 9. He is free by 12.15pm. “Even during the three hours 15 minutes we get a 15-minute break. Also, there is no need for me to take a shower in the morning or eat breakfast before the classes,” said the 16-year-old. School heads agree that initially they could not be too strict on students as they used to be during the pre-pandemic days. “There will be staggered entry and we cannot be a stickler for punctuality initially. Also, attendance might be impacted and we have to be easy on children,” said Sharmila Bose, the director of Sushila Birla Girls’ School. Teachers said boys and girls were indulging in styles they were not allowed to when they were attending in-person classes — such as nail art or growing hair long. All these pursuits are providing the students with a “feel good factor” amid the pandemic, which has taken away their social life. Taking a stroll between classes or a water break during class has become normal during the pandemic. “Schools and teachers have to ensure a happy shift from the home mode to the school mode. If teachers find that students are fidgety or sleepy in class, they should be allowed to go out for a walk, take a break and come back. Schools will have to be easy with rules and regulations,” said Reeta Chatterjee, the director of North Point Senior Secondary Boarding Schools in Calcutta. Psychologist Ruvena Sanyal said it would be an “uphill task” for teachers to get the attention of the child back to school. “Class activities will have to be done in a way that will hold the attention of the children... children have a shorter attention span and with an overdose of online activities, we are anticipating attentional problems and restlessness in class,” said Sanyal. Many school heads have been wanting schools to reopen, especially for practical classes for senior students who will soon appear in board exams and for doubt-clearing sessions. But psychologists warn that “academics solely” cannot take a front seat. “The senior classes, especially the board examinees, are short on time, but everyday 15 to 20 minutes should be allotted for activity-oriented thinking... which will help them relax in school and gradually follow a routine,” said psychologist Ishita Sanyal. Psychotherapist Farishta Dastur Mukerji said online classes were an “artificial space,” and students would look forward to connecting with their friends and teachers. “Instead of plunging directly into academics, students have to be given time and space to share their thoughts and feelings. Teachers will have to be more empathetic and understand where the child is coming from, instead of focusing on shoulds and should nots…” said Dastur Mukerji.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
04-02-2021||Calcutta||Sixth elderly person to die of burns at home||A woman who had suffered burns from a candle while performing puja at her home a fortnight ago died in hospital on Tuesday. Police said Sima Dhar, 52, a resident of CR Colony in Jadavpur, lived with her daughter Esha since the death of her husband. Her clothes had caught fire while she was performing puja on January 16. She was taken to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, where she passed away. This is the sixth reported death in the last four months in the city of an elderly citizen from burns suffered at home. Officers at Lalbazar said small acts of negligence and lack of awareness about how to react during a fire were to blame for most of the cases. “Elderly people are vulnerable to such accidents because their reflexes are slow compared to the young. Ideally, just like children are not allowed to handle match boxes, elderly people, too, should be prevented from getting close to any source of fire unattended,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. In October 2020, Dola Mitra, 63, had died of burns after her silk sari caught fire while she was performing Lakshmi Puja at home. She was alone in the room when the sari caught fire. Chaya Nag, 74, had suffered fatal burns while cooking at her daughter’s Radha Madhab Dutta Garden Lane home in Beleghata in December 2020. An LPG cylinder leak was suspected to have triggered the fire. Her daughter, who was near her, suffered burns on her hands. Four days after Nag’s death, 60-year-old Manjula Dutta, a resident of Bosepukur Prantik Pally in Kasba, had died of burn injuries after her apparel caught fire while lighting a lamp during her morning puja at home. In January, a 64-year-old woman died of burns suffered while performing the last rites of her husband in Kasba. Also last month, 68-year-old Jayanta Bhattacharya died of burns suffered while trying to light a cigarette at his Kasba home. Bhattacharya was alone in the room when he had lit a match and a spark fell on him, causing his apparel to catch fire, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
04-02-2021||Calcutta||Sealdah flyover crash claims  biker||An elderly motorcyclist died after being hit by a bus on a crowded MG Road near its intersection with the Sealdah flyover on Wednesday afternoon. Police said the motorcyclist and the pillion-rider both were wearing helmets. “We are analysing CCTV camera footage to ascertain whose fault caused the accident,” said an officer of Muchipara police station. “There could be two possibilities — either the motorcycle tried to overtake the bus from the left and the bus hit it or the bus was being driven rashly and it hit the motorcycle from behind.” The accident happened at 12.10pm in front of Chhabighar cinema. The victim has been identified as Mohammad Hasim Khan, 64, a resident of Colootola Lane. The pillion rider, Aga Sayed Kasim, 66, is a resident of Rabindra Sarani. Both were taken to NRS hospital, where Khan died. Kasim has suffered critical injuries. The bus — on route 28 — was intercepted and the driver booked for causing death due to negligence. If convicted, he can be jailed for two years. The incident happened two days after a scooterist was hit by a car from behind and flung off the Parama flyover, suffering fatal injuries. The scooterist apparently stopped on the flyover to answer a phone call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
04-02-2021||Calcutta||Covaxin receives mixed response at Calcutta sites||The first day of administration of Covaxin, a home-grown vaccine against Covid, in the city had a mixed response — no one took the jab at one site, a little over half the targeted number took the shots at a second site and the third crossed the target. Unlike Covishield, the other Covid vaccine granted emergency approval in India, Covaxin is still undergoing phase III trial and its efficacy data is pending. At the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, no one could be administered a Covaxin dose, a health department official said. The hospital had sent an open invitation to all its employees who are yet to be vaccinated against Covid to get a Covaxin shot. Only six persons turned up. The administration decided against inoculating them as it would have meant wasting 14 doses of the vaccine. Each vial of Covaxin, developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research and Bharat Biotech, has 20 doses. The doses that remain unused after a vial is opened go to waste. “We had spread the information through WhatsApp groups and other means. If a considerable number of people turned up, we would have inoculated them,” said an official. At SSKM Hospital, 13 health workers took Covaxin doses, against a target of 20 set by the health department for each of the sites chosen for the administration of the indigenous vaccine. An SSKM official said they, too, had sent an open invitation for Covaxin shots. At both SSKM and Calcutta Medical College, there were no dearth of takers for Covishield, developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. About 400 health workers took Covishield shots at SSKM and 202 at Calcutta Medical College. At the third Covaxin site in Calcutta, RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, 35 health workers were vaccinated, 15 more than the target set by the government. “I, along with a few other senior doctors, was the first to take Covaxin. We did this to allay fears in people’s minds about the safety of the vaccine. Later, so many students and healthcare workers took the jabs without hesitation,” said Jyotirmoy Pal, a professor at RG Kar. “We had repeatedly held talks with our health workers to address their doubts.” At SSKM, the state’s director of medical education, Debasis Bhattacharyya, was among the first recipients of Covaxin. “I took the vaccine at 10.22am. I am speaking to you at 9pm. I have attended several meetings during the day. I felt no discomfort. It’s clear that Covaxin is safe and people should not hesitate to take the vaccine,” he told The Telegraph. Recipients of Covaxin have to sign a consent form before they are administered the vaccine, which is not required to get a Covishield dose. The consent form mentions that the recipient has read the Covaxin information sheet or been told about the content and has understood the “benefits and risks of the vaccination”. It also says the recipient will be “entitled to medical management and compensation for serious adverse events related to the administration of this vaccine”. But the consent form does not mention that the data on the efficacy of the vaccine is still pending. An immunologist said efficacy data would show whether the vaccine was giving protection against Covid-19 for a considerable period of time. The number of Covid vaccination sites will go up from a little over 200 to around 350 across Bengal next week following the arrival of fresh consignments of both vaccines, officials said. Nearly four lakh doses of Covaxin reached Calcutta on Wednesday. Around 2.9 lakh doses of Covishield reached Calcutta late on Tuesday. Additional reporting by Kinsuk Basu||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
04-02-2021||Calcutta||No in-person classes at colleges, varsities||Colleges and universities in Bengal will not reopen for in-person classes in the ongoing semester that will end in March, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Wednesday after a meeting with vice-chancellors. Several VCs opposed the resumption of in-person classes at this point of time on the ground that they were not sure whether the physical distancing norm, a key precautionary measure against Covid-19, could be followed in hostels, where each room is shared by multiple students. “The vice-chancellors unanimously suggested that the classes of the ongoing odd-semesters (first, third, fifth and seventh semesters at the undergraduate level) be held online. We have accepted their suggestion. The semester will end in March,” Chatterjee said after the meeting. “The vice-chancellors are not willing to reopen hostels. They told us they won’t be able to reopen the hostels following the Covid protocols.” An official of the education department said the VCs would inform them in early April whether they are open to holding classes on the campus for the even semesters, which will start the same month. “The vice-chancellors said they will take stock of the situation in April and inform us,” said Chatterjee. A VC said they flagged their concern about hostels because they lacked the infrastructure that could ensure each room is allotted to one occupant, which the UGC had recommended in its campus reopening guideline issued in November. “None of the state-aided universities has a hostel where each room can be allotted to one student. At least three students share each room. Since students from districts, other states and even from abroad study at the universities, they will require accommodation if in-person classes are allowed. Therefore, we objected to resumption of in-person classes at this juncture,” the VC said. Education department officials said Chatterjee sought to know from Calcutta University’s pro-VC (academic) Ashis Chatterjee how CU could reopen laboratories for postgraduate students in the absence of any directive from the higher education department. Chatterjee represented CU, instead of VC Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee. “The minister told the pro-VC that CU cannot take decisions in isolation. It is up to the university to decide what they will do now,” said an official of the department. Repeated calls to Chatterjee went unanswered. The minister, too, did not answer calls from Metro. CU had reopened labs for practical classes on January 18. The minister said at the meeting that the colleges and the universities had developed expertise to hold classes on digital platforms. Anil Bhuimali, the VC of Raiganj University, said he told the minister about the requirement of funds for holding classes on digital platforms. The Telegraph had on October 10 reported that the university had sought Rs 57.05 lakh from the education department to create e-resources and buy smartphones for students who could not afford them so they could attend classes on digital platforms. “I referred to the application that was sent to higher education secretary Manish Jain in October. Many of our students lack devices,” Bhuimali said. The minister said after the meeting: “Many universities are helping students attend online classes. I have asked (education department officials) to help the universities who lack resources." The decision to keep the colleges and universities shut for in-person classes came a day after the minister said schools in Bengal would reopen from February 12 for students of Classes IX to XII.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
04-02-2021||Business||Sensex scales 359 points to close at lifetime high||Rallying for the fourth successive session, equity benchmark Sensex jumped 359 points to scale a fresh lifetime high on Thursday, led by gains in ITC, SBI and Kotak Bank. After touching an all-time high of 50,687.51 during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 358.54 points or 0.71 per cent at its new closing record of 50,614.29. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty finished 105.70 points or 0.71 per cent higher at its closing peak of 14,895.65. It touched an intra-day record of 14,913.70. ITC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring around 6 per cent, followed by SBI, Bajaj Finance, ONGC, M&M, Kotak Bank, UltraTech Cement, NTPC and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, Asian Paints, IndusInd Bank, Bharti Airtel, Tech Mahindra and Titan were among the laggards. "Domestic equities defied weak cues of Asian markets and extended gains for the fourth consecutive day as growing optimism about prospects of Indian economy post the announcement of bold Budget continued to attract investors," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Notably, domestic market crossed Rs 200 trillion market capitalisation mark during the day, he said, adding that strong buying in banks, especially PSBs, and FMCG space supported the market rally. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Hong Kong, Seoul and Shanghai closed with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were, however, largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Sensex rallies 359 ptsMeanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.09 per cent higher at USD 58.74 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 140 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex declined over 140 points in early trade on Thursday as index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC twins witnessed intense selling pressure. The 30-share BSE index was trading 140.79 points or 0.28 per cent lower at 50,114.96. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 31.30 points or 0.21 per cent to 14,758.65. IndusInd Bank the top loser in the Sensex pack, fell around 2.50 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Asian Paints, Tech Mahindra, L&T and HCL Tech. On the other hand, ONGC, M&M, Bajaj Auto, NTPC, Maruti, ITC and Bajaj Finance were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share BSE benchmark ended at 50,255.75, up 458.03 points or 0.92 per cent and the broader NSE Nifty had surged 142.10 points or 0.97 per cent to its fresh closing record of 14,789.95. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,520.92 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Hong Kong, Seoul and Shanghai were trading with losses. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.89 per cent higher at USD 58.98 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Centre bets on LIC, BPCL and Air India IPO to achieve divestment target||The Modi government is banking on the initial public offer of the Life Insurance Corporation and the strategic sales of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited and Air India to meet its ambitious disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore for the next fiscal. “It is quite an ambitious target, but a realistic target and we believe it is achievable. Last year’s situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic cannot be compared with this year as the environment now is quite different and things are much better,” disinvestment secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey told The Telegraph. “The divestment target includes the LIC initial public offer (IPO) which would be a fairly large transaction, though the size we do not know,” he said. “We are not planning to continue with the ETF strategy and other market transactions will depend on investors’ interest. The offer-for-sale (OFS) would also be limited and we will try not to repeat offerings in the same stock.” However, at this moment, “our whole focus is on the privatisation policy,” which is a directional shift, seen as a big structural reform after 1991. Under the budget’s strategic-sectors policy, the government will put on the block a large number of central public sector enterprises (CPSEs) — including giants such as Bharat Heavy Electricals and Steel Authority of India, boosting the Centre’s non-debt receipts. Pandey said the LIC issue would hit the market “in the second half of next fiscal”. While the valuation of the insurer will be known closer to the listing, it is believed to be worth Rs 8-11.5 lakh crore, meaning a 10 per cent IPO could fetch the government Rs 80,000-1,10,000 crore. On the strategic sale of BPCL and Air India, the disinvestment secretary said he expected the transaction to be completed in the first quarter of 2021-22. Without getting into the names of the bidders for the PSUs, Pandey said “multiple bids have come and the due diligence process is on”. “Parallely, we have engaged our own financial partner, what we call as transactional adviser and asset valuers, who will also value the company independently. This is not known to the bidders.” “Once financial bidding takes place and is locked, then based on our transaction adviser opinion, we will fix a reserve value. Then, when the bids are opened, we will say you match the reserve value and the government will decide,” Pandey said. The Vedanta group has confirmed its bid for BPCL, while US funds Apollo Global and I Squared Capital have reportedly also shown interest. Asked about the lock-in period as concerns have been raised that the institutional investors may be tempted to flip the acquisition for gain at a later date, Pandey said: “In the share purchase agreement, there will be clauses in terms of business continuity, asset stripping, employee protection and so on. Also, there is a $10-billion entry barrier for these bidders.” On the Air India strategic sale, Pandey said, “We were hoping to complete it by March, (but) due diligence process is on… we hope to complete it in the first quarter of the next fiscal. Multiple bids have come.” Strategic selloffs are also planned for Shipping Corporation of India, Container Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, BEML and Pawan Hans. On the asset monetisation talked about in the budget, he said: “The government would adopt a different strategy for core and non-core assets. On the non-core side, we could have an SPV where certain kinds of capacity can be built in a faster and methodical way… not everything is auction and sale. It could be a development model, revenue share or concession model.” “I think the sports ministry is already working on how those stadiums can be renovated, maintained and operated upon the PPP arrangements also so that you don’t have to put your money. On the contrary, you might get some revenue share… there are different models that would be looked into,” Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India announces stricter NBFC audit rules||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday announced a risk-based internal audit (RBIA) system for select non-bank lenders and urban co-operative banks (UCBs) to enhance the quality and effectiveness of their internal audit controls. All deposit-taking non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) and non-deposit taking NBFCs with an asset size of over Rs 5,000 crore apart from urban co-operative banks with assets of over Rs 500 crore will have to migrate to the new system. The RBIA is an audit methodology that links an organisation’s overall risk management framework and provides assurance to the board and its senior management regarding the quality and effectiveness of its internal control, risk management and governance structure. In its statement on developmental and regulatory policies that accompanied the monetary policy statement in December 2020, the banking regulator had said internal audit functions as a line of defence, which needs to strengthened in UCBs and NBFCs. MPC meeting begins The RBI’s rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) began its meeting on Wednesday and is likely to hold interest rates and continue with accommodative policy stance so that necessary monetary action could be taken to push growth. This is the first MPC meeting after the presentation of the Union Budget 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Hero MotoCorp sets up separate vertical for Harley-Davidson business||Hero MotoCorp, the world’s largest manufacturer of motorcycles and scooters, has set up a separate vertical to drive its new business of Harley-Davidson products and merchandise distribution in India. Last year, the US-based premium bike maker exited the country under its restructuring programme and signed a non-equity partnership with Hero MotoCorp which will sell its motorcycles under the Harley Davidson banner. The company has also begun wholesale dispatches of Harley Davidson products to the dealers from January 18. Hero MotoCorp has brought on board 11 existing Harley-Davidson dealers in key geographies across the country. They include dealers from Calcutta, Pune, Bangalore, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Kochi, Bhubaneswar, Delhi and Hyderabad. The rest of the 33 Harley dealers are negotiating with the US company for adequate compensation. Global automotive expert Ravi Avalur has been appointed as the head of the new vertical.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Moody's projects India's fiscal deficit higher than expected||Rating agency Moody’s on Wednesday said India's fiscal deficit projections were higher than expected and slower consolidation would constrain its fiscal strength over the medium term. India has budgeted a fiscal deficit of 9.5 per cent of GDP for the current fiscal ending March. “We believe the final number could be lower, based on stronger revenue generation during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 (ending March 31, 2021),” Moody’s said in a note. The fiscal deficit for 2021-22 fiscal beginning April 1 has been pegged at 6.8 per cent. Moody’s vice-president and senior credit officer William Foster said while the headline deficit projections were larger than the agency expected, they reflected both credible budgetary assumptions and greater transparency than in past budgets. “The budget’s focus on higher capital spending, financial sector reform and asset sales will help stimulate growth, but implementation risks remain and slower fiscal consolidation will constrain fiscal strength over the medium term,” Foster added. According to the glide path for fiscal consolidation announced in the budget, the government plans to bring down the fiscal deficit to 4.5 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP) by 2025-26 fiscal. The US-based agency further said it expected India’s nominal GDP growth to rise to closer to 17 per cent in fiscal 2021, higher than 14.4 per cent projected in the budget.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Airtel posts net profit of Rs 854 crore in Q3||Bharti Airtel on Wednesday posted a net profit of Rs 854 crore for the December quarter of 2020 compared with a loss of Rs 1,035 crore a year ago on the back of improved realisations and strong customer addition. Revenue from operations increased 24 per cent to Rs 26,518 crore from Rs 21,343 crore during the same period a year ago. The revenue was Rs 25,060 crore in the September quarter of 2019-20. Revenues for the India business grew 25.1 per cent year-on-year to Rs 19,007 crore. Mobile revenues were up 32.4 per cent year-on-year led by improving realisations coupled with strong customer additions. The overall business revenues increased 9.2 per cent year-on-year on the back of strong demand for connectivity and solutions, the company said in a statement. Mobile average revenue per user (ARPU) — a key metric for telecom companies — jumped to Rs 166 from Rs 135 in the third quarter of 2020-21. The Airtel board approved the raising of funds as and when deemed appropriate, vide issuance of secured/unsecured, listed/unlisted non-convertible debt securities, including debentures and bonds up to Rs 7,500 crore. The fundraising plan comes when the government has set the ball rolling for the spectrum auction in which radio waves valued at Rs 3.92 lakh crore will be put on the block. The auction in seven spectrum bands for mobile services – 700, 800, 900, 1800, 2100, 2300 and 2500MHz bands – is scheduled to start from March 1. Gopal Vittal, MD and CEO, India and South Asia, said: “Despite the unprecedented volatility that we have confronted through the year, we delivered another strong performance this quarter. This consistency in performance was across every part of our portfolio, as reflected in market share growth across all our business segments.” “The main highlight of the quarter was the 13 million 4G customers we added in our wireless business,” the Airtel managing director said. Fund-raising nod The board of Bharti Airtel on Wednesday approved fund-raising plans of up to Rs 7,500 crore via debt instruments such as debentures and bonds, in one or more tranches. The move comes at a time the telecom sector is gearing up for spectrum auctions and roll-out of new-age technologies. Airtel said that the 4G data customers increased 33.8 per cent year-on-year to 165.6 million and over the last 4 quarters, it has added 42 million 4G customers to its network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Dispute Resolution Committee to have multiple benches||The Dispute Resolution Committee proposed to be set up in the Union budget will have multiple benches which will give opportunity to small taxpayers to settle matters without going through the appellate process, a top tax official said on Wednesday. P. C. Mody, chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), said the I-T department would make available all the information it is receiving from various other agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) or the ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) in Form 26AS to facilitate taxpayers to file correct tax returns. “Our constant endeavour is to ensure that a taxpayer feels motivated to voluntarily comply with tax laws and honest taxpayer gets all facility to which he is entitled to and at the same time the persons who are trying to game the system or trying to take advantage in unfair and undue manner they will also get taken care of,” Mody said at an Assocham post-budget event. Mody said the thinking behind the setting up of a DRC was that the settlement commission did not really cater to the lower end of the taxpayers. “So we have tried to provide for some alternative dispute resolution mechanism and, since it would have multiple benches and it would cater to the lower end of the taxpayers, I think this would again give them an opportunity to come out and settle their tax matters without going through the rigorous appellate process,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Tax on PF interest above Rs 2.5 lakh to be similar to bank fixed deposits||The finance ministry on Wednesday indicated that the tax treatment on interest income for provident fund contributions above Rs 2.5 lakh will be similar to that of bank fixed deposits. The idea behind this budget move is to restrict the exemption benefit to those individuals who are able to contribute large sum to these funds and avoid tax on interest earned from these funds, which is higher than bank fixed deposits. Accordingly, changes have been introduced through the Finance Bill to clause 11 and clause 12 of section 10 of the income tax act that provides exemption with respect to any payment from a recognised provident fund. Speaking at an Assocham organised event, Kamlesh Varshney, joint secretary, tax policy and legislation (TPL-1), ministry of finance, “Whatever contribution you are making to the provident fund, the amount in excess of Rs 2.5 lakh will be in a separate basket and interest on that particular corpus would be taxable. That will not have exemption under clause 11 or clause 12. It will work exactly the same as interest income on FD is being taxed today.” “There will not be any double taxation because the interest income whether to be included in income on receipt basis or accrual basis would depend on the system of accounting,” he said. In case of accrual method of accounting, income is recorded on the books on outstanding basis, even if the taxpayer has not realised the amount. In the case of receipt method, the taxpayer will record the income when the amount is realised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Future Retail files appeal in Delhi high court against status-quo order||Future Retail Ltd (FRL) has filed an appeal in the Delhi high court against the status-quo order passed on Tuesday on its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance. “Further to our letter dated February 2, 2021, please be informed that the company has filed an appeal before Hon’ble High Court of Delhi against the impugned order dated February 2, 2021,” the Future group firm said in a regulatory filing. On Tuesday, Justice J. R. Midha of the Delhi high court had directed FRL to maintain status quo in relation to the transaction with Reliance Retail after the objections raised by Amazon. Following the Tuesday directive, FRL had said it would explore legal recourse. The matter will be heard on Thursday by a division bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh. The company on Wednesday moved a division bench of the Delhi high court appealing against this order. FRL’s scheme of arrangement has already received approval from the CCI, Sebi and conditional nod from the stock exchanges, following which it had approached the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on January 26. The application is yet to be taken up by the NCLT, FRL had said. Last month, Amazon had filed a petition in the Delhi high court seeking enforcement of the interim order of the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) that had restrained FRL from going ahead with the deal with Reliance. Justice J R Midha, on Tuesday, said the court was satisfied that an immediate interim order was required to be passed to protect the rights of Amazon. “Respondents (FRL) and other respondents are directed to maintain status quo as on today at 4:49pm till the pronouncement of the reserved order,” the judge had said. The high court reserved its order on the main petition. It also directed all the other concerned authorities to maintain status quo in relation to the matters which are in violation of the emergency award and to file report with regard to the present status within 10 days. Amazon has sought to restrain Kishore Biyaniled Future group from taking any steps to complete the transaction with entities that are a part of the Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani (MDA) Group. Earlier, it had dragged the Future group to arbitration at SIAC, arguing that the latter violated their contract by entering into the deal with Reliance. In October last year, an interim award was passed in favour of Amazon with a singlejudge bench barring Future Retail from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
04-02-2021||Business||SEBI trading ban on Future Group CEO Kishore Biyani||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Wednesday barred Future Group promoter and CEO Kishore Biyani from accessing the securities market for a year and trading in the shares of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) for two years on  the grounds of alleged insider trading in FRL shares between March and April, 2017. Sebi’s order comes after the Delhi high court directed FRL to maintain status quo on the Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. However, the market regulator indicated that its order will not come in the way of the scheme of arrangement between various Future group companies and Reliance Retail. “Debarment/restraint/freeze imposed under this order shall not apply to those existing holding of securities of such debarred entities, in respect of which any scheme of arrangement under Section 230-232 of the Companies Act, 2013, is approved by NCLT, requiring extinguishment of such securities and/or receipt of other securities in lieu of such securities,” Sebi said. Wednesday’s order came after Sebi  conducted an investigation into the scrip of FRL to ascertain whether certain persons or entities had traded in the scrip between March 10 and April 20, 2017, on the basis of unpublished price sensitive information (UPSI), breaking the Sebi Act, 1992 read with the Sebi (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. The market regulator added that FRL had announced on April 20, 2017 during market hours about a composite scheme of arrangement among FRL, Bluerock eServices Pvt Ltd and Praxis Home Retail Pvt Ltd and their respective shareholders. According to Sebi, this scheme of arrangement which resulted in the demerger of certain businesses of FRL qualified as UPSI prior to its announcement on April 2017. Sebi’s investigation showed that the composite scheme had come into existence on March 10, 2017, as preliminary discussions for the scheme were carried out on this date. Subsequently, a team was also created by FRL on March 14, 2017 to work on this scheme. Thus the period of UPSI was identified as March 10- April 20, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
04-02-2021||Business||Sensex closes above 50000-mark for first time||The Sensex on Wednesday closed above the 50000-mark for the first time as the buoyant post-budget mood continued for the third straight session amid strong inflows from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs). Market experts are now of the view that though the sentiment remains positive, once the impact of the budget is fully absorbed by stocks, the focus will shift to other factors such as corporate earnings, rollout of the vaccine and global developments. For the immediate term, the next key event is the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) monetary policy that will be announced on Friday. The investing community have given a thumbs-up to the growth-oriented proposals of the budget even as they were relieved a Covid cess was not imposed. Investor wealth has jumped over Rs 12.31 lakh crore in three days, taking the market capitalisation of all BSE-listed companies to over Rs 198.43 lakh crore. In Wednesday’s trading, the 30-share index opened at 50231.06 and touched a record intra-day high of 50526.39 — a gain of 728.67 points and thereafter closed at 50255.75, up 458.03 points or 0.92 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 142.10 points, or 0.97 per cent, to its fresh closing record of 14789.95. It touched an all-time high of 14868.85 during the day. Positive global cues also helped the stocks remain in the green even as provisional data showed foreign investors buying equities of over Rs 2,500 crore in Wednesday’s trade. IndusInd Bank led the gainers list on the Sensex, rising 7.65 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma, NTPC and Axis Bank. However, UltraTech Cement, Maruti, ITC, Kotak Bank, Asian Paints, Nestle India and TCS were among the losers, slipping up to 0.90 per cent. “Global cues were positive led by progress towards US stimulus and rollout of vaccines in many countries. On the domestic side, Sensex closed above the 50000-mark for the first time led by a growth-oriented bold budget, massive FII buying, and global cues. Even the services PMI data was encouraging, which boosted sentiments. The earnings season is showing tangible momentum and is witnessing upgrades for the second consecutive quarter. Going ahead, we believe once the fineprint of the budget is absorbed, the market focus would return to the fundamentals  —  corporate earnings growth,’’ Siddhartha Khemka, head - retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, said. Khemka added that the earnings drivers are shifting to cyclical, with corporate banks, cement, and metals driving growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
04-02-2021||India||No case against Greta Thunberg, Delhi police clarify||The Delhi Police on Thursday said it has lodged an FIR against unnamed persons regarding a 'toolkit', which was shared by teen climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter, as a top official informed that initial probe has suggested the document’s link with a pro-Khalistan group. Asked whether the FIR has been registered against Thunberg, a top official of the Delhi Police clarified that nobody has been named in the case. It was previously reported that a case was registered against the Swedish activist, following which she said that she still stood with the farmers and “no amount of threats” would undo that. “I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest. No amount of hate, threats or violations of human rights will ever change that. #FarmersProtest,” Thunberg tweeted soon after the news emerged on Friday afternoon. Addressing a press conference, Special CP (Crime) Praveer Ranjan said the Delhi Police has come across a document “toolkit” which has an action plan to spread social disharmony in the country and registered a case against its author on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and others. He said the initial probe has revealed that the “toolkit” has been created by a pro-Khalistani organisation. He said documents uploaded on social media have a proper action plan about a digital strike on or before January 26 and tweet storms on January 23. Lending her support to the farmers’ agitation, Thunberg had shared “a toolkit for those who want to help”. “Here’s a toolkit if you want to help,” tweeted the activist, which takes the user to a document containing details on ways to support the protest. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers’ protest. However, on Friday morning, Thunberg shared an updated link to the document, saying that the previous one was outdated. “Here’s an updated toolkit by people on the ground in India if you want to help. (They removed their previous document as it was outdated.),” she wrote on Twitter. The 18-year-old’s first tweet came after singer Rihanna shared a CNN report, asking why the world was not talking about the issue. “We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India,” Thunberg wrote, sharing the same report. Her tweet was one of the several posts that have drawn global attention to the farmers’ agitation over the past two days. India on Wednesday had reacted sharply to comments by foreign celebrities, saying a very small section of farmers in parts of the country have some reservations about the farm reforms and a proper understanding of the issue is needed before rushing to comment on the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Bollywood calls out the ‘spineless’ among its own  ||A section of Bollywood celebrities on Thursday criticised big stars such as Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn for their similarly worded tweets in response to pop star Rihanna's post drawing attention to the farmers' agitation in India. Actor Taapsee Pannu, filmmaker Onir, actor Arjun Mathur and others criticised the seemingly orchestrated show of solidarity by the big stars towards the government. Rihanna, the fourth most followed celebrity on Twitter with over 100 million followers, took to the microblogging site on Tuesday and shared a CNN news article headlined, "India cuts internet around New Delhi as protesting farmers clash with police." "Why aren't we talking about this? #FarmersProtest," Rihanna wrote on Tuesday. Post her tweet, Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg, Meena Harris, an American lawyer and niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, actors Amanda Cerni, singers Jay Sean, Dr Zeus and former adult star Mia Khalifa voiced their support to the protesting farmers. India on Wednesday reacted sharply to these tweets with several Bollywood and cricket stars and top ministers rallying around the government in its pushback. The "temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments is neither accurate nor responsible, the Ministry of External Affairs said. Facts must be ascertained before the rush to comment, the ministry added, using the hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda to make its point. Personalities including Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli, Lata Mangeshkar, Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, Karan Johar and others rallied around the government on social media using hashtags - #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda as they reacted to a statement by the Ministry of External Affairs on the issue. Calling it "embarrassing" and "tragic", many in the film industry called out the celebrities for their sudden Twitter activity while they failed to notice or acknowledge the plight of farmers. Actor Taapsee Pannu, who has been a vocal supporter of farmers issue, took a jibe at the government's campaign and said one should focus on strengthening the system. "If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief, then it's you who has to work on strengthening your value system not become propaganda teacher' for others," Pannu wrote. Actor Sonakshi Sinha, Akshay Kumar's co-star of many films, was among the celebrities to support of Rihanna's tweet. The actor, in her Instagram stories, shared quotes from storysellers comics, which said the voices raised by the international celebrities are "about the violation of human rights, suppression of free internet and expression, state propaganda, hate speech, and abuse of power." One of the stories on Sinha's Instagram also dismissed the argument that it was India's internal matter, saying, "these are not alien species but fellow humans who are speaking up for the rights of other humans." Comedian-actor Vir Das said he was amazed to see how Indians got mobilized' over a tweet by Rihanna and Thunberg. “Honestly, I don't think Rihanna or Greta have anything more than superficial wisdom about Indian farmers. But gotta say it's hilarious to see literally thousands of shaky Indian men get mobilized over a tweet, all the while proclaiming how secure they are in their policymakers,” he said. Filmmaker Onir too took a dig at the tweets in support of the government and termed the so-called support from Bollywood as a puppet show'. “It is so embarrassingly obvious that a whole bunch or celebs who do not value their voice have been sent a set message, which they are modifying a bit and postings. They Do what they have been told to. Tragic #puppetShow #worldWithFarmers #IStandWithFarmers,” he tweeted. Celebrity jewellery designer Farah Khan Ali tweeted, "Disappointed with the fraternity tweeting identical tweets that make it more like a marketing gimmick. Whatever their reasons & I'm no one to judge at least u could have tried to make it more original. Now you have given yourselves away. Reel Life Heroes VS Real Life Heroes." Actor Sayani Gupta tweeted, “Aiyooo! The cute Bhakts have awakened! (You know that moment in a zombie film climax, when the zombie was looking elsewhere, and a human was cautiously stepping away, and bam! It suddenly turns to him.) Just got that feeling!” Bollywood celebrities have often been called out in the media for not speaking up on politically sensitive topics unlike their counterparts in the US. Actor Swara Bhasker wrote on Wednesday, "Aur Bolo 'Speak Up Bollywood, 'Speak Up celebrities'." "Made in Heaven" star Arjun Mathur used the hashtags to mock celebrities for displaying an "utter lack of spine", a thought echoed on social media with 'Spineless Celebs' trending on Twitter. "Let us stand together in displaying our utter and complete lack of spine, in safeguarding our hundreds of crore rupees of income and in supporting this military-style mobilisation against the very masses who have practically treated us as gods and to whom we owe everything we enjoy. Let no sane or humane voice interfere, nor influence you. "They can spectate, not participate. Please do support us, as we intend to come for you next," Mathur wrote on Instagram. Actor-TV host Sushant Singh said he was heartbroken with the support pouring in from the film industry for the government. “Why do you make those who are heroes or heroines in films your idols? Heartbroken now...” Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and UP, have been protesting for over two months at Delhi's borders demanding rollback of the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Thunberg tweets again after Delhi police files FIR ||The Delhi Police on Friday filed a case alleging an international ‘conspiracy’ and an attempt to “promote enmity between groups”, citing climate activist Greta Thunberg’s tweets in support of protesting farmers who have been agitating against the three farm laws, NDTV reported. However, the Swedish teen reacted to the news  saying that she still stood with the farmers and “no amount of threats” would undo that. “I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest. No amount of hate, threats or violations of human rights will ever change that. #FarmersProtest,” Thunberg tweeted soon after the news emerged on Friday afternoon. Her tweet was one of the several posts that have drawn global attention to the farmers’ agitation over the past two days. The subject of the FIR by the Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police cites Thunberg’s tweet on a “toolkit” to help the farmers, according to the NDTV report. It also lists conspiracy and “promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language... and acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony” as the charges. The 18-year-old’s first tweet came after singer Rihanna shared a CNN report, asking why the world was not talking about the issue. “We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India,” Thunberg wrote, sharing the same report. On Friday morning, she also shared a link to a “toolkit”, which enlists seven points as to how one can help the farmers carry out their agitation against the three contentious laws, against which lakhs of farmers are protesting for over two months now. “Here’s an updated toolkit by people on the ground in India if you want to help. (They removed their previous document as it was outdated.),” she wrote on Twitter. India on Wednesday reacted sharply to comments by foreign celebrities, saying a very small section of farmers in parts of the country have some reservations about the farm reforms and a proper understanding of the issue is needed before rushing to comment on the agitation. “The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a curt statement. The ministry also said the Parliament of India passed the reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector, and noted that some of the vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against India. “We would like to emphasise that these protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse,” the statement said. Asserting that “before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken”, the ministry said the “temptation of sensationalist” social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is “neither accurate nor responsible”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||US backs farm laws, but calls for talks to resolve protests||Recognising that peaceful protests are a hallmark of a thriving democracy, the US has said that it encourages dialogue between the protesting farmers and the Indian government to resolve their differences. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November last year, demanding the government to repeal the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The State Department, responding to a question on the ongoing farmers' protests in India, said on Wednesday that the US encourages that any differences between the parties be resolved through dialogue. Indicating that the new Biden administration is supportive of the Indian government's move to reform the agricultural sector that attracts private investment and greater market access to farmers, a State Department spokesperson said: "In general, the United States welcomes steps that would improve the efficiency of India's markets and attract greater private sector investment". "We recognise that peaceful protests are a hallmark of any thriving democracy and note that the Indian Supreme Court has stated the same," the spokesperson said. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi issued a statement on Wednesday to highlight that the Parliament of India had passed "reformist legislation" for the agricultural sector, which "a very small section of farmers" have some reservations about and therefore the laws have been kept on hold while talks are held. Meanwhile, some American lawmakers have come out in support of the farmers' protests in India. "I am concerned by the reported actions against peaceful demonstrators protesting new agricultural reform laws in India," Congresswoman Haley Stevens said. In a statement, she encouraged the Indian government and representatives of the protesting farmers to engage in productive discussions. "I will continue to monitor this situation closely. It has been particularly valuable to engage with stakeholders across the district on this topic and I remain appreciative to all who have reached out to share their perspective," Stevens said. Another Congresswoman, Ilhan Omar, expressed solidarity with all the farmers protesting for their livelihood across India. "India must protect their basic democratic rights, allow for the free flow of information, reinstate internet access and release all the journalists detained for covering the protests," she wrote on Twitter. Referring to the farmers' protests, Meena Harris, niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, alleged that the world's biggest democracy is under an assault. "It's no coincidence that the world's oldest democracy was attacked not even a month ago, and as we speak, the most populous democracy is under assault. This is related. We ALL should be outraged by India's internet shutdowns and paramilitary violence against farmer protesters," she said in a tweet. In a separate statement, Gurinder Singh Khalsa, chairman of the Sikhs Political Action Committee, said the "historic" farmers' protest is turning out to be the "biggest-ever revolution" against the Indian government's crony capitalism. "This is the beginning of a movement for better accountability and transparency against crony capitalism. World was watching and now it has started reacting and mobilising in support of this historic revolution of Indian farmers. This will be bigger than India's freedom Revolution," Khalsa, who is based in Indiana, said. India has called the remarks by foreign leaders and organisations on protests by farmers as "ill-informed" and "unwarranted", asserting that the matter pertains to the internal affairs of a democratic country. Emphasising that the protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, the MEA in its statement said some vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against the country. "Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken. "The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible," the MEA statement said following some high-profile celebrities tweeting over the agitation by the farmers. Defending the three contentious agri laws, the MEA said: "these reforms give expanded market access and provided greater flexibility to farmers. They also pave the way for economically and ecologically sustainable farming." Recently, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said India's new farm laws have the "potential to represent a significant step forward" for reforms in the agriculture sector. "We believe the farm bills do have the potential to represent a significant step forward for agricultural reforms in India. The measures will enable farmers to directly contract with sellers, allow farmers to retain a greater share of the surplus by reducing the role of middlemen, enhance efficiency and support rural growth," IMF Communications Director Gerry Rice told reporters here last month. At a media briefing, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said any protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the ongoing efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse. “The incidents of violence and vandalism at the historic Red Fort on January 26 have evoked similar sentiments and reactions in India as did the incidents on the Capitol Hill on 6 January and are being addressed as per our respective local laws,” he said. “We have taken note of comments of the US State Department. It is important to see such comments in the context in which they were made and in their entirety,” he said. Srivastava said both India and the United States are vibrant democracies with shared values. “The temporary measures with regard to internet access in certain parts of the NCR region were therefore understandably undertaken to prevent further violence,” Srivastava added. The MEA spokesperson said the US state department has acknowledged the steps being taken by India towards agricultural reforms. “Any protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the ongoing efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Indian team discussed farmers' protest in team meeting, reveals Kohli||India captain Virat Kohli on Thursday said the ongoing farmers' protest against new agriculture laws has come up for discussion in his team meeting where everyone has "expressed what they had to". Kohli, speaking online to the media ahead of the first Test against England here, did not divulge the details of the "brief" conversation on the matter. "Like any issue present in the country, we do talk about it and everyone had expressed what they had to," Kohli said when asked about the agitation that has been going on for over two months. "That's about it. We briefly spoke about it in the team meeting and we carried on discussing the team and game plans," he added. On Wednesday, Kohli was among a host of Indian cricket stars, including the iconic Sachin Tendulkar who urged for unity in the country after some international celebrities like US pop star Rihanna called attention to the plight of the agitating farmers on social media. '"Let us all stay united in this hour of disagreements. Farmers are an integral part of our country and I'm sure an amicable solution will be found between all parties to bring about peace and move forward together," he had tweeted. India and England will lock horns in a four-match Test series starting Friday. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for over two months demanding that the three new farm laws be repealed. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws, which allow farmers to sell their produce directly to a buyer, will end the traditional mandi system and the guarantee of a Minimum Support Price for their crops. The government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Derek O’Brien offers ‘Repealing Bill 2021’ to roll back farm laws||Trinamool Congress leader Derek O'Brien on Thursday pressed the government to repeal the three controversial farm laws and offered a draft  titled, ''Repealing Bill 2021", to explain how it could be done. Participating in a discussion on the motion of thanks on the President's address in the Rajya Sabha, the Trinamull MP also referred to the death of a farmer during the tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day and said there should be a "proper inquiry" so the truth could come out. He interrupted his speech to observe a minute's silence in the House along with other Opposition leaders, mainly the Congress, to pay tribute to farmers who had lost their lives during the two month agitation. "Please repeal all (three controversial farm laws)... I have taken the liberty of drafting the Repealing Bill 2021. I will share it with you all. You repeal these bills (farm laws). There is a way to do it. How will you pause the laws for 18 months," he said in the Rajya Sabha. The government had made a proposal to suspend the laws for 18 months. Referring to the events that unfolded on January 26, O'Brien said, "Just imagine that unfortunate tractor incident where a farmer died under mysterious circumstances, just imagine if that happened in Bengal or Maharashtra... All I'm saying is that the truth be told. I'm not coming to any conclusions. Let the truth come out. The home minister of India is in charge. Do a proper inquiry and let the truth come out". He said the political and administrative responsibilities lie with the prime minister and the home minister. Highlighting the Centre's resolve to double farmer income by 2022, O'Brien said at the current rate this will not happen till 2028. "In Bengal, under the TMC government, from 2011 to now, farmer income has not doubled, but has tripled," he said. The Trinamul MP said the farm laws were not sent to a select committee for scrutiny and accused the government of failing the sanctity of Parliament. Sending out a message to the farmers' community, he said, "Yeh aapki roji roti ki baat hai. Hum aapke saath hain (This is about your livelihood, We all stand by you)." "I cut short my speech for one minute and stand to give tribute to the farmers who lost their lives in this agitation," he added. O'Brien continued his speech after the minute's silence. Referring to the farmers' agitation, he said, "It is their movement. It is not anybody's movement." He also alleged that the government had failed the people of India. He drew the attention of the House towards the government's divestment policy, rising share of states funding in railways projects, higher mortality rates among infants and mothers, job losses especially during pandemic and frozen spending under MPLADS (till 2021-22). "First take care of Delhi then think about Bengal. Don't make the pandemic excuse," O'Brien told the House. O'Brien claimed the government had failed the migrant workers and also India's federal structure. "The home minister was to come to Bengal for a political rally. But he needed to stay back in Delhi. So what was done? Two and a half or one and a half hours later, MLAs who were switching sides, were sent the chartered planes and brought to Delhi," he said, adding that he wished so much love, care and affection was shown towards migrant workers. According to O'Brien, when it comes to migrant workers, when their data is sought in Parliament, the government truly becomes the NDA - No Data Available. When the Central government imposes cess, the collected amount is not shared with states, he said. "Out of the gross revenue in 1980, 2 per cent was cess. Now almost 16 per cent is being collected as cess. Every time you collect cess you deprive the states," the TMC MP argued The Trinamul MP also said, "They have failed the media. You can intimidate and threaten media barons but not the young media persons (on the ground)."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||CSIR plans study to assess effectiveness of Covid vaccines||CSIR, the country's premier research and development body, is launching a multi-centre study to assess the effectiveness of the massive anti-Covid-19 vaccination programme. The study will check at regular intervals on the progress of around 6,000 volunteers who have received the vaccine. The study, which will continue for up to two years, will measure whether the vaccines are creating the desired levels of immunity and whether their effect lasts for a sufficiently long time. “The vaccine will have to last at least six months. Otherwise, it will be a failure. Six months is enough to break the (infection) chain,” says Dipyaman Ganguly, who’s physician, scientist and immunologist at the CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Calcutta. Ganguly will serve as the project leader for the immune monitoring programme. The scheme is a CSIR initiative with the Tata Medical Centre. Specifically, the study will check if the vaccines produce sufficient antibodies to counter Covid-19. It will also check for the presence of memory T-cells that can recognise the coronavirus. The CSIR (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research) is looking at enrolling about 1,000 volunteers at each of its six centres in different parts of the country. Follow-up studies of the effectiveness of vaccines being developed around the world are essential because they have been created in record time and have been given emergency clearances by national pharmaceutical regulatory authorities. In the US, for instance, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has granted what is called Emergency Use Authorization (EUA). The FDA says the authorization "is intended to remain in effect only for the duration of the public health emergency related to COVID-19.” Emergency clearances have been granted to Covid vaccines in different parts of the globe, including India, because of the urgent need to halt the pandemic in its tracks. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, for instance, has only completed its Phase Two trials and has been given emergency clearance to start its vaccination programme. People who receive the vaccine have to sign consent forms that they are aware of this. Similarly, under normal circumstances, the Serum Institute of India (SII), manufacturing and distributing the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, would have carried out Phase Three trials in India before distributing the British-Swedish jab. That is because immunological responses can vary from one nation to another and different population groups. Also, if conditions were normal, the two firms currently distributing Covid vaccines in India, SII and Bharat Biotech, would be conducting the post-vaccination studies. But the CSIR believes the companies already have enough on their plates to produce and distribute the vaccines and keep supply chains operational. The CSIR study will, most probably, enrol doctors and health-workers who have already received the vaccine. They would be an ideal survey group as they would be well-informed and would be able to report any after-effects or other issues they have faced. Regular RT-PCR tests will also be conducted every month on the volunteers to check if they are getting reinfected again after receiving the vaccine. Says Ganguly: “We have to follow-up with repeat RT-PCR tests. Otherwise, we won't find if they are getting reinfected." The tests would also look into whether people who have got vaccinated develop Covid-19 but remain asymptomatic. The need for the post-vaccination study has become particularly urgent due to the swift pace of events since the pandemic was first reported in Wuhan in December 2019. Vaccine development began almost immediately and Pfizer BioNTech became the first Western company to announce it had been successful on December 2. No vaccine has ever been created so swiftly. The fastest before this was the mumps vaccine developed over four years in the 1960s. The sheer speed at which the vaccines have been developed and brought to market have created an entirely different set of problems. Says one scientist: “We know the vaccine is effective for three months because that is how long it has been in the market. We do not know what happens over a longer time-frame." The findings about how long the antibodies and T-cells stay active could help determine how frequently the Covid vaccinations might need repeating. Some researchers suggest that Covid vaccines could become routine, like annual flu shots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Arrested scribe to write a detailed account of farmers lodged in Tihar jail||Freelance journalist Mandeep Punia, who was arrested by the Delhi Police from the Singhu border, has said that he talked to farmers and scribbled notes on his legs inside the Tihar Jail to write a report. Punia was released from the prison on Wednesday after a court granted him bail. Talking to reporters outside the jail, he said, "It (being inside the prison) turned out to be an opportunity for me. I got a chance to talk to the farmers lodged in the jail and scribbled notes on my legs. I am going to write a detailed report." "My work is to report from ground zero... I asked the farmers why and how they were arrested," he said. Punia said he had been covering the protest at the Singhu border from the day it started. "It was my responsibility as a journalist to report it truthfully and faithfully. I was trying to do that. I was trying to find out the people behind the attack on the movement site. My work was interrupted by the arrest. I lost valuable time. I do feel that that I was wronged," he tweeted. He alleged that the police interfered with his work and said the incident had strengthened his resolve to continue with his work. Punia was arrested at the Singhu border on charges of "obstructing public servants in discharge of public functions", "assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty", and "voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty". He was sent to 14-day judicial custody on Sunday by the court of the metropolitan magistrate. However, he was granted bail on Tuesday after furnishing a personal bond of Rs 25,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Twitter deletes Kangana's tweets over rule violation||Twitter India on Thursday removed two of the tweets by Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, citing a violation of the platform's rules. The actor has been criticising protesting farmers over their agitations against the Centre's three farm laws. When tried to access the two tweets, a message appears, reading, "This Tweet is no longer available because it violated the Twitter Rules." In one of the tweets, the actor had talked about "eradication" of "cancer" from the country. This is not the first time that Twitter has taken action against Ranaut. The actor's handle was last month briefly suspended after she posted a tweet in reference to the controversy surrounding Amazon Prime Video series "Tandav". In the tweet, the actor had used the phrase "time to take their heads off", which was reported by many users as offensive. Ranaut has been actively posting on Twitter since Tuesday when international pop star Rihanna came out in support of the farmers' agitations. The actor also went after actor Taapsee Pannu for her tweets but was criticised for her language. Responding to the flurry of tweets from prominent celebrities from Bollywood and sports following Rihanna's tweet, Pannu on Thursday said, "If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief then it's you who has to work on strengthening your value system not become propaganda teacher' for others." It was enough to tick off Ranaut who called Pannu "a sasta copy (cheap duplicate) and also dragged the actor's mother in the conversation. Ranaut was the first to slam Rihanna for her post, calling her a "fool" and protesting farmers "terrorists". She was also embroiled in a second Twitter spat with Diljit Dosanjh, who released a track appreciating Rihanna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Previous govts drafted budget with an eye on polls, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday targeted previous governments, saying they drafted the Union Budget with an eye on their vote bank and made budgets a medium of announcements they could not fulfil but now the country has changed its approach. "From decades, the meaning of budget in our country was only restricted to what announcements have been made on whose name. Budget was turned into an account for the vote bank," he said after inaugurating via video conference the centenary celebrations of the historic Chauri Chaura incident, a landmark event in the country's fight for Independence. "You all make an account of household expenditure by keeping in mind present needs and future responsibilities. But earlier governments made budgets a medium of such announcements that they could not fulfil. Now the country has changed such 'soch' (thought) and approach," the prime minister said. Modi also released a postage stamp to mark the beginning of the centenary celebrations. A group of freedom fighters participating in the non-cooperation movement launched by Mahatma Gandhi in 1922 were fired upon by police, leading to the death of many of them. In retaliation, protestors attacked and set fire to the Chauri Chaura police station, killing many of its occupants. Gandhi had called off the movement due to the violence. The killing of the Chauri Chaura policemen had resulted in the arrest of hundreds of protesters with 228 of them being put on trial, six of them dying during it and 172 ordered to be hanged to death with the remaining sentenced to long-term imprisonments after a hasty eight-month trial. Reviewing the death sentences, the Allahabad High Court finally in April 1923 confirmed it for 19 convicts and sentenced 110 of them to life imprisonments in Port Blair and long jail terms to others. At Thursday's event, 99 people, descendants of those involved in the incident will be honoured. Those chosen to be honoured on the occasion include 72-year-old Kamla Prasad of Dumri Khurd, a grandson of Chinugi who was sent to the Cellular Jail in Port Blair. "I am happy that we are getting the honour and the country will know us from tomorrow," said an elated Kamla Prasad. The year-long commemoration of the Chauri Chaura incident's centenary began in all 75 districts of the state with 'Prabhat Pheris' (early morning rounds) and other programmes that will continue till February 4, 2022. Besides the beautification of the Chauri Chaura Shaheed Sthal in Gorakhpur, the area is also being developed as a tourist spot on the lines of India Gate, Jallianwala Bagh and Cellular Jail, a senior official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Police stop 15 Opposition MPs from reaching Ghazipur protest site||Fifteen MPs from 10 opposition parties, including the SAD, DMK, NCP and the Trinamool Congress, were stopped by police from reaching Ghazipur border on Thursday to meet farmers protesting against new farm laws, a leader said. According to SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal who coordinated the visit, the leaders were not allowed to cross the barricades and reach the protest site. Besides Badal, Supriya Sule from NCP, Kanimozhi and Tiruchi Siva from the DMK, Saugata Roy from the TMC were part of the delegation. Members of the National Conference, RSP and the IUML were also part of it. During a discussion in Parliament on Wednesday, several opposition parties asked the government to withdraw the three contentious farm laws without making it a prestige issue and not to treat the agitating farmers as "enemies". Stringent security continued at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, one of the key protest sites where thousands of farmers are camping with a demand that the Centre repeal the new agri-marketing laws enacted last September. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. Eleven rounds of formal talks between the government and the protesting farmer unions have failed to break the deadlock. While unions have stuck to their main demand of repeal of the laws and legal guarantee of MSP, the government has offered some concessions including keeping these laws on hold for 1-1.5 years. Even the Supreme Court has stayed the laws for two months and set up a panel to look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Rainy day in Delhi courtesy a fresh Western Disturbance ||Delhi recorded light rain on Thursday morning under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance affecting northwest India, the India Meteorological Department said. The city's minimum temperature rose to 12.4 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, due to cloud cover, an official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, warming the ground. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded 0.5 mm rainfall till 8:30 am. The Lodhi road weather station gauged 0.2 mm rainfall. Light rain is predicted on Friday, too. The minimum temperature is expected to remain within comfortable levels for the next three days. The minimum temperature had settled at 10.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, 6.2 degrees Celsius on Tuesday and 5.3 degrees Celsius on Monday. The maximum temperature on Wednesday stood at 25 degrees Celsius, four notches more than normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Almost 13,000 fresh Covid cases, 107 casualties in a day||With 12,899 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's COVID-19 tally of cases rose to 1,07,90,183, while the recoveries surged to 1,04,80,455, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,54,703 with 107 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,04,80,455 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.13 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total COVID-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,55,025 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.44 per cent of the total cases, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,92,16,019 samples have been tested up to February 3 with 7,42,841 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 107 new fatalities include 30 from Maharashtra, 20 from Kerala, 7 each from Chhattisgarh and West Bengal and 6 each from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,54,703 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,169 from Maharashtra followed by 12,371 from Tamil Nadu, 12,225 from Karnataka, 10,864 from Delhi, 10,195 from West Bengal, 8,674 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,157 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Govt threatens Twitter with penal action for unblocking accounts||The Narendra Modi government has threatened Twitter with penal action for unilaterally unblocking the accounts of those who had tweeted with the hashtag “ModiPlanningFarmersGenocide” within a few hours of  acting against them on Monday. Electronics and IT ministry sources said the government had issued a notice to the micro-blogging site to comply with its January 31 order to block 257 URLs and one hashtag under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, and Rule 9(1) of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009. In the notice, the ministry said that Section 69A(3) of the IT Act specified the punishment for those failing to comply with directions issued under Section 69A. Twitter has again been asked to block the handles and the hashtag immediately but the micro-blogging site had not complied till late Wednesday night, over a day after the notice had been sent. According to the notice, Twitter had first been told to block these handles and hashtag around 3pm on Sunday but the compliance came only the following afternoon. This was minutes before Twitter’s lawyer appeared before the inter-ministerial committee provided in the rules for examining such requests for blocking — in this instance, the home ministry. The notice cites Twitter’s reply, in which it is said to have declined to abide by the order, citing freedom of speech. Twitter had apparently said that “stock phrases and exaggerations/ crude emotional appeals do not constitute inflammatory speech in light of the judgments of the Supreme Court”. Twitter appears to have described the government’s directive as disproportionate and impractical. Responding to this, the notice said: “The impracticability or disproportionality of the said measure cannot be decided at the instance of Twitter which is an intermediary bound by the orders of the central government”. Under Section 2(1)(w) of the IT Act, Twitter is an “intermediary” and provides a platform for people’s opinions to be communicated across the world while being open for all to see. The government’s premise is that Section 69A of the IT Act empowers it, in instances where it considers it necessary or expedient, to direct an intermediary to block handles/ content to “prevent incitement to the commission of any cognisable offence relating to public order”. Efforts to contact Twitter, which had drawn flak online for complying with the directive on Monday, for a response were futile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||PM unable to handle crises, says Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said India was “lacking in leadership”, adding that “incompetence” and pro-corporate politics had brought the country to a “dangerous situation”. The Congress leader contended the government had created a mess on three fronts — the economy, social harmony and national security — and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was now unable to handle  the multiple crises after weakening the country from within. He pleaded with Modi to focus on the job he had been elected to do rather than “sell the country to one per cent of the population”. Among his prescriptions for the Prime Minister were the immediate withdrawal of the new farm laws, a revving up of the economy by creating demand and a firm message to China. “Basically, if you look at the broader picture, what has happened is that the government is now unable to control the situation. They are basically unable to handle the governance of this country. Their incompetence is now coming to the fore,” Rahul said at a media conference. Rahul said: “They have messed up the economy, they have messed up the harmony, they have messed up the defence and they want to keep distracting India with non-events.” He added: “I’m saying that the country is in a dangerous situation. The world is in a flux. We have an aggressive China on the border. They have a clear vision of what they want to achieve. We don’t have one. We are completely unclear about what we want to achieve and it is dangerous for the country when you have a situation like this on the border. “You are destroying your economic structure and it is dangerous for the country. I said in February that Covid is dangerous for the country and I was ridiculed. I’m saying it again — the condition that we are going through is dangerous for the country. The country requires the Prime Minister to take strict, quick action. “It requires the Prime Minister to put money immediately into the hands of our people and start the economy. It requires he protects MSMEs which give us jobs. It requires a clear message to China that you cannot do this with us. You cannot be sitting in our land and expect nothing is going to happen.” Attacking Modi, Rahul said: “This country is lacking in leadership. There is no leadership in the country any more. There is just talk. There is no understanding, no strategy. The thing has come apart. Now of course what is there is a media that is controlled and hence the reality of what is going on is not coming out. Believe me, that maya (illusion) is going to break. Somebody is going to break that maya.” He further said: “So my constant request to the Prime Minister is, do your job. You have been elected to do a job. Your job is not to sell this country to one per cent of the population. Your job is to protect the farmers who are standing outside. “Go, hold their hand, give them a hug and tell them, ‘What can I do for you?’ Your job is to ensure small and medium businesses can compete with China. Talk to them, ask them because they have the answer to China. So the PM has basically given up. He is now on a different plane. He has got a beard that is… we are going somewhere else now and the country is not being run. My request to the PM is please gather courage and run the country.” Rahul wondered why the government had resorted to fortifying Delhi’s borders against farmers. “Are they afraid of farmers? Are the farmers enemies? Farmers are the strength of this country. They give sustenance. The government’s job is not to beat them up, not to threaten them. This is not good for the country’s future,” he said. “The Prime Minister says he is ready to put off the farm laws for two years. Why two years? You either get rid of the laws or you don’t. Farmers are not going away. The government has to back off. Good they do it now.” Asked about the farmers being described as terrorists and Khalistanis, he said: “Are 60 per cent of our population terrorist?” He resorted to irony: “Only RSS is not terrorist, rest all are terrorist.” Asked whether India’s image was being dented outside because of the farmers’ agitation, Rahul said: “The reputation of India has taken a massive hit because of how we treat our farmers, our journalists. India is known for its soft power. That has been shattered by the RSS-BJP — their mindset.” To a question about the Red Fort breach during the Republic Day tractor parade, he said: “It is the duty of the home minister to explain to the country what he was doing. How did these people enter the Red Fort? It is his responsibility.” Rahul criticised the budget, saying: “We hoped it will support 99 per cent people but this budget is for one per cent of the population. Money is being snatched from farmers, workers, small and medium businesses, defence forces to be given to one per cent of the population. Even privatisation will benefit the same one per cent.” Referring to the minimum income support scheme the Congress had promised before the 2019 general election, he said: “A Nyay-like scheme to give money to the hands of the people was needed. What is the message we sent to China by not enhancing the defence budget? The government should have 110 per cent commitment towards the soldiers, willing to give whatever they need. What kind of nationalism is this?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||After Rihanna's tweet, hashtags are the new loyalty test||The Centre on Wednesday took the extraordinary step of schooling “celebrities” in social media etiquette after singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted about the farmers’ protest as well as the Internet ban and drew global attention to the prolonged movement and the clampdown. The pushback came from the external affairs ministry that issued a lengthy political statement complete with two hashtags — “IndiaTogether” and “IndiaAgainstPropaganda”. The hashtags soon became some sort of a Tebbit test or loyalty test. Many movie actors and cricketers, some of whom had remained silent when several farmers died in the biting cold, dutifully posted tweets with the two hashtags. Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli, Anil Kumble, Shikhar Dhawan, Lata Mangeshkar, Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn and Karan Johar were among those who tweeted with the hashtags coined by the ministry, urging people to stand united and not fall for propaganda. After enumerating the measures taken by the government to assuage the farmers, the external affairs ministry said in its statement: “Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken. “The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible.” The statement was signed off with the two hashtags. Barbadian singer Rihanna, who is the fourth most followed person on Twitter with 101.1 million followers, had on Tuesday night posted a CNN report on India shutting down the Internet around the national capital in view of the protests and tweeted: “Why aren’t we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest.” At the time of tweeting, she had around 100.9 million followers and that number grew over the next 24 hours despite the consequent name-calling by the Indian government’s ecosystem. The Internet ban that has been in place across Haryana since the weekend was on Wednesday lifted in all but five districts. A few hours after Rihanna’s tweet, Thunberg tweeted the same CNN report with the comment: “We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India.” She followed it up with another tweet in which she posted a document that provided a list of actions being planned globally to garner support for the movement, described as the “largest protest in human history”. This document was subsequently deleted. By Wednesday morning, several others including US Vice-President Kamala Harris’s niece Meena Harris, lawmakers, singers and former adult entertainment star Mia Khalifa had tweeted on the farmers’ protest, giving it a visibility far greater than brought to it by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s public support for the movement in its early days. The external affairs ministry’s statement raised eyebrows on multiple counts. It appeared more political than diplomatic and chose to react to individual celebrities while having kept quiet over comments by elected lawmakers in different world capitals. After telling Canada last year that Trudeau’s comments could jeopardise relations, the ministry had maintained a studied silence on other remarks on the protest, letting its missions do the fire-fighting. The statement claimed that Parliament had passed the “reformist legislation” after a “full debate and discussion”, although one of the main contentions of the farmers and the Opposition is that the agriculture bills were steamrolled through Parliament without proper consultation and vote. Also, on a day when one of the biggest mahapanchayats was organised in Jind, Haryana, in solidarity with the farmers and their demand for the repeal of the farm laws, the ministry claimed that a “very small section of farmers in parts of India have some reservations about these reforms”. Apart from Punjab and Haryana, the protests have spread to western Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, and farmers from as far as Kerala have joined the movement at Delhi’s borders. The statement drew attention to the talks held with the farmer unions and the offer made by the government to suspend the implementation of the laws — already stayed by the Supreme Court. It asserted that “vested interest groups” were trying to derail the talks. The statement referred to the chaos on Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor rally and the desecration of Mahatma Gandhi’s statues in some parts of the world, when some of the government’s own fellow travellers celebrate his assassin Nathuram Godse. About law enforcement during the protests, the ministry said the police had shown the “utmost restraint” and claimed that hundreds of men and women serving in the force had been physically attacked and in some instances seriously wounded. Reacting to the external affairs ministry’s statement, retired diplomat K.C. Singh tweeted: “As a former spokesman of MEA I feel sad at its lack of accuracy. It has obviously been drafted elsewhere & issued under instructions.” The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which the protests are going on, in a related statement acknowledged the support of international personalities to the movement. “On the one hand it is a matter of pride that eminent personalities of the world are showing sensitivity towards the cause of farmers while on the other hand, it is unfortunate that the government of India is not understanding the pain of the farmers and some people are even calling peaceful farmers terrorists,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to call on Navreet’s family||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will visit on Thursday the family of Navreet Singh, who died during the protest in Delhi on January 26, in Rampur of Uttar Pradesh. Priyanka is the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh. Her visit to Navreet’s family is significant as his tragic death triggered a controversy because the police claim of his death being caused by a tractor overturning was disputed by the farmers. Delhi police have filed FIRs against several journalists and Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor for mentioning the claim of gunshot. A section of foreign media reported versions of doctors disputing the police claim. Priyanka’s visit to the family is bound to revive the controversy and give it a bigger dimension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Crackdown ripples shake Haryana government ||The BJP-led Haryana government has come under renewed strain with the farmers’ protest receiving impassioned support in the aftermath of the Centre’s crackdown, insiders said. Ally Jannayak Janata Party, which sustains the Manohar Lal Khattar government, is facing increased pressure from its core farmers’ constituency over the past few days to dump the BJP, according to the sources. Both the BJP and the JJP had hoped that the protests would peter out after the chaos during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. Contrary to their expectations, the protests have made an electrifying turnaround and now seem to be beyond the government’s control. “Yes, many MLAs are finding it extremely difficult to face the people. We hope the issue gets over soon,” an office-bearer of the JJP said. Many BJP MLAs too are not able to visit their constituencies due to anger among farmers. Chief minister Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala have had to cancel events after facing intense anger in their constituencies. The BJP had announced campaigns to counter the “misinformation” on the new farm laws but hasn’t been able to carry them out. Instead of any signs of ebbing, the mahapanchayats of farmer leaders have been drawing massive crowds — the latest being at Jind on Wednesday — unsettling the ruling coalition. Thousands, including a large number of women, attended the Jind mahapanchayat to be counted as angry voices who are not ready for anything less than the repeal of the “anti-farmer” laws. Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, whose tearful message has turned the tide of the movement, and other leaders addressed the meeting and resolutions were passed to stress that there would be no wavering from the demand for the scrapping of the laws. Speaking at the mahapanchayat, Tikait warned the government of consequences if the farm laws were not repealed. “We have so far talked about ‘bill wapsi’ (repeal of the laws). The government should listen carefully. What will you do if the youths call for ‘gaddi wapsi’ (removal from power)?” NDTV quoted Tikait as having told the congregation. The government had perceived the farmers’ protest as a movement restricted to Punjab with marginal support in Haryana. But the agitation has only gone from strength to strength. In the aftermath of the January 26 fiasco and the government’s move to suppress the movement, the protests have spread to western Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. Although JJP legislators have so far managed to stick with the party, many district-level leaders have been forced by agitators to quit and join the movement. On Tuesday, the JJP’s Karnal district president, Inderjit Singh Goraya, left the party in support of the farmers and accused Chautala of not standing up for the peasants. “Dushyant Chautala should have stood by the farmers like Devi Lal (his great grandfather and former chief minister and deputy Prime Minister),” Goraya said. He urged the other MLAs of the party to quit in protest. In the recent past, many JJP and BJP office-bearers, including a former BJP MLA, have resigned to show solidarity with the farmers. The BJP has 40 MLAs in the 90-member Assembly, while the JJP has 10 and the Congress 30. While the BJP relies mainly on the non-Jat voters in Haryana, the JJP draws strength from the Jats, the dominant agrarian community. Since the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s borders began in November-end, Chautala has met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other central ministers. He has, however, been keeping silent for the past several days with insiders claiming he is in a bind. Internally, BJP leaders claim that the Haryana government is safe. “No JJP MLA will quit. We have taken care of their needs,” a Haryana BJP leader said. Sources said many posts in various boards and corporations were lying vacant and the JJP legislators had been assured appointment as heads of these bodies after the farmers’ protest dies down. The BJP, however, has been facing pressure also from the principal Opposition, the Congress. Congress stalwart and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda is said to be trying to bring down the government over the farmers’ issue. He plans to introduce a no-confidence motion against the Khattar government during the upcoming budget session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Poor budget allocation for nutrition schemes||The Centre has cut funds to a key child-nutrition scheme in its budget proposals for this financial year despite a recent national survey revealing a rise in the proportion of children with low weight and stunting. Activists and researchers on Wednesday expressed dismay at the poor budget allocations for child-nutrition schemes such as the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) and school midday meals, and for pension schemes under the National Social Assistance Programme. Under the ICDS, the government runs nearly 13.79 lakh Anganwadi centres where children aged four to six are provided nutritional support apart from care and education. The government had allocated Rs 20,532 crore in the 2020-21 budget for Anganwadi services, which was later revised downwards to Rs 17,252 crore. For 2021-22, the government has earmarked only Rs 20,105 crore for the scheme while clubbing it with additional schemes. (See chart) Deepa Sinha, an activist, said: “Children have once again been neglected in the budget. Saksham Anganwadi and Poshan, which are together a bigger scheme than only the Anganwadi scheme, have received less funds than was allocated to the Anganwadi scheme alone last year.” Sinha added: ‘“Saksham Anganwadi and Poshan 2.0’ cover Anganwadi services, the Poshan Abhiyan, Scheme for Adolescent Girls and the National Creche Scheme.” The Poshan Abhiyan, also known as the National Nutrition Mission, is an overarching nutrition scheme for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers. Last year, Poshan was allocated Rs 3,700 crore but the figure was revised to Rs 600 crore. The scheme for adolescent girls was allocated Rs 250 crore which was revised to Rs 50 crore, while the crèche scheme was allocated Rs 75 crore, which was revised to Rs 15 crore. Last financial year’s combined budget allocation for all these schemes and the Anganwadi programme was, therefore, Rs 24,557 crore, which is 22 per cent higher than this year’s Rs 20,105 crore. The Right to Food Campaign, an organisation campaigning for food security, expressed disappointment at the budget allocations for the nutrition schemes. Economist Jean Dreze, a visiting professor with Ranchi University, said this was the second time in the past six years that the ICDS scheme had witnessed a decline in funding. For the midday meal scheme, under which free meals are provided in school to every child between Class I and VIII, the allocation has been reduced from the revised estimate of Rs 12,900 crore for 2020-21 to Rs 11,500 crore for 2021-22. The National Social Assistance Programme, under which the Centre provides a monthly pension to 2.6 crore widows, elderly people and people with disabilities, too has witnessed a cut in allocation compared with the revised budgetary estimate for 2020-21. Dreze said: “The earnings of workers in the informal sector have gone down by half after the lockdown. All kinds of services are affected. The need was to put money in people’s hands to stimulate the economy. But no such announcement was made.” According to Phase I of the National Family Health Survey-5, several states have witnessed a worsening of child malnutrition indicators, such as low weight and stunting, between 2015-16 and 2019-20. In 7 of the 10 states for which data has been released, the proportion of underweight children had increased in this period. Stunting had increased in six states. Activists have demanded universal subsidised food under the public distribution system and the immediate revival of hot cooked meals under the ICDS and midday meal programmes. Since the lockdown, food grains and money are being provided to the children’s guardians instead of cooked meals, reviving which will require schools and Anganwadi centres to reopen at least for the meals. Activists have demanded that the budgets for these nutrition programmes provide for eggs in the meals. They have said that hot cooked meals should be provided to children under three years through crèches and to pregnant and lactating women through community kitchens. They have asked the Centre to increase its contribution towards the social security pensions to at least Rs 2,000 a month. The Centre’s monthly contribution towards these pensions now ranges between Rs 200 and Rs 500. Some of the states top this up with their own money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Blocked, citizens ask: Are we terrorists?||Police outnumbered those who turned up for a “Citizens’ March in Support of the Farmers’ Movement” on Wednesday, prompting a participant to exclaim: “Are we terrorists?” A myriad of uniforms — Delhi police, the Tripura India Reserve Battalion, Central Reserve Police Force, Central Industrial Security Force and the Sashastra Seema Bal —cordoned off all approaches to the Mandi House traffic island from Lutyens’ Delhi and prevented the march from taking place. College students usually form the critical mass of such protests, but with almost all classes online, few turned up for the march. However, several older people — common folk, housewives and even government employees — came to the march and expressed shock at the fortress the capital had turned into since Republic Day. A government employee who took half a day off to attend the march with her son wandered into a posse of armed policemen and loudly exclaimed: “Are we terrorists?” She later told The Telegraph: “I felt bad for the farmers because the laws were made in haste without hearing from them. I felt worse seeing them out for months in the cold, and all the nonsense being shown about them on TV. I overcame my apprehensions to come here after seeing these nails being fixed on the roads and the trenches being dug by the police. It is important for all of us to come for things like this as the government is becoming more autocratic.” Several flags of the Congress’s National Students Union of India and the CPM-backed Students Federation of India dotted the protest. The march was called by several mass organisations of the Left parties, Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party, as well as civil society groups. Four tall Sikh men came to watch the gathering from afar, but soon left. “We came to see whether this is a genuine protest, but we see there are flags of political student groups. At the protest sites farmers only fly their farmers’ unions flags,” one of them told reporters as they left. One Sikh couple stayed. Satinder Singh and Ravinder Kaur from west Delhi’s Janakpuri survived the 1984 riots in the capital thanks to their non-Sikh neighbours, they said, who patrolled the street below their home and prevented any rioters from getting close. “I do feel uncomfortable, scared when I hear farmers being called Khalistani, or anti-CAA protestors being called Muslims. They have not found a term for (farm leader Rakesh) Tikait yet. But like there were good people then (’84), there are good people now. Besides, the Internet keeps us all connected and dispels rumours. That’s why the police have cut off the Internet at the borders (of the city) to make it tough for the truth to be told,” Singh said. He read about the march on Twitter. “I help in whatever way I can. I contributed money to the organisers at the protest sites. I try to come and stand wherever there is a protest in favour of farmers, because I believe these laws are unjust and should be repealed. Yes, I saw the flags of the student groups and felt it would be better to fly flags of farmers’ groups, but people will fly whatever flags they have,” he told this paper. Kaur said: “The Nishan Sahib which was hoisted at the Red Fort (on Republic Day by protesters who deviated from the planned route of the tractor rally) is seen by us as a symbol of humanity. No one objects when a langar is served under the Nishan Sahib. Like Bhagat Singh’s bomb (in the colonial Central Legislative Assembly) that killed none but was thrown to make the deaf hear, this flag was also hoisted under the Tricolour to wake up the government. I feel sad that farmers are called anti-India because some people hoisted the Nishan Sahib.” The police distributed copies of a letter to protesters, saying that any gatherings are only permitted at Jantar Mantar —the intended destination of the march, and made announcements on a megaphone to disperse as prohibitory orders are in force for the pandemic. Over the last few months, several motorcycle rallies have been held in the capital to collect funds for building the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Sanjeev Kumar, who takes tuitions in northwest Delhi’s Rohini, was pleased to make his protest debut with two family members. “For some time now, the norms of democracy are being changed. All rights are under attack, there are fewer jobs than before, and even protests are not allowed. A pre-planned narrative has been created to defame anyone who protests, and we are also scared but decided to come here despite our fears.” Mishika Singh, a human rights lawyer, told this paper that the average age of the protester seemed definitely higher to those accustomed to earlier marches in the area. “The police have found it easier to oppress students, they can’t use their usual kind of force today. It is high time the government seriously hears what is being said, rather than use the police as a shield. The stakes are much higher today for all citizens.” A day after farmer leaders met Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to push for the release of those arrested during the farmers’ protest, the AAP leader issued a list of 115 people held in Tihar Prisons with details of which jail they are in. He said: “It is possible that many of those missing had been arrested in connection with the chaos at the Red Fort, due to which they are not able to connect to their families. We have created a list of the people who are in jails in connection with (the) January 26 (incidents)…. If we continue to receive reports even after issuing this list, as the chief minister of the state, I have assured the farmers’ unions that I will try my best to trace the missing persons and connect them with their families. If required, I will also talk to Hon’ble LG and the Centre in this regard.” Kejriwal’s step is seen as cautious as there was speculation that he would order a magisterial probe like he did after the police crackdown on JNU in 2016. Delhi police have also issued a list with the names of 122 people who were arrested during the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Supply cut, over 3,000 farmers trek 100km with water||Over 3,000 farmers from 36 villages in Bulandshahr district began a march on foot towards the Ghazipur border on Wednesday afternoon, many of them carrying water in steel urns on their heads. The farmers said they were taking drinking water to the dharna site on the Uttar Pradesh-Delhi border because the Yogi Adityanath government had suspended water supply to the area to pressure the protesters into leaving. For the past one week, the protesting farmers at Ghazipur have been fetching water in cans from the neighbourhood on their tractors. The Bulandshahr farmers said they expected to cover the distance of 100km in about 15 hours and reach the Ghazipur border on Thursday morning, if their journey was not disrupted by police. Mangeram Tyagi, general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) for the National Capital Region, led the march. “This is a disciplined padyatra. The farmers are walking in a single file on the left side of the highway,” Tyagi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||India||Kerala court grants bail to Sivasankar||A Kerala court on Wednesday granted bail to former secretary in the chief minister’s office, M. Sivasankar, in a dollar smuggling case. The court of additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) in Ernakulam granted bail on the condition that he would not try to influence witnesses or the investigation. He was also ordered to execute two bonds of Rs 1 lakh each with two solvent sureties. Sivasankar was later released from the Ernakulam district prison and taken to his native Thiruvananthapuram, ending the 98-day incarceration. The same court had on January 25 granted him bail in a case registered by the customs department in which he was among the accused. On the same day Kerala High Court had granted him bail in a money-laundering case linked to the gold smuggling. The 57-year-old IAS officer was arrested in October 2020 after his name emerged during the interrogation of prime accused Swapna Suresh, P.S. Sarith and Ramees who were among the first to be held.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||India||Covid: Post-jab death data call||A group of doctors and health researchers has asked the Union health ministry to disclose details of the investigations into all the deaths following immunisation with Covid-19 vaccines, amid concerns about lack of information about the probes conducted. The medics have said the deaths — at least 15 until Wednesday — meet the World Health Organisation’s definition of a “cluster” of serious adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) — “when two or more AEFIs related in time, place or by vaccine occur”. India had up to 8am on Wednesday vaccinated over 4.1 million beneficiaries, primarily healthcare workers. “Transparency will help bolster confidence in the vaccination campaign,” said Amar Jesani, a senior physician and editor of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics in Mumbai, one of the 12 doctors and public health researchers who have sent the appeal to the health ministry. The group has asked the ministry to place in the public domain information on all deaths, severe and serious AEFIs and their investigations during the Covid-19 vaccine rollout. “This information should include the numbers, date of vaccination, details of the AEFI, place, investigation status and results,” the group said in a letter sent to health minister Harsh Vardhan and other health officials. The health ministry, relying on preliminary site-specific investigations, has said none of the deaths so far have been causally linked to the Covid-19 vaccination and a national AEFI committee is “reexamining” the circumstances and details of each. “The national AEFI committee is reexamining all the deaths following immunisation and the assessments will be placed in the public domain — this will be done,” Narendra Arora, a senior medical advisor to the national panel, told The Telegraph. Jesani and his co-signatories have also pointed out that several of the deaths have taken place between hours and five days of people aged between 42 and 56 taking the vaccines and have been ascribed to cardiovascular problems. “There is a clustering of deaths by cause and vaccine — so we are seeking systematic cluster investigation to explain the cardiovascular deaths,” Jesani told this newspaper. “The deaths raise the question — do people who might have underlying cardiovascular risk factors need to be followed up closely for a longer period of time than the 30 minutes of mandatory observation post vaccination? They need to carry out a systematic investigations of all the deaths to answer this.” A 52-year old health worker, Mannu Pahan Munda, who was administered a Covid-19 vaccine in Ranchi on February 1 died on Tuesday night. The Jharkhand health minister’s office said on Wednesday that a post-mortem report was awaited but Pahan had a history of hypertension and diabetes. Nine others who received the vaccine from the same vial are all doing fine, the office said in a statement. Jharkhand had immunised over 55,000 people till Tuesday without any reports of serious AEFIs. Pahan had not complained of any discomfort or adverse event during the half-hour mandatory observation, M.M. Pandey, medical superintendent at Medanta, said. But he suddenly fell in the toilet at his home on Tuesday night and was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Pahan had experienced some breathlessness about a fortnight ago but had recovered. Arora and health officials have asserted that there is a critical difference between coincidental events and causal associations. “As the vaccination campaign progresses, it is important for people to understand that coincidental deaths after vaccinations are not causal events — not caused by the vaccines,” Arora said. Health officials have underlined that natural deaths occur every day across the country and the rigorous AEFI tracking mechanism that has been set up alongside the Covid-19 vaccination campaign is designed to record all deaths among vaccine recipients. “The death curve is typically U-shaped,” Arora said. “The death rates in India are relatively high in infants below one year of age, then the rates decline and are lowest between 15 and 45, then they increase again, and very sharply among people in their 60s and 70s.” The campaign’s current round will immunise around 10 million healthcare workers and 20 million frontline public workers. In the subsequent round, the vaccines will be offered to around 270 million people aged 50 years or older and those below 50 with chronic health disorders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||India||Rs 1 lakh for Deep Sidhu information: Delhi police||Delhi police on Wednesday announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for anyone who provided information on Deep Sidhu, accused of hoisting the Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. The police also announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for any information that could lead to the arrest of his associates  Jagbir Singh, Buta Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Iqbal Singh  for their alleged involvement in the violence. The police have failed to track down the “missing” Sidhu, a Punjabi actor turned activist, and his associates. Sidhu is accused of inciting farmers to deviate from their assigned route and storm the Red Fort. Farmers leaders have alleged sabotage and accused Sidhu of being a “government agent” responsible for the unprecedented violence and trying to defame their protest against the new farm laws. The police has so far filed 44 cases and arrested 122 people. Several farmer union leaders have also been named in the cases. “Our three teams are in Punjab to locate Sidhu and his associates, but they have not been able to track down them,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||India||PM’s brother stages 'dharna' at Lucknow airport||A younger brother of Prime Minister Narendra Modi staged a “dharna” at Lucknow airport for two hours on Wednesday, alleging police had detained people who had come to receive him. Prahlad Damodardas Modi, 66, who owns a shop in Ahmedabad, had arrived from Delhi at 2pm and was to travel to Sultanpur where the Yoga Social Society, which teaches yoga, planned to felicitate him. However, a Lucknow officer said, the police had detained a group of 10 people from the organisation who had come in three SUVs from Sultanpur and were headed to Amausi Airport to welcome Prahlad Modi. “The Sultanpur administration had told us a case had been registered against these 10 people on Tuesday for using pictures of the Prime Minister, home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Yogi Adityanath on the banners of their private programme,” the officer said. He added that the “credentials” of the detainees were “doubtful”. The Yoga society’s version could not be obtained. Officially, the police denied any detentions. “We did not detain anybody,” additional deputy commissioner Chiranjeev Nath Sinha said. Prahlad Modi sat in a chair at the exit gate of the terminal and told security personnel  he was on a dharna. He threatened to start a hunger strike if those detained were not released immediately. Media reports quoted him as saying: “About 100 of my followers were on their way to the airport to receive me…. Police officers told me there were instructions from the PM’s office to detain them. I asked the officers to show me the order, which they failed to bring to me.” The Lucknow officer said: “We released them (detainees) and arranged a conversation on a mobile phone between them and Prahlad Modi. He then agreed to leave for Sultanpur in a car that was waiting for him at the airport.” After the Sultanpur event, Prahlad Modi is scheduled to be felicitated also at Jaunpur and Pratapgarh by the organisation, which appears to have branches in several states and cities including Ahmedabad, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||India||Coins worth Rs 14 lakh ‘missing’ from Odisha bank||Coins worth over Rs 14 lakh have allegedly gone missing from the treasury of a nationalised bank in Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur district. Coins in the denominations from Re 1 to Rs 5 have allegedly disappeared over four years since 2016 from the treasury of Union Bank of India’s Paradeepgarh branch in Jagatsinghpur district, around 100km from here. The new branch manager, Santosh Kumar, who joined on January 25, was the first to raise an alarm about the disappearance and informed his superiors. Police sources said Kumar came to know about the missing coins during an internal audit. It was discovered that coins (around 3 lakh) worth Rs 14,86,780 lakh were missing but branch officials had never raised an alarm. None of the bank officials were able to give a clear picture about the missing coins despite repeated queries from Kumar. After Kumar lodged an FIR, a case has been registered against four former bank employees, including two former managers of the branch. The case has been registered under IPC Sections 420 (cheating), 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant, banker, merchant or agent) and 34 ( acts done by several in furtherance of common intention). Inspector Pravash Chandra Sahu said: “A probe into the incident has already begun and we will crack the case soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||India||Odisha budget session from February 18||The budget session of the Odisha Legislative Assembly will commence from February 18 and will continue till April 9. Unlike the last session which was held when the Covid-19 pandemic had forced the suspension of the Question Hour, the budget session will give legislators the opportunity to ask questions and seek replies from the government. While the budget will be tabled in the House on February 22, the Appropriation Bill will be presented on March 31. The session will have 31 working days. Like the Union budget, the state budget will also be “green” and presented in the digital mode for the first time. Members will send their questions online using the National E-Vidhan mobile application. Work is in the full swing for the upgradation of the E-Vidhan Sabha at a cost of Rs 8.56 crore. The Centre will bear 60 per cent of the cost. “All the officers and staff working in the Odisha Assembly have already been trained by the Odisha Computer Application Centre in a bid to make the Vidhan Sabha paperless,” said a senior official. Assembly Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro said although there is marked improvement in the pandemic situation, there will be restrictions for the legislators on the Assembly premises with some relaxation in Covid-19 guidelines. “As decided, Covid-19 test will not be mandatory for MLAs prior to their entry into the Assembly premises. However, if any member has any symptoms, he or she will have to undergo the antigen test,” Patro said. The Speaker said if any MLA or minister is not willing to physically attend the session, they can participate in the discussion through videoconferencing from their office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||India||Bihar job threat to curb protests ||The Bihar government has issued a diktat that people involved in criminal activities while staging protests or road blockades will not be eligible for government jobs or contracts. The Opposition slammed chief minister Nitish Kumar for trying to strip the people, especially youths, of their right to protest in a democracy by threatening to harm their career opportunities. “If any person indulges in any criminal activity while participating in any law and order situation, protest, road jam and other such things, and is charge-sheeted by the police for this, it should be specifically and clearly mentioned in his character verification report,” a circular issued by Bihar director-general of police S.K. Singhal said. “Such people should be ready to face serious consequences because they will not be able to get government jobs or contracts,” the circular added. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav termed the circular a “diktat of North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un”. The directive comes at a time when the government is facing demonstrations and protest marches by students, unemployed youths, job exam candidates, teachers, farmers and other sections of the society. Youths who have qualified in various recruitment exams many months ago are demonstrating for not receiving appointment letters. Normally, character verification is done prior to the appointment of a person in any government job and his criminal records are cross-checked, but the latest directive seems intended to dissuade youths from participating in protests by trying to instill in them the fear of loss of employment opportunities. “We have specifically stated that if a youth creates a situation for himself without any reason, like sitting in a demonstration or participating in any agitation, and subsequently a case is registered and he is charge-sheeted, then the consequences will be grave for him,” Singhal told The Telegraph. Singhal said the intention was not to dissuade youths from participating in demonstrations but “to provide law-related information to them. It is their wish to participate in the protests or not. We are not telling them anything about it. We are just saying that the character verification will now be done in a more elaborate manner than earlier.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||West Bengal||Teacher found dead at rented home in Burdwan||The body of a college teacher with minor head injuries was recovered from the rented home of the deceased in Burdwan on Wednesday morning. Police sources said Akhtar Hasinur Rahaman, 40, used to teach geography at Maharajadhiraj Uday Chand Women’s College in Burdwan. He got married for the second time in June last year and started to stay at a rented house in the Krishnapur area of Burdwan town. Mujibar Rahaman, father of the deceased teacher, said his daughter-in-law informed him over the phone on Wednesday morning that Hasinur had slumped to the ground and died due to a heart attack. “After we rushed to our son’s rented home, we found his body lying in a pool of blood on the floor and my daughter-in-law was missing. I tried to communicate with her over phone but her mobile phone was switched off,” said Mujibar, a farmer in Birbhum’s Ekdalia village. Mujibar has lodged a murder complaint against his daughter-in-law at Burdwan police station. A police officer said based on the complaint the police have started a probe against the teacher’s wife. Asked whether it was a case of murder, the police officer said they were waiting for the post-mortem report. “There were minor injuries on the body and those are unlikely to be the cause of anyone’s death. However, we are waiting for the post-mortem report,” he said. Villagers said Hasinur was a bright student and had cleared the College Service Commission a decade ago to join the college as a teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt asks BJP to seek yatra nod locally||The Bengal government has asked the BJP to approach local authorities regarding arrangements for “Parivartan Rathyatras (chariot rallies for change)” that the party wanted to take out from five different places in the state with the first one set to roll out from Nadia’s Nabadwip on February 6. The BJP had on Monday sought an appointment with chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to discuss the modalities for those processions. However, the government asked the BJP on Tuesday to take up the matter with “the appropriate authorities at local levels”. “Necessary permission regarding maintenance of law and order during assemblies and processions are issued by the district administration concerned. A blanket permission is never issued,” a state government official said on condition of anonymity. BJP leader Sayantan Basu acknowledged the party had received the state government’s letter late on Tuesday and added that applications would be sent to all the district authorities concerned. “We will send letters to the SPs and DMs of the districts about the route our rathyatras will cover,” he said. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said if permission for the rallies was denied, his party would move court against it. The BJP in its application to the chief secretary said the party would be organising “peaceful political programmes” between February and March this year. The BJP had also stated five raths or chariots would crisscross the state for over 20-25 days. The first rathyatra will start from Nabadwip on February 6 and is scheduled to be inaugurated by BJP national president J.P. Nadda. Over the next few days, similar processions will roll out from Cooch Behar, Kakdwip, Jhargram and Tarapith. Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah will inaugurate the rallies. “The idea is to bring out five different processions, one for each of our organisational districts. The rallies will cover all the 294 Assembly constituencies of the state,” a BJP source said. The party had planned similar rallies before the Lok Sabha polls but the state government had denied permission for the programmes. The BJP had moved Calcutta High Court which had denied BJP permission for the rathyatras. The party had then moved the Supreme Court that upheld the high court’s order. According to a section of the BJP, the party wants the state government to deny permission this time, too. The party leaders believe this would help them create ruckus and reap political gains ahead of the polls. “If we are not allowed to go ahead with the rathyatras, we will be able to tell the people that the Trinamul government is trying to gag Opposition voices,” a BJP leader said. A BJP leader said the party had its Plan B ready in case permission was denied to the rathyatras. On Wednesday, a PIL was filed at Calcutta High Court to deny permission to the yatras. The application said that the processions could lead to disruption in law and order. The court will hear the matter on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal completes 100 days of drop in active cases||Bengal on Wednesday completed 100 days of a drop in active Covid-19 cases as the number of patients under treatment fell to 5,196 from 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami on October 26. The total of active cases is now back almost to where it was 222 days ago, on June 26 last year. On Wednesday, the state recorded 303 recoveries, 201 infections and seven deaths, including two in Calcutta. The recovery rate rose for 103 consecutive days to touch 97.3 per cent, still leading the national rate by 0.2 per cent. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.08 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 75 days. On Wednesday, the state reported 21,812 tests, taking the total number of swab samples examined past 80.58 lakh. The tests per million people are 89,535. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases is over 5.7 lakh, including more than 5.55 lakh recoveries and 10,195 deaths. The state attributed 8,562 (84 per cent) of the total deaths to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate also was unchanged at 1.43 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly election: CPM to hit campaign trail with Manik Sarkar video||The Bengal CPM will use former Tripura chief minister Manik Sarkar’s Burdwan speech on Tuesday as a campaign tool in the coming Assembly polls to alert people to the situation in the north eastern state after the BJP came to power in 2018. The party took the decision after Sarkar’s elaborate explanation of the situation in Tripura drew a lot of interest within the CPM and beyond. “We have already asked our youth leaders to prepare a compact video clip of the party’s politburo member Manik Sarkar on what he told about Tripura and how he warned the people of Bengal about the danger of bringing the BJP to power. We will hold small meetings at villages and play the video,” said Amal Haldar, state secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha. “We will start the campaign from East Burdwan first and later in the entire state,” said Haldar. While addressing over 10,000 people in Burdwan town, the politburo member had urged them to take a train to Tripura and interact with rickshaw pullers and grocers to learn from them “what a blunder they committed by voting the BJP to power”. He also alerted people that the BJP was following the Tripura model in Bengal. “After his speech, many of our common supporters told us that his words touched their hearts. We also think people should know about the BJP from the horse’s mouth like Sarkar. We believe his words will be an advantage as he is from Tripura,” said a CPM state committee member. CPM sources said a group of youth leaders had already started working on audiovisual campaign material with Sarkar’s speech on how the BJP lured the people of Tripura with false assurances. The party has a plan to show the video at remote villages where BJP is luring people with “false assurance” and polarising the society. “We have formed three groups in Burdwan and they will move to different places and install projectors to show Sarkar’s speech,” said Binod Ghosh, a CPM district committee member in Burdwan. We will prepare an audio file also but our goal will be to campaign by using the video of his speech as its impact is better. We will start such campaigns this week.” “As the entire speech is in Bengali, it would help us communicate with the common people on the ground,” he added. Singur CPM leader Sujan on Wednesday symbolically laid the foundation stone of industry at Singur where the Left Front government had invited Tata Motors to set up a small car factory. Chakrabarty, who attended a rally in Singur, also said if the LeftCongress alliance won power in Bengal, the first cabinet meeting would be held on the Singur land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||Student dies in motorcycle crash in Nadia, sand on road blamed||An engineering student died after his motorcycle skidded over sand dumped on the road in Nadia’s Tehatta while returning home from a wedding on Tuesday night. Two persons, including the student’s elder brother, have been critically injured. The deceased student is Sagar Das, 21, who was a resident of Givindapur Purba Daspara in Santipur town. The incident occurred near the victim’s home about 11pm on Tuesday. Police and family sources said Sagar, a student of a Krishnagar-based private engineering college, had gone to a wedding in the neighbouring area on Tuesday evening with his elder brother Tamal. Around 10.45 pm, the siblings’ common friend Nayan Sarkar, a BSF employee, offered them to drop home on his motorcycle. Local sources said Nayan lost control over the two-wheeler when he sped over sand dumped on the roadside. “The bike skidded and hit a wall and a brick stack. Sagar died on the spot,” said a local source. An investigating officer of Santipur police said reckless riding on a deserted lane had prima facie led to the accident. “Careless dumping of construction materials on the carriage way is a major problem in many parts of our state. We have nothing to do unless local administration takes action against such dumping.” The police have started a case of unnatural death in the absence of any specific complaint against sand dumping. Tapas Das, father of the deceased youth, said: "I hope that people will act responsibly as such dumping could take more innocent lives like my son's.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||CAA delay a blow to BJP's Matua outreach||The decision of a parliamentary committee on subordinate legislation to grant the ministry of home affairs extension till April 9 to frame the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019, rules has put the BJP in a fix as the party tries hard to assuage the sentiments of the Matuas who have been showing signs of restlessness over the delay in rolling out the citizenship matrix. To contain the adverse political consequences of further delay that the extension will cause, the BJP-aligned All India Matua Mahasangh has written to the Union home ministry seeking its view on the delay while increasing its coordination with at least 36 refugee organisations to decide the future course of action. “It is true that certain doubts and questions have arisen in the minds of the Matuas and we cannot ignore their concern. The extension to frame rules has only added to the confusion. We are trying to clarify that nothing could be finalised before the Assembly polls but there is nothing to despair. We have sent a number of queries to the home ministry that Matuas have raised. We are hopeful that confusion will end when Amit Shah speaks at Thakurnagar next week,” a top leader of the Mahasangh said. He added the Union home minister was expected to address the rally at Thakurnagar in North 24-ganas on February 11. The Mahasangh leadership is banking on the “patience” of the community members and hopes that Shah will be able to end the confusion among the Matuas. A Mahasangh leader said that they would meet after February 11 to decide on the what to do next. Subrata Thakur, who heads the Mahasangh jointly with his brother and BJP MP Santanu Thakur, told The Telegraph: “It is true that the government has been taking time for framing the rules. We are hopeful that the delay will be good for us eventually.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s graft finger at former minister||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said there were complaints that her former cabinet colleague Rajib Banerjee had manipulated the recruitment of “ban sahayaks (forest workers)” and a probe was on into the enrolment. Mamata didn’t name the former forest minister who had quit the Trinamul Congress and joined the BJP last month. Banerjee denied the charge and said he had rejected certain Trinamul leaders’ recommendations in the selection process. The state forest department headed by Banerjee had last year launched a drive to engage around 2,000 “ban sahayaks” on contract. They would be deployed for conservation and protection of forests across the state and for other activities of the department. Addressing a public meeting at the Parade Ground in Alipurduar, Mamata trained guns at her former cabinet colleague. “Somebody who was with us and has joined the BJP recently …. I have received complaints that he has done some manipulations in the recent recruitment of Ban Sahayaks. We are conducting an investigation,” said the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee likely to skip Narendra Modi’s event at Haldia||Mamata Banerjee is unlikely to attend Narendra Modi’s Sunday event at Haldia, despite being invited to it, as there are apprehensions of the central government programme being used to “humiliate” her, said sources close to her. “They seem to have this plan of inviting her and then doing things to insult her and the state government. Why should she go and facilitate that gross discourtesy?” asked the source. The Bengal chief minister, said the source, is wary of a repeat of the January 23 event at Victoria Memorial — supposed to be an apolitical event of the BJP-led Centre meant to honour Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose — where she went as an invitee but was heckled by sections in the audience. “They did not even spare an event in honour of Netaji. Why should this be any different?” asked the source, referring to Sunday’s event where Modi would inaugurate infrastructure projects in oil and gas, and road sectors. “Not only is she unlikely to go, but she also expects other elected representatives from the party (such as Ghatal MP Dev, the actor-politician) to give it a miss,” said a Trinamul Congress MP. Earlier in the day, Saumitra Khan, the BJP’s Bishnupur MP and the party’s state youth wing chief, tweeted that Dev and Contai MP Sisir Adhikari — the father of BJP’s catch of the season Suvendu Adhikari, who is yet to defect from Trinamul — would share the dais with Modi. ‘When she found out, she called Dev, asking him if he was planning to go even if she might not. He said he was certainly not going and had already issued a statement on Twitter clarifying that Khan was mistaken…. That put her at ease,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata draws Tripura parallel as part of strategy to revive TMC in north Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday referred to the problems that tribal and Rajbanshi people were allegedly facing in the BJP-ruled states of Assam and Tripura as part of her strategy to revive the Trinamul Congress in north Bengal, a region where the two communities together hold the key in 30 out of 54 Assembly segments. “Please visit Assam and Tripura and speak to rickshaw pullers, grocers, common people... You will come to know about the condition of tribal and the Rajbanshi people there,” the chief minister said while addressing a rally at the Alipurduar parade ground. Former Tripura chief minister and CPM leader Manik Sarkar had made a similar statement at a Burdwan rally on Tuesday. He had said: “Take a train to Tripura, talk to rickshaw pullers and grocers and learn from them what a blunder they committed by voting the BJP to power in the state.” Addressing over 50,000 people on Wednesday afternoon, Mamata also said: “Here, we have made laws to protect tribal land. I have written letters to the Centre so that Sarna, the religious code of the tribal people, is given recognition. Go and see what they have done in Assam and Tripura.” In the past few months, the Bengal government took a slew of measures, ranging from hiking wages for workers in tea gardens to legitimising refugee colonies, to win over the adivasis and the Rajbanshis. A Trinamul source said the fact that the party had tasted some success in its mission became clear as two major opinion makers in the two communities — Rajesh Lakra, a former leader of the Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikash Parishad and Bangshibadan Burman, general secretary of the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association — were present at Mamata’s rally. In the last Lok Sabha polls, Lakra had campaigned for the BJP in the tribal-dominated areas, while Burman, whom Mamata had made the chairman of Rajbanshi Development and Cultural Board in 2017, had distanced himself from Trinamul. On Wednesday, Lakra went all guns blazing at the Narendra Modi government. “In the Terai-Dooars region, we will remove even the traces of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Our Didi has done so much for the tribal and Rajbanshi communities... She has delivered on her promises for people. We want her to return to power with 200-plus seats,” said Lakra, a tribal leader. “I am a priest and a pastor... Mark my words, Didi will come to power,” he added. When Mamata rose to deliver her address immediately after Lakra had finished his speech, she thanked the young tribal leader before rolling out a long list of what her government had done for all communities in the region. “We believe in taking everyone along... We believe in standing by people and our schemes bear the proof of what we have done,” she said. “We want peace, they (the BJP) want riots, we want development, they want immersion, we want to create employment, they want retrenchment,” the chief minister summed up in her attempt to differentiate between Trinamul and the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||North East||Ex-envoy to advise Assam party on economy||The newly floated regional party, Assam Jatiya Parishad, has roped in noted economist and former high commissioner to the UK, Jaimini Bhagwati, to head its economic planning advisory council which will suggest measures to strengthen the state’s economy. AJP president Lurinjyoti Gogoi said on Tuesday that they formed the council as the party, formed last year to “oust the divisive” BJP from power in the state, was committed to ensuring the economic and social security of all “legitimate” residents of Assam. “We are taking an initiative to develop a financial and economic road map with practical short, medium and long-term steps to strengthen Assam’s economy through government and self-help steps so that in the future the government can provide adequate employment, infrastructure and environment wherein entrepreneurship can flourish,” Lurinjyoti said. Senior AJP leaders Jagadish Bhuyan and Adip Phukan told The Telegraph that Bhagwati had not joined the party but was helping it out as a “well-wisher”. “We can only gain by his vast and varied experience and knowledge. We are sure the council’s road map will help strengthen, secure and shape Assam’s future. We have several domain experts from within and outside India in the council headed by the distinguished former diplomat,” Bhuyan said. Since its launch, the AJP has been trying to come up with an inclusive and development-oriented narrative to attract voters in a highly polarised and overcrowded electoral field. Providing a “sound and practical” economic road map is part of this narrative. Hailing from Tezpur, Bhagwati is a 1976-batch Indian Foreign Service officer. He had served as the ambassador to Belgium, Luxembourg and the EU, besides being India’s envoy to the UK before retiring in 2013 after an eventful 33-year diplomatic career. Bhagwati has authored the book, The Promise of India — How Prime Ministers Nehru to Modi Shaped the Nation (1947-2019). The book, released in August 2019, provides an insight into the functioning of each government since Independence and tries to show how well different Prime Ministers “steered” the nation on the path of progress and development. “Grand in sweep and thoroughly researched, this deeply engaging book sheds new light on independent India’s history,” the publisher has said about the book. Jaimini is the son of freedom fighter Bijoy Chandra Bhagwati, who had also served as a minister in the governments of Jawahar Lal Nehru and Indira Gandhi. The diplomat had almost contested the Lok Sabha elections on a Congress ticket from Tezpur constituency in 2014 when Tarun Gogoi was the chief minister. However, the move did not fructify, Congress insiders said. Apart from Bhagwati, former Assam chief secretary C.K. Das and other domain experts from health, technology, human resource and media, among others, living in the state, rest of the country and abroad are part of the council.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-24
04-02-2021||Opinion||In Myanmar, Suu Kyi still a force to reckon with||Could it be Myanmar Army chief General Min Aung Hlaing just didn’t like the idea of retirement and decided to stage a coup instead? Back in 2016, he’d given himself a five-year extension which ends next month when he turns 65. Or, more seriously, did the Myanmar Army oust the civilian government Monday because General Min wanted to strike before the newly elected parliament was due to sit for the first time later that day? One way or another, Indian analysts reckon the coup writing was on the wall after national elections swept Aung San Suu Kyi’s party back to power in November with a massive majority. “In December, there were signs of unhappiness in the top military leadership. In January, there was an attempt in the lame-duck parliament to discuss the so-called ‘electoral fraud’ (allegations by the military). That didn’t go through,” says Pratap Heblikar, former special secretary, Government of India. Heblikar reckons Suu Kyi, who was Myanmar’s state counsellor -- effectively the prime minister -- should have called in the military leaders for talks at that point when it was clear they were unhappy and looking to have the election annulled because of what they charged was massive voter fraud. Both sides held high cards but Heblikar believes they could have concluded a deal. In any event, the military never really relinquished full power in Myanmar, even after its 2010 civilian handover as it remained in charge of the home ministry, defence and immigration. But Suu Kyi held trump cards of her own. Her National League for Democracy (NLD) won an overwhelming 396 out of 476 seats in the elections. Even if she’d agreed to the military’s demand for a recount – not fresh elections -- she could still almost certainly have formed a government. Also, she could rightly have noted that as the army headed the home ministry, it should have been able to ensure free and fair elections. (Independent election observers reported no signs of voting irregularities). However, relations between Suu Kyi and the military have been icy for a long time and it’s reported that she and Senior Gen Min Aung Hlaing hadn’t been on speaking terms since 2018. On Monday, it became evident the coup rumours were right all along when army tanks rolled onto on the streets of Yangon (earlier called Rangoon) and the new capital, Naypyidaw. This was just two days after Min Aung had flatly denied any coup plans and said comments to officers that the constitution might be revoked had been misinterpreted. General Min Aung’s mollifying statements led analysts to downplay coup talk with Myanmar-based independent analyst Richard Horsey tweeting it appeared the military “will follow the constitution” and “any imminent putsch seems unlikely.” After the coup, everyone realised General Min Aung had just been economical with the truth in promising to abide by the constitution and that he planned to invoke the constitution’s Article 417 which gives the military the right to seize power in the case of “emergency.” Widespread arrests have already taken place including of Nobel winner Suu Kyi who the Financial Times reported was back under house arrest as she was on and off for 20 years between 1989 and 2010 when she led the pro-democracy opposition to the generals’ rule. Others arrested include Myanmar President Win Myint, state and regional prime ministers and workers from Suu Kyi’s NLD party. After the army took over, former lieutenant general Myint Swe was appointed acting president and he’s transferred formally power to the military. Myint Swe has always close to Myanmar’s powers-that-be and former dictator Than Shwe. As the leader of Yangon. he suppressed what was called the Saffron Revolution in 2007 during which scores are said to have died and hundreds were arrested. Why did the military, which already held most of the power, suddenly decide to remove the fig leaf of civilian rule? It’s reckoned the plans of General Min Aung, who’s rumoured to have desired a political role post-army retirement, went badly awry. The military nominates 25 per cent of the MPs in the legislature. Min Aung had hoped to tie up with the opposition United Solidarity and Development Party and become president. However, this plan collapsed in the election when the NLD trounced the military-backed opposition and raked in 83 per cent of the vote, even more than in the 2015 election. Isolated, poverty-stricken Myanmar’s strategically squeezed between India and China. The Ministry of External Affairs reacted cautiously to the coup news, saying: “India has always been steadfast in its support to the process of democratic transition in Myanmar. We believe that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld. We are monitoring the situation closely.” The response from China, which has huge infrastructure projects in Myanmar (Huawei’s building the 5G network) and which had established strong ties with the civilian government, was even blander. Beijing, which had drawn closer to Myanmar’s civilian government when it came under Western criticism over its handling of the Rohingya Muslim crisis, voiced hope “all sides in Myanmar can handle their differences under the constitution.” The reality is that India is back to walking a tightrope between Suu Kyi and the military. India had won favour with the military by gifting a submarine to the Myanmar Navy (the former INS Sindhuvir) last year. India and China have long been jostling to win influence in Myanmar. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi was in Myanmar a few days ago before the coup. (Incidentally, the Myanmar military believes the Chinese are also supplying arms to the Rohingyas as part of a drive to expand its influence toward the India-Myanmar border). Unsurprisingly, the West has come out swinging with US President Joe Biden threatening to restore sanctions against Myanmar’s military and saying force should never be used to “attempt to erase the outcome of a credible election.” British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said: “I condemn the coup and the unlawful imprisonment of civilians, including Aung San Suu Kyi.” But the army’s aware it may not be able to hold onto power for a very long time. For hours Tuesday night, people in Yangon banged on pots and pans and honked their car horns, creating noise heard across the city, to protest against the coup. Earlier Tuesday, Myawaddy TV, which is controlled by the military, promised elections in the next 12 months. Says Heblikar: “It appears there is a way forward. The military has a roadmap. We will need to see how the roadmap will be progressed.” The military realises there’s a deep desire for democracy in Myanmar and it will not be able to quell that permanently. Even many soldiers must almost certainly be for democracy. Says Heblikar: “If you look at the three parliamentary exercises held in 1990, 2015, 2020 83 per cent to 84 per cent of the voters have voted in favour of the NLD. Even the armed forces vote for her. Myanmar has around 500,000 people in the armed forces. If many of them hadn’t also voted for her, she couldn’t have got such a huge majority.” Suu Kyi’s reputation has gone down globally ever since the brutal suppression of the Rohingya Muslims that she described as an “internal armed conflict” when appearing before the International Court of Justice at the Hague. At home, though, she’s still retains her huge popularity as the leader for democracy. Right now, she’s issued a call to her supporters to protest against the coup. Whatever moves the military makes in the coming months, it’s clear Suu Kyi remains a force to be reckoned with.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
04-02-2021||Opinion||Cuts deep: Union Budget 2021-22||This year’s budget has been lauded for its bold steps in boosting expenditures to stimulate economic recovery from the shock of the pandemic. The effectiveness of the stimulus is determined by the composition of the additional budgetary spending. At a granular level, this budget falls short in two key areas of spending. The first is the agricultural sector. The allocation under agricultural research and education has increased only marginally from the budget estimate of 2020-21 by Rs 151 crore while the allocation for agriculture, cooperation and farmers’ welfare has fallen by Rs 10,000 crore from last year’s budget estimate. As far as rural employment is concerned, there has been a cut in the budget allocation for 2021-22 from the revised estimate for 2020-21 by Rs 38,500 crore. Another area where the axe has fallen heavily is education. On the revenue expenditure side, the total allocation for general and technical education has fallen by Rs 36 crore compared to the budget estimate of 2020-21. In the capital account, the allocation under education, arts, sports and culture has fallen by Rs 2,217 crore compared to the budget estimate of 2020-21. The allocation for health research has been pruned by 34.4 per cent compared to the revised estimate for 2020-21. The total budgetary allocation for the ministry of education has fallen by 6.13 per cent of the budgetary allocation made during 2020-21. Agriculture has the potential to generate incomes and livelihoods, which help in the recovery process. Rural employment generation is of critical significance at the current moment. Food and fertilizer subsidies have gone up though. However, these do not directly contribute to employment and income generation. On the other hand, the implications for education and research are entirely different. These affect the quality of life and the productivity of the labour force in years to come. The results of what is being done now will only be felt a decade later. Education and employment form two important pillars of a nation. Any neglect can be costly in more senses than one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
04-02-2021||Opinion||One step backward: Polish abortion ban||Sir — Last week the Polish government put into effect a constitutional court decision leading to a near-total ban on pregnancy terminations. The decision — Poland has now banned abortion in case of foetal defects — permits terminations only in cases of rape, incest or danger to a woman’s life. This has rightly sparked massive protests in the country. The law is an assault on women’s reproductive rights and substantially sets back the gender rights movement. The international community must condemn this policy and do all it can to extend support to the protesters in Poland. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta Much awaited Sir — The Union budget for 2021-22, like every budget, has its fair share of hits and misses (“Bluff nailed”, Feb 2). Considering the tough circumstances that we are living in, it is good news that fiscal conservatism has been kept aside and growth has been given top priority. The budget proposes to add two public sector banks to the list of entities being considered for disinvestment that includes Air India, Container Corporation of India and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited. But will the government be able to properly handle the systemic challenges posed by various committees and the lengthy process of making disinvestment a reality in a buoyant stock market? While it is good that Rs 1.18 lakh crore has been set aside for roads and highways, these are long gestation projects and take more than four to five years to complete. As a result there is a lack of clarity about implementation. Out of a total budget outlay of Rs 2,23,846 crore, a substantial amount of Rs 35,000 crore has been earmarked for the Covid-19 vaccination drive. But for a comprehensive vaccination programme to succeed in India, it is critical that the private sector is also roped in. Even in this case, successful implementation continues to be a key concern. Nonetheless, it is hoped that a bigger health budget will provide much-needed relief to the healthcare sector workers who have been toiling with limited resources since the outbreak of the pandemic. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The people of India were waiting for the Union budget with bated breath, and the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, has put some of the concerns to rest by announcing a well-considered outlay. Hearteningly, the health sector gets a much needed boost with a whopping 137 per cent increase in the budget. The government has set aside Rs 35,000 crore just for the Covid-19 vaccination drive which is, undoubtedly, going to be the Centre’s focus this year. Sitharaman has also announced the introduction of a new Centrally sponsored scheme, PM Aatma Nirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, which has been provided an outlay of Rs 64,180 crore over six years to develop primary, secondary and tertiary health systems, and create new institutions along with strengthening existing ones. The budget also shows an increased focus on clean water, sanitation and clean environment as a prerequisite to achieving universal health. There is no doubt that creating a robust healthcare system during the onslaught of the coronavirus will be a great challenge, but it seems that the finance ministry is off to a great start. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — It is unfortunate that the Union budget failed to hit the mark. Although the government announced that it will set aside substantial funds for micro, small and medium-scale industries, many are doubtful of its ability to implement policies to improve the condition of these sectors which have borne the brunt of the pandemic. The government must also focus on utilizing the funds set aside for the healthcare sector properly — the budget proposes a 137 per cent hike in healthcare — so that the country can be better prepared for similar situations in the future. Moreover, the figures highlighted by the finance minister to portray the government as farmer-friendly are clearly an attempt to gain validation for the three contentious farm laws. It is also surprising that the government has not made any revisions in income tax slabs. In a word, from a tax-payer’s point of view, this was a lacklustre budget. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — While the Union budget focuses on fiscal expansion, it has avoided addressing several problems plaguing the economy. The lack of any major effort by the government to redistribute income by increasing taxation on higher tax groups is alarming. Anurag Ganguly,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
04-02-2021||Opinion||Rather remote: online education in India||The Covid-19 pandemic sparked monumental changes in the social, cultural and practical functioning of society. Of particular importance was the shifting of education to a predominantly digital realm since the contagion ruled out the possibility of public gatherings, including those in schools and institutes of higher education. Is this model of education now set to gain a degree of permanence? The Union government has said that it intends to establish ‘virtual’ universities which will ostensibly help in achieving the desired gross enrolment ratio in higher education as envisaged in the National Education Policy. However, the rush towards ‘remote learning’ has exposed the limitations of online education in many ways. Inequality and poverty — both have been exacerbated by the pandemic — have given rise to the spectre of exclusion; internet connectivity, access to digital video devices and affiliated infrastructure are still either threadbare or non-existent in vast swathes of the country, leaving many students, especially those from vulnerable constituencies, excluded from online classrooms. Students are also plagued by structural challenges; even though India is home to the world’s second-largest internet user base, the quality of digital connectivity is uneven, with metropolitan India faring better than the hinterland. And what would a virtual university mean for students in restive zones — Jammu and Kashmir is a case in point — where internet services are frequently disrupted by the powers that be? Even without such glitches, online education has proved to be taxing for both teachers and their wards. For the former, formulating methods and material for online communication remains a challenge; students are also finding this shift to an unfamiliar way of learning difficult. Other facets of learning — practical work and laboratory experiments — face roadblocks. There is also concern about whether the experience of digital education complements existing pedagogical techniques. These are, however, not the only challenges. The institutional eagerness for the digital medium has coincided with rising unemployment for teachers and tertiary staff. In Telangana last year, many teachers lost their jobs as private schools tied up with online learning platforms to deliver virtual classes to students. This is not to suggest that online education is devoid of benefits. Problems arise when a mode of learning that is still inaccessible to large constituencies is foregrounded as the “future of education” — the prime minister’s definition of virtual universities — instead of being a means to facilitate the traditional model of teaching and learning. Inclusion and critical thinking fostered by a thriving, collaborative learning environment are the hallmarks of a productive education system. These elements must not be sacrificed at the altar of virtual learning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
04-02-2021||Opinion||Gun over ballot in Myanmar||Myanmar’s all-powerful military, the Tatmadaw, has imposed an Emergency and taken control of the country. Aung San Suu Kyi, who led her party, the National League for Democracy, back to power with a landslide victory — the NLD won 396 out of 476 seats — has been put under house arrest. Other NLD leaders have been imprisoned too. Although the army was threatening a takeover for the last one month, not many were expecting it to happen. The Tatmadaw is not calling it a ‘coup’ in the hope that this would address the allegations of voter. But its real intent is clear because it has put a time frame of one year on the Emergency. Since it has taken over power a day before the newly-elected Parliament was expected to convene on February 1, one can expect three possible situations — the military will keep Parliament in suspension for a year and, then, hand over power to those elected in the November 2020 polls after arm-twisting the NLD into conceding that no attempt would be made to change the 2008 Constitution that gives the military 25 per cent of seats in Parliament and the control over the three key ministries of defence, home and border affairs; the military would attempt to anoint one of its candidates as the next president and only then would the NLD be allowed to take control of Parliament because it is the president who can exercise Emergency powers; the army may order fresh elections and try and rig it so that the pro-military Union Solidarity and Development Party, which was routed in the last elections — it won only 33 seats — is back in power. The declaration of the Emergency follows many veiled and some fairly direct threats of a coup by the military, including the army chief, Min Aung Hlaing. On January 25, the Burmese military spokesman, Zaw Min Tun, put pressure on the National Election Commission to provide the final electoral roll for cross-checking. This was the first open challenge to the November polls’ verdict after the USDP had joined the Tatmadaw in alleging widespread irregularities. The immediate cause for the military takeover appears to be personal. Min Aung Hlaing is due to retire in 2021. Reliable Burmese sources confirm that he has been trying to lobby hard to get the NLD’s support to become the next president. The NLD did not budge and insisted on retaining the current president, leading the military and its chief to suspect that Win Myint, the current incumbent, was keeping the seat warm for Suu Kyi until an amendment made it possible for the Nobel Laureate to contest for presidency. According to Chapter 3, no 59(f) of the 2008 Constitution, the president must be someone who “... himself, one of the parents, the spouse, one of the legitimate children or their spouses [can]not owe allegiance to a foreign power”. Suu Kyi’s late husband was the British professor, Michael Aris. Both her sons are British citizens. She could contest for the top job only if this provision is scrapped. After November’s triumph, the army fears that the NLD may bring about amendments to change the 2008 military-drafted Constitution and challenge the military’s outsized role in running the country. Suu Kyi’s post-poll announcement of trying to create a ‘national government’ with the ethnic parties, which won more than 40 seats, was seen as an attempt to work up a big enough majority that was necessary for the smooth sailing of key constitutional amendments. The four key amendments sought by the NLD are the scrapping the following Articles — Article 14 that enables the military to hold 25 per cent of seats in Parliaments; Article 17(b) that reserves the nomination of ministers of defence, internal security and border affairs with the army; Article 40(c) that gives the army the right to take over power in a state of Emergency; and Article 201 that enables the army to set up the National Defence and Security Council as the most powerful body during a crisis with military representatives enjoying the upper hand. The army is also upset with the NLD government for agreeing to take back Rohingya Muslim refugees in phases after a Chinese-mediated dialogue. Nearly 40,000 Rohingyas are expected to return in the first phase. The Tatmadaw is said to be uncomfortable with the prospective resumption of the repatriation process. The process may now be put on hold because of the Emergency. Finally, Suu Kyi and the NLD seem to have concluded that any genuine change in the Constitution concerning federalism would be incomplete without finding a political solution to the ethnic insurgencies ravaging Myanmar. The constitutional amendment to bring about a ‘true federal union’ was part of the Union Peace Conference-21st Century Panglong initiated by the NLD government in 2016. That was meant to take forward the peace process. The army, although keen on an enduring ceasefire to avoid too much operational commitment, is not too keen on the Panglong process because a political settlement of the ethnic conflicts would reduce the need for an ever-expanding army and lead to lesser budgetary allocations for military modernization. In 1990, the Myanmar army overturned the Parliament poll verdict that had gone in favour of the NLD in the nation’s first free and fair elections in three decades. Now it has used the allegations of electoral fraud as an excuse to overturn another electoral verdict, driving home the point that the Tatmadaw will only accept a Suharto-style ‘limited democracy’ and nothing more than that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
04-02-2021||Opinion||Winning hearts||In theory, a parliamentary system is also a cabinet-led way of government. In India, however, this has, except on rare occasions when a weak coalition is at the helm, invariably translated into a prime minister-dominated system. The Union budget is one of those rare occasions in the life of governments when the spotlight shifts from the prime minister to the finance minister. This is not so much because the decision-making is vested solely in the finance ministry, but because, apart from the overall political direction, the detailed choreography is left to the minister flaunting the red briefcase — in this case, the tablet with the attractive red cover with the official seal. Apart perhaps from the prime minister, other ministers are not privy to the budget before it is presented. I recall how furious L.K. Advani was after one budget presented by the then finance minister, Yashwant Sinha, during the term of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. And Advani was the unquestioned number two in the government. The problem that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman faced — at least until she completed her two hour-long budget address on February 1 — was that she was viewed as a lightweight. This was partly because she had stepped into the shoes of Arun Jaitley who, until he stepped aside on account of ill health just prior to the 2019 general election, was much more than just the finance minister. Her lack of a significant profile owed to two factors. First, before her elevation to the senior ranks of the government in 2014, Sitharaman was merely one of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s spokespersons and easily overshadowed by the likes of Jaitley, Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari, Sushma Swaraj and Amit Shah. Even after assuming a ministerial role she quite consciously kept a very low profile. For many, she was a surprise choice as defence minister and, subsequently, finance minister. Secondly, the perquisites of a finance minister include rubbing shoulders with the captains of industry and finance, making mandatory trips to Davos and being regarded as the resident pundit. Certainly, that was the status of Manmohan Singh in the P.V. Narasimha Rao government and P. Chidambaram in the United Front regime and the Manmohan Singh government. If Manmohan Singh was viewed in the outside world as the last word in economics — even if that meant, quite mistakenly, underestimating his skills as a politician and overestimating his ability to translate his academic wisdom into real-life situations — his successor was, frankly, as much feared as respected. The media in particular were very hesitant to be critical of Chidambaram, a courtesy that was rarely extended to Pranab Mukherjee who carried more political heft. Since she was elevated to her present position in North Block, Sitharaman has worked diligently but kept an extraordinarily low-key public profile. She hasn’t been seen summoning the captains of industry to her office, nor has she been known to have special lines of communication with any corporate house. She has done her work quietly and without any fuss, aided by equally low-profile advisers who haven’t taken a sabbatical from American universities. Likewise, her personal and family life has been a complete blank in the public imagination. This quiet approach has often been misinterpreted in the media imagination — which in turn has shaped business perceptions — into a belief that she is a cut below many of her predecessors. What was particularly singled out for criticism was her multi-part presentation of the stimulus package that also sought to link past initiatives with present sops and incentives. It was seen to be lacking in slick presentation. It is worth keeping this background in mind to understand the extraordinary elation that has greeted the Union budget of 2021. Maybe India has stopped the practice of describing the finance bill it likes as a Super Budget, keeping in mind the disappointments that often come mid-course. However, it would be fair to say that when Sitharaman rose to speak in the Lok Sabha on Monday, the expectation was of either bad news or very bad news. The reasons for this gloominess were understandable. Like the rest of the world, India too had borne a large share of the devastation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The extended lockdown that made a mockery of normal life in the first and second quarters of the ongoing financial year, the human tragedies that accompanied the deadly virus and the global economic tremors made it seem unlikely that there would be anything other than a bitter pill to swallow from the budget. To cap it all, the budget was preceded by the anger of the economists at the Narendra Modi government over its handling of the economic consequences of the pandemic. As a rule, economists — particularly those who like to view India as an enthralling case study — like to hunt in packs. The prevailing wisdom among economists, which included those who had once served the Government of India in different capacities, was that India needed a stimulus package along the lines of the cash handouts offered by the United Kingdom’s chancellor of the exchequer, Rishi Sunak. The Modi government had other ideas. The Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package focused on three things. First, in line with its principle of very targeted relief to the most vulnerable sections, it offered cash handouts through direct benefit transfers to women, migrant labour and farmers and undertook a massive campaign to ensure food security for all. For the vocal middle classes, it offered some non-cash relief such as extension of tax deadlines and reduction in the tax deducted at source rates. Secondly, it used the pandemic to enhance capacity-building in the crucial health sector, creating the necessary infrastructure that has been so useful in rolling out the gigantic anti-Covid vaccine programme across the country with a measure of spectacular efficiency. Finally, it used the pandemic and the lockdown to foster the notion of self-reliance (not to be mistaken for self-sufficiency) in Atmanirbhar Bharat. In effect, what the Modi government successfully did was hold its nerve and not be bamboozled into short-term remedies that would make the long-term recovery less enduring and unsustainable. The political test of this approach was the Bihar assembly election that was narrowly won, defeating a sustained populist challenge. Sitharaman’s budget has, in effect, enlarged the approach spelt out last year to a larger sphere. The massive increase in expenditure on health was quite easily digested by public opinion, not least on account of the encouraging progress of the vaccine programme. The programme to upgrade India’s infrastructure, particularly in roads and railways, always had a ready audience since such investments always had a big multiplier effect. Finally, the sops to farmers in the form of enhanced procurement prices and relief to plantation workers were a response to the agitation in northern India which will pay political dividends. However, public perceptions of the budget are also disproportionately shaped by the middle classes. Sitharaman won the hearts of this section by avoiding any extra tax burden and, indeed, making tax compliance that much easier for corporates. Like Manmohan Singh in 1991, Sitharaman used an acknowledged crisis to push through changes that in more normal times would have invited fierce criticism from the remnants of India’s socialist bloc — a bloc that exists in all parties. For daring to persist with an approach that the pundits had dismissed as too little and too late and garnishing it with the promise of double-digit growth, Sitharaman has come into her own. She is unlikely to be the target of gratuitous condescension any longer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
04-02-2021||Jharkhand|| Defunct streetlights in Adityapur, Gamharia pose threat to commuters||Several streetlights on Tata-Kandra Road in Adityapur and Gamharia in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district have stopped functioning, causing the most part of the 15-km-long road to remain in darkness since the past one month. As a result, commuters, especially the industrial workers, have been facing risks while negotiating through the darkness in the night. Additionally, no agency is going to mend the defunct street lights in the near future as Jharkhand Accelerated Road Development Corporation Ltd (JARDCL), the agency which had set up the road almost a decade ago has been embroiled with a litigation with its partner agency. The Tata-Kandra Road was modified into a four-lane by the corporation at the behest of state Road Construction Department at a cost of Rs 185 crores in the year 2012, and was supposed to maintain the road over the next 30 years. There are about 500 street lamps starting from Adityapur to Kandra, out of which only 15 per cent are functional now, causing problems to almost 40,000 workers who travel through the stretch. "It looks very dangerous to ride through the four-lane during the night as heavy vehicles also pass through it, causing our vision to get blurred due to the headlights in absence of the streetlamps.  If the street-lamps were functioning, then the impact of the headlights of the heavy vehicles would not be so much disturbing," said Ashim Gope, an industrial worker who stays at Adityapur while talking to this website. Like Gope scores others who have to go to their duty in the industrial area and return home during night have complained of the difficulties they are facing due to the darkness on the four-lane. Executive engineer, Road Construction Department, Seraikela division, Nirmal Singh said the street lamps are not being maintained since the past two months after the road agency has been embroiled in litigation. "The partner agency IL&FS has filed a case in the Ranchi High Court after his dues were not paid in time. As a result the maintenance work of the Tata-Kandra Road has stopped since December and it is not clear when this matter will be sorted out," Singh told The Telegraph Online. The executive engineer, who monitors the maintenance work by the road agency regularly when queried said, "As the matter is pending in the high court it cannot be said when this issue is going to be settled.  Unless the matter is settled in the court, the maintenance will not resume." Significantly, Om Prakash, president of a local NGO, Jan Kalyan Morcha said the road construction department should be serious about the lives and property of the commuters who have to ride through the unlit road on Tata-Kandra Road. "It is a very shameful thing on the part of the state government as on the one hand the road construction and traffic departments are observing a Road Safety Month since January, on the other hand the street lamps of the important Tata-Kandra Road remains unlit," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||Congress, CPI to back farmers’ ‘chakka-jam’ on Saturday||Congress and Left parties in Jharkhand have extended their support to the farmers’ call for a nationwide chakka-jam on Saturday, February 6 to press for the repeal of the three new farm laws. Both the Congress and the CPI announced their plans separately on Thursday. Leaders said they would hit the road in full strength to enforce a three-hour blockade of state and national highways from noon. Addressing a press conference at the CPI office, former MP and state general secretary of the party Bhuneshwar Prasad Mehta said they held a meeting with various social and civil rights groups earlier this week to seek their support. “Jharkhand will witness a total blockade of all national highways on February 6. The entire nation is behind farmers, who are on a protest along Delhi borders for over two months to fight for their survival and future. The farm laws must be taken back,” said Mehta. Elaborating their plans, he said the party has decided to hold peaceful blockades along highways at Booty More, Bundu and Tupudana in Ranchi, Baharagora in East Singhbhum, Nirsa and Maithon in Dhanbad, Barhi, Chouparan and Bagodar in Hazaribagh, among others. “All the six districts in Santhal Parganas will also witness a total blockade,” he said. Congress, which is part of the ruling coalition in the state, will support Saturday’s agitation plans. “The Congress has been behind farmers right from the day the contentious farm laws were brought in by the Modi government. All party workers will be on roads on Saturday to enforce the bandh in a peaceful manner,” said party spokesperson Alok Dubey. In the morning, state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon chaired a meeting to fine-tune the party’s activities against the new farm laws. Later, the party announced a state-level tractor rally in Hazaribagh on February 20. The party held its first 80km-long tractor rally from Godda to Deoghar in Santhal Pargana on January 31, which it claimed was a success. More than 1,200 tractors and 10,000 people were part of the January 31 rally. “The Hazaribagh rally will be even bigger than the one we held in Santhal Parganas,” said Dubey, adding that state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh had been entrusted with the task of ensuring the success of the upcoming rally. On Tuesday night, Badal had also met with Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, who emerged as a rallying figure post the Republic Day fiasco in Delhi to give fresh impetus to the ongoing protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||RU likely to invite toppers only for convocation ||For the first time since its establishment in 1960, Ranchi University (RU) will be inviting only toppers to its convocation ceremony to be held in the last week of February, keeping the  Covid-19 pandemic in mind, officials said on Thursday. While top university officials have decided to call for a meeting to discuss the entry restrictions at the venue on the convocation day, sources said that it was almost confirmed that only the 56 gold medalists and important personalities from the university and government will be invited to the ceremony. Also, unlike past years, the convocation ceremony is likely to be held in a closed auditorium this year instead of the convocation ground at the RU campus in Morabadi, officials said. This will be the 34th convocation of RU whhc has never organised a convocation for a limited number of students in the past. “We will hold a meeting soon to discuss the different limitations to be imposed on the upcoming convocation ceremony. As of now, I will not officially say that only toppers will be invited to the ceremony,” said pro vice chancellor Kamini Kumar. She, however, admitted that the ceremony will be held in the presence of limited guests and all students graduating from the varsity will not be able to attend the function. Every year, RU holds a convocation ceremony for students of undergraduate, post graduate, PhD and vocational courses on the same day at the same venue. However, this year, the convocation ceremony will be held only for post graduate and undergraduate students, sources working in the administrative building of RU near Shaheed Chowk in Ranchi said. Last year, President Ramnath Kovind was the chief guest for the convocation ceremony. Kovind had conferred certificates and gold medals to all the 56 toppers – 45 girls and 11 boys. As per records with RU, this year, 37 of the toppers are girls while remaining 19 are boys. At present, the University has 23 post graduate departments, 15 constituent colleges, and 49 affiliated colleges, imparting education in medicine, psychiatry, law, engineering, business management, education, and general courses. Besides these institutions, there are UGC sponsored Academic Staff College.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||Decorators protest Dhanbad corporation compulsory licence rule ||Over 1,200 decorators and tent house owners in the district are up in arms against the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation following a recent order making trade, labour and catering licenses mandatory for working in marriage halls in the area. Disagreeing with the decision, a delegation of Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association on Thursday met the district municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar. Traders will have to close their businesses if the decision is implemented, the delegation, led by its president Pradeep Kumar Singh, said. The protesters are especially concerned over the DMC’s decision of imposing a registration charge of Rs 5,000 on the pandemic-battered businessmen. The representatives complained that due to lack of business, they were finding it difficult to even pay the rent of the gowdowns used to store equipment. “Majority of our members are facing the worst time of their lives due to cancellation of all major functions amid the pandemic. Imposing such a rule, especially the hefty registration charge, is totally illogical,” Singh told the media. Vinod Rawani, a decorator of the Godhar area in the district said he could do no business from March 22 to November 25 last year, and could not even pay his EMIs during the time. “We got entrenched and debt and the minor income earned during the wedding season was insufficient to compensate for.the loss of eight months,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||Two elephants killed by speeding goods train||Two elephants were killed after being hit by a speeding goods train at Bisra near Manoharpur in West Singhbhum district, about 180km from here, in the wee hours of Thursday. The tragic incident occurred past 1am when the two wild elephants were crossing the railway tracks between Bhalulata and Jeraikela railway sections in an area close to Odisha's Sundergarh district. The train was running at a speed of around 100 kmph when it hit the two jumbos. “It was an unfortunate incident which took place at around 1.10am. A probe has been initiated in this regard," said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. Ghosh said all the four-wheels of the front trolley of the parcel van (next to engine) got derailed after the mishap. The senior railway official added that no speed restrictions were imposed by the forest department in that section. Restoration work at the spot of mishap got completed around 9am after which train services in the section resumed. Death of jumbos in train accident continues to be a serious issue. Though several attempts have been made by the forest department and railways to avoid them, nothing seems to have served the purpose. On December 5, the Bhubaneswar-Rourkela Intercity Express had hit an elephant near Gargadbahal village between Jujumura and Hatibari area of Sambalpur district killing the jumbo on the spot. The spot of mishap was close to Jharkhand-Odisha border. In September last year, a wild tusker was hit by a speeding train and killed on the spot at the Howrah-Mumbai main trunk route in the Saranda forest area of West Singhbhum, about 190 km from Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||JPSC age norm tweak to help working professionals||The Hemant Soren government’s decision to relax age cut-offs for Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) aspirants will not only help the government achieve its recruitment targets, but also provide an opportunity to working professionals to switch jobs from the private sector to the public sector, academicians said on Thursday. “At a time when the challenges in private sector are rapidly growing, leaving limited scope for employee-friendly HR policies, the government’s decision comes as an opportunity for those who want to leave their corporate jobs and join a government job,” said Dr V.P. Sharan, a city-based academician and former pro vice chancellor of Ranchi University. The Jharkhand Cabinet on Wednesday decided that general category aspirants who were either 35-year-old or younger on August 1, 2016 will be eligible to appear for the upcoming seventh JPSC exams. Candidates belonging to the Scheduled Tribe or Scheduled Caste communities will get additional relaxations on the age cut-off as per the rules. As per the Cabinet decision, even a 40-year-old candidate was eligible for a shot at the civil services examinations in Jharkhand. Usually, the cut-off age for appearing in JPSC exams is 35 years. Sharan, who is currently associated with St Xavier’s College in Ranchi, said the Covid-19 pandemic wreaked havoc on people working in the private sector with layoffs and salary cuts announced in almost all corporate houses. “Even the ones who have retained their jobs are overworked and underpaid. Most working professionals dealing with such issues are around the age of 40 years, and the government’s decision will now give them a chance to appear for the exams and make a career change,” he said. Chief minister Hemant Soren has said on a number of occasions that year 2021 will be a year of recruitment in Jharkhand. Soon after coming to power, he said that his government would prioritise filling up vacant positions across the state and provide employment to youth. However, some academics are of the opinion that the relaxations in the age cut-offs may not benefit job-seekers to a large extent as there were very few vacancies in the state in comparison to the enormous number of qualified yet unemployed youths. “Around 3 lakh to 4 lakh candidates will appear for the exams, and not even 10 per cent of them will get jobs through JPSC,” said renowned economist and former Vice Chancellor of Vinoba Bhave University Dr  Ramesh Sharan. He, however, accepted that the relaxations provided by the government would  benefit candidates who have been preparing for civil services for years, but could not crack the exams. While the decision of allowing 40-year-old candidates appear for the examinations is seen as a welcome move, an economist and job analyst based out of Ranchi said that even if such candidates clear the test, they would only serve the government for 20 years. “If a candidate from the ST/SC category clears the test at the highest eligible age, then he would only serve the government for 15 years,” he said. Jharkhand Cabinet on Wednesday also decided to give additional relaxations to ST/SC candidates appearing for the JPSC exams by doing away with the clause that the cut off marks for ST/SC candidates cannot be less than 8 per cent from the cut off for general candidates. The decision is aimed at filling up the 15 per cent quota for reserved category candidates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||Headmaster dies in school fire in Pakur||A 50-year-old headmaster of a government middle school in Pakur district was charred to death on Wednesday when a sudden blaze erupted in the building. The deceased, identified as Nakul Pandey, was in his room inside the Pochobeda village school when the mishap occurred. The cause of the fire has not yet been identified, police said. Pandey was a resident of Kalitalka area in Pakur, over 400 km from state capital Ranchi. “The incident occurred between 1 and 2pm. Locals spotted smoke emanating out of the school building after which they rushed to find the school principal completely charred. Soon after we got the information, a fire tender was rushed to douse the fire. The body has been sent for autopsy and probe is on to find reasons which led to the singe,” Manoj Kumar, officer-in-charge of the Amrapara Police Station, said on Wednesday. Francis Marandi, an assistant teacher posted here said that the school is closed for students in the wake of continued lockdown. He added that during the time of the incident, the principal was alone in the school single storied building doing routine office work in his cabin. “On directives of the principal, I had gone to the nearby village to call kids to come to school for collecting their midday ration as per the government scheme, when I learnt about the incident. I immediately rushed back to the school when I saw heavy commotion and that the principal was dead,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 46 fresh Covid cases, 49% vaccinated in a day||At least two more Covid-19 patients, one each from Ranchi and Dhanbad, died during treatment on Wednesday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand up at 1077, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. While the number of Covid casualties has been on the rise in Jharkhand, there has been a significant fall in the count of patients in the tribal state. On Wednesday, as many as 46 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus, while at least 80 patients recovered, bringing the number of active cases down to 453, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Ranchi reported 20 of the 46 cases, but as many as 51 of the 80 recoveries were also reported here. Wednesday's test results brought the number of active cases in Ranchi down to 208. However, this district continues to be the only Jharkhand district with more than 100 active cases. There were no active cases of Covid-19 infection in Giridih and Pakur by the of Wednesday, highlighted the NHM bulletin. At least 15 of the 24 districts have less than 10 active cases. Meanwhile, as many as 823 people were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Wednesday, NHM stated in a separate report. The state achieved 49 per cent of its vaccination target on the day. So far, as many as 67333 people have been administered Covishield jabs in the state. However, Jharkhand has achieved only 52 per cent of its vaccination target since the beginning of the immunization programme on January 16. As many as 13 beneficiaries complained of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) on Wednesday, taking the total number of AEFI cases in the state so far to 242, highlighted government data. Ranchi reported six of the 13 AEFI cases on Wednesday, taking the total count of AEFI cases in the district to 166, which is close to 70 per cent of the total cases in Jharkhand. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid cases in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent. As per NHM, it would take more than 2042 days for the Covid cases to double in Jharkhand. So far, 1.18 lakh people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to host Eco-Retreat in March||Jharkhand will host its maiden “Eco-Retreat” festival next month and one of the venues will be the scenic Chandil dam in Seraikela-Kharswan district. State tourism director A. Dodde along with tourism and sports secretary Puja Singhal visited Chandil dam on Tuesday and took stock of the facilities at the natural reservoir. “We are satisfied with the facilities and have asked the Seraikela-Kharsawan district administration to make necessary arrangements for Eco-Retreat 2021 which will be held at Chandil dam, in Netarhat and Patratu dam. We will soon select a private agency for conduct of the activities as part of the Eco-Retreat which is tentatively scheduled between March 1 and 31,” said Dodde, also the former deputy commissioner of Seraikela-Kharsawan who is acquainted with the Chandil dam. As part of the Eco-Retreat, which is aimed at attracting tourists to the scenic spot, the private agency would have to erect over 25 luxury cottage tents, restaurant and bar, and arrange for sight-seeing and live performances along with land and water sports activities. Earlier in the day, Singhal and sports director Zeeshan Qamar took stock of the facilities at the JRD Tata Sports Complex and Tata Football Academy in Jamshedpur. After inspecting the facilities for nearly two hours in view of the proposed hosting of camps for the U-17 and U-20 national women’s football teams, the officials expressed satisfaction. “We are satisfied with the sports infrastructure and would be sending the details to the All India Football Federation (AIFF). We expect the national camps for under-17 and under-20 women’s teams to commence tentatively from mid-February. The camps will be ideally held for a period of three months,” said Qamar. Sources in the state sports department said that Jamshedpur will continue to host the women’s football national camps till the infrastructure is ready at Birsa Munda Football Stadium at Morabadi in Ranchi. After the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the AIFF and the Jharkhand government last year, a major chunk of women’s national football camps would be hosted in the state from this year onwards. Singhal, who also is the secretary of the industry department, later visited the Electronic Manufacturing Cluster (EMC) in Adityapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand support for farmers’ protest||Jharkhand agriculture minister and Congress leader Badal Patralekh met Rakesh Tikait, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) leader who has become a rallying point of the farmers’ movement, in Delhi on Tuesday evening to express solidarity with the agitation demanding withdrawal of the Centre’s three new farm laws. After the meeting, Patralekh, the MLA from Jarmundi, told the media: “A narrative is being set up by people with vested interests that the farmers’ agitation is confined only to a few states. But I have come here to not only extend moral support and solidarity to the agitation but also make it clear that a cross-section of people in Jharkhand are backing the farmers. Almost all the 24 districts in Jharkhand witnessed farmers and civil society groups taking part in rallies to support the movement against the farm laws.” The leader from Santhal Pargana further said that resentment against the farm laws was not only present in Jharkhand but was also palpable in other eastern states. “I had met leader of the Opposition in Bihar Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of the RJD and saw thousands of farmers coming out on the streets against the farm laws. We also welcomed thousands of farmers from Odisha who left for Delhi to join the agitation. Similarly, in Chhattisgarh too there is resentment among farmers towards the Union government’s new farm laws. Political parties and social organisations are also backing the farmers’ agitation,” said Patralekh, who offered jal (water) brought from different Jharkhand districts to Tikait. Patralekh also said that Delhi police was a “mere puppet” in the hands of the Union government which wanted to crush the farmers’ agitation. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders since November 26 last year against the three farm laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
