05-02-2021||Calcutta||Wrought by hand||The number of artisans has been slashed to about half of those who came in 2019 but there are still 4,000 of them from across the state who have brought their best to offer you at Hastashilpa Mela. Spread around Eco Park’s gate 1, the West Bengal State Handicrafts Expo 2020-21 was inaugurated on January 29. “We had requests for many more stalls but could not allow more due to Covid protocol. Fairs are a major source of revenue for artisans,” said Swapan Debnath, minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises and textile department at the opening. The fair has artisans selling saris, furniture, carpets and lots of patachitra artwork. It will continue till February 15, from 1pm to 8.30pm and entry is free. Here is a glimpse of what’s on sale- What: Sandip Dutta has sliced branches of mahogany to get a smooth surface to paint Ramakrishna, Sarada Ma, bauls, village folk etc. “On some of these, we have even placed tiny glasses of water with money plants growing out. I wanted to give the impression of a tree growing out of a tree,” smiles the Nimta resident. Where: Outside stall 14 Price: Rs 150-200. Those with money plants growing cost Rs 400-900 What: Look closely and you’ll find a replica of everyone from Gopal Bhar to Gandhi and Ma Kali to A.P.J. Abdul Kalam on these shelves. “Many of these statues have wiring inside which I’ve covered with burnt clay. These are highly durable,” says Debkumar Sarkar of Krishnanagar. He also has cute Chhota Bheem dolls, bobble heads and his best-sellers — tribal figures. Where: Stall 7 Price: Rs 90 for small Gopal Bhar, Rs 500 for A.P.J. Abdul Kalam bust. What: This fashionable round-shaped purse transforms into a single or double-strapped backpack as well as a duffle bag you can carry to the gym. “It took me nearly three years to develop this concept. The bag can hold weight of up to 12kg and the exterior has been stitched using 83 different pieces of waste material in applique style,” says Sanjoy Pal of Nabadweep. Where: Outside stall 7 Price: Rs 550 to 750 What: Alak Kumar Pal searches high and low for unusual-looking seeds to create jewellery out of. “The grey seeds running along the length of this necklace are lata seeds and the chocolate brown pendant is a gila seed. Both flaunt their natural colours, while I’ve painted wooden bits and placed them as fillers through the string,” says the craftsman from West Midnapore. Where: Outside stall 29 Price: Rs 300 What: Debasmita Bhaskar’s ancestors used to carve ivory but since it got banned, her family imports special stone sheets from South Korea that bear a similar look. “We have large and small sculptures of gods, jewellery and even a replica of elephant tusks. We have sold several hair bun pins at this fair already,” says the artisan from Murshidabad. Where: Stall 9 Price: Rs 1.5 lakh for the 4-ft Ganesh, Rs 300 for hair bun pins with rose motif What: This cane basket looks so cute one doubts if buyers would be able to use it as a bin. “Well, people can also use it as a laundry basket. We also have bins shaped like elephants and baskets shaped like hens and swans,” says Bibhas Jana of East Midnapore. “Our products get retailed around the country.” Where: Stall 28 Price: Rs 2,200 What: This Durga wall hanging makes you stop in your tracks and stare. Artisan Somnath Ghosh also has T-shirts in similar patterns available for all ages right down to babies. “I have them with images of Kali, Buddha and Durga. These are painstaking to create but I’m happy customers are liking them,” says the Howrah resident. Where: Stall 33 Price: Rs 3,800 What: Gour Das has replicated the look of the Bankura horse but with jute. “The skeleton of these horses is made of papier mache and then I have wrapped the exterior with jute ropes for effect,” says Das, who has come from Bolpur with owls made in the same style. Where: Outside stall 18 Price: Rs 9,000 for a pair of 4ft horses. Rs 450 for table-sized ones. What: Roustang Bhotia’s stall is easily the busiest in her pavilion and visitors are pouring in for both — to buy gyathuk and to hear her speak Bengali. “Mashima, eta apni joley phutiye khaben, byapok lagbe!” she promises as the crowd bursts into laughter hearing the rich vocabulary of the Kalimpong girl. And when a customer claimed he gets cheaper noodles in Calcutta, without batting an eyelid, Roustang proclaimed: “Shob bhyajal! This real gyatuk takes barely five minutes to cook but is a Tibetan delicacy. It’s especially suitable for the elderly as it is easily digestible, barely needs to be chewed and is soft to swallow,” says the lady who has a knack for picking up languages. Where: Stall 38 Price: Rs 40 a pack What: The artwork looks attractive — there’s everything from Jesus Christ and Krishna to hunters, rockstars and even a coronavirus model (picture above). But look closely and you’ll realise they are made of nuts, bolts, shock absorbers... “Scrap art had taken off in the West 10 to 15 years ago but the scale there is huge. I’m making smaller pieces that are affordable by the masses,” says Tamal Das of Santiniketan. Where: Outside stall 22 Price: Rs 200 onwards||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
05-02-2021||Calcutta||State JEE to be held on July 11||The state joint entrance examinations will be held on July 11 for admission to undergraduate courses in engineering, pharmacy and architecture in institutes across Bengal. Last year, the test was held on February 2 as the board wanted to start the counselling process early so that the BTech seats did not remain vacant in large numbers. This year, the entrance exams have been delayed because the state higher secondary exams are scheduled for June. “Details like the form fill-in schedule, information brochure will be uploaded on the board’s website on or after February 15. We have scheduled the exam for July 11, considering that the JEE (advanced) exams will be held on July 3 and plus-II boards will be over in June,” said Malayendu Saha, the chairman of the state JEE board. The CBSE exams for Classes X and XII will be held from May 4 to June 10. The ICSE and ISC board exams are not likely to take place “before the end of May or in June”, ICSE council chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon had said in November. The state HS council will hold its exams from June 15 to July 2. “Since last year’s counselling started late, in August, because of the pandemic and the process continued till October, the preparation for this year’s exam started late. That is another reason why the exams cannot be held in March,” a JEE board official said. Each year the dates for the test for the next year are announced on the day of publication of the results. Last year, the results were announced on August 7. But the dates for the 2021 exams could not be announced because of the pandemic-induced uncertainty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
05-02-2021||Calcutta||A few doctors are still Covid-shy||Many doctors in private hospitals and clinics who were not seeing patients physically have started doing so after getting the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine but a few are waiting for the second jab before resuming in-person consultation. Among those waiting for the second dose before seeing patients in their chambers are some top specialists. During the lockdown triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, most patients were not turning up for consultations and many doctors were either not seeing patients or doing only video consultation. But the outpatient departments at most hospitals and clinics reopened after Durga Puja with doctors resuming seeing patients physically. However, officials at several hospitals said on Thursday that despite the vaccination drive for health workers and a steady decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, a few doctors were still not agreeing to start in-person consultations or perform surgeries and other procedures. Among those doctors are internal medicine experts, gastroenterologists, neuro-physicians and general surgeons. A senior physician attached to several big private hospitals in the city had a few thousand patients, most of them suffering from chronic illnesses, waiting to consult him after the lockdown was over. The elderly doctor, who has comorbidities, has been administered the first dose of a Covid vaccine. “He is still not agreeing to see patients physically and is waiting for the second dose,” said an official of the one of the hospitals the doctor is attached to. “Till the beginning of February, some of the doctors were not physically seeing patients at the OPDs. After taking the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, some of these doctors have started coming to the OPDs,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “However, there are still a few senior doctors who are not seeing patients. Many patients are calling up the hospital, desperately seeking appointments. Since these doctors are not available, we are slotting them with others.” Some other private hospitals are also facing the same problem. “Although most doctors are physically seeing patients, there are some senior doctors who are not doing so. These doctors are telling us that they would see patients physically only after they have taken the booster dose of the vaccine,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. A person will get the booster dose 28 days after the first dose. “We can request doctors to see patients, we can’t force them,” said Tondon. Doctors said during the lockdown, when a large number of Covid cases were being reported every day, they were doing video consultations under compulsion. “Ideally, for a new patient, a doctor first has to know the history, then clinically examine the person and finally go through the medical reports to come to the conclusion about the disease and the possible course of treatment,” said a senior surgeon. Clinical examination, he said, is most crucial to find out the condition of a patient. “One can note down the medical history of a patient and go through the reports during a video consultation, but clinical examination is not possible,” the surgeon said. Officials of several hospitals said the footfall of patients at the OPDs had almost reached the pre-pandemic level. At one hospital off EM Bypass, 500-odd patients are turning up at the OPD daily, compared with the 650-odd on an average before the pandemic. On Thursday, Bengal recorded 206 Covid cases and four deaths. On October 4, the state had recorded 3,357 cases with 62 deaths. Several doctors and healthcare workers have died of Covid in Calcutta and other parts of the state. “Despite Covid, all our senior doctors are seeing patients. There were elderly doctors who were on duty in the Covid wards,” said Rana Dasgupta, the chief executive officer of Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Mental health centre order to pay Rs 10 lakh for negligence ||The state clinical establishment commission on Thursday asked a centre that treats mentally challenged people to pay Rs 10.5 lakh in compensation for its negligence in dealing with a patient who had passed away in May. Baul Mon, located in Jadavpur, has to pay Rs 50,000 to the attendant of the deceased and Rs 10 lakh to Rabindra Bharati University. The man, 61, used to sing and play the sitar and the commission said the penalty amount would be used to offer scholarship to a music student every year. Majumdar was admitted to Baul Mon in October 2019 and he died in May next year. “They were treating him for his mental problems but they were not careful about his other health aspects. A few hours before the man passed away, his blood sugar level had reached 1,400, which is abnormally high. He was diabetic but he did not receive proper treatment for diabetes,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “The man died just because he did not receive insulin. The centre told us that insulin was not available in the early days of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Banerjee said. “It was also unfortunate that no one came for his cremation because of the pandemic. Only the attendant who used to look after him made arrangements for the cremation.” The chairman said Rabindra Bharati University would have to put the Rs 10 lakh it would get from Baul Mon in a fixed deposit account and offer scholarship to a “needy, meritorious” student of music. “We are doing this because Majumdar was a music lover. He used to sing Rabindrasangeet and play the sitar,” said Banerjee. The patient’s cousins moved the commission after his death. Sarmistha Ray, the managing director of Baul Mon, told Metro that they would appeal against the order. “When the patient was brought to us in October, he was in a very bad mental state. He recovered very well. In between he had tuberculosis and recovered from it. We had repeatedly told his attendant to take him out of our facility and admit him to a hospital to treat his diabetes. But that person could not do that. There was no one from the patient’s family who would stay in touch. We did the best we could. We were not negligent in any way,” said Ray. The commission also ordered the cancellation of the licence of Misba nursing home in Basanti, South 24-Parganas. The family of a patient who underwent surgery for appendix complication there had moved the commission. The man was transferred to another nursing home, where he died. “They alleged the doctor who performed the surgery was a quack…. The police submitted a report saying that the hospital did not maintain any record of patients, other than those treated under Swasthya Sathi,” said Banerjee. “We did not find any qualified doctor at Misba. We have asked the chief medical officer of health, South 24-Parganas, to suspend the licence of the nursing home….” The commission also asked Columbia Asia Hospital to pay Rs 5 lakh as compensation to the family of a patient who died inside an ambulance while family members were trying to convince doctors and nurses to admit him. “The man had been a patient of the hospital since 2011. He underwent dialysis at the hospital in the afternoon and fell sick in the evening,” Banerjee said. When family members took him to the hospital, the doctor at the emergency ward said the patient had symptoms of Covid and he could not be admitted because the hospital lacked an isolation facility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Child found dead with throat slit||A nine-year-old girl, who had come to visit her maternal uncle’s home in north Calcutta with her parents and two elder sisters, was found dead with her throat slit in a building near the uncle’s home early on Thursday. Police said she had gone missing a few hours before. Residents of the area alleged that the girl, whose body was found on the staircase landing of the three-storeyed building, had been sexually assaulted and murdered. The police said they would comment on the cause of death and the nature of the injuries after the post-mortem. The girl, who turned nine on February 1, was last seen playing outside her uncle’s home around 8.30pm, the police have found. The victim and her two teenage sisters and parents had come to visit the relative’s home on Wednesday evening. The mother works as domestic help and the father is a labourer. When the family realised that the child had gone missing, they started looking for her. Then they went to the local police station to register a missing diary. Around 6am on Thursday, one of the neighbours spotted the girl’s body on the first-floor landing of the staircase of a building, just two buildings away from the victim’s maternal uncle’s home. The building can be accessed by anyone. Residents said the first floor did not have any occupants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government issues guidelines to reopen schools||The guidelines issued by the Bengal government on Thursday for reopening of schools in the new normal state that there will be no assembly, no touching of each other's books and no sharing of tiffin and drinking water. The 28-page document lists what schools have to do before the resumption of classes, what officials have to check and what teachers and students have to follow. Education minister Partha Chatterjee had on Tuesday said schools could reopen from February 12 for in-person instruction for students of Classes IX to XII. “Keeping in mind the guidelines issued by the Department of Health & Family Welfare, Govt of West Bengal, these guidelines have been framed to help the school authorities and supervising officials face the challenges with careful and essential planning. It is imperative for all stakeholders to follow the guidelines before and after the institutions open, to maintain healthy and hygienic conditions in the schools,” said the introduction to the “Covid-19 general guidelines on reopening of schools”, published by the department of school education. An official of the department said schools could contact them if they needed any clarification. Before class No assembly for prayer, the guidelines say. “Prayers shall be done in respective classes accompanied by class teachers,” the guidelines say. No guardian or visitor shall be allowed inside. Gathering should be avoided at the time of entry and exit and social distancing should be strictly maintained. “A copy of the rules will have to be affixed on the gate in such a way that it is visible to all students and guardians from outside,” the guidelines said. At the beginning of each day’s session, a 10-minute programme on Covid awareness has to be held. In class and outside Students are not to share exercise books, bags or any other belongings, food and drinking water. They have to sit at the “assigned place” as directed by the teacher. Before reopening, officials are to check whether seating arrangements have been made in a manner that two students are separated by at least 1 metre. The guidelines contain a few diagrams on the seating arrangement. “The seating arrangement may be revised accordingly as per local needs but should be kept in conformity with social distancing norms, based on the dimensions of the classrooms and lengths of the benches/desks,” the guidelines say. Students have been told not to “rush or fight”. They have to maintain social distance in classrooms, laboratories, libraries and corridors. Students are not to leave the school before the end of the day’s session and they need to learn how to fold arm over mouth and nose before sneezing and coughing. If someone is sick Guardians shall be instructed not to send their children to school if they are suffering from “fever, cold or any other kind of ailment as their immune system may be weak”. They should stay home for at least seven days. A separate isolation room with a bed may be set up at the school. The room has to be properly sanitised. Teachers and staff have to be briefed properly on the “handling of cases of sickness during school hours”. The school heads shall ensure such cases are brought to the notice of local medical officers. Schools may also keep a “class-wise record of health check-up reports of students” wherever applicable. No accessories Wearing of masks is mand-atory. The guidelines advise students to avoid wearing metal accessories like rings, chains, bangles and amulets. They must wear shoes and socks so their feet do not touch the ground and no one should be within one metre of another person. After reaching home, uniforms should be washed with detergent if they have another set, the guidelines say. “If that is not possible, keep the uniform isolated for 12 hours and put it under direct sunlight next day.” Masks, gloves and caps to be washed with detergent and in hot water. No group activities Sports and cultural events may be discontinued for now. “The teachers must ensure that students do not form close clusters with friends. Students must play innovative games maintaining physical distance,’’ the guidelines say. School infrastructure Taps and tube wells at schools must be mandatorily kept in usable condition to facilitate frequent hand washing. Guardians Guardians must wear masks and maintain social distance while accompanying their wards to and from school. They should also ensure that social distancing norms are followed at all times from home to school and back. Teachers’ role No student shall be left to themselves without being watched during school hours. “There will be a natural tendency among the children to socialise among friends after a prolonged lockdown. That is why, they shall always need a teacher to guide them how to socialise maintaining physical distance and non-sharing of one another’s belongings,” the guidelines say.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Fire station for New Town||The first fire station of New Town was inaugurated on Thursday. The station has come up nine years after its foundation stone was laid on a two-acre plot behind Axis Mall. Till date large swathes of New Town and Rajarhat had to depend on the Sector V and Dum Dum fire stations. The number to alert the New Town fire station is 7605896231. “With this new station the response time will go down,” fire services minister Sujit Bose said. The fire station has space to park at least two sky lifts and five tenders. The station will have a fire-fighting robot. The building is five stories and the fire station will run from the first two floors. The rest of the floors will have living quarters for the firemen and space for storing equipment. Deaths at Rajarhat Rajib Kumar Singh, a financial consultant from Phoolbagan, was found dead at his friend’s house in the Jheelbagan area of Rajarhat on Thursday, police said. In another incident, Sadhan Ghosh of Sulanguri in Rajarhat, was stabbed to death allegedly by cousin Mongal Ghosh. Later, Mongal surrendered at Eco Park police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Cable mess shifts from overhead to pavements||A drive to remove defunct overhead cables between the Ruby crossing and Gariahat has shifted the mess to the ground. The snipped cables are now blocking pavements and hanging dangerously on roadside railings and median dividers. An association of cable TV operators and broadband service providers has been clearing the jungle of overhead cables by removing the ones not in use. The work began about a month back and has covered over 3.5km. Nearly 300km of dead cables have been removed from the stretch, a cable operator said. The new problem that has emerged is that some of the cables have not been removed from the pavements and median dividers where they were kept after being snipped. The Telegraph saw bundles of cables on median dividers for nearly a kilometre, both to the east and west of Acropolis Mall. Some of the cables have also started spilling on the roads. At the Siemens crossing, more than 10 cables were lying on the pavement on the southern side. In the same place, the lid of an underground drain is missing. The two problems together force pedestrians to walk on the road instead of the footpath. An autorickshaw driver said the cables had been lying there for days. “We are forced to walk on the road though it is a busy crossing and vehicles come from all sides. The footpath is blocked by cables near the crossing. A little away from the footpath, the lid over the drain is missing. Where do we walk?” asked a pedestrian. On the Ballygunge bridge, the workers removing the cables put the bundles on the pavement or tied them to the iron railings. But many of the cables had fallen on the carriageway or were hanging dangerously from the railings. “The way these cables are hanging, they can get entangled with the wheels of a two-wheeler, a car or a bus and lead to an accident,” said a motorcyclist. A senior CMC official said the civic body had removed a bulk of the cables. “We have removed the snipped cables from the stretch. There could be some places where cables are still lying. We will remove them soon,” said the official. Tapash Das, the joint convener of the All Bengal Cable Television and Broadband Operators United Forum, said a bulk of the cables had been removed. “We had kept the cables on the footpath and they were removed by the CMC. Only in a few locations they are yet to be removed,” he said. Das said several cable operators met Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, on December 21. Hakim asked them to remove the dead cables from the stretch between Ruby and Gariahat as a pilot project. The CMC is providing logistics to the cable operators who have deployed their staff to remove the wires. A senior engineer of the CMC’s electricity department said they had given two hydraulic ladders for the workers to reach the point where the cables are tied to a pole and snip the defunct ones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Book fair in July: Guild||The 45th edition of the International Calcutta Book Fair will be held in July at Central Park in Salt Lake, the Publishers and Booksellers Guild said on Thursday. The dates are still being worked out, officials said. The fair was originally scheduled from January 27 to February 7. “Considering the upcoming Assembly elections and the board exams, we have decided to hold the book fair in July. We hope international flights will resume by then and we will be able to get participants from across the globe like every year,” said Sudhangshu Sekhar Dey, the general secretary of the guild, which organises the annual event. The scheduled date for the arrival of the monsoon in Calcutta is June 10 and July is the city’s wettest month. “We have discussed this among ourselves. Just like all Covid-19 protocols will be followed, all necessary measures will be taken to ensure book lovers don’t face any problem in rain,” said Tridib Kumar Chatterjee, the president of the guild. “We will firm up our plan within a month or two.” Since 2021 is the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and also the 50th year of the independence of Bangladesh, the theme country for this year’s fair is Bangladesh. “This is the 50th year of bilateral relations between Bangladesh and India, apart from the golden jubilee year of our independence. We are very happy to know that Bangladesh has been chosen as the theme country for this year’s fair,” said Toufique Hasan, the deputy high commissioner of Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||25 % Covid-19 vaccination centres to be dedicated to Covaxin||The state health department has asked its officials to ensure that 25 per cent of the Covid-19 vaccination centres in the state are dedicated to Covaxin. Among health and frontline workers, whoever is willing to take Covaxin will be offered the indigenous vaccine, officials said. The idea, the officials said, is to complete administering the first dose of a Covid vaccine to all health and frontline workers within the next 14 working days. “After taking stock of the number of doses of both vaccines we have, we have decided that 25 per cent of the vaccination sites will be dedicated to Covaxin. Covishield will be administered from the rest,” said an official of the health department. “Senior officials have taken Covaxin jabs. So there is no reason to be afraid of taking it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Anniversary salute to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose||DB Block A statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose was unveiled in DB Block to mark the onset of the 125th birth anniversary of the patriot. Created by CL Block-based sculptor Gautam Pal, the statue was a surprise for most residents. “A health camp had been planned and announced beforehand but then we got a call from two young members of our block committee asking us to come see a surprise,” said secretary of DB Block Residents Association Loknath Sastri. The two youths — Partha Saha and Abhijit Saha — had arranged the statue. “Every year we hoist the National Flag on Netaji’s birth anniversary but this being his 125th year we wanted something special,” said Partha. The duo contacted the sculptor,  who went on to donate a statue to the block. “We received the statue from him the night before and kept in hidden till placing it before the decorated backdrop on January 23,” Partha said. Minister and local MLA Sujit Bose and member, board of administrators, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Rajesh Chirimar came for the inauguration, garlanded the statue and appreciated the initiative. “We are now planning a permanent structure on which to place the statue,” said Sastri. The health camp, organised in association with Apollo Hospitals, conducted basic tests like blood sugar and pressure as well advanced ones like ECG. There was also consultation by a general physician and dentist. The camp drew about 50 residents. 400 residents participate in march Over 400 residents took part in a march from the Netaji statue to EZCC on January 23, where they settled down to watch cultural programmes — music, dance and recitation — centred around the theme of Netaji and patriotism. There was also a puppet show by Dhumketu Puppet Theatre and its members took part in the march too with the puppets. The walk was led by the likes of Devashis Jana, member, board of administrators, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, and S.A. Ahmed, the former chairperson of Sector V’s governing body, NDITA, who is also a resident of FE Block. “The world seems to be fascinated with the disappearance of Netaji but what we need is discussion on his ideals and ideology,” said. Ex-Air Force chief presides over R-day show Mallika Malancha  Former Air Chief Marshal Arup Raha presided over the Republic Day celebrations at New Town’s Mallika Malancha housing complex this year. He unfurled the National Flag, watched the cultural performance and infused the audience with a heart-felt speech. Raha spoke of the significance of the day, the Constitution, its three pillars — the judiciary, the legislature and the executive. “We need to take an oath to be good professionals. It does not matter which profession we are in.” He also urged all to stop blaming the government for its faults and step up to contribute. “There was pin-drop silence when Raha spoke. Even the kids didn’t fidget,” said a member of the organising committee. Though planned by ladies, the show was almost entirely conducted by children. Some sang patriotic songs, some danced to medleys, some recited the preamble to the Constitution… Tots aged eight and below put up a cute show of unity by parading in traditional costumes of different states. Tanvi Chatterjee won the contest dressed as a Maharashtrian, Paakhi Bardhan came second as a Punjabi and Aniketh Sahoo came third, dressed as a Bengali. The show was anchored by four middle school students — Arnabi Chowdhury, Sannidhya Biswas, Shinjini Sarkar and Shloke Sengupta. A two-day programme on Netaji was held at the New Town Tree Library. The celebration took place on a plot in DA Block where the authorities have planted lots of trees and information on them has been provided on placards in front of each. “We want people to think of Netaji in a beautiful atmosphere and not just keep him limited to books. We want them to step out into the greens and learn and celebrate the person he was,” said Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), that was organising the event. But there were books to be read too seated in the open. A total of 61 books on and by Netaji were kept on display on loan from The New Town Library from January 23 to 26. A sit-and-draw competition for children was held on the first day where kids had to draw “my city”. Peacefully sitting between the trees, everyone was seen having a wonderful time with crayons and brushes. “I wish I had practised drawing buildings, it took me a lot of time to draw them properly so in the end I could not finish my painting. But I enjoyed the experience,” said 10-year-old Priyanka Basak of DA Block. Nine-year-old Shreeyanshi Sahoo finished third in the competition with her depiction of a village scene. “My grandparents stay in a village and I enjoy going there. So instead of buildings, that’s what I drew,” said the resident of neighbouring CE Block. On the next day, an open-to-all quiz was held on Netaji and nature, conducted by quizmaster Rajiv Sanyal. “I have been to many places but the ambience here among trees is amazing,” said Dibyajyoti Nandi, who correctly answered Sisir Kumar Bose as the author of the book Mahanishkraman, on Netaji’s great escape from house arrest.” Twelve-year-old Aritra Biswas answered the most correct answers on the day. “I love reading and have read many books on Netaji , apart from the ones in the school syllabus. I am happy I could use my knowledge here today,” said the DA Block resident. Residents also took part in a walk from the tree library to Balaka Abasan, holding up banners on the freedom fighter. The walk was led by  Sen, Anup Matilal, curator of Rabindra Tirtha, Gopal Ghosh, joint managing director, Hidco, and the other officials. They were accompanied by an orchestra band. Shatadipa Bhattacharya||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Street for pedestrians only||Two streets in New Town are being planned as pedestrian plazas where cars will be barred. “These will be stretches where pedestrians and non-motorised vehicles, like cycles, will be given priority. Such practices would be both environment-friendly and health-friendly. The road will be safe for children to play, their mothers to chat and senior citizens to walk,” said an official of the New Town Kolkata Green Smart City Project, which is planning and funding the project. One of the chosen streets runs by the Clock Tower, stretching from Central Mall up to Axis Mall on the other side of the Major Arterial Road. The other street is in front of Eco Urban Village. Explaining the concept, Hidco chairman cum managing director Debashis Sen referred to the Mall of Darjeeling. “Kids ride ponies, people sit on benches and soak in sunrays or shop. The idea is to reduce the distance between streets and the people.” He spoke of how the central business district of Gangtok used to be extremely congested with vehicles but the Sikkim government had now made it a no-parking, no-vehicular movement zone. “It has become a tourist-friendly spot with people getting off cars at a distance and walking to shops,” he said. The first stretch, he pointed out, was already there in the masterplan. “Overbridges are usually built over a rail track or a river. But this Clock Tower-elevated carriageway does not have any impediment below. Nor is it an extremely busy road that runs underneath. Yet, the bridge was built 10-15 years ago as the planners had kept such a provision.” As for the road in front of Eco Urban Village, Hidco is seeking corporate social responsibility funds from private firms and create a space for the community free of motorised vehicles in partnership with them. Search for best design A design contest had been launched with the aim of participative planning to seek ideas for the pedestrian plaza and the winner was announced on January 23 at a programme held on purpose on the streetside, near Biswa Bangla Gate. Architects Malabi Makur and Parna Ghosh, who won a prize of Rs 10,000 for their winning submission, said they had envisioned the activities on the plaza in accordance with the time of the day and the season. “The early morning, for instance, will have morning walkers and joggers. A semi-shaded and semi-covered walkway under a bamboo pergola with climbing creepers will not only reduce heat radiation but also make walking a pleasant experience by enhancing the ambience,” they said. After 9am, it will be about office-goers and their requirements. “A streetfood zone with stalls and sitting arrangement under the elevated carriageway will help accommodate hawkers in a structured manner and also provide office-goers and workers from the neighbourhood with economic lunch options,” Makur added. A multipurpose plaza with tensile fabric support will serve as yoga and aerobics area in the morning and hawking zone later in the day. New Town’s cycling track should be extended to this stretch also, they suggest. The bigger story The design contest was a part of the Streets for People Challenge that again is under the Smart Cities Mission of the ministry of housing and urban affairs. The aim, according to the Smart City website https://smartnet.niua.org/indiastreetchallenge/, is “to inspire cities to create walking-friendly streets through quick measures, in response to Covid-19”. It explains how Covid-19 has presented the need for physical distancing while moving through the city and accessing essential services. “Cities around the world, such as Bogota, Berlin and Milan have responded by transforming streets for walking and cycling, to ensure safe mobility during Covid-19. The pandemic has also highlighted the importance of open public urban spaces for recreation, mental health, and to enhance the liveability of a city. By placing health and economic recovery at the core of their interventions, cities have re-allocated streets for pedestrians, while also allowing local businesses to re-open safely,” it says. It has cited examples of two cities — New York and London — how this approach has helped the economy. “In New York, the Open Streets: Restaurants program has saved 80,000 jobs by allowing establishments to expand into sidewalks. A Transport for London report shows that improving streets for walking and cycling can increase retail sales by up to a staggering 30 per cent.” There have been 113 applicants to the challenge, with both Calcutta and New Town having applied separately. The Smart Cities Mission will shortlist 11 cities, which would move to Stage 2 of the Challenge. The evaluation will be based on the pilots and conceptual city-wide scale-up proposals submitted by the registered cities. The shortlisted cities will receive an award, a citation and guidance from national and international experts to further develop and commence their plans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Mahatma Gandhi and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose: Parallel lives||Mahatma Gandhi’s political death took place months before he was felled by the assassin’s bullet. That is why the day the country was partitioned, on August 14, 1947, he was sitting on a fast alone in Beleghata. The Asiatic Society had organised a lecture on ‘Mahatma Gandhi and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose: The Mutual Discourse’ and Professor Amal Mukhopadhyay, a former principal of the erstwhile Presidency College and a political scientist, was delivering it on Gandhi’s death anniversary and a week into Bose’s 125th birth anniversary year.  Mukhopadhyay described Bose as the greatest patriot who sacrificed everything for the motherland and Gandhi as the greatest tactician whose ways have been followed by many leaders the world over. “Their paths were different from the start. Gandhi went to South Africa to fight a case and launched ahimsa satyagraha against racism, not the British government. He got the Kaisar-i-Hind medal for helping the British in the Boer War. His first two movements on his return, Champaran and  Ahmedabad mill strikes, were both social movements, not political.” It was the Jallianwalabagh massacre in 1919 that aroused Gandhi’s nationalist consciousness and he returned the medal. And during the Khilafat Movement the same year, he became immersed in politics. Bose studied Swami Vivekananda in his adolescence, resolving to take sanyas in the monk’s footsteps. “During the first year of IA, in course of his travels, he met Swami Brahmananda in Varanasi and sought diksha. But he was told that renunciation was not for him.” Mukhopadhyay said he had researched the assault of the racist teacher, E.F. Oaten, that took place at Presidency College on 16 February, 1916. “I wanted to revoke the expulsion order that was passed on Bose (and another student Ananda Mohan Dam) by the erstwhile principal Henry Rosher James. Oaten could not identify his assaulters. The order was issued on the basis of a bearer’s word who identified the two from among suspects through a hole from a hiding place. My argument before the governing body was they were given no scope for self-defence. The order was revoked on January 22, 1996,” he said amid applause. Mukhopadhyay pointed out that after Bose gave up ICS, it was Gandhi that he first went to. “Gandhiji sent him to C.R. Das who embraced him. Later, when Gandhiji got the resolution of the withdrawal of satyagraha passed by the Congress working committee after the Chauri Chaura incident (when police shot and killed participants in a non-cooperation movement and a police station was burnt in protest, killing 22 cops), two people opposed it — Jawaharlal Nehru and Bose, both being of socialist mindset. Being a supreme tactician, Gandhi made Nehru the Congress president in 1929, creating a rift with Bose,” he said.   Mukhopadhyay disagreed with a dialogue attributed to Gandhi in the film Gumnami where he calls Bose his son. “Gandhi was 36 years older to Bose. But he never saw him as a son.” At the Tripuri session of the Congress in 1939, Bose was elected president, defeating Pattabhi Sitaramayya. “Gandhiji could have remained neutral but he openly said: ‘(Sitaramayya’s) … defeat is more mine than his,’ and with a working committee filled with Gandhi loyalists like Rajendra Prasad and Vallabhbhai Patel, Bose realised he could not work.” When Netaji was expelled from Congress, one person protested — Rabindranath Tagore. “He wrote him a long letter, referring to him as deshnayak. The two were so close that Tagore attended the foundation stone laying of Mahajati Sadan in 1939 despite being ill.”  Despite his differences with Gandhi, Mukhopadhyay pointed out, when Bose made his radio address years later from Rangoon, it was he who referred to Gandhiji as ‘father of our nation’. Gandhi too called him “patriot of patriots”. When Lord Mountbatten came to India, he resolved to meet all the leaders, starting with Gandhi. “When Mountbatten asked what the solution to India’s problem was, his response was that Jinnah should be asked to form the government. When he shared this with Nehru and Patel, this created a rift between Gandhi and his followers. The working committee went on to pass the resolution of Partition, despite Gandhiji being strongly against it. His own followers had sidelined Gandhi.” Netaji’s role in expediting India’s freedom has not highlighted enough. “When Prime Minister Clement Attlee was asked why India was being granted freedom, he had responded that it was because of the mutiny in the Royal Indian Navy which was a fall-out of the INA trials at Red Fort, which also made lakhs take the streets. People of the country had risen,” said Mukhopadhyay. He ended by lamenting about the lack of patriotism in today’s leaders who “know only vote-bank politics”. Satyabrata Chakrabarti, the general secretary of The Asiatic Society, said the objective of organising the lecture was to show how despite their differences Netaji and Gandhiji remained respectful towards each other, a trait missing in today’s politicians. Earlier, an exhibition, in collaboration with Rekha Chitram, was inaugurated by former principal of the Government College of Art and Craft Isha Mahammad, also a former president of Asiatic Society. The exhibition showcases 30 artworks, including eight sculptures in bronze and fibre on Gandhi and Bose. The exhibition will be on till February 8, and visitors will get to see Gandhiji’s half-bust statue by Kartik Chandra Pal, who had the opportunity to take his measurements during a Barrackpore visit, while his son Gautam, a CL Block resident, has sculpted a statue on his Dandi march. Family link is also present in the thread on canvas displays, by Rekha Chitram founder Rekha Chakraborty and her son Arun, the current head of the CK Block art school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Cycle repair a call away||A mobile cycle clinic was inaugurated on January 23 on the sidelines of a cycling event in New Town. “We are trying to build an ecosystem which promotes cycle as a mode of transport. We have built 30km of grid-separated track across New Town to allow people to cycle freely. The kind of high-end cycles that are being used today have completely different mechanisms from ordinary cycles, which are beyond the expertise of the local repair shops. So we thought of arranging for specialised maintenance service,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The New Town civic authorities have signed a memorandum of understanding with GC Calcutta Cycle, whereby service will be provided on call for a fee of Rs 70. “We are currently providing the service from 10am to 10pm. Later when the infrastructure is ready it might become 24 hours. We will do the repair on the spot or get the cycle picked up,” said Aniruddha Som on behalf of the company. The company has outlets in Chinar Park, Downtown Mall and DLF1 in New Town other than in Bentinck Street in central Calcutta and Kankurgachhi. “We are distributor, retailer and wholeseller, with collaborations with 18 companies worldwide, including some top-ranking international ones like Scott, Giant and Bergamont,” Som added. He pointed to a surge in cycling habits in the pandemic period. “We even accepted cycle delivery orders over phone and delivered at the doorstep. We must have sold 100-150 battery-operated cycles. These cost Rs 25,000 upwards.” Salt Lake, New Town and its adjoining localities have a lot of cyclists, he said. Some customers here also own high-end carbon cycles costing over Rs 1 lakh.  “We have brought over expert mechanics from Pune and Bangalore to handle those.” Shalini Srivastava owns a BMW cycle, with multiple gears, that can be ridden in mountainous terrains too. “I have not needed to repair my bike yet which I got from Surat. But it is good to know there is such a facility now,” said the resident of Uttara Housing Complex, opposite City Centre 2. The helplines to call for repair are 7044877785 and 7044752257.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
05-02-2021||Calcutta||New Town centre opens to low jab footfall||Vaccination has started at the sole centre in New Town on January 28. But the number of vaccinations is falling far short of the daily target of 200. Only 12 turned up on Wednesday. “We had 63 on the first day, 57 on the second, 69 on third. The fourth day is the only time we crossed 100, with 109 vaccinations,” said nodal medical officer Archita Saha, who is in charge of the NKDA Covid Vaccination Centre in Action Area IID, near Tank 12. Faced with low turn-out, the officials have also started making calls. “Sometimes we are getting the list late. Even then, we are trying to make as many calls as possible the day before.” According to officials, Wednesday’s exceptionally low turn-out might be the result of miscommunication. “We thought there would be a break after Tuesday.” In most places, vaccination is happening on Monday, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday. “But when we received the list rather late on Tuesday, we realised vaccination would happen on Wednesday too. And when we made some of the calls today, we found that many of the beneficiaries on the list had already taken the vaccine elsewhere. Also many healthcare workers might have been busy with administering polio vaccines today and did not come,” Saha said on Wednesday. Ermila Bandalim Sohtun, a nurse residing in AB Block, New Town, was one of the 12 to have turned up in the last hour. “I was already on duty at my hospital (Bhagirathi Neotia Woman and Child Care Centre) when I got the message at 9.30am this morning. So there was no way I could come before my shift ended.” But she was happy that a vaccination centre had opened in New Town. “Had it been any place far off, it would have been difficult for us to reach,” she said. New Town vaccine recipients were supposed to have got tagged with Rekjuani block primary health centre. “But we got our Covid safe house near Tank 12 ready almost overnight as a vaccination centre and applied to the health department,” NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said. He clarified that only frontline health workers would be vaccinated in the first lot, as is the norm across the country. “The vaccination list is being drawn up by the health department,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Turnout poor in Duttabad||Not enough people are turning up at the primary health centre in Duttabad to get their Covid shots. Till Tuesday, around 260 frontline healthcare workers from different hospitals and nursing homes in Salt Lake, New Town and Rajarhat had received their shots here whereas the list sent by the health department carried 465 names. The vaccination drive began in Salt Lake from January 16 with a total of 125 people getting vaccinated at two centres — Duttabad and at the sub-divisional hospital in DD Block. This had included three members of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation board of administrators who apparently jumped the queue to get jabbed. An app called CoWin sends SMSes to people informing them to take the shots and they are expected to turn up for it. “Since people are already getting text messages we are not calling to inform them,” said a civic official. “But it’s true that while several people are scared of taking the shot, many are also not receiving communication through the app.” “The government should now allow the vaccine to anyone who wants to take it,” said a member of the civic body’s board of administrators. At the sub-divisional hospital, about 60 per cent people are coming per day to get their shots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid testing, Duare Sarkar to stall opening of govt pools||A recent order from the home ministry has allowed public swimming pools to open but not all pools in our neighbourhood will do so in a hurry. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation runs two pools in Salt Lake — an Olympic-sized one opposite Mayukh Bhavan and another in CJ Block. To cope with the pandemic, the pool opposite Mayukh Bhavan, that is part of the Bidhannagar Municipal Sports Complex, has been turned into a Covid-19 testing centre. “We cannot allow swimmers here as swab samples are being collected,” said an official of the corporation. “We have not received any directive from the state health department to stop or move the testing centre elsewhere.” The official said that more than a dozen tests were being conducted at the premise every day. “We are also doing rapid tests and in case someone tests positive, we are sending them to the hospital from here,” he said. As for the CJ Block pool, no decision has been taken on its future. “The Duare Sarkar government outreach programmes have been going on there,” said another official. “We haven’t thought about reopening the pool, although a meeting has been scheduled to discuss the matter.” Then again, there’s the question of public response. “Even if we open the pools now, and distil the water, people might not turn up due to the cold and the fear of contracting Covid-19,” said a member of the board of administrators. On Wednesday, The Telegraph Salt Lake saw the water in the pool opposite Mayukh Bhavan to have turned green from algae formation at its base. The official said that by this time in other years, they start distributing seasonal membership forms but that this year there had been no enquiries. The swimming season usually lasts till the end of September but if they start late this time, the official said they may extend the season into October. Bidhannagar Swimming Association in BF Block is opening its office in the mornings since February 2 but has no plans to distribute forms yet. “Our season starts in April so we are in no rush,” said an official. At New Town Business Club, the swimming pool is one of its most popular facilities and the authorities there have started planning out the session this year. “Usually we start the session in mid-March but we want to play safe this time and may open it in April,” said a club official. Last year, they had filled up the pool and but didn’t start the session as the Covid scare was looming. “Then when the lockdown happened, we drained out the water and undertook the task of returning the membership fees to about 300 people who had paid for it,” he said. Repair and maintenance have not been neglected through the pandemic and so it should not take time to get the infrastructure ready. “Since it’s winter no one is asking about the pool but once it starts getting hot I’m sure enquiries will start pouring in. We have to be ready for it,” said the official. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
05-02-2021||Calcutta||New Town gets ration counter||New Town residents got access to the public distribution system with an extension counter of a fair price shop opening at the ground floor of the old electricity office in AI Block near Tank 3 in Action Area 1. “New Town did not have a ration shop. The nearest fair price shop is 2km away in Rajarhat. We received a request from Hidco to open one here. So the Rajarhat dealer will run an extension counter here on a weekly basis,” said an official of the food and supplies department. But no food grain would be distributed from here. “People with monthly income above Rs 15,000 are not eligible to receive subsidised supply. But they can apply for a ration card to use as documentary evidence by which they can also buy the non-subsidised items sold in fair price shops,” he added. The counter will be open for three hours every Tuesday from 10am to 1pm for residents to collect and submit Form 10, to apply for non-subsidised items, or Form 5 to change address. “When I was president of our block association, neighbours used to ask for the nearest ration shop. Some wanted to convert their old ration cards to digital ones. But we did not have any in the township then. Though hardly anyone needs to buy things from ration shops in New Town, it will be good to fill the gap in service,” said Debabrata Banerjee, president of the ALAKAI Block Cultural and Welfare Association from 2012 to 2018, who had dropped by to enquire on Tuesday on spotting the arrangements for the inauguration bring made. Hidco chairman Debashis Sen opened the counter in presence of Ajay Bhattacharya, director, district procurement and supply, department of food and supplies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
05-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end at fresh records after RBI policy outcome||Extending its winning run to the fifth session, equity benchmark Sensex jumped 117 points on Friday after the Reserve Bank kept interest rates unchanged but continued its accommodative stance to revive growth. The 30-share BSE benchmark briefly crossed the 51,000-level, before ending 117.34 points or 0.23 per cent higher at its fresh closing record of 50,731.63. Similarly, the 50-share NSE Nifty scaled the 15,000 mark during the day but shed some ground to close at its all-time high of 14,924.25, up 28.60 points or 0.19 per cent. SBI was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 10 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Dr Reddy's, UltraTech Cement, ITC and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Axis Bank, Bharti Airtel, ICICI Bank, Maruti and HCL Tech were among the laggards. Domestic equities remained buoyant and benchmark Nifty surpassed the psychologically-key 15,000 level before settling lower, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Notably, RBI policy outcome was also broadly on expected line, while announcements about allowing retail participation in bond markets through GILT Account, extension of HTM restoration to 19.5 per cent up to June'23 and availability of funds under on tap TLTRO for NFBCs bolstered investors' confidence," he said. Banking index, especially PSU banks, witnessed sharp rally, followed by pharma and FMCG indices. Earlier in the day, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) kept interest rates on hold while assuring to maintain support for reflating the economy by ensuring ample liquidity to manage the government's near-record borrowing. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary to revive growth and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on the economy while ensuring that inflation remains within the target, Governor Shaktikanta Das said. Elsewhere in Asia, indices in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.95 per cent higher at USD 59.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
05-02-2021||Business||Monetary Policy Committee of RBI keeps interest rates on hold||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday kept interest rates on hold while assuring to maintain support for reflating the economy by ensuring ample liquidity to manage the government's near-record borrowing. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted to continue with the accommodative stance as long as it is necessary to revive growth and mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the economy while ensuring that inflation remains within the target, Governor Shaktikanta Das said. While the Union Budget 2021 laid down an expansive fiscal strategy over the medium term to strengthen the growth engine in the economy, the RBI affirmed its support to such a plan through appropriate monetary tools. To absorb higher government borrowings, the central bank provided retail investors a direct option to invest in government securities. It also sapped some funds from banks by raising the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) and using the money for more targeted market operations. The MPC, which cut borrowing costs by 115 basis points last year, kept the repurchase or repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent. Consequently, the reverse repo rate will also continue to earn 3.35 per cent for banks for their deposits kept with the RBI. This is the fourth consecutive bi-monthly policy review to keep rates unchanged since they hit the pause mode in mid-2020 over inflation worries. Das said all the six members of MPC were unanimous in their decision to keep rates on hold. With green shoots of recovery clearly visible, the RBI pegged GDP growth in the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2021 at 10.5 per cent, a tad lower than 11 per cent predicted by the government's Economic Survey last week. The growth compares to an estimated 7.7 per cent contraction in the economy during the current fiscal ending March 31. The outlook on growth, he said, has improved significantly with positive growth impulses becoming more broad-based and the rollout of the vaccination programme in the country auguring well for the end of the pandemic. The economy had contracted by 23.9 per cent in the April-June period of last year and by 7.5 per cent in the following three months. "... going forward, the Indian economy is poised to move in only one direction and that is upwards," Das said while unveiling the bi-monthly monetary policy. On prices front, the RBI kept retail inflation target at 5.2 per cent for March 2021 and 4.3 per cent in December 2021. Das announced the restoration of CRR - the amount of deposits lenders must set aside as reserves - to 3.5 per cent in March and 4 per cent in May. The cash returning to the central bank can be used by it for open market operations and other liquidity measures. The developmental measures announced by the RBI included the inclusion of NBFCs in the on tap TLTRO scheme, the incentive to banks to lend to new MSME borrowers through a lower CRR requirement and the further deferment of capital conservation buffer. The RBI Governor said the economy's growth outlook had improved and that inflation was expected to remain less than the central bank's upper target of 6 per cent over the next few quarters. "Given that inflation has returned within the tolerance band, the MPC judged that the need of the hour is to continue to support growth, assuage the impact of Covid-19 and return the economy to a higher growth trajectory," he said. "The RBI stands committed to ensure the availability of ample liquidity in the system and thereby foster congenial financial conditions for the recovery to gain traction." The 27th meeting of the rate-setting MPC with three external members -- Ashima Goyal, Jayanth R Varma and Shashanka Bhide -- began on February 3. This is the first meeting of the panel after the Budget 2021-22 earlier this week projected a nominal GDP growth rate of 14.5 per cent and fiscal deficit of 6.8 per cent for the financial year beginning April 1, 2021. The MPC has been given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2021, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and lower tolerance of 2 per cent. On inflation, Das said it has eased below the upper tolerance level of 6 per cent for the first time during the Covid-19 period. "Going ahead, factors that could shape the food inflation trajectory in coming months, including the likely bumper Kharif harvest arrivals in markets, rising prospects of a good rabi crop, larger winter supplies of key vegetables and softer poultry demand on fears of avian flu are all indicative of a stable near-term outlook," he said. As far as gross market borrowing of Rs 12 lakh crore in 2021-22 is concerned, he said the Reserve Bank, as the government's debt manager and banker, will ensure the orderly completion of the programme in a non-disruptive manner. "In this context, we look forward to the continuance of the common understanding and cooperative approach between market players and the RBI during 2021-22 also," he said. The RBI has also decided to defer the implementation of the last tranche of the Capital Conservation Buffer (CCB) of 0.625 per cent and also defer the implementation of Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) by another six months from April 1 to October 1, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
05-02-2021||Business||RBI projects GDP growth rate of 10.5 per cent for financial year 2022||In line with the Union Budget, the Reserve Bank of India on Friday projected a GDP growth rate of 10.5 per cent for the financial year beginning April 1, on the back of a recovery in economic activities. With regard to inflation, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said vegetable prices are expected to remain soft in the near term as the central bank projected retail inflation rate to come down to 5.2 per cent in the current quarter and progressively decline to 4.3 per cent by the third quarter of the next fiscal. He said the growth outlook has improved significantly and the vaccination drive will help the economic rebound. Das further said the economy will rebound to 10.5 per cent in the next financial year. After the Budget 2021-22 announcement on Monday, Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj had said that real GDP growth would be 10-10.5 per cent in the next fiscal. "Our revenue figure is under-stated not overstated. We have taken nominal GDP at 14.4 per cent and revenue growth at 16.7 per cent. So, the buoyancy is only 1.16. We are hopeful we will get more than this. We will definitely be within 6.8 per cent and could be lower also," Bajaj had said. The RBI Governor further said that the government will be reviewing the inflation target by March-end. The Monetary Policy Committee headed by the RBI Governor has been given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2021, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
05-02-2021||Business||RBI keeps policy rate unchanged for fourth consecutive time||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday decided to leave benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4 per cent but maintained an accommodative stance, implying rate cuts in the future if need arises to support the economy hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. The benchmark repurchase (repo) rate has been left unchanged at 4 per cent, Governor Shaktikanta Das said while announcing the decisions taken by the central bank's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC). Consequently, the reverse repo rate will also continue to earn 3.35 per cent for banks for their deposits kept with RBI. He said MPC voted for keeping the interest rate unchanged and decided to continue with its accommodative stance to support growth. The central bank had slashed the repo rate by 115 basis points since late March 2020 to support growth. This is the fourth time in a row that MPC has decided to keep the policy rate unchanged. RBI had last revised its policy rate on May 22 in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting interest rate to a historic low. The 27th meeting of the rate-setting MPC with three external members -- Ashima Goyal, Jayanth R Varma and Shashanka Bhide -- began on February 3. This is the first meeting of the rate setting panel after the Budget 2021-22, announced this week, projected a nominal GDP growth rate of 14.5 per cent and a fiscal deficit of 6.8 per cent for the financial year beginning April 1. The government moved the interest rate setting role from the RBI Governor to the six-member MPC in 2016. Half of the panel, headed by the Governor, is made up of external independent members. MPC has been given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2021, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
05-02-2021||Business||Equity benchmarks spike to new highs ahead of RBI policy decision||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty advanced their record-setting spree in early trade on Friday, ahead of the RBI monetary policy outcome. The 30-share BSE Sensex, briefly touched the 51,000-level, and was trading at 50,830.76, gaining 216.47 points or 0.43 per cent in opening trade. Similarly, the 50-share NSE Nifty was quoted at 14,968.95, moving higher by 73.30 points or 0.49 per cent. SBI, Kotak Bank, IndusInd Bank, HDFC, ONGC and Axis Bank were top gainers in the Sensex pack. Of the Sensex constituents, 22 shares were trading in the green. On Thursday, the Sensex had ended 358.54 points or 0.71 per cent higher at its new closing record of 50,614.29; and the Nifty had settled with 105.70 points or 0.71 per cent gains at its closing peak of 14,895.65. Both indices had touched their all-time highs as well during the session. Meanwhile, the Reserve Bank is scheduled to announce its bi-monthly monetary policy decision in a short while from now. "The market will be keenly watching the monetary policy due today, particularly the nuances of the policy and indications coming from the central bank. The policy rates are likely to remain unchanged but there can be indications on liquidity management, going forward, V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, said. The RBI has a crucial role to play in growth recovery by pursuing an accommodative stance for an extended period of time, he said adding that low-interest rates have turned out to be a strong tailwind for sectors like housing and automobiles. Foreign institutional investors bought shares worth Rs 2,520.92 crore on a net basis on Thursday, according to exchange data. Asian shares too moved higher during afternoon trade as governments around the globe accelerated vaccine rollout programmes to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.39 per cent higher at USD 59.22 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Reliance Industries Ltd sells US shale gas asset for $250 million||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) has sold its stake in a shale gas asset in the US to Northern Oil and Gas Inc for $250 million. RIL, which was once bullish on shale gas, has been divesting these assets over the past five years as the business has been adversely affected by falling crude prices. “Reliance Marcellus LLC (RMLLC) a wholly owned subsidiary of RIL announced the signing of agreements to divest all of its interest in certain upstream assets in the Marcellus shale play of south-western Pennsylvania,” RIL said in a regulatory filing today. Reliance said the the assets were  operated by various affiliates of EQT Corporation. Besides receiving $250 million in cash, the Mukesh Ambani company has got warrants  to purchase 3.25 million common shares of Northern Oil and Gas  at an exercise price of $14 per common share in the next seven years. “A purchase and sale agreement (PSA) has been signed between RMLLC and Northern Oil and Gas on February 3 for this sale and the transaction is subject to customary terms and conditions of closing,” RIL added. Reliance had invested $8.2 billion in the assets in the last decade. It held stakes in three US shale gas ventures : two at Marcellus and one at Eagle Ford in Texas. Reliance held a 45 per cent stake in a joint venture with Pioneer Natural Resourcesat Eagle Ford. It held 40 per cent in a joint venture with Chevron in one asset at Marcellus, while it held 60 per cent in the other asset there with  Carrizo Oil & Gas  the partner. In 2017, Reliance Marcellus II LLC, a subsidiary of Reliance Holding USA, and RIL closed the stake sale in the Marcellus shale gas asset operated by Carrizo Oil and Gas. Next year, its subsidiary Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding LP sold certain assets in Eagle Ford shale to Sundance Energy Inc for $100 million. These assets were located at Atascosa, La Salle, Live Oak and McMullen Counties, Texas. During the announcement of its third-quarter results, RIL had said the shale ventures had optimised their costs in the weak macro conditions in the economy that had impacted prices. It had added that due to the adverse changes in market environment, the shale gas arms have impaired their assets totalling Rs 15,691 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Rising oil prices could hurt global economic recovery: Pradhan||Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan warned on Thursday that rising oil prices could hurt global economic recovery in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic that caused most economies to shrink last year. Global crude oil prices rose to their highest in about a year this week as production cuts by the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and their allies including Russia tilted the market balance towards a deficit. That has propelled gasoline prices to record levels in the world’s third-biggest oil consuming and importing nation. “Efforts at artificially distorting prices will have a dampening effect on the fragile global economic recovery that is underway,” Dharmendra Pradhan said at the South Asia Commodities Forum of S&P Global Platts. “If the world has to grow as a whole, there has to be a mutually supportive relationship between producers and consumers. It is in the interests of producers that oil-dependent economies keep growing steadily,” Pradhan said. Last month also, the minister blamed Opec+ for high oil prices. India imports about 85 per cent of its oil needs and half of gas demand. "While we do not favour too low prices, we also do not support high prices, which deny energy access to millions in India," he said. India has been diversifying its energy sources to cut dependence on Middle Eastern producers, he said, adding the nation sees 'enormous potential' to strengthen its relations with the U.S., mainly on imports of liquefied natural gas (LNG). The U.S. is one of the top ten oil suppliers to India, he said. To meet its growing energy needs India is also investing $143 billion in domestic projects to boost local outputs and build oil and gas infrastructure including an 80% jump in refining capacity to 9 million barrels per day, he said. Pradhan said the country is adopting cleaner energy sources to fuel its economic expansion but baseload will continue to be met by oil and gas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Government plans to privatise 10 state-run airports in first quarter of next fiscal||The government plans to invite bids to privatise six to 10 state-run airports in the first quarter of the next fiscal, with plans for a “package” offer that clubs profitable and non-profitable airports to realise optimum value. “AAI is examining giving non-profitable airport and profit making airports as a package. We could see six to 10 airports being taken up. The airports will be given to the private sector for 50 years,” Pradeep Kharola, secretary, ministry of civil aviation said on Thursday. The bidding terms for the operation of the airports, their management as well as the development of infrastructure will be structured to encourage long-term leases of the facilities. So far, the government has awarded the airports at Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Thiruvananthapuram, Guwahati, Jaipur and Mangalore to Adani Group under the first round of the divestment process which started in 2018. Kharola said the government would float the preliminary information memorandum for Air India Air Transport Services Ltd to commence its divestment afresh. AIATSL or Air India Air Transport Services is a wholly wned subsidiary of Air India and is involved in managing the ramp operations, cargo handling and passenger management. On the strategic sale of Air India, the civil aviation secretary said the transaction advisors were scrutinising the expressions of interest. “The transaction adviser has received the expression of interest from bidders. The adviser will now seek financial bids from the qualified bidders.” Kharola said. Kharola said the government would do away with fare bands once the situation returns to normality.  “Fare bands are not going to be permanent. As soon as the normal operation starts, the fare bands will go away,” he said. Max return The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is examining the issue of giving approval to Boeing Max 737 planes to fly in India and a decision will be taken after running all sorts of scrutiny “They will be running all sorts of scrutiny that is possible. It is a very major decision DGCA wants to be sure that,” Kharola said. Concor selloff The government plans to soon come out with the expression of interest (EoI) for the strategic sale of Container Corporation of India, a railway PSU, with management control, sources said. While the government plans to offload 30.80 per cent of its 54.80 per cent stake in Concor, it would continue to retain 24 per cent stake post selloff but without any veto powers. The sale The strategic stake sale of the company has been stuck due to the land licence fee policy. The Cabinet approval to the land licence policy will pave way for strategic divestment of the state-owned Container Corp, the official said. Meanwhile, Airbus on Thursday has signed a MoU with GMRGroup to explore collaboration opportunities across aviation services, technologies and innovation. "Under this partnership, GMR and Airbus teams will work together and innovate across areas such as airport operations and air cargo supply chain among others to realize our shared goals," SGK Kishore, Executive Director - South and Chief Innovation Officer, GMR Airports said in a release. The two will team up to explore potential synergies in several strategic areas of aviation services, including maintenance, components, training, digital and airport services, it said. As part of the MoU, Airbus and GMR will collaborate to explore a broad scope of aviation services both for commercial and military aircraft, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Deficit may deter change in cash stance||The spotlight is on the Reserve Bank of India’s assessment of the present liquidity situation when the apex bank announces its next round of bi-monthly monetary policy on Friday — following higher fiscal deficits and borrowings announced in the budget The six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) of the RBI is also widely expected to leave the policy repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent while retaining an accommodative stance. The central bank’s views on the current liquidity conditions have gained significance after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the budget put the fiscal deficit for the fiscal at 9.5 per cent of GDP and 6.8 per cent for 2021-22. She also announced the government would borrow Rs 80,000 crore more in this fiscal taking its total borrowing to Rs 12.8 lakh crore. For the next year, the gross market borrowing is also higher than expected at Rs 12 lakh crore. Bond market circles fear a higher supply of government paper can lead to rising yields. Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond have risen above 6 per cent since the budget and now stands at 6.07 per cent. The budget announcement on the high fiscal deficit and borrowings came just days after the RBI had said that it would restore normal liquidity operations. The banking system is flush with liquidity and the lenders have been parking Rs 6-7 lakh crore in RBI’s reverse repo window. Following the announcement of higher borrowings, markets are waiting to see whether the RBI tweaks its plan to revert to normal liquidity. Analysts at Edelweiss said the RBI not only reverted to a much easier monetary policy during the pandemic by lowering rates and injecting liquidity but also relaxed the liquidity management framework by widening the policy corridor and allowing inter-bank call money rates to slip below the reverse repo rate. With conditions normalising, the central bank had started the process of restoring the liquidity management framework by announcing a 14-day variable reverse repo auction to push overnight rates back into the corridor, and the effect of this was felt on the 1–5 years segment of the yield curve. “We will keenly watch the RBI’s commentary or guidance on further normalisation of the liquidity management framework and, more generally, liquidity conditions. As a base case, we do not expect the RBI rushing to withdraw liquidity,’’ a note prepared by Edelweiss said. “We will watch out for actions such as defined OMO calendar and secondary market G-sec buying, no increase in variable reverse repo quantum and maintenance of adequate system liquidity as strong policy signals’’, a note from Emkay said. Bond market circles expect the RBI to say that it will come out with open market operations (OMOs) and more Operation Twists to ensure that bond yields do not rise. Some are also of the view that the central bank may announce an OMO calendar. It is also speculated that the central bank may raise the statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) or the percentage of bank deposits that must be invested in Government securities from the current 18 per cent or further raise the held to maturity (HTM) limit. This is a category of banks’ bond investments which do not have to be marked to market with the current rates, thus sparing them from any valuation hits. "We watch out for actions such as defined OMO calendar and secondary market G-sec buying, no increase in variable reverse repo (VRR)quantum and maintenance of adequate system liquidity –as strong policy signals," a note from Emkay said. For the MPC there is one relief that retail inflation at 4.59 per cent in December came back to the medium term target of four per cent with a band of +/-2 per cent. This could open up space for the interest rate setting panel in the next fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||State Bank of India's profit drops 7% but beats estimates||State Bank of India (SBI) topped Street estimates even though it posted  nearly a 7 per cent drop in standalone net profit for the December quarter of 2020 on higher provisions. The country’s largest lender reported a net profit of Rs 5,196 crore compared with Rs 5,583 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting the lender to report profits of Rs 4,500-5,000 crore for the period. While net profit wasahead of expectations, SBI chairman Dinesh Khara exuded confidence when he said that the disruption seen on account of Covid-19 was waning and that there was positivity in the industry and economy. Khara estimates the  SBI will see a double digit credit growth from the second quarter of the next fiscal, though this year it is likely to end with a rise of 7 per cent. During the quarter, there was good news on the asset quality front when the bank saw non-performing assets (NPAs) in absolute terms falling to Rs 1,17,244 crore from Rs 1,25,863 crore in the preceding three months. The gross NPA ratio also declined to 4.77 per cent from 5.28 per cent in the preceding quarter, SBI had a provision coverage ratio of 90 per cent. If the bank had classified the loans in accordance with RBI norms, its NPAs in absolute terms will stand at Rs 1,33,705 crore, while the gross NPA ratio will come at 5.44 per cent. Khara disclosed that the SBI has received requests for restructuring loans worth Rs 18,125 crore, of which Rs 4,506 crore has already been implemented. Of the total amount, close to Rs 3,900 crore are in the retail category, Rs 2,500 crore from its SME customers and Rs 11,000 crore from corporate houses. Total slippages and restructuring up to the third quarter stood at Rs 412,16 crore and SBI expects this number to be around Rs 60,000 crore by the end of this fiscal. SBI disclosed that during the period, credit growth stood at 6.73 per cent over the previous year, mainly driven by retail (personal) advances which was back to pre-Covid levels and showed a growth of 15.47 per cent as compared to the preceding year), SME at 5.62 per cent and corporate advances which rose 2.23 per cent. However, if one were to include corporate bonds and commercial paper, the loan book has grown by 8.16 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Steel prices hit wagon manufacturers||Wagon manufacturers want the government to intervene after primary steel producers raised prices by at least Rs 1,000-1,500 per tonne despite the Centre lowering the import duty on various steel products in the Union budget. Steel is a major raw material to make wagons. High input costs have prompted a few manufacturers to cut back on production and scale up later once prices start going south. While certain contracts of Indian Railways with wagon makers have price variation clauses, these do not cover short-term fluctuations in prices. Moreover, non-government contracts and export orders which are highly competitive may not always have such clauses. As a result, a spike in steel prices directly impacts wagon manufacturing. Officials of city-based wagon manufacturers said they were carefully evaluating tender participation and were hesitant to enter into fixed price contracts. “This frequency of price rise of stainless steel coils and plates is affecting the industry. Steel plants are not in favour of long-term supply contracts,” an official said. “The situation is extremely alarming. The intention of the government to correct the situation is visible in the budget. We are hopeful that the government will step in and address the problem,” said Umesh Chowdhary, vice-chairman and managing director, Titagarh Wagons. “Secondary market prices have softened a bit, but primarily market prices are still firm,” said A.K. Vijay, executive director, Texmaco Rail & Engineering Ltd. At the union budget, customs duty was reduced to 7.5 per cent on certain categories of steel products. Further, anti dumping duty and countervailing duty on certain steel products have also been revoked. But the impact of the move is likely to be limited unless international prices come down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki True Value reaches milestone of selling 4 million pre-owned cars||Maruti Suzuki India’s used car business — Maruti Suzuki True Value — reached the milestone of selling 4 million pre-owned cars since its inception in 2001. Maruti had started the used car vertical to ensure quality, reliability and hassle-free pre-owned car purchase and selling experience. It set up a network of 550 independent True Value outlets across 268 cities and offered both online and offline services. Shashank Srivastava, executive director (marketing & sales), Maruti Suzuki India Limited, said, “The pre-owned car market in India is highly unorganised and there are a very few players providing safe, reliable and transparent buying and selling experience to buyers. True Value was set up to overcome these issues and ensure that buyers of pre-owned cars get the same experience as new car buyers. These outlets are digitally integrated through website and app so that customers can access details of all the cars available at True Value outlets from the comfort of their homes.” With 376 checks, quality evaluation, refurbishment and certification process, True Value Certified cars are offered with up to one-year warranty and three free services. Toyota Fortuner Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Thursday announced that it has received over 5,000 bookings for the new Fortuner and the exclusive Legender since their launch in India. Tata Safari Tata Motors has announced that it will open bookings of the all-new Safari from Thursday. Customers can book this new premium SUV at a refundable amount of Rs 30,000 on the Tata Motors website or visit the nearest authorised dealership and be on the priority delivery list. The Fortuner continues to dominate the SUV segment with over a 53 percent segment shareThe vehicles are now on display and available for test drives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||City gas grid to get Rs 5,000 crore in six southern districts of Bengal||Bengal Gas Company Ltd, a joint venture between central PSU GAIL and state PSU Greater Calcutta Gas Supply Corporation Ltd, will plough Rs 5,000 crore over the next five years into a city gas distribution network in six southern districts of Bengal, including Calcutta. GAIL, which holds a 74 per cent stake in the JV, will arrange Rs 1,500 crore equity, while about Rs 500 crore would be brought in by the Bengal government entity. “The rest would be financed by debt which has already been tied up. We are farming out contracts to execute the project,” E.S. Ranganathan, director (marketing) of GAIL, said. The main trunk pipeline carrying natural gas has already reached Durgapur and it would be flagged off officially by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, along with two other oil industry projects from Haldia. As part of the Urja Ganga project, the main trunk pipeline will come to the north of Calcutta and proceed to Haldia, where it will serve the large industries located at the port town. Ranganathan, who was in Calcutta ahead of the PM’s visit, said the pipeline, being laid by GAIL directly, would reach Calcutta in the next 12 months. BGCL plans to build 130 compressed natural gas (CNG) stations to supply clean fuel to the transport sector in these six districts and at least 30 of them would be ready by the end of the year. It also intends to supply piped natural gas to 12 lakh households, along with small industrial units. The century-old GCGSCL has an underground pipe network in Calcutta that supplied coal gas. to consumers. Bulk of  the investment will go into its upgrade to offer reliable, round-the-clock and safe service. Majority of the investment will go into that. The city gas distribution network, which has the potential to clean up the air quality of the city as it did in Mumbai and Delhi, has been in the works for more than a decade. However, it has gained momentum in the last few years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Haldia port to be LPG hub||Haldia port is going to emerge as one of the largest destinations to import LPG in India after BPCL operationalises a terminal on Sunday. Built at an investment of Rs 1,100 crore, the import terminal has a nameplate capacity to handle 1 million tonnes of LPG a year. This will be the third such facility to come up at Haldia, the other two being operated by the IOC-Petronas JV and Reliance Industries. Arun Kumar Singh, director marketing of BPCL, said Haldia port has a strategic location to import LPG for the entire East and Northeast. “Despite the low river draft which does allow big ships to dock, Haldia is preferred because it is closest to the consumption centres and LPG can be supplied at a lower cost compared with other ports on the east coast,” Singh said. As it is industry practice to operate LPG terminals twice the nameplate capacity by working in double shifts, three terminals can handle 6mt import a year, making Haldia one of the busiest ports for LPG. On Sunday, PM Narendra Modi will kick off the construction of a catalytic de waxing unit at IOC’s Haldia unit. To be ready by 2023 at an investment of Rs 1019 crore, it will produce base oil for lubricants, IOC director marketing Gurmeet Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Biyani ban not to affect Rs 24,713 crore-deal with Reliance Retail||Future Retail Ltd (FRL) has said the market regulator’s order to bar group CEO Kishore Biyani and other entities from accessing the securities market for a year will have “no impact’’ on the Rs 24,713 crore-deal with Reliance Retail. It added that Biyani, some other promoters and Future Corporate Resources Pvt Ltd (FCRPL), a promoter entity, plan to appeal against the order passed by Sebi. In a separate statement, FCRPL said the Sebi order “has taken care to exclude dealings in securities under any impending scheme of arrangement”. “Therefore, Sebi would not pose a hurdle to the ongoing scheme of arrangement with the Reliance group,” it added. FCRPL maintained that the Sebi order is “untenable as it treats a well-anticipated and publicly well-known impending re-organisation of the home furnishing businesses that the Future Group effected in 2017 to be unpublished information”. “The order will be challenged in exercise of the statutory right to appeal,” it disclosed. Division bench hearing In an hearing before a division bench of the Delhi High Court, senior advocate for FRL Harish Salve said Amazon was opposing the deal with Reliance as the latter was a competitor. It may be recalled that FRL has appealed against an February 2 interim order given by Justice J R Midha of the Delhi High Court who had directed the company to maintain status quo in relation to the deal with Reliance Retail. It also directed all other authorities to maintain status quo in relation to the matters which are in violation of an emergency award given in October last year and to file status report with regard to the present status within 10 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
05-02-2021||India||Third phase of Covid-19 vaccination covering people aged above 50 likely to begin in March: Govt||The third phase of vaccination against the coronavirus is likely to commence in March and will cover 27 crore people aged 50 years and above and those with co-morbidities, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said in Lok Sabha on Friday. Replying to questions on vaccines and the vaccination drive against the coronavirus during the Question Hour, Vardhan said nearly five million people have been inoculated in the country so far. He added that the vaccination drive for frontline workers has begun this week. "In coming days, 27 crore people who are of above 50 years of age and those under 50 with co-morbidities will be vaccinated," Vardhan said. The vaccination drive began on January 16, starting with healthcare workers and then the frontline workers, both estimated to be around three crore. "After the completion of first and second phases, the third phase could be launched from any week next month," Vardhan said. He added that the third phase will cover people above the age of 50. "It is not possible to give an exact date, but we estimate that this process can start in the second, third or the fourth week of March," he said. Vardhan said the finance minister has allocated Rs 35,000 crore for vaccination in the budget and she has assured that it could be increased if required. He said two vaccines -- Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech -- have been approved for emergency use authorisation. Besides these, work is in progress on seven vaccines. Of the seven, three vaccines are in phase 3 clinical trial stage. Two vaccines are in phase 1 and 2 clinical trial stages and the remaining two are in advanced pre-clinical stage. He said India has received requests for vaccines from 22 countries. These countries include Afghanistan, Algeria, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brazil, Egypt, Kuwait, Maldives, Mauritius, Morocco, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, South Africa and the UAE. There is also request from the Pacific Island countries, he said. Vaccines have already been given to 15 countries through grant assistance and contracted doses. He said 56 lakh doses have been sent through grants and five lakh doses through contract.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
05-02-2021||India||No chakka jam in Delhi, national capital to remain open, say farmers||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting the three farm laws, said on Friday there would be no 'chakka jam' in Delhi on February 6 even as it asserted that peasants in other parts of the country will block national and state highways for three hours in a peaceful way. In a statement, the SKM said emergency and essential services such as ambulance and school bus will not be stopped during the 'chakka jam' that is proposed to be held between 12 pm and 3 pm on Saturday. "There will be no chakka jam programme inside Delhi since all the protest sites are already in a chakka jam mode. All roads for entering into Delhi will remain open except where farmers' protest sites are already located," the statement stated. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for over 70 days, demanding a complete repeal of three central farm laws. Darshan Pal, a senior member of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said that 'chakka jam' will remain completely peaceful and non-violent, adding that protesters have been asked to not to indulge in any conflict with government officials or any citizen. The SKM had earlier this week announced this nationwide chakka jam on Saturday, saying that farmers would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the Internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. According to the SKM, the chakka jam will conclude at 3 pm by blowing vehicle horn for one minute, a move that is aimed at expressing support and solidarity with the farmers. Meanwhile, security at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders has been tightened by deploying extra forces and putting up multi-layered barricades, barbed wires and nails studded on the roads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
05-02-2021||India||No aid for kin of farmers who died during protests, Tomar tells House||The Delhi Police has informed about death of two persons and one suicide case during the farmers' protest against the three farm laws, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday. To a query in Rajya Sabha whether the government would provide financial assistance from the Kisan Kalyan Fund to the families of the deceased farmers, he answered in the negative. "There is no specific information available about the death of farmers agitating in different states of the country. However, Delhi Police has informed about death of two persons and one suicide during the farmers' protest," Tomar said in a written reply to the House. To a separate query whether the government has any data on total number of farmers' deaths and cases of suicide at the farmers' protest against the three farm laws from November 2020-January 2021, Tomar said his ministry has "no record". "The Ministry of Home Affairs has reported that there is no specific information to provide on the issues raised in the question. However, it has been further informed by Delhi Police that two persons died and one committed suicide, during the farmers' protest," he reiterated. The minister also informed that "no expired tear gas shells were used by Delhi Police on the farmers who were marching towards Delhi to protest against the three farm laws." Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are camping at Delhi borders for over two months now seeking repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price of crops. The 11 rounds of talks between the Centre and 41 protesting farmer unions have so far remained inconclusive even though the former has offered concessions including suspension of the legislations for 18 months which the unions have rejected. The government has said it has kept its doors open for discussion with farmers to resolve their concerns, but the protesting unions have made it clear that further talks can take place if police stops harassment of farm leaders and revokes suspension of internet at protest sites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||High-speed internet back in Jammu and Kashmir ||High-speed mobile internet services are being restored in the entire Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, exactly 18 months after it was suspended in August 2019 when the Centre abrogated special status of the erstwhile state. Rohit Kansal, the spokesperson of the Jammu and Kashmir administration, tweeted Friday evening, "4G mobile internet services are being restored in the entire Jammu and Kashmir." The services, according to sources, are likely to resume from Friday midnight. High-speed mobile internet services had been restored in two districts -- Ganderbal in Kashmir region and Udhampur in Jammu region -- in August last year. Internet services, mainly 4G connectivity, had been withdrawn in the wake of abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year, with the government pleading that it would otherwise aid terrorists to intensify their activities in the two Union Territories of Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh. In early 2020, 2G internet services were restored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||Delhi Police tighten security at borders ahead of farmers’ ‘Chakka Jam’||Security at Delhi’s border points near the three protest sites have been tightened by deploying extra forces and putting up multi-layered barricades, barbed wires and nails studded on the roads ahead of the proposed 'chakka jam' by farmers protesting the Centre's three agri laws, police said on Friday. Earlier in the day, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava also held a meeting with the senior officers of the force and reviewed the security arrangements. The police will also be monitoring content on the social media to keep a watch on those spreading rumours against the force, officials said. Farmer unions on Monday had announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. Elaborating about the security arrangements for the proposed 'chakka jam', Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said in view of the violence that took place on January 26, adequate security arrangements have been put in place by the Delhi Police at the borders so that miscreants are not able enter the national capital. "We are monitoring content on social media to make sure rumours are not spread against the police. The protestors are camping at the borders of Delhi. We are in touch with the police force of other states also," he added. A senior police officer said to prevent any kind of law and order situation and disruption of normal life during the 'chakka jam', adequate forces are being deployed across the outer-north district of Delhi Police. "We have a very high security arrangement at Singhu at present but for Saturday, we are strengthening it at the border. "We are deploying forces at all important points in the entire outer-north district of Delhi Police as a preventative measure to ensure that traffic and normal life is not affected, and also to ensure that there is no law and order situation or unauthorized 'chakka jam' being done by violating norms," he said. Another senior police officer from east district of Delhi Police said as a precautionary measure, iron nails studded on the roads have also been repositioned behind the barricades at the Ghazipur border, another protest site. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav said, "According to the protesting farmers, they will not enter the national capital, but still as a precautionary measure, we have made adequate security arrangements to maintain law and order. Adequate police presence will be in place at all important points and junctions across the district. "There will be additional deployment of pickets at all the border points. All vehicles will be checked thoroughly at the entry and exit points of pickets and borders. Additional buses have already been taken and extra barricades are being put up at the picket points across the city."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||UPSC aspirants who exhausted last chance in 2020 can appear again, says Centre||The Centre Friday told the Supreme Court that it is agreeable to give an extra chance as a one-time relaxation to UPSC civil service aspirants, who had appeared in their last attempt in the 2020 exam amid the Covid-19 pandemic and are otherwise not age-barred. Relaxation, only to the extent of providing one extra attempt for Civil Service Examination (CSE), specifically limited to CSE-2021, may be granted to only those candidates who appeared for CSE-2020 as their last permissible attempt and are otherwise not age-barred from appearing in CSE-2021, the Centre told a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar. In a note filed in the apex court, the Centre said that no relaxation shall be granted for CSE-2021 to those candidates who have not exhausted their permissible number of attempts or to those who are otherwise age-barred from appearing in CSE-2021 as per the prescribed age limits of different categories, or to any other candidate for any other reason whatsoever. This relaxation for the candidates and to the extent as prescribed above, shall be a one-time relaxation only and shall apply only for appearing in CSE-2021 and shall not be treated as a precedent, it told the bench, also comprising Justice Dinesh Maheshwari. The Centre said that the relaxation shall not create any vested right whatsoever or any other purported right on ground of parity or otherwise, in favour of any other set/class of candidates at any time in the future. The bench asked the Centre to circulate the note and asked the petitioners to file their responses to it. The top court said it would hear the matter on February 8. On February 1, the Centre had told the top court that it cannot grant an extra chance to civil services aspirants who could not appear or prepare well for their last attempt in the UPSC exam in 2020 due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||Offer to amend farm laws does not reflect shortcomings in legislation: Tomar in Rajya Sabha||Putting up a strong defence of the new farm laws, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said the government's offer to amend them to assuage farmers' sentiments did not mean they had any flaws and that none from the protesting unions or their sympathisers have been able to point out any lacuna. Countering the opposition claim that farmers across the country are agitated over the three new laws, he said that those in just one state are being misinformed and instigated. His comments in Rajya Sabha referred to protests at the border points of the national capital being led by farmers from Punjab. The government, he said, is committed to the welfare of farmers and to the continuation of the mandi system of procurement of crops on minimum support price (MSP) based mechanism. The laws give farmers alternatives to sell their produce outside 'mandis', and unlike the state government notified market places, such sale would not attract any tax. "The agitation should have been against the tax levied (by state government) on sale made in mandis but strangely the protests are against freeing of the system from such taxes," he said, intervening during the discussion on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha at the start of the Budget Session. Tomar said farmer unions and the opposition have not been able to point out any lacuna in the three laws. "Government's offer to make amendments in the laws does not mean there are any shortcomings in them," the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||SC grants interim bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui ||The Supreme Court on Friday granted interim bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui in a case lodged at Indore in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. A bench headed by Justice R F Nariman also issued a notice to the Madhya Pradesh Government on Munawar's plea challenging the high court order refusing to grant regular bail to him. In the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, the bench, also comprising Justice B R Gavai, also stayed the production warrant issued against the comedian in a separate case lodged in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. Faruqui and four others were arrested on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA's son that alleged objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were passed by him during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's day. One more person was arrested subsequently. The high court, in its order passed on January 28, had refused to grant him bail noting that to "promote harmony" is one of the constitutional duties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||Pfizer withdraws Emergency Use Authorisation application for its vaccine in India||Pharma major Pfizer on Friday said it has decided to withdraw its application for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) of its Covid-19 vaccine in India. Pfizer was the first pharmaceutical firm to seek an emergency use authorisation from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for its Covid-19 vaccine in the country after it secured such clearance in the UK and Bahrain. "In pursuance of the Emergency Use Authorisation of its COVID-19 vaccine, Pfizer participated in the Subject Expert Committee meeting of the Drug Regulatory Authority of India on February 3. Based on the deliberations at the meeting and our understanding of additional information that the regulator may need, the company has decided to withdraw its application at this time," a company spokesperson said in a statement. Pfizer will continue to engage with the authority and resubmit its approval request with additional information as it becomes available in the near future, the statement said. "Pfizer remains committed to making its vaccine available for use by the Government in India and to pursuing the requisite pathway for emergency use authorisation that enables the availability of this vaccine for any future deployment," the spokesperson said. Pfizer in its application submitted to the drug regulator in December 2020, had sought permission to import the vaccine for sale and distribution in India, besides waiver of clinical trials on Indian population in accordance with the special provisions under the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, official sources had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||India's Covid caseload breaches 1.8 crore mark with 12,408 fresh cases||India's Covid-19 tally of cases went past 1.08 crore with 12,408 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, while the recoveries surged to 1,04,96,308, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The total cases mounted to 1,08,02,591, while the death toll increased to 1,54,823 with 120 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,04,96,308 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 97.16 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,51,460 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.40 per cent of the total cases, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,99,31,795 samples have been tested up to February 4 with 7,15,776 samples being tested on Thursday. The 120 new fatalities include 46 from Maharashtra, 17 from Kerala, 7 each Delhi and Punjab. A total of 1,54,823 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,215 from Maharashtra followed by 12,375 from Tamil Nadu, 12,227 from Karnataka, 10,871 from Delhi, 10,199 from West Bengal, 8,680 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,157 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||Delhi police registers FIR with sedition charge against unnamed persons||Delhi police on Thursday registered a first information report carrying the sedition charge against unnamed persons, alleging an international conspiracy to defame the country and one that “aims at waging social, cultural and economic war against India” by instigating the farmers’ protest. Sources said the FIR was filed against the creators of a “toolkit” that was shared by the Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg who has tweeted in support of the farmers’ agitation. The 18-year-old activist had shared on Twitter the toolkit, which takes users to a document containing details on ways to support the farmers’ protest. Praveer Ranjan, special commissioner of Delhi police, said an FIR had been registered under IPC Sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), 153 (giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). “We have not named anybody in the FIR. It’s only against the creators of the toolkit, which is a matter of investigation,” Praveer Ranjan said in the evening, asked whether Thunberg had been named. Earlier in the day, some senior officers had told reporters that the FIR would name Thunberg as an accused, triggering outrage on social media. An unfazed Thunberg tweeted at 4.29pm on Thursday that she “still” stood with the farmers and “no amount of threats” would change that. “I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest. No amount of hate, threats or violation of human rights will ever change that. #FarmersProtest,” she said. On Thursday morning, the climate activist had shared an updated toolkit advising people on how to show support for the protests. A Delhi police officer said this “exposes the conspiracy by an organised overseas network” to instigate the farmers’ protest. Thunberg tweeted: “Here’s an updated toolkit by people on the ground in India if you want to help. (They removed their previous document as it was outdated).” Thunberg had deleted a toolkit she had posted on Wednesday night. The suggestions in the updated kit include tweeting support for the farmers with the hashtag StandWithFarmers, tagging the Prime Minister’s Office and organising protests near the closest Indian embassy on February 13 and 14. “A preliminary inquiry has revealed that the toolkit in question appears to have been created by the pro-Khalistan organisation Poetic Justice Foundation,” special commissioner Ranjan said. Activists’ toolkits are routinely used for coordinated global solidarity protests. The police said the toolkit document predated Republic Day, and indicated the copycat execution of a conspiracy behind the day’s violence. “The design of the author of the toolkit is to create disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups and encourage disaffection against the Government of India,” a Delhi police statement said. “Delhi police are monitoring social media in connection with the farmers’ agitation. In the process, police have identified more than 300 social media handles which have been used for pushing hateful and malicious content,” Ranjan said. “In the context of the Kisan agitation, while the farmers may not even be aware as to what forces are guiding their actions and settling their agenda, there were clear indicators that hostile deep state actors were either behind it or would join in to exploit sentiments.” Some activists expressed the fear that the toolkit could be used as a pretext to claim an international conspiracy and arrest farmers and their supporters at random.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||Arrested journalist Mandeep Punia says farmers he shared jail with are bigger victims||Mandeep Punia says he was beaten and forced by police to sit under a fan without woollens on a winter night, but the journalist’s takeaway from his spell in custody was that the farmers he shared the jail with were bigger victims than him. A day after being freed on bail from Tihar jail, Punia told The Telegraph on Thursday he wanted to write about the farmers — from notes he had scribbled in jail on his legs, which were injured from the alleged police beating. He also expressed the hope that people would be as vocal for imprisoned journalists like Siddique Kappan as they were for his release. Kappan, a reporter for Malayalam news portal Azhimukam, faces terrorism charges in Uttar Pradesh after being arrested in October while travelling to cover the aftermath of the gang rape and murder of a Dalit teen. Punia, a 26-year-old freelancer, told this newspaper he intended to complete his investigation into the alleged involvement of BJP activists in an attack on the protesting farmers at Singhu on January 29 — the investigation that apparently got him arrested. Recounting his arrest, he said: “I was at the Singhu border (on January 30) around 6pm-7pm to attend a press conference of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee when I saw police abuse some workers who were passing by and send them back (from the barricades that flank the protest site). I took out my video camera. “Another journalist, Dharmendra (Singh, from YouTube channel Online News India) was also filming. They suddenly grabbed him. When I said, ‘What you are doing is wrong’, they turned towards me and said, ‘Yeh raha (This is) Mandeep Punia!’ Then they began to cane me.” Dharmendra was released later that night. Punia says the cops — Delhi police and the CRPF — recognised him as he had interviewed many of them that day and the previous day and had uploaded a video on Facebook describing the events of January 29. Forty-four agitating farmers had been arrested on the charge of injuring six policemen during the January 29 clash, which took place between the farmers and people the police describe as “local villagers” but who Punia and many others suspect were BJP workers. Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party has identified three of these “local villagers” as BJP activists from other parts of the capital. “They (policemen) took me to a tent and hit me on my leg. They broke my mirror-less Canon camera on which I was recording (scenes and conversations),” Punia said. Punia added: “They deleted videos from my phone and continuously hit me. They said, ‘Zyada reporter ban raha hai; hum banate hain tere ko reporter (Trying to be too much of a reporter? We’ll make you one)’. “They also broke my phone and threw away my wallet with my old ID cards (from previous employers), which were proof that I am a journalist.… They took me in a white Scorpio into Delhi after 8pm and beat me up in transit, stopping in three different buildings.” Punia’s bail order, issued on February 2, quotes the prosecution as saying that he “had pushed Ct. (police constable) Rajkumar towards the protesting place, therefore, the police called the minimal force to control the situation. Thereafter, the protesters went away backside and the accused/ applicant fell in the drain, upon which he was overpowered and arrested.” The police say this took place at 6.30pm on January 30 when a group of protesters tried to break the barricades. The FIR against Punia was filed at 1.21am the next day. Punia says he was at the site to complete his investigative report for The Caravan, a magazine facing police investigation in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh for reporting on the mysterious death of protester Navreet Singh during the January 26 tractor rally. “They (police) took me to an old building, removed my jacket and made me sit under a fan at midnight. They again hit me and threatened to frame serious charges against me,” Punia said. “During that time, a policeman came in and said, ‘His video has gone viral’. After that they left me for half an hour and then took me to Ambedkar Hospital (in northwest Delhi) for a medical check-up (mandatory after an arrest) at 2am.” Delhi recorded temperatures between 5 and 8 degrees Celsius at the time. Punia was held at Samaypur Badli police station after that. He was sent to a fortnight’s judicial custody on January 31 afternoon in the absence of his lawyers, who he says were misled by the police about the time he was to be produced before a magistrate. Till Thursday night, the police had not responded to an email and WhatsApp messages to senior officers from The Telegraph seeking their comments on Punia’s account. Punia says the chill of the previous night melted away in the warmth of the jail, where he was treated well. “The prisoners knew my name; they cheered me on. The realisation dawned on me that there are other journalists like Siddique Kappan who are incarcerated like I was for reporting from the ground,” he said. “Initially I felt like a victim, but when I spoke to the farmers I realised they were greater victims than I was, and their plight should be reported. That’s why I made notes of my conversations with them.” Although writing material was available in jail, Punia chose to write notes of his conversations with the inmates on his legs — his way of coming to terms with the trauma he had been through. “I felt I should write my notes on the place where I was injured, and that’s why I wrote them on my legs…. There were two farmers from Punjab in my cell. In total, I spoke to seven or eight farmers, all of whom said they had been arrested while they were out on personal errands in the markets near the protest sites, such as in Narela,” Punia said. “They had all been thrashed during arrest, and they don’t know what they are charged with. I could step out of my ward to get water, etc, which is when I spoke to them. The ones I spoke to were from Punjab and Haryana, and there was one shopkeeper from Delhi who got bail yesterday. “They were worried and confused why this was happening to them, but they say that even if they remained in jail or were sent to kalapani they would go on protesting until the three farm laws were repealed.” “Kalapani” used to denote long sentences in the dreaded Cellular Jail in the Andamans during the freedom struggle, and continues to be used figuratively to refer to lengthy prison terms. On Thursday night, Punia was to reach his village in Haryana’s Jhajjar district. The Internet shutdown there to curb the agitation has been extended till Friday evening. “Villages that I have reported from have had panchayats (congregations) where they have declared their support for me. They say that I’m their boy, and that the farmers stand with me because I have written for them,” Punia said. “Farmer leaders have condemned my arrest. My friends in my village have told them to also speak up for other journalists who are in jail, and resume the work stalled by the State.” According to the Free Speech Collective, 67 journalists in India were arrested, detained or questioned by the police for their work last year. Since 2010, a total of 154 journalists in India have faced such police action, 103 of them in NDA-ruled states. Delhi police report to the Centre. On Wednesday, the Delhi government recalled its buses leased to the police after several of them were damaged when they were turned into barricades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||Opposition MPs can’t cross Ghazipur border||Fifteen Opposition MPs from 10 political parties were stopped from meeting the protesting farmers by police at the heavily barricaded Ghazipur agitation site on Thursday, getting a first-hand experience of the difficulties people including journalists are facing in accessing the area. An initiative of Shiromani Akali Dal MP and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the visit was aimed at taking stock of the conditions at the protest sites. However, the team — which went in a bus — was stopped at the first barricade itself and the police refused to allow them any further. The team included the NCP’s Supriya Sule, DMK’s Kanimozhi and T. Siva, Trinamul Congress’s Saugata Roy and the RSP’s N.K. Premachandran. Talking to reporters at Ghazipur, Harsimrat said even India’s border with Pakistan did not have such barricading. “God forbid, if there is an emergency like a fire or a health issue, how will fire tenders or ambulances reach here? There is no water, no electricity,” she said. Siva told The Telegraph that the team could see several layers of barricades and it was clear the roads had been blocked several kilometres from where the farmers were sitting, apparently to inconvenience the public and turn them against the movement. He and some other MPs had tried arguing with the police but to no avail. Later, Harsimrat tweeted: “Saw first hand the conditions created at #ghazipurborder. Shocked to see the treatment being meted out to the annadaata (food-giver). Farmers are barricaded behind fortress-like concrete barriers & barbed wire fencing....” Some MPs have managed to make it to the Ghazipur protest site in the past week, but in ones and twos. As government-friendly television channels used the leaders’ visit on Thursday to project the farmers’ agitation as a “political” act, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) — the banner under which the movement is being conducted country-wide — maintained that their protest has been apolitical from the beginning and will remain so. “Leaders of political parties are not allowed to speak from any stage of the SKM. The support of political parties and leaders to this movement is welcome, but in no case the SKM’s stage will be allowed for political leaders,” the Morcha said in a statement in which it also demanded the immediate reinstatement of Internet services that have been disrupted by the government. With Internet down and journalists not allowed to access the Singhu border, the SKM is now communicating with the world through statements. Earlier, it would conduct media conferences almost daily. While demanding the restoration of Internet services, the SKM also picked up cudgels for the locals inconvenienced by the ban. “Along with the agitating farmers, mediapersons and local people are facing a lot of troubles due to the Internet ban. Especially students are facing a big problem as their exams are coming soon. On one side the government propagates plans like Digital India, but on the other the people of the country are being deprived of Internet,” the Morcha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
05-02-2021||India||Ink attack on rationalist K.S. Bhagawan at Bangalore court ||Writer and rationalist K.S. Bhagawan had ink thrown in his face at a Bangalore court complex on Thursday after he had obtained bail in a case in which he is accused of hurting Hindu sentiments. A lawyer named Meera Raghavendra tweeted a video that purportedly shows Bhagawan walking out of the city civil court premises with a blackened face, and claimed she was the person behind the act. Bhagawan, attacked in front of his police guard and his lawyer, has been a staunch critic of the Sangh parivar and its ideology and has been living under armed police security since the assassination of fellow rationalist M.M. Kalburgi in 2015. It was Meera who had filed a case in December alleging Bhagawan had insulted the Hindu religion and its gods at a news conference in Mysore, prompting the rationalist to appear in court and secure bail on Thursday. In the video, Meera is purportedly heard shouting: “I’m ready for everything…. I’m ready to go to jail.” She then appears to tell a dazed Bhagawan: “You are a professor and so old but still speak ill of Hinduism and our gods. Aren’t you ashamed of yourself?” Police have booked Meera on a complaint from Bhagawan. Calls to Bhagawan’s phone number went unanswered. The attack on Bhagawan, a retired professor of English, prompted a two-hour protest sit-in in Mysore by about 300 people, including progressive and Dalit activists and writers. “This is a brazen assault on free speech. We demand action against the lawyer who did this,” Dalit writer Mahesh Chandra Guru said. Meera defended herself, telling a Kannada TV channel: “I felt insulted with his writings and speeches. Will he say the same thing against other religions?” She found instant support from Pramod Muthalik, chief of the Sree Rama Sene, accused of targeting women customers at pubs in Mangalore a decade ago. “I laud Meera Raghavendra. She has sent a strong message. People will react like this in future if anyone says anything about the Hindu religion, Ram or Krishna,” Muthalik told a TV channel. “More than a lawyer, she is a citizen of this country and has expressed her anger. He (Bhagawan) may not have any faith in Ram and Krishna, but we worship them.” The Karnataka government had in January rejected Bhagawan’s controversial 2018 book, Rama Mandira Yeke Beda (Why the Ram Temple is Not Needed), as a possible addition to state libraries. While Bhagawan maintains he has only cited material from Valmiki’s Ramayan in questioning Ram’s greatness, the Sangh parivar found the book offensive. “I have only quoted from Valmiki who described Ram as a mere mortal and not a god,” Bhagawan had told this newspaper. Investigations into the 2017 assassination of journalist Gauri Lankesh, allegedly by Hindutva activists, had unearthed leads suggesting her killers had planned to murder Bhagawan as well, police sources have said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
05-02-2021||India||Maharashtra Assembly Speaker resigns amidst possibilty of being Congress state chief||Maharashtra Assembly Speaker Nana Patole on Thursday relinquished his post amidst the possibility of his appointment as the new Congress president of the state. While the majority of Congress leaders in Maharashtra are opposed to Patole’s appointment as state unit chief because he came from the BJP only three years ago in 2018, both allies NCP and Shiv Sena have not appreciated the manner in which the Speaker was made to resign without any consultation. The announcement of a new president in place of Balasaheb Thorat, who has become a minister, is expected anytime now. Sena sources told The Telegraph that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had also expressed displeasure when Congress leaders, including Patole, called on him on Thursday afternoon. It is learnt that Thackeray wondered if it was politically wise to force the election of a new Speaker at this stage when the BJP was desperately looking for an opportunity to destabilise the government. He also said Ahmed Patel used to discuss these important issues in advance but now nobody in the Congress cared to consult. NCP chief Sharad Pawar said in Delhi that the Speaker’s post was open now and the Congress might not get it again. A senior Congress leader told this newspaper over the phone from Mumbai: “There is no denying the fact that there was strong opposition to Patole’ choice because he has come from the BJP and does not have any hold on the Congress organisation. We know Rahul Gandhi has bulldozed all reservations and appointed him. Now Patole is unlikely to get cooperation from senior leaders. Even party workers have this feeling that Rahul Gandhi talks about not giving priority to outsiders but actually does the opposite.” Another leader expressed “anguish and disappointment”, arguing that those close to Rahul were not giving the right feedback to him and insisted that the dominant sentiment among state leaders was known to general secretary in-charge H.K. Patil. “We are already the fourth party in the ranking, much behind the BJP, Shiv Sena and the NCP. This was the time to consolidate our position but most of the energies will now be spent in managing internal dissent and discontent. In the quest of bringing in new faces, what the central leadership is doing is destroying the established leadership.” There is a possibility of some working presidents also being appointed to do caste balancing. While Patole is a Kunbi, other segments like Marathas, Dalits and Muslims will also be represented in the leadership structure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
05-02-2021||India||Legal notice on religion in KYC||Actor and author Sunil Gupta on Thursday served a legal notice on the Union finance ministry and the Reserve Bank of India to restrain public sector banks from compelling customers to divulge their “religion” or “caste” identity in the KYC (know your customer) details. In a notice addressed through advocate Pranav Sachdeva, the veteran theatre artiste said: “…Asking the customers about their respective religions/ caste is wholly unnecessary and serves no purpose whatsoever except creating an atmosphere of perceived discrimination on the basis of religion/ caste which is against the very principles of secularism and a casteless society.” The banks have allegedly been seeking “religion” and “caste” details despite rules of the finance ministry and the RBI prohibiting any such requirements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
05-02-2021||India||ICMR survey finds 21.5% Indians Covid affected||The novel coronavirus has infected 21.5 per cent of India’s population, including one in three persons living in urban slums, the head of India’s health research agency said on Thursday, releasing select findings from a third nationwide survey. The survey has found an overall seroprevalence of 21.5 per cent with average values of 31.7 per cent in urban slums, 26 per cent in urban non-slum areas and 19 per cent in rural districts, Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, said. The overall prevalence level implies that India’s actual number of infections is over 292 million, or 27 times higher than the 10.7 million lab-confirmed cases. The coronavirus has also infected one in four (25.3 per cent) children aged between 10 and 17 years and one in four (25.7 per cent) healthcare workers sampled across 70 districts, Bhargava said at a media briefing hosted by the Union health ministry. “A large proportion (of the population) still remains vulnerable — prevention is the key, vaccines are necessary, and there can be no complacency,” Bhargava said, asserting that people need to continue to adopt precautions such as face masks, physical distancing, hand hygiene and avoiding crowds. The survey by the ICMR looked for antibodies — signatures of an immune response — against the coronavirus in 28,589 people and 7,171 healthcare workers from the same 70 districts across 21 states where it had conducted two earlier surveys. The earlier surveys had found prevalence of 0.73 per cent in May and 7 per cent in August. Health researchers say the average figure for India masks differences in the epidemic’s stages within states or cities but bolsters support for the idea that the country is moving towards herd immunity threshold, a point at which such a large fraction of people are infected that the epidemic stops. Theoretical calculations suggest that about 60 per cent of a population has to be infected to reach the herd immunity threshold. But multiple experts have argued that the threshold could be attained at even smaller fractions, depending on population density differences such as between rural and urban areas. “Some places are nearly there — how else do we explain the dramatic drop in new cases in areas or states where we had rampaging epidemics a few months ago?” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, a former professor of community medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. India’s nationwide daily new Covid-19 cases have declined from a peak of over 92,000 in mid-September to around 12,000 daily new cases over the past week. Delhi’s counts have dropped from over 7,400 daily new cases in mid-November to 165 over the past week. “In places like Delhi, only herd immunity can explain what we’re seeing,” Muliyil said. Health officials have asserted that Covid-19 vaccines are necessary to bridge the gap between the observed infection prevalence levels and what would be required to reach herd immunity thresholds and to protect individuals. The third survey had examined blood samples to look for antibodies against two coronavirus proteins — a spike protein and a nucleocapsid protein. The overall prevalence — 21.4 per cent — Bhargava presented is based on spike protein antibodies. Community health researchers said the survey would have yielded some samples positive for spike antibodies, some samples positive for nucleocapsid antibodies, and some samples positive for both sets of antibodies. The earlier surveys had looked for only the nucleocapsid antibodies. “We know from observations that nucleocapsid antibodies disappear faster than spike protein antibodies. And spike protein antibodies are more important, relevant to protecting people from the infection,” a researcher said. “But the true prevalence would be estimated by taking into account samples positive either for spike or for nucleocapsid antibodies.” Senior ICMR officials did not respond to a query from The Telegraph on why nucleocapsid data were not presented in the briefing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
05-02-2021||India||Drive to save 2 paralysed royal Bengal tiger cubs||Officials of Nandankanan zoo in Odisha are taking all efforts to save two royal Bengal tiger cubs who are suffering from paralysis. The cubs had celebrated their first birthday on January 9. Zoo veterinarian Dr Alok Das told The Telegraph: “The two cubs — Luv and Kush — sons of tigress Sneha, were fine till January 26. But soon after we found them looking ill, less cheerful and less active than usual. We started their treatment on a war-footing. After conducting X-ray, blood test and other examinations, we came to the conclusion that they are suffering from paralysis. It’s difficult to treat small cubs as they will not follow discipline and routine as we would like them to.” Das added: “We have already informed the Central Zoo Authority. We have also discussed the problem with Dr Edward Ramsay, who is a professor of the University of Tennessee College of Veterinary Medicine in the US. We have also consulted eminent veterinary surgeons of our country, including the doctors of the Wildlife Institute of India.” The two cubs are now kept in the isolation ward under constant observation with the help of closed-circuit cameras. “The two cubs are being given the best possible treatment. We have expertise in the treatment of animals. Last year we conducted blood transfusion of a tiger. Now we are exploring whether any further improvement can be made in our treatment strategy to save the cubs. But treating paralytic animals needs patience, time and willingness to serve,” said Das. Nandankanan zoo, located on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar, has 27 tigers, including eight white ones. The zoo which was closed because of the coronavirus pandemic for seven months, opened its doors to the public last October. “There is a good response from the visitors. They are coming in good numbers and adhering to Covid guidelines,” a zoo official said. The zoo has nearly 3,700 animals and 158 species of birds and reptiles. The animals are available for adoption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
05-02-2021||India||India waves US govt’s 'general support' for reforms in its defence||The Narendra Modi government, which had erupted in anger on Wednesday at “foreign individuals” such as pop icon Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg speaking up for India’s protesting farmers, appeared happy a day later to wave the US government’s “general support” for reforms in its own defence. “As you can see, the US state department has acknowledged steps being taken by India towards agricultural reforms,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday, in response to the US embassy’s comments on the protests. Responding to media queries on the farmers’ protests given that US President Joe Biden has identified “strengthening democracy at home and abroad” as a priority area for his administration, the embassy spokesperson in New Delhi had said: “We recognise that peaceful protests are a hallmark of any thriving democracy, and note that the Indian Supreme Court has stated the same. We encourage that any differences between the parties be resolved through dialogue.” The embassy had further said: “We recognise that unhindered access to information, including the Internet, is fundamental to the freedom of expression and a hallmark of a thriving democracy.” The embassy also said: “In general, the United States welcomes steps that would improve the efficiency of India’s markets and attract greater private sector investment.” The Modi government seized on this sentence in its response on Thursday when spokesperson Srivastava said India had “taken note” of the US embassy’s comments. The ministry, which was furious at “foreign individuals” commenting on India’s internal matters, did not appear to have a problem with a foreign government commenting on an Indian policy decision. The ministry also attempted to draw an equivalence between the chaos in Delhi on Republic Day during the tractor rally and the riots on Capitol Hill on January 6. Srivastava said: “India and the United States are both vibrant democracies with shared values. The incidents of violence and vandalism at the historic Red Fort on January 26 have evoked similar sentiments and reactions in India as did the incidents on the Capitol Hill on January 6 and are being addressed as per our respective local laws. “The temporary measures with regard to Internet access in certain parts of the NCR were therefore understandably undertaken to prevent further violence.” Several US lawmakers have been voicing concerns over the protests from its early days, primarily due to pressure from the diaspora. The latest is Ilhan Omar, Democratic member of the House of Representatives from Minnesota. She said in a tweet: “Solidarity with all the farmers across India protesting for their livelihood. India must protect their basic democratic rights, allow for the free flow of information, reinstate Internet access, and release all the journalists detained for covering the protests.” Representative Jim Costa from California had on Tuesday tweeted: “The unfolding events in India are troubling. As a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I am closely monitoring the situation. The right to peaceful protest must always be respected. #FarmersProtest”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
05-02-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi meets family of farmer who died during tractor parade ||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday attended the tenth-day ceremony of Navreet Singh, the young Uttar Pradesh farmer killed during the Republic Day tractor parade in Delhi, promising not to let “his martyrdom go waste”. Priyanka, who had lost her father and grandmother to terrorist attacks, empathised with Navreet’s family at their home in Dibdiba village, Rampur district, 225km from Delhi. “We have gathered here in his memory. I know from my own experience that a martyr’s family cannot forget his sacrifice; they keep that sacrifice in their heart forever,” the Congress general secretary, who had arrived in an SUV, said in an emotional speech in Hindi. “There is only one wish in their heart that the sacrifice of someone they loved shouldn’t go waste. Navreet was 25 years old, my son is 20.” Priyanka said Navreet had gone to Delhi to participate in the farmers’ march because he knew they were hurting and wanted to support them. “An incident happened with him and he didn’t return. Why did he go there? It was not a political conspiracy that he was there. He went there because he was in pain for the farmers. He knew that the farmers were being oppressed,” Priyanka said. “Guru Gobind Singh had said that doing injustice is a sin but tolerating injustice is a bigger sin. It was with this thought that a youth travelled from Dibdiba to Delhi... hoping he would be heard, that the government would listen to them if all of them gathered there, that it would open its doors to listen to the heartbeat of the farmers. But it didn’t happen.” Navreet’s post-mortem report attributes his death to a head injury. “As per post-mortem report the cause of his death is shock and haemorrhage due to a head injury received after his tractor overturned,” a tweet from the handle of the deputy commissioner of police, central Delhi, had said on January 30. Media reports have quoted his family as saying he had bullet wounds. Priyanka said: “I want to tell Sardar Hardeep Singhji that we will not let the martyrdom of your grandson go waste. This movement will continue till the government repeals the three dark laws. “I can say the three farm laws are the biggest cruelties. The government doesn’t want to repeal them. They (the government) are also being cruel in describing the martyrs as terrorists, in calling the farmers’ movement a political conspiracy. “If a leader cannot listen to the woes of the farmers, poor and every citizen of the country, if they (the government) call them names, such a leader is good for nothing.” Rashtriya Lok Dal vice-president Jayant Chaudhary and Samajwadi Party politician Ram Govind Chaudhary too attended the ceremony, antim ardas (last prayers). Three cars that were part of Priyanka’s convoy had earlier collided on Hapur Road on the way to Rampur but no injuries were reported. The Congress had put up banners along the highway to welcome Priyanka. At one place, TV cameras captured her cleaning dust off her SUV’s windshield.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
05-02-2021||India||Modi salutes peasants’ role in Chauri Chaura, not a word on current agitation||When it comes to recognising protesting farmers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has to look back nearly a century. Modi on Thursday lauded peasants’ role in the February 4, 1922, Chauri Chaura incident while speaking not a word on the current farmers’ agitation against his government. Releasing a postage stamp honouring the freedom fighters of Chauri Chaura — in line with the BJP’s efforts to appropriate chapters of the Independence movement in which its ideological forbears had played no part — Modi claimed his government had been working for six years to empower farmers. “Friends, farmers are the most important foundation for the country’s development. Farmers had played a great role in the struggle of Chauri Chaura,” he said while inaugurating through videoconferencing an Uttar Pradesh government programme in Chauri Chaura, 30km from Gorakhpur. The occasion was the start of the centenary year of the famous Chauri Chaura incident, when police firing on Non-Cooperation Movement participants prompted angry rural demonstrators — most of whom would have been peasants — to torch a police station. With the violence killing three protesters and 22 policemen, Mahatma Gandhi halted the Non-Cooperation Movement nationally. The Raj sentenced 19 demonstrators to death and 110 to life imprisonment. Modi claimed the freedom fighters of Chauri Chaura had never before been recognised, ignoring how Indira Gandhi had laid the foundation for a memorial on February 6, 1982, and P.V. Narasimha Rao inaugurated it on July 19, 1993. “The Chauri Chaura incident used to be referred to merely as an incendiary attack. But it wasn’t merely a fire in a police station — the fire had been burning in the heart of every person,” the Prime Minister said. He used the occasion to flag what he claimed was his government’s pro-farmer measures. “During the corona period the country witnessed the results of our six years of continuous effort for the growth and self-reliance of the farmers. Despite the challenges of the pandemic, our agricultural sector moved forward firmly and the farmers achieved record production,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
05-02-2021||India||40 judge seats vacant in Calcutta HC||Calcutta High Court has the second highest number of vacant judge’s posts among high courts — 40 vacancies against a sanctioned strength of 72. Allahabad High Court tops the list with 64 vacancies against a sanctioned strength of 160 judges. The high courts of Delhi and Bombay follow suit with 31 and 30 vacancies, respectively, against their sanctioned capacities of 60 and 94, the Lok Sabha was informed by Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in response to a starred question from Trinamul Congress MP Kalyan Banerjee. According to the information furnished in the House as on February 1, there were four vacancies in the Supreme Court that has a sanctioned strength of 34 judges. The total number of vacancies in the 25 high courts is 419. According to the memorandum of procedure for appointment of high court judges, a proposal for appointment is initiated by the chief justice of the high court concerned. The government appoints only those persons as judges of high courts who are recommended by the Supreme Court collegium (SCC). In the past three years since 2018, high court collegiums made 505 recommendations, of which 177 names that were forwarded by the SCC were appointed by the government as high court judges. As many as 134 names were rejected by the SCC. The remaining 194 proposals received from various high court collegiums are under various stages of processing with either the government or the SCC, the statement in the Lok Sabha said. Filling up of vacancies in the high courts is a continuous, integrated and collaborative process between the executive and the judiciary. It requires consultation and approval from various constitutional authorities both at the state and the central level. Therefore, the time for filling up of vacant judge’s posts in the higher judiciary cannot be indicated, the government said. “While every effort is made to fill up the existing vacancies expeditiously, vacancies of judges in high courts do keep on arising on account of retirement, resignation or elevation of judges and also due to increase in the strength of judges,” the government reply said. From May 2014 to February 1 this year, 35 judges have been appointed to the Supreme Court. Around 570 judges have been appointed to the high courts during this period. “The government is committed to filling up vacancies expeditiously in a time-bound manner,” Prasad said. The government’s statement comes against the backdrop of concerns expressed by a special bench of the Supreme Court having Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant on January 27 over the delay in the appointment process. “We need the update on pending names as on January 29. Suppose you have reservations and send back names to us, then we can reiterate. But if you don’t give comments for five months on collegium recommendations, it is a matter of great concern,” Justice Kaul had told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal during a hearing. “Tell us what is your timeline to respond to these recommendations of judges’ appointment…. We need to put the house in order,” the bench had observed. The CJI had indicated that the apex court would also ask the high courts for details of vacancies so that suitable orders can be passed on both the judicial and the administrative side. He had pointed out that 189 names were pending with the government for the past several months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata: BJP finished ‘Golden India’||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged the Bengal electorate to heed the advice of one former CPM chief minister and borrowed from the lexicon of another, accusing the BJP of finishing Sonar Bharotborsho (Golden India) and mocked it for promising Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal). Speaking at a Trinamul Congress event in the city on Thursday evening, she first appealed to the people to learn the lesson CPM’s former Tripura chief minister Manik Sarkar was trying to teach here on Tuesday. Then, Mamata converted former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s 2001 campaign slogan into her own. “In this situation, the Trinamul Congress’s alternative is the Trinamul Congress. There is none other…. From Trinamul to an improved Trinamul,” the Bengal chief minister said at the event aimed at wooing the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The line was virtually an echo of Bhattacharjee’s clarion call from exactly two decades ago — while he was trying to ward off then his challenger-in-chief, Mamata — that the only alternative to the Left Front was an improved Left Front. Shortly before that, Mamata had brought up “Manikbabu”. “How well do you know the BJP? Tripura’s former chief minister, Manikbabu, he has said here… that go, see for yourselves in Tripura, what they have reduced the people to. Down to the last rickshaw-puller, a cart-puller… government employees, teachers… none has been spared,” said the Trinamul chief, who had alluded to Sarkar’s counsel, but not with such stress. Mamata seems to have latched on to Sarkar’s message, especially with an eye on Left voters swinging away towards the BJP, which had purportedly handed the saffron camp 18 seats in the Lok Sabha polls in Bengal in 2019. At a Burdwan rally on Tuesday, Sarkar, a CPM politburo member, had cautioned against bringing the BJP to power in Bengal. “Take a train and visit Tripura.… you talk to common people like rickshaw pullers, grocers… to know the reality. They will surely tell you what a blunder they committed by voting for the BJP,” said Sarkar. On Thursday, Mamata advised the BJP to first see their own faces in the mirror. “Charity begins at home. What is happening in your Gujarat, your Uttar Pradesh, your Madhya Pradesh, your Bihar… from Tripura to Assam?” she asked. “Just go and ask Bengalis in Tripura today, my dear sisters and brothers. Most of them common people, who used to shout slogans once that ‘CPM ashiya, Tripura dilo bhashaiya (The CPM came and sent Tripura floating)”. Those same people, today they say: ‘BJP ashiya, Tripura dilo bhashaiya (The BJP came and sent Tripura floating),” she added. “Go (to Tripura) once, you will see for yourself. So many have run away and have come to live here now.” On March 3, 2018, the evening of the Tripura Assembly polls results, a visibly displeased Mamata had blamed the Tripura results on the Left’s “avoidable and abject surrender” and the Congress’s failure to accept her offer of a seat adjustment. On Thursday, she said: “Even now, I feel so sad. Defections from the Congress made the BJP strong there (in Tripura), brought it to power. The BJP thinks it can use the same formula here, with some traitors from Trinamul…. Shameless.” Mamata then went on to mock the BJP over its Bengal campaign promise. “Sonar Bangla? Is it that easy, BJP-babus? Do you even know what real gold is?” she asked. “Big lectures? Sonar Bangla? They finished my Sonar Bharotborsho…. Street-fights, in every corner of the nation. Farmers don’t get justice, workers don’t either. Mothers and sisters are dishonoured. Journalists get beaten up. I feel shame for what they do,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
05-02-2021||West Bengal||PM nod for underground Metro averts eviction||The Centre has primarily agreed to a proposal by the Bengal government to construct the Metro stretch between New Barrackpore and Barasat underground, giving respite to the Trinamul Congress dispensation as the project will not lead to the eviction of a few hundred refugee families. According to sources at Nabanna, the proposal was presented before Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a recent “Pragati” meeting, where he holds virtual discussions with top officials of state governments on several issues. “PM heard the state’s proposal and put the ball in the railway board’s court. The board agreed to conduct a survey. Most important outcome of the meeting is that the Centre accepted the proposal even if construction of Metro stretch underground costs three times higher than laying tracks overhead,” said a senior state government official. Earlier, it was planned that the New Barrackpore-Barasat stretch of Metro would be constructed overhead to cut down the expenditure, sources said. Sources in the state administration said if the railway board started the survey soon, the state government would be benefited in two ways. First, it would not have to relocate a few hundred refugee families residing on government land beside the Jessore Road. The land would come under the project area if overhead tracks are laid as planned initially. “The state has started giving free-hold land rights to the refugee families to the plots on which they have been residing over the years. In such a situation, evicting the families would be an embarrassment for the government. Moreover, no government would like to evict people ahead of the Assembly polls,” said an official. Second, once the railway board starts the survey for the underground stretch, it would strengthen the state’s stand on giving freehold land rights to refugee families living on government land for years in the backdrop of objections from some central agencies, including railways, to the move. “The Bengal government would be able to say if a plan for a Metro can be changed so that refugee families are not evicted, the state is not doing any wrong by giving freehold rights to refugee colonies on the land owned by central and state governments,” said an official. A section of official said the Centre was forced to accept the state’s proposal as the Narendra Modi government did not want to take steps that could affect refugee colonies. Once the stretch gets operational, the furthest southern point of Metro — Garia — will get connected to the furthest northern end, Barasat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid cases: Bengal logs 301 recoveries, 206 new infections||Bengal on Thursday logged 301 Covid-19 recoveries, 206 new infections and four deaths, including one in Calcutta. The state’s total active cases dropped — from 37,190 on October 26, Vijaya Dashami, to 5,097 on Thursday — for 101 days on the trot. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 104 consecutive days to touch 97.32 per cent, still leading the national rate by 0.18 per cent. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.06 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 76 days. On Thursday, the state reported 23,031 tests, taking the total past 80.81 lakh, at 89,791 tests per million people. The state’s total of Covid-19 cases is nearly 5.71 lakh, including over 5.55 lakh recoveries and 10,199 deaths. Of the total toll, 8,566 deaths (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was also unchanged at 1.43 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Dry port vandalised, CM orders action||Around 300 supporters of the INTTUC, the trade union of the Trinamul Congress, went on the rampage at the recently opened Inland Container Depot (ICD) near the New Jalpaiguri railway station here on Thursday, ransacking the offices of the private logistics company that runs the dry port and the Customs and vandalising cars, two-wheelers and equipment. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has purportedly instructed police and the local Trinamul leadership to act against the vandals. The attackers included truck owners, drivers and workers who load and unload goods at the NJP station. They had been holding demonstrations near the dry port, demanding that they be engaged in cargo handling. The depot was set up on a 29-acre-plot that had been taken on lease from the railways by the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority. “The company that is running the facility is hiring dump-trucks and workers from outside. There are around 400 local trucks at the NJP and hundreds of drivers and workers are dependent on these vehicles. The company should engage local trucks and drivers in cargo operations,” said Prasenjit Roy, an INTTUC leader at the NJP. While operations were going on at the ICD on Thursday, hundreds of INTTUC supporters joined the protesters who had been holding demonstrations and shouting slogans for the past three days. Roy, who was at the spot, alleged that some of the employees at the dry port had suddenly fired a few rounds in air to scare away the protesters. “The demonstrators were also pelted with stones and a number of our men suffered injuries,” the INTTUC leader said. Within minutes, hundreds of protesters barged into the depot and vandalised whatever they found on the premises. They damaged furniture, computers and window panes in the offices of the company and the Customs which handles the overseas cargo. The vandals didn’t spare flower pots on the premises either. Cars, two-wheelers and equipment like excavators and hydra machines were wrecked. NJP police reached the spot and reinforcements were brought in to disperse the attackers. The police arrested five of them. The vandalism brought the operations at the ICD to a grinding halt. Officials of the company that invested around Rs 40 crore on the first private freight terminal in the region expressed concern over the security of their men and machines. “We had communicated to police earlier that such an incident might happen and our apprehension turned out to be right.,” said Aviral Jain, a director of Pristine Hindustan Infraprojects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Huge haul of explosives seized near Birbhum, one held||Police recovered around 25,000 detonators from an SUV near the Jharkhand border of Birbhum’s Rampurhat early on Thursday and arrested the driver. Police sources said Thursday’s haul was the biggest in recent memory. “Following a tip-off, we stopped the vehicle and seized the detonators. Primarily we suspect these detonators had been stolen for use in illegal mines. We made inquiries on where the consignment was to go,” said Shayan Ahmed, the subdivisional police officer of Rampurhat who led the raid. Sources said vehicle driver Jashpal Singh of Punjab revealed he was carrying the detonators from Jamuria in West Burdwan to Birbhum’s Radipur village with a detour through Jharkhand’s Dumka. “We collected names of the vehicle owner and the person supposed to receive the consignment in Birbhum,” said a senior police officer. Police sources said explosives of this kind were mainly supplied to illegal stone miners but Maoist involvement could also not be ruled out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Song and dance aimed at courting Matua voters||Trinamul MLA Samir Kumar Poddar is dancing to the tune of kirtans on the streets of his constituency in Nadia’s Ranaghat, ostensibly to win the hearts of the influential Matua community ahead of Bengal polls. A two-time Trinamul MLA from Ranaghat North-East (SC) constituency and a decorator by profession, Poddar launched a door-to-door campaign with his troupe of kirtanias last week to reach out to the Matuas — a bulk of whose votes shifted to the BJP in the 2019 parliamentary elections. From one home to another, Poddar dances to the beats of dongkas (drums) as his team chants “Hari bol”. “I have begun interacting with people of my community to understand their problems and know their expectations from the Matua Development Board, which the state government has recently formed. I often call on Matua community members when they invite me and take part in religious gatherings. There is nothing unusual in it,” Poddar said. A Trinamul leader said Ranaghat North-East (SC) segment had 65 per cent Matua voters — Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh who recently swung towards the BJP largely because of the party’s promise to implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019. Amid kirtans, Poddar also explains to the Matuas the “futility” of the BJP’s promise on the citizenship issue and the delay in implementing the act. The BJP scoffed at the MLA’s efforts at “song and dance” and said he had made himself a “laughing stock”. “Samir Poddar has made himself a laughing stock among the Matuas,” BJP’s Nadia south president Bipul Ukil said. “He has been an MLA for the last 10 years but the community members have never seen him sing and dance to woo them...This is pure political compulsion.” Poddar refused to acknowledge his door-to-door interaction with his team of kirtanias was pre-poll campaigning. “It is an attempt to understand the sentiments of community members, a section of whom got swayed by communal forces in 2019,” he said. Former Trinamul MP and Matua leader Mamatabala Thakur accused the BJP of fooling the community with the citizenship offer. “I have seen the impact of CAA in Assam. Bengalis in Assam are now fighting for their existence. The BJP is trying to rob Matuas of their citizenship,” she told the media on Thursday while refuting rumours of her joining the BJP. Located close to Indo-Bangladesh border, the Ranaghat North East (SC) Assembly segment, a part of Ranaghat (SC) Lok Sabha constituency, is dominated by Matua voters. During the 34 years of Left rule, the CPM had a strong presence among them. In 2011, the support of the Matuas shifted towards Trinamul. Poddar, helped by Matua votes, won the Assembly seat in 2011. In the 2016 Bengal polls, Poddar retained his seat but his winning margin shrunk significantly. Trinamul’s worst performance, however, was in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP managed to dangle the bait of the CAA, and it triggered a massive erosion in Trinamul’s support base among the Matuas. The BJP made huge gains and Trinamul trailed in the Ranaghat North East (SC) Assembly segment by 43,226 votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Fresh plan for 100 jabs a day in Darjeeling district ||Darjeeling district health department has come up with a new plan to vaccinate health workers against Covid-19 and fulfil the 100-jabs-a-day target. Vaccination in the district started on January 16 and 100 health workers are supposed to get the shot daily. Sources in the health department said it was found that on a number of days those supposed to get the shot are not turning up. In such cases, other health workers who are yet to get the jab can approach the centres and take the vaccine, said health officials. Sandeep Sengupta, the dean of student affairs and a gynaecologist at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) on Siliguri outskirts, said the district health department had asked for names of all the health workers for vaccination that have been collected and uploaded on a portal. “The names have been uploaded randomly. If all 100 supposed to get the shot on a given day do not turn up, others registered with the portal can approach the centre and take the vaccine in empty slots,” he said. Initially, when vaccination started, there had been some demonstrations at NBMCH that a number of doctors were out of the list. However, NBMCH principal Prabir Deb clarified that they had sent names of all the professors and doctors to the district health department. “All of them will be vaccinated in due course,” Deb said. “So far, around 600 people have been enlisted and a handful of names need to be included,” said a health official. Apart from senior and junior doctors, interns, house staff, paramedics, conservancy workers and office staff needs to be vaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Teacher under fire for bribe voice clip||The Darjeeling District School Board on Thursday filed a police complaint against Kamal Thapa, teacher-in-charge of Rohini Tea Primary School, after an audio clip purportedly of the teacher seeking money in exchange of a certificate and job surfaced on social media. The incident took on political colour as Thapa belongs to the Bimal Gurung camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. In the voice clip allegedly between Thapa and an aspirant looking to sit for the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) teacher’s eligibility test (TET), Thapa claims he can obtain the diploma certificate in elementary education (D.EL.Ed) for Rs 1.15 lakh and a primary teacher’s job for Rs 3 lakh. Contacted by The Telegraph, Thapa was a bundle of contradictions. Thapa told this paper that the conversation had been in jest “with a distant relative,” but at one point also claimed he had not spoken. “They are trying to victimise me politically and I have not taken any money from anyone till date,” Thapa said. In the clip, however, Thapa purportedly suggests that the candidate fill up the TET (teacher’s eligibility test) form stating that his (the candidate’s) D.El.Ed course was completed between 2015 and 2017. “While filling up the form write 2015 to 2017 (of the D.El.Ed course). It (the certificate) will cost you (Rs) 1.15 lakhs and you will get all your certificates within one-and-a-half months,” Thapa purportedly instructed the aspirant. The voice allegedly of Thapa’s instructs the money be deposited in his bank account and suggests the candidate keep a receipt. The GTA’s TET is scheduled to be held on February 14, 2021, and forms are to be filled by February 5. Only TET dates have been announced and not any teacher’s vacancy as of now. But Thapa allegedly states in the clip: “Just sit for the examination and I will make you a teacher. It will cost you three (lakhs).” The voice claims that some teachers in the hills have obtained their diploma certificates through him and some 20 new aspirants were in touch with him. The district school board filed a police complaint based on the voice clip. “Such a conversation on social media casts a shadow upon the clean and pristine environment of the education department of the hills, and those indulging in such crimes should be booked immediately,” the complaint reads. The Bimal Gurung camp on Thursday issued a media statement suspending Thapa from the central committee of the party’s primary teachers’ organisation. Binay Tamang of the rival Morcha camp demanded a judicial inquiry on the issue and protection for the aspirant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Wife kills man with plank, surrenders||A carpenter from a village in Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar was beaten to death by his wife on Thursday morning. The wife then went to the police station and surrendered while admitting to her crime. Police recovered the man’s body and started a probe. Sources said Ratan Sutradhar, 45, a resident of Battala in Andraran-Fulbari area of Tufanganj, had problems with his wife Fulkumari for some time. On Wednesday night, the neighbours heard the couple fighting among themselves. “On Thursday morning, some residents came to know that Ratan was dead at home. Later, we came to know that his wife killed him with a wooden plank and surrendered before the police,” said Shibu Das, a panchayat member. According to villagers, Fulmari, in her mid-30s, was Ratan’s second wife, and his first wife had died some years ago of burn injuries. This was a cause of speculation among villagers and also created discord between Ratan and Fulkumari. Ratan and Fulkumari have two children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Malda cop alert against fake posts before polls||The district police in Malda have started a campaign to discourage residents of the district from making and sharing morphed videos and provocative messages on social media ahead of Bengal polls. People have been asked not to post provocative and unverified items that could trigger law and order problems. A number of senior police officers have pointed that the demography and geographical location of Malda made this alert to residents necessary. They also said that the cybercrime police station had come across a number of provocative videos, a number of which were eventually found to be fake. “Many social media users, who post and share those videos out of enthusiasm, can invite legal steps (against them). That is why we are reaching out to them through social media to make them aware of the probable legal consequences they might face. It is not only the person who posts it (provocative and fake videos) for the first time but anybody sharing it can also face such (legal) steps,” said Alok Rajoria, the Malda district police chief. He said that the district police were using popular social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp for regular alerts to make people aware of the consequences. A police officer pointed out that circulating morphed videos and messages that can lead to social tension was a common menace. “There is apprehension that such practices may intensify in the district before polls. The caution is thus being issued in advance,” he said. The cybercrime police station has been instructed to keep watch on social networking platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||CISF cop held for lewd remarks||A constable of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) was arrested by the Government Railway Police (GRP) in Malda Town station late on Wednesday night after a number of women passengers on board a Howrah-bound train alleged that he had been passing lewd comments at them. The women passengers also alleged that the CISF constable — whose name is being withheld — was drunk. Sources said two Calcutta-based families were returning home by train from a vacation in Darjeeling, and were on the same sleeper coach as the CISF constable. “The constable drank liquor on board and eventually started passing obscene remarks at the woman members of these families,” said a source. This went on for some time, the source added, and discomfort grew. “Around 11.30pm, when the train reached Malda Town station, these passengers burst into protests. An uproar ensued. Then, the GRP rushed to the spot and detained the constable, which was converted into an arrest,” the source said. Sources said that the arrest — for creating nuisance — was a non-bailable offence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Birds die in hill tea garden, no hint of avian flu||Fowls and other species of birds were found dead in a tea garden near Mirik on Wednesday, but authorities said preliminary investigation suggested that chronic respiratory disease had killed them and ruled out avian influenza (HSN1) virus as the cause. Bird flu was reported in many parts of India recently. No such case has been detected in Bengal till now. Rohit Singh Rathore, the manager of the Phuguri tea estate, confirmed the deaths of fowls, pigeons and birds. “There have been reports of deaths of fowls and pigeon throughout the garden. I saw a dead bird with a long tail at my bungalow though I don’t know its name,” said Rathore. The plantation employs around 570 permanent workers and has a population of over 3,000. Rathore said the incident had come to his notice on Wednesday and he had immediately informed the authorities concerned. Sources in the Mirik subdivision said a team led by two veterinary doctors had visited the Phuguri garden, about 10km from the tourist town, and conducted post-mortem on the dead avian. “The signs and symptoms of the dead fowls are not of bird flu. Post-mortem report suggests that the birds died of chronic respiratory disease,” said an administrative source. The official added that chronic respiratory disease was common among birds in the Darjeeling hills during winters. Bengal is the third meat producing state in India after Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. Bengal produces around 2.5 crore kg of chicken every week and consumes around 2 crore kg. The rest is exported to neighbouring states. Around 5 lakh farmers are directly involved in the poultry business and another 10 lakh are indirectly dependent, according to officials of the West Bengal Poultry Federation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||North East||Assam: India’s first riverine district gets heliport||Assam on Thursday got its first heliport at Majuli, India’s first riverine district. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who represents Majuli constituency in the state Assembly, inaugurated the heliport built over an area of about 15 bighas at Garmur Keralagaon. Sonowal, who was elected from Majuli in 2016, also inaugurated a guesthouse attached to the heliport, both of which were built at a cost of Rs 50 lakh. He said the newly created infrastructure will go a long way in attracting domestic and foreign tourists. He said the heliport was built with an aim to boost tourism in Majuli, which has a distinct identity as the world’s largest river island. The government has made dedicated efforts to position Majuli as an important tourist destination of the world and we hope that the new heliport would significantly facilitate tourist flow to the river island, Sonowal said. Once operational, the chopper service will help tourists and visitors because swift and smooth communication remains an issue with most visiting Majuli. During floods, it is very difficult to travel to the island or get out as the Brahmaputra remains in spate. The heliport will also offer an option to Majuli officials who have to scout for a suitable place for VVIP landing and build a temporary helipad, especially during election campaigning and ministerial visits. Majuli, vying for a World Heritage Site tag for its culture, attracts about 5,000 tourists, including 1,000 foreigners, every year, according to an official. Tourists are attracted by its xatras (Vaishnavite monasteries), water bodies, migratory birds, flora and fauna. Sources said that though the heliport is ready to use, the operation of a commercial chopper service will still take some time. An Assam-based company, Brahmaputra Aviation, is trying to secure a licence to operate the chopper service, an official said. The company has approached the Majuli district administration for a no-objection certificate after which they will move the director-general, civil aviation, to seek a licence. “Moreover, a passenger lounge and a check-in counter have to be built. So it will still take some time,” an official said. However, the biggest concern is the viability of the chopper service in the absence of government support. An official familiar with the project said that a chopper can fly only seven passengers, including the pilot. “The heliport can handle the simultaneous landing of three choppers at a time. With five to six passengers and a one-way cost of Rs 5,000, a big question mark remains on the viability of the proposed chopper service. There are also doubts about whether there will be enough demand for a chartered service, which may be an option. However, the heliport can be used for VVIP landing, which will only increase with polls round the corner,” an official said. Sonowal said at the inauguration that the government has initiated steps for construction of the bridge connecting Majuli with Jorhat. A technical bid was opened and the financial bid would be opened in the next two days after which the construction process would start. On Wednesday, he had said that work on the bridge connecting Jorhat and Majuli districts would start by February 20. He also said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would visit Majuli soon. Sonowal also said two Ro-Pax (passenger roll-on and roll-off) ferries would be pressed into service within this month giving a new push to river transportation in Majuli. From Majuli, Sonowal visited Dhekiajuli in Sonitpur district to take stock of the preparations for the visit of Modi on February 7 who will ceremonially launch the “Asom Mala” programme, which aims to improve and upgrade state highways and major district roads at an initial financial outlay of more than Rs 5,000 crore. This will be Modi’s second visit to the poll-bound state since January. Sonowal said the Prime Minister would also lay the foundation stone for two new medical college and hospitals in Biswanath and Charaideo districts which would significantly strengthen the connectivity network and health sector in Assam. Sonowal said: “An amount of Rs 34,000 crore for highway construction, Rs 300 crore for development of Kamakhya temple, Rs 1,075 crore for protection of sacred Majuli and Rs 1,000 crore for the welfare of tea garden workers prove Modiji’s love for Assam and the Northeast. He is one of our own and most respected by the masses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-24
05-02-2021||Opinion||Silver sale: Policy of strategic disinvestment ||The Narendra Modi government has set its sights on an aggressive plan to sell its equity holdings in State-owned enterprises from which it hopes to rake in Rs 1.75 trillion. Last year, the Centre had hoped to raise even more — Rs 2.1 trillion — but found itself blind-sided by a pandemic. The setback scuppered the elaborate plans to deliver on a massive privatization drive that had been unleashed in November 2019 when the Centre crossed the Rubicon by deciding in principle to lower its stake in public sector enterprises below 51 per cent. The Centre has significantly widened the scope of its privatization plan by unveiling a new policy for strategic disinvestment — a promise that the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, had made when she announced the Atmanirbhar package of reforms last year. Only four areas are considered to be of strategic importance: atomic energy, space and defence; transport and telecommunications; power, petroleum, coal and other minerals; and banking, insurance and financial services. The government has said that public sector enterprises will have a “bare minimum presence” in the strategic sector. State-owned units that do not fall into any of the four strategic sectors will be privatized. And if there are no takers, they will be closed down. This is a stark decision and casts a shadow of uncertainty over the 264 Central public sector enterprises that are clubbed together under 38 ministries or departments of the government. The government does not stop there: it has also announced an ambitious asset monetization plan under which toll roads, railway freight corridors, airports, gas pipelines, warehouses, sports stadia and surplus land with government entities will be farmed out to the private sector. The privatization plan includes the outright sale of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited, Air India, Concor, and Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited — all of which were pencilled in for this fiscal but will now spill over to the next. But the one to watch will be the sale of a significant stake in Life Insurance Corporation. Back of the envelope calculations suggest that the insurance behemoth is valued anywhere between Rs 9 to 11 trillion, and a 10 per cent dilution will yield at least Rs 900 billion.  The government also hopes to sell two out of the 12 public sector banks, sparking feverish speculation over which ones will be placed on the block. The declaration is short on specifics but it indicates that the government may trim its stake in the others to below 51 per cent — a move that will entail amendments in the legislations under which the Centre took over a clutch of banks in 1970 and 1980. Mr Modi‘s government has already been accused of selling the family silver assiduously built up over the past seven decades. But the process could be bedevilled by massive protests over job losses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
05-02-2021||Opinion||Prickly pears: Govt pushback on celeb tweets||The powers that be protest too much. This is an apt description of the pushback orchestrated by the external affairs ministry in response to a tweet by a popular international singer on the ongoing farmers’ protest. In an unprecedented step, the ministry of external affairs responded to the growing international scrutiny in a lengthy statement that urged celebrities to ascertain facts before rushing to make critical comments. This is welcome advice, but the dictum should be applicable to all. The ministry itself, it appears, has taken certain licences with facts, stating that Parliament had passed the contentious farm laws after “full debate and discussion”. India and perhaps the world know that the legislations were steamrolled ignoring the reservations of the Opposition. What is equally illustrative about the indignation of the ministry and its admirers — celebrities all — was their comprehension of sovereignty. The sovereignty of a robust democracy cannot be so brittle as to crumble in the face of a single tweet. This prickliness, a dangerous kind of intolerance for criticism, has become a signature of New India and its administration. The allergy is inimical to the health of this democracy. What strengthens democracy is — not unilateral opinion but — a nation’s ability to accommodate divergent, competing views. There may be other reasons that explain the paranoid rebuttal. Could it be that the Centre is no longer certain that its carefully curated narrative on the farmers’ protest is having its desired effect? If that is the case, then the Narendra Modi government has itself to blame. The sustained demonization of farmers, the periodic use of force and provocation at the sites of protest and, above all, the insensitivity shown from the highest echelons of power — the Union agriculture minister said that the government will not pay any compensation to the families of those farmers who have lost their lives during the agitation — have bared the ugly truths that no amount of cheerleading on television or on social media can conceal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
05-02-2021||Opinion||Dressed in chains||The pillars of government have never been on such wanton pillage as now. But we should not be shocked. Seldom have we so fervently persuaded ourselves that this daily plucking and plunder of who we are, this diminution from citizen to subject, is for our own great good; that somehow, complaining or protesting about it, demanding our rights and our rightful place, is an act of sedition. It is as if we have been guilt-tripped into unqualified obeisance of a Lord we have long sinned against by shunning; now must follow the penance of prostration. Day after day, knot upon rigid knot, we get looped tighter in the coils of what would be deemed shocking in any civil society. But we aren’t a civil society; civil society is what we heckle along barricades and gas and shoot, it is what we pick names for from the thesaurus of profanities, civil society is what we lock behind bars and toss the keys beyond the reach of appeal or reason or law or justice, or, very often, all of them combined. Our civilities we pawned off to purchase the secure servility of hectored propaganda hashtags. We should not be shocked at how we have come to be led. We should not be shocked that we have come under the antediluvian arrangements of deranged despots who we would read about in the comfort that it all happened somewhere far away, not here, no way. We should not be shocked that it is happening here, brought to us live on the hyper-cacophony of our television screens, our shackles presented to us as the armour of democracy. We are being dressed in chains but they are for our own good, prescribed protection. Because all that iron-plating is so much pretence, it can begin to shiver and shake at the distant twittering of birds. It is possible we feel hobbled and helpless, but we should not be shocked. We put men in charge with hearts of molten concrete and souls full of spikes, they are casting us in their own likeness, we have become a realm of timid ferocities, we bark at our own. We should not be shocked. Many of the things happening around us are beyond shocking. You may have seen images of vistas approaching the national capital embedded with battle-grade rods of chiselled steel. You may have watched those barriers acquire layer upon layer of concrete and churning mortar pour into the spaces betwixt. You may also have wondered what era you’ve been transported to when you saw formations kitted out like medieval jousting squads. But you shouldn’t be shocked. We shouldn’t be shocked. Being shocked is an indulgence we stopped deserving a while back. We killed a man on the suspicion of what he may have stored in his refrigerator as prospective meal. We were not shocked. We draped his alleged killer in national colours and gave him a hero’s send-off. We were not shocked. We killed a boy, lynched him on a public platform, for his festive headgear. We were not shocked. We made a social media festival of gory lynching. We feted the killers with garlands. We were not shocked; we were indifferent, or we were proud. We cheered the disgrace of a young man hog-tied to the bonnet of an army vehicle and used as human shield. We were not shocked; we commended the architect of dishonourable ways. We were stripped to our skins by a maverick bolt of financial disorder but we deemed it our national duty to clap and comply. We stood in queues to be handed driblets of our hard-earned money, as if it were the gift of holy benediction, a necessary cleansing which will require of us some collective pain. We were willing to be laughed at and mocked for the summary reduction of our circumstances, all for the greater good. It was to render a body-blow to terror outfits, it was to disable Maoist militias, it was to scrub off black money. None of that happened. We were not shocked. We bore the curse of demonetization like karma’s chosen beasts of burden. We heaped the most sordid curtailments on those we still call our own. We quartered our crown and converted Kashmir into the largest prison house of the living, a whole people muffled and manacled, summarily bundled and divested. We weren’t shocked; we hailed it as the high hour of democracy. We have suffered, under the booming surround-sound of ultra-nationalism, some of the most audacious violations of national integrity — our garrisons invaded, our soldiers ripped, our pride defiled. We aren’t shocked. A formidable neighbour whose name the nation’s leader is terrified to bring to his lips has come to brashly alter our shape on the map and squat on our territory, claiming many of our brave lives in the process. We aren’t shocked; we’ve been told a lie and we live with that lie. We lay smitten with the folksy mumbo-jumbo of how smart we were to chance upon cloud-cover to neutralize radar-detection and conduct a daring air-raid across enemy lines. We have ridiculed ourselves to lies; we shouldn’t be shocked. We can rot in jail, and be denied bail, because of a joke we may never have cracked. We probably were born wrong and bear the wrong name, that’s why. Must we be shocked at such unabashed singling out and Othering? We have been told the name for it from high quarters — termites. Why must we be shocked that termites require extermination? Must we be shocked that the gowned eminences of justice blithely pronounce that a dying person will die anyhow, bail or no bail. Must we be shocked that an ailing, ageing undertrial is denied a sipper to drink from? Must we be shocked that we can be hustled into a police van for carrying a notebook and a pen? Must we be shocked that calling out a meagre mid-day meal for school kids is tantamount to crime against the State? Must we be shocked that the evidence of a young girl repeatedly raped and murdered is coldly set afire under uniformed guard? Must we be shocked if Hathras no longer reminds us? We should not be shocked; we travelled past the use-before date. And so what if we arrived at Singhu and Tikri and Ghazipur? They too shall pass our station. From where we stand, we watched just this week a man saunter up the steps of Parliament as junior act to the ceremonies of our annual budget. Around this time last year, that man was making garrulous exhorts to murder from a stage as Delhi flamed on its fringes. Look up the headlines from then, if you will, and look around and wonder if the world around us got grimmer this sorry past year. But be not shocked. sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
05-02-2021||Opinion||Do not come, do not go||Sun Zheng laughed, recalling the time he had to stop his practice of giving ‘Red Envelopes’ to officials whose approval was essential for the smooth running of his cosmetics unit. Decorative red envelopes containing cash are traditional Chinese New Year gifts, normally exchanged among families. The practice of giving them to government officials had, some years ago, reached such a pitch that the Communist Party had to warn the officials. What amuses Sun no end is that this New Year, he has received a Red Envelope from the government. As coronavirus cases — including some involving the mutant strain from the United Kingdom — rise in China, affected cities are desperate to prevent the annual mass migration of people to their hometowns to celebrate New Year with their families. A cash subsidy for those staying back is one such ‘red envelope’ being offered across the country. The lake city of Hangzhou is offering as much as 1000 yuan, while Yiwu, known as the ‘world’s supermarket’, is not just offering a 500-yuan shopping coupon, but has also requested landlords to halve rent for workers who stay back. It has also offered subsidies to restaurants, salons, and car wash/repair stores that work through the holiday. Moreover, it is making its tourist sites free. In Beijing, the three State-owned telecom giants are offering free data of 20 gigabytes for the holiday.Effective steps Airlines, already bleeding since last year, have been told to refund tickets without any charge for the period between January 28 and March 8, and for those who want to travel, fares are at a five-year-low. A four-hour flight from Beijing in the north to the popular island destination of Sanya in the south now costs just 700 yuan as against the normal fare of 2,000 yuan. Then there are the stringent and expensive health measures that travellers must follow: Covid-19 tests — the price has been reduced from 120 to 80 yuan — followed by quarantine on arrival and return, leaves hardly any days for a satisfactory family reunion. The measures are working: an online poll showed that more than 60 per cent of the respondents decided against travel. Accordingly, restaurants, which used to be booked by families for the New Year, have switched to preparing traditional meals for homedelivery/takeout, focusing on couples and singles. A 25-year-old teacher, Fu Xue, has already decided her New Year schedule: binge watching serials, ordering in special meals and then burning calories walking around her city which she has never had time to explore. Her family reunion on February 12 — New Year’s Day — will be online.Bitter tinge However, not everyone is happy with this year’s New Year motto: ‘Don’t go, don’t come’. A gas deliveryman, Liu Yang, couldn’t go home last year because of the sudden lockdown imposed in Wuhan that soon extended to the rest of the country. Like other workers, he had put off travel even after the lockdown was lifted, making do with video chats with his parents and daughter back in their village, confident that he would be able to take an extended break in the New Year. Now his hopes have been dashed. But Liu is lucky: his gas company pays him on time, unlike the thousands of migrant workers for whom New Year has always been tinged with the bitterness of having to head home without having been paid for months. This year, with the pandemic having already hit them hard, workers have struck work almost 100 times, and posted more than 35 calls for help on the social media platform, Weibo, for wage arrears. Gong xi fa cai (Happy New Year)!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
05-02-2021||Opinion||A decade of valuable lessons||The death of a disease. That is what ‘eradication’ is all about — the permanent, worldwide elimination of disease transmission caused by a particular pathogen so that no one suffers from that ailment ever again. Of the myriad pathogens that can cause human disease, only one, smallpox, has been eradicated so far. That is why we no longer see the dreaded illness that was prevalent in the world until the late 1970s, and we no longer need to routinely vaccinate against it anymore. Poliomyelitis — a disease that primarily affects young children and causes paralysis that is typically permanent and, in severe cases, can result in death — is now set to be the second disease affecting humans to be eradicated. In 1988, the Global Polio Eradication Initiative was formed with the aim to eradicate the disease. It was spearheaded by Rotary International, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the World Health Organization and Unicef. Back then, on a daily basis, approximately 1,000 children were permanently affected by the disease. This was a staggering and depressing number, particularly in the light of the fact that the illness was preventable with the vaccines that were available, such as the inactivated poliovirus vaccine or oral poliovirus vaccine, both first licenced more than 60 years ago in the United States of America. Over the past several decades, the GPEI has evolved to become one of the largest public-private partnerships with more than 50 donor organizations, 20 million volunteers, several national governments and philanthropic organizations, such as the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and agencies such as Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance joining forces to wipe out polio from the world. The GPEI and its partners, with the help of countless local health workers and vaccinators, has made it possible to take the vaccine to households in the remotest corners of the world, from flood-prone northern Bihar in India to hard-to-access Borno in Nigeria. The eradication programme has made a valiant attempt to deliver the vaccine to any place there could be a vulnerable child. At present, only two countries, Pakistan and Afghanistan, continue to have ongoing wild polio circulation. This not only results in children in both nations getting infected with the virus but also puts other polio-free regions at risk of getting re-infected. Civil unrest and insurgency, which prevent vaccinators from reaching children, have been among the key bottlenecks in these remaining pockets of polio transmission. This January marked 10 years of India being free of wild poliovirus transmission. The last child ever to suffer paralysis with the wild poliovirus in the country was a little girl from West Bengal, living not too far away from Calcutta. It took an unprecedented and concerted effort on the part of the Central and state governments, global partners and donor agencies, health care professionals and, most important, the frontline vaccinators, to come together to rid all corners of the country of the poliovirus, in spite of significant challenges such as overcrowding, poor sanitation, low accessibility and population movement. Community leaders also set examples by joining hands to educate families on vaccine acceptance, and national icons such as Amitabh Bachchan and A.R. Rahman made the vaccination campaigns a point of national pride. With this remarkable scale and intensity, polio campaigns came to be viewed as celebrations in a nation known for its year-round festivities. Today, India’s triumph against polio is not only the harbinger of hope for the world to eradicate the disease, but also lays out a possible framework for large-scale pandemic response strategies — critically relevant for the Covid-19 era. The poliovirus affects one and all, irrespective of caste, creed, race, and religion. Thus, a unified effort from the global community could help us gain the final edge over the virus for a decisive win in this epic battle. The impact of ending polio forever will be an enduring gift for generations to come. As we celebrate India’s remarkable 10-year anniversary of achieving and sustaining its polio-free status, and as we battle through the Covid-19 pandemic with the promise of new vaccines and healthcare interventions ahead of us, we should be united in our resolve to protect everyone against polio and other diseases that are preventable by vaccines. This can be done by ensuring complete and timely vaccinations for all our loved ones — in our households, families, communities and beyond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||Acid attack survivor receives compensation under state social security scheme||Principal District and Session judge of Dhanbad Basant Kumar Goswami handed over a cheque of Rs 6.5 lakh to acid attack victim Sonali Mukherjee on Friday under a social security scheme of the government as per directives of Jharkhand State Legal Services Authority (JHALSA). Speaking at the function, held during a legal service cum empowerment camp organised at the District Legal Services Authority office here, Goswami said, “Though, the trauma and suffering of the Sonali Mukherjee can’t be mitigated by any  compensation, the monetary compensation can at least help her manage livelihood expenses.” The judge added that Sonali was earlier provided with a compensation of Rs.1.5 lakh, but since the amount has increased under the lastest social security scheme, she received the additional compensation. Legal awareness programmes are being carried out over the past month to appraise people about the different social security schemes, as per the directives of the authority, Goswami said. Sonali was a college student when she went through the acid attack for refusing to marry one Tapas Mitra, in 2003. Mitra and his friends, Sanjay Paswan and Bramhadev Hazra, on the night of April 22 that year, poured sulphuric acid on Sonali’s face while she was sleeping, damaging her face and vision. Sonali got media attention in 2012 when she met the state women’s commission chairperson, seeking financial support. She subsequently rose to fame later that year after appearing on national television in popular game show Kaun Banega Crorepati, hosted by Bollywood megastar Amitabh Bachchan. After that, several organisations came out in her support and helped her go through a series of surgeries at a New Delhi hospital. The state government, too, later provided her with a clerical job. Apart from handing out the cheque to Sonali on Friday, Goswami provided wheel chairs to two physically challenged persons of Nirsa -- Hashiyar Khatoon and Sheikh Hasiuddin. They also received cheques of Rs 40,000 each under the PM Awas Yojana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||NIA arrests man linked to human trafficking gang in Khunti||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday arrested 41-year-old human trafficker identified as Shiv Shankar Ganjhu alias Shankar, from Ganaloya village in Khunti,in connection to a case pertaining to running a trafficking racket under the guise of placement agencies. The NIA has produced him in a special court in Ranchi and took him into custody for four days for further questioning. Shankar is the brother of trafficking kingpin Panna Lal Mahto. In a statement issued in the night, the central agency  said, “The accused Shiv Shankar Ganjhu was the owner of two placement agencies, namely M/s Laxmi Placement Service & Birsa Security and Placement, which were being operated by his brother and notorious kingpin of human trafficking racket in Jharkhand and Delhi, Panna Lal Mahto who was earlier arrested in the case.” The statement further added that the case against Shankar was filed by state police in anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU) on July 19, 2019 under section 363, 370(3)(4)(5)(6), 370(A), 371, 374, 120B, 420, & 34 IPC and sections 16, 18 of Bonded Labor System (Abolition). On March 4, 2020, NIA re-registered the case to take up the investigations. “The accused had played a significant role in trafficking minors from Jharkhand. During investigation, it was revealed that other accused Panna Lal Mahto and his wife Sunita Devi were operating a big human trafficking racket in the guise of three placement agencies in Delhi. They used to bring poor and innocent minor boys and girls from Jharkhand on the pretext of providing them with jobs in Delhi and neighboring states, but they were exploited and were never paid the promised remunerations. The accused was today produced before the NIA special court in Ranchi and taken in police custody for four days for further investigation,” the statement added. Notably, on December 3 last year, the NIA had arrested one Gopal Oraon in the same case while Panna Lal is in jail following his arrest in June 2019. In another development on Wednesday, the NIA arrested Mrityunjay Kumar Singh (34) from Chandwa in Latehar district for his alleged role in killing of four police personnel by CPI (Maoist) in 2019. An FIR was lodged against him in Chandwa police station on November 23, 2019 under different sections of IPC and arms act and section 18 of UA (P) Act. On the night of November 22, 2019, Maoists attacked a police patrolling party at Lukaiya More in Latehar, killing four cops and looting their arms and ammunition. “The state police had earlier arrested and charged six accused in this case. After taking over the investigation, NIA had conducted searches at several places in the districts of Latehar, Loherdagga and Palamu. During one of the searches at the premises of Mrityunjay Kumar Singh in Chandwa, unaccounted money amounting to Rs 2.64 crores was recovered. Investigation revealed that a day before the incident Mrityunjay had met Ravindra Ganjhu, regional committee member of CPI (Maoist) at Bearjanga forest, and had provided him money for the attack,” the NIA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad students stage protest against university ||Over 100 students who could not get admission to undergraduate and post graduate courses of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University, staged a day-long dharna on Friday, accusing the varsity administration of being opaque about its processes. During the sit-in at the university office at Babudih, the students alleged that they were denied admission on various grounds, namely, error in submitting details on the Chancellor's Portal and delayed examination results. Anupriya Kumari, an English graduate who was among the protesters, said that one of the four students who applied with her to the PG course, did not get admission. “Despite securing good marks, I could not find my name in the merit list of the postgraduate course. While the government keeps the gross enrolment ratio (GER) of the university by increasing seats, students who want to pursue higher education are deprived of it,” she added. Another protester Jyoti Kumari said though she did not meet the cut off criteria, students getting lower grades than her got admission into the college. “The university must think of increasing the number of  seats in such courses, otherwise meritorious students will be deprived ,” she said. Ashish Paswan, district president of the student wing of JMM, Jharkhand Chhatra Morcha, “There are several loopholes in the admission process. Students who have falsified their marks have secured admission in the university.” He also said that the admission cell of the university is also in a total disarray and students rarely get news about it. “We have submitted a memorandum to Vice Chancellor Anjani Kumar Srivastava, to establish an enquiry cell, so that the students can get proper information about admission” Paswan added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||CBI team from Assam nabs cyber criminal from Jamshedpur||A two-member CBI team from Assam raided a house in the steel city on Friday and arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly siphoning off over Rs 3 crore from  customers of banks in Assam. The CBI team, in cooperation with the local police, raided the rented house of Kamlesh Pal, a contract worker, in the Govindpur area and picked him up early on Friday morning. Pal was getting ready for work when the CBI team arrived. Govindpur thana OC Ranjit Kumar Singh, who accompanied the raiding team, said the CBI officials tracked Pal’s mobile phone, and finally, zeroed in on the house at Kailash Nagar by studying mobile tower locations. "Although we are not aware about the details of Pal’s cyber crime operations, but we know he was operating from the rented house in Govindpur where he was staying," Singh told The Telegraph Online. After his arrest, the CBI team took Pal to MGM Medical College Hospital for examination and subsequently approached the local court for a transit remand. The CBI officers left Jamshedpur after they go a two-day transit remand. According to police, the accused is a resident of Garhwa district of Jharkhand. They believe he is likely to divulge crucial information about cyber criminals active across Jharkhand and Assam. Pal’s arrest created a sensation in the Kailash Colony neighbourhood. Local residents considered him to be an amiable person doing odd jobs as a contract worker. "We thought Kamlesh was a decent person. We were really surprised to learn that he was a cyber criminal in the guise of a humble contract worker," quipped Vikash Srivastava, an immediate neighbour of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||Civic worker goes missing, colleagues protest||Over 50 sanitation workers of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) staged a protest in front of Kadma Police Station on Friday, demanding the arrest of an official, accused of harassing an employee who has gone missing. Sanjay Chutel (34), a supervisor of the JNAC, has been missing from Thursday after allegedly leaving behind a suicide note. According to his family, Chutel, father of a five-year-old, told his wife that he was going out for some ‘special work’ at 4 am on Thursday and has not returned since. His family found the note in the evening, and rushed to the police station to lodge. Though Chutel did not mention anyone’s name in the note, his wife Sudha Devi later alleged that harassment by senior official Saurabh Kumar was the reason that he might have committed suicide. She said that Kumar would pass adverse comments about him, and even snatched his gate pass on one occasion. On Friday, Kadma OC Thakur assured the protesters of every possible action to trace Chutel and promised an impartial investigation, following which they dispersed. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Thakur said that an initial probe has been launched into the case. “From the initial probe we found that the missing supervisor had attended his duty till Tuesday, and that his gate-pass had never been snatched by Saurabh Kumar as alleged by the complainant. We are still looking into the matter seriously and are talking to other JNAC officials  to find out whether Sanjay was being harassed by Saurbh Kumar or not.” Special officer, JNAC, Krishna Kumar backed Saurabh, saying he is not the kind of a person to harass someone for no reason. “Saurabh Kumar also told me that the JNAC staff are worried about Sanjay’s whereabouts,” he said. A senior JNAC official said that Chutel was appointed on a casual basis, but he was not performing properly since the past couple of months. He would not attend his duty regularly, citing health problems, but would roam around in the locality, thus inviting the ire of the senior officer, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||Indian Steel emerge overall champs in district archery||Indian Steel & Wire Products (ISWP) pocketed 22 medals – 10 gold, 6 silver and as many bronze – to emerge overall champions in the 5th East Singhbhum District Archery Championship on Friday. Tata Archery Academy (TAA) finished second with 20 medals – 8 gold, 6 silver and as many bronze – at the day-long event held at the archery training centre ground in Burmamines. The championship organised by East Singhbhum District Archery Association marked the return of the sport post-Covid. The archers of the cradle run by ISWP came up with some fine shooting skills to find the target with precision. The likes of Megha Besra (309 points), Santoshi Giri (296) proved their mettle in the senior and junior section for girls compound division. Santoshi also claimed gold in the sub-junior and under-14 section to win all-round applause from a motley crowd. ISWP archers also came with excellent performance while making a clean sweep in the junior boys’ category Indian round with Satri Samad (148 points), Satnam Singh (143) and Rajkumar Bhagat (142) claiming the top three spots in the Indian round. Meghrai Soren of ISWP grabbed the top slot in the senior boys’ section by scoring 152 points, also in the Indian round. The trainees of TAA made a clean sweep in the recurve division event for junior boys with Shrey Bhardwaj (328) Mrinal Chouhan (309) and Alpi Tudu (299) walking home with the top three positions. Shrey also topped in the senior recurve category with 328 points, in the process edging out teammates Subhodeep (327) and Sourav (313). The cadets of Tata cradle also held complete sway over the boys’ sub-junior recurve section.  Aditya Roy (318), Kunal Biriuly (316) and Dev Arjun (315) finished in the top three. TAA’s Piyush claimed gold in the boys’ under-14 with 318 points in his kitty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||BJP MPs bat for students, seek train stop at Aligarh||Jharkhand BJP MPs V.D. Ram and Sunil Kumar Singh have urged the railways to ensure that at least two trains of the state stop at Aligarh station to benefit students studying at Aligarh Muslim University. Ram, a Palamau MP, and Singh, a Chatra MP, say that hundreds of students from their constituencies study at AMU and face troubles reaching Aligarh. A letter has been sent in this regard to Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Ram told The Telegraph Online. Three trains -- Ranchi-Delhi Rajdhani, Ranchi-Delhi Garib Rath and Sambalpur-Jammu Tawai express -- pass through Palamau but the first two do not make a stoppage at Aligarh. The third one, on the other hand, is never on time, making the journey even more difficult for students who have to wait till midnight for the train to reach its destination. Ram said that he has raised the issue several times but in vain. Chatra BJP MP Sunil Kumar Singh confirmed that he too has demanded that the Garib Rath Express should make a stop at Aligarh, citing the students’ problems. Aligarh BJP MP Satish Kumar Gautam will also support the issue, Singh said. A resident of Daltonganj, whose son studies at AMU, said he has to make a 140-kilometer road journey from Delhi to Aligharh, which is exhausting as well as expensive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||Late Haji Ansari’s son, Hafizul Hassan, sworn in minister ||Hafizul Hassan, elder son of JMM minister Haji Hussain Ansari who died last year, was sworn in as a minister in the Hemant Soren cabinet on Friday at Raj Bhavan in the presence of a host of dignitaries, including chief minister Hemant Soren, some of his cabinet colleagues and JMM patriarch Shibu Soren. JMM sources said that the sudden decision to induct Hassan into the cabinet was to pre-empt the party’s alliance partners Congress and RJD to stake claim to the Madhupur Assembly seat that was vacated after the demise of Haji Hussain in October last year after recovering from a bout of Covid. The induction of Hafizul, who is yet to become an MLA, would make him the natural JMM candidate for the Madhupur seat where a byelection is likely to be held in the next few months. After he was administered the oath of office by Governor Draupadi Murmu, Hafizul admitted he had not been told about his ministerial portfolio. He said he would follow his father's footsteps to serve the people. "My father lived a very simple life despite holding high offices in his career and was dedicated to serve the people of this state. I too will follow his preachings," he said thanking Hemant Soren and the JMM for giving him this opportunity. On his priorities, the new minister said he was aware that the people of Madhupur have for long been demanding a separate subdivision. "Yes, this has been a long pending demand… I will try to make it a reality now," he added. Governor Murmu was in her home state of Odisha and returned to Ranchi around 10am on Friday just in time for the swearing in, Raj Bhavan sources said. After winning the 2019 Assembly polls, the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance distributed ministries on a 6-4-1 formula in a 12-member cabinet, leaving one seat vacant. Following Haji's death, two seats were vacant. Of these, one was finalised on Friday. Hafizul’s father, the Late Haji Hussain Ansari, had won the Madhupur seat in Santhal Parganas four times since he first contested on a JMM ticket in 1995. After beginning his career with Congress, Haji joined JMM in 1990 and stayed on with the party until his death last year. He was also the first Muslim to become a minister in the state after the formation of Jharkhand in 2000. On the hurried swearing in, a JMM source iterated that the Madhupur Assembly seat belonged to the JMM. "The RJD has already begun raising demands to field it's candidate at Madhupur. Although, a formal proposal was yet to be placed by our alliance partners, but there have been media reports quoting their leaders in this regard. It got vacated after Haji's demise. So, there is no question of JMM not fielding it's own candidate on behalf of the alliance," he explained. Another JMM leader added, "During the Bihar Assembly polls, despite being our coalition partners in Jharkhand, RJD did not accommodate us. Hence, we fought solo on about half a dozen seats but lost. In Jharkhand, JMM is the dominant force."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||43 per cent vaccinated, 58 fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand in a day||Jharkhand on Thursday achieved 43 per cent of its vaccination target by inoculating as many as 2728 frontline workers and 3833 healthcare workers in the past 24 hours, a report released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per figures shared by the NHM, Jharkhand has achieved 45 per cent of its vaccination target for frontline workers and 52 per cent for health care workers. While at least 70,931 healthcare workers have been inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in the state, only 3,539 frontline workers, mostly policemen, have been administered the Covishield vaccine, highlights government data. Of the 1.43 lakh people registered for vaccination in Jharkhand so far, as many as 74,526 have been administered the vaccine jab. As per government data, at least 243 people have complained of adverse events following immunization in the state so far, and as many as 167 of them were residents of Ranchi. A 52-year-old health worker, who have vaccinated on Monday, died on Tuesday night. However, he did not complain of any adverse events following immunization on the day he was administered the jab. The state reported only one case of AEFI on Thursday from Ranchi. Meanwhile, the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped further down to 447 on Thursday as the state reported at least 64 recoveries against 58 fresh cases of infection, a separate bulletin released by the NHM stated. Ranchi accounted for at least 33 of the 58 cases and 39 of the 64 recoveries on the day. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 13 of 24 districts did not report any fresh case of infection on Thursday, while 10 districts reported a single-digit-spike. No Covid casualties were reported in Jharkhand in the past 24 hours, keeping the Covid toll in the state at 1077. The growth rate of Covid cases was 0.04 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.10 per cent by the end of Thursday. As per government data, it would take at least 1953 days for the number of Covid cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was less than 750 days. So far, the government has tested swab samples of 52.25 lakh people and more than 1.18 lakh of them have been found infected. However, at least 98.71 per cent of the infected people have recovered in the state, while 0.90 per cent of them died, reveals NHM data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||Bid to detain train, driver over jumbo deaths||In perhaps the first such instance in Jharkhand and Odisha, a forest division team from Rourkela sought to detain the driver and the goods train which had mowed down two elephants early on Thursday. The goods train hit and killed the elephants near Mahipani level crossing close to Jeraikela railway station which falls under Bisra range of Rourkela forest division in Sundergarh district of Odisha around 1am. The tracks pass through an elephant corridor where the incident happened. Around 8am, a team of Rourkela forest division, led by assistant conservator of forests Dilip Kumar Sahu, reached Manoharpur station under Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway in West Singhbhum district of Jharkhand where the goods train had stopped, to detain the driver and the train. However, this led to a heated exchange of words for nearly two hours between the four-member team of forest officials and the RPF unit of Manoharpur over the issue. Finally, the matter was resolved after talks between Manoharpur station manager S.K. Das and Sahu. “We got information from our forest guards that the train was travelling well over the permissible speed limit when it hit the two elephants, one aged 15 and another five years, leading to their death. According to Section 56 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, the forest department has the right to seize the vehicle, in this case, the train which caused the accident. “The driver is at fault as there is a standing circular from the railway ministry to run trains between 20kmph and 30kmph along identified elephant corridors. The site of the mishap falls under one such elephant corridor. From the reports which we have gathered from our forest guards and looking at the severed parts of the dead elephants, it is clear that the train was running at a speed of well over 80kmph when the mishap took place,” said Sahu. He further said that they relented from detaining the train and the driver on the request of Manoharpur railway officials who assured they would be producing them within 24 hours. “The railway officials said that the parcel train was carrying essential commodities and the driver had changed duties. “We have asked them to find out from their official records about the driver who was on the train when the mishap occurred and produce him and the train before the forest officials within 24 hours,” Sahu added. According to railway sources, the parcel train was going from Nasik in Maharashtra to Shalimar (Bengal) when the mishap took place. Meanwhile, senior divisional commercial manager, Chakradharpur, Manish Pathak, on Thursday evening issued a media communiqué which said that one wagon of the goods train got derailed after hitting the elephants and both the up and down lines were blocked after the accident. However, no person suffered any injury. The two dead elephants were removed from the tracks at 6.30am and the lines were restored thereafter. The communiqué also said that trains ply in the elephant corridor following forest department rules, including blowing the whistle for a longer period and drivers keeping a sharp lookout for animals moving on the tracks. Manoharpur is around 150km from Jharkhand capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||State cabinet approves Jharkhand Good Samaritan Policy||People who are apprehensive about taking road accident victims to hospital for fear of police harassment in Jharkhand need not be hesitant anymore. The state cabinet in its meeting on Wednesday evening approved the Jharkhand Good Samaritan Policy that will not only protect helpful citizens from police harassment but will also reward them. Since hospitalisation of road accident victims within the golden hour (the first hour after an accident takes place) helps initiate effective treatment and save their lives, the cabinet approved the policy expecting people would now come forward without any fear to help such victims. According to the police, the police would not force such do-gooders to reveal their identity if they are not willing to disclose it or detain them for interrogation. Not only that, such good Samaritans will also be rewarded, the policy said. If two persons hospitalise any road accident victim, they will get Rs 2,000 as incentive, the policy said. A amount of Rs 5,000 would be given if more than two persons help in the hospitalisation so that the amount could be equally distributed among them, it added. Even the hospital will not detain such persons when they admit any road accident victim for treatment, the policy said. In case the police need to contact such persons in the course of enquiry or name them as witnesses under special circumstances, they should be called a minimum number of times only and the police must also deposit Rs 1,000 in their bank account every time they are called, the policy added. Such a policy was being adopted for saving the precious lives of youths, who are mostly the victims of road accidents, said a release issued by the chief minister’s secretariat. In Jharkhand, over 5,000 road accidents take place every year in which more than 3,000 lives, mostly of the youths, are lost, it said. There were less road accidents during the lockdown in 2020, it added. Even then, 3,366 road accidents, involving 2,294 deaths, were reported till October 2020, the release said. Old-age pension Among other decisions, the state cabinet also resolved to cover needy persons above 60 years under the Mukhyamantri Rajya Pension Yojana so that they can get Rs 1,000 every month under the scheme. There were about 5.13 lakh such persons in the state who were not getting any pension, according to another release issued by the chief minister’s secretariat. Around 3.65 lakh of them would be brought under the pension scheme immediately, it added. The number of such pensioners that stood at 3.65 lakh at present would be doubled for providing old-age pension to 7.30 lakh people, it said. Those who are left out would also be brought under the scheme gradually, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
