06-02-2021||Calcutta||Students pay tribute to motherland||Sushila Birla Girls’ School Students of the primary, middle and senior sections of Sushila Birla Girls’ School celebrated the 72nd Republic Day virtually on the Google Meet platform. The students took pride in glorifying and celebrating the spirit of unity and brotherhood. Class assemblies were conducted showing short videos with glimpses of the Republic Day parade at Rajpath, New Delhi. While some students dressed up as freedom fighters to spread the message of equality, brotherhood and unity, others wore sashes, representing the Tricolour. The students made Indian flag, using the palm painting technique and Gandhi topis with newspapers. Some students of Class V dressed up as members of the drafting committee and discussed the making of the Constitution with their classmates. The Preamble to the Indian Constitution, along with terms such as sovereign, secular, socialist and democratic were discussed too. The effort was to make students realise the value of sacrifice made by our freedom fighters and their duties as responsible citizens. Group discussions on the relevance of freedom in present times were arranged for senior classes. In every class, students sang and danced on patriotic songs, recited patriotic slogans and took a pledge to safeguard their motherland. “It is our duty to create responsible citizens. As the nation celebrated the 72nd Republic Day, we, along with our students, pledged to take part in nation building in our own ways,” said principal Koeli Dey. Darjeeling Public School, Fulbari Darjeeling Public School, Fulbari, celebrated Republic Day on its premises by felicitating the former army men for their service to the country. The ceremony was conducted with a small gathering of teachers and students. The flag hoisting ceremony was followed by the march past of the NCC students from classes VIII to XII and a rendition of patriotic songs by the school choir. A short programme consisting of poem recitations and dance performances on the patriotic themes was also put up by the students and teachers. “Like every year, this year, too, we celebrated the Republic Day at our school with full vigour battling the crisis. This year, the celebration was special as it was marked with a tribute to our former army men, whose presence not only delighted us, but also encouraged us to serve the motherland selflessly. Even some of our senior students had voluntarily took part in the event along with the parents, which was an added perk,” said principal Shreya Mitra Biswas. Calcutta Public School, Kalikapur The pandemic failed to curb the nationalistic spirit of the students of Calcutta Public School, Kalikapur as they virtually celebrated the 72nd Republic Day with zeal and enthusiasm. The pre-primary section ignited the spirit of patriotism through online activities and performances. The Nursery students learnt about their country and its national symbols through picture pasting activity in their drawing copies. The Lower Kindergarten kids showed unity amid cultural diversity by dressing up themselves in traditional costumes of different states. They even showed their creativity by making the origami of our national flower, lotus. The Upper Kindergarten students paid tribute to the national heroes by making a picture collage and dressing up as them. “It was nice to see the little ones dressed up as national heroes. We missed students being at school. I hope the students take lessons from the life of the heroes and land up as responsible citizens of the nation,” said principal Proma Das. Shri Shikshayatan School and College Shri Shikshayatan School and College celebrated Republic Day with flag hoisting ceremony at the school grounds and a recorded presentation that was uploaded on the school website. The school and college authorities, along with the staff members, were present in the compound for the flag hoisting ceremony. They sang the national anthem. The recorded cultural programme was jointly conducted by the senior school and college students. It consisted of song, dance and recitation performances on the patriotic theme. The video commenced with the college students singing Vande Mataram and Heal the World. This was followed by the presentation of the senior school students, who sang Vande Mataram and performed on patriotic numbers such as Aye watan and Jai ho. The programme came to a close with the national anthem. “Like each year, this year, too, the Republic Day was celebrated with great enthusiasm at Shri Shikshayatan School. The staff members, observing all precautionary measures, gathered on the school premises. The unfurling of the flag and singing of the national anthem together filled us with pride,” said school principal Sangeeta Tandon. Abhinav Bharati High School Students of Abhinav Bharati High School celebrated 72nd Republic Day with a programme on a digital platform. Children of the primary section delivered speeches, sang patriotic songs and made posters. Teachers observed the day in their individual online classes to make children learn about their country and the Constitution. “The pandemic has left no stone unturned to derail us from celebrating the special days. But it failed to subdue our enthusiasm to celebrate the Republic Day 2021, virtually. This time, our children were determined to honour this day by pledging to face any adversity with integrity and diversity. They showed great patriotic fervour and enthusiasm in understanding the values of the Indian republic,” said headmistress Moumita Rakshit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
06-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta schools plan phased reopening||Several schools have decided to stagger their reopening and only call to the campus the students of Classes X and XII for now. The state government has allowed schools to reopen for Classes IX to XII, but several heads said their focus was on the students preparing for the board exams who need to test their preparedness. The phased reopening will help schools space out students and not crowd the campuses at any point of time, at least two school heads said. La Martiniere for Girls, St James’ School, South Point and Sri Sri Academy will start with Classes X and XII. Modern High School for Girls and Mahadevi Birla World Academy are starting with only Class XII. Schools are also planning how they will split the students who will be called to the campus. Sri Sri Academy will call the students of Class X one day and Class XII the next day. Mahadevi Birla World Academy will call only four of the eight sections of Class XII each day. “Each section will be further divided. Not more than 15 to 16 students will be in each room and the timetable will be set like that. Each student will come twice a week,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of the school. South Point has decided to sit the students of each section in three rooms. Modern High School for Girls has divided the students into two groups. St James' School is looking at reduced hours with four periods a week. “We will have to keep reviewing our system and learn from our experience if there are any gaps because we cannot anticipate everything. By the time more classes come, our system will be perfected,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls. Students of Classes X and XII are being prioritsed because they will write their board exams and they need to do hands-on practicals and also write a pen-and-paper test, after almost a year. Even schools that have conducted pre-board exams for them in the online mode will hold practice or improvement tests in school. “We will have to take extra care for the board classes. Also, instead of calling all classes (IX to XII) at once, if we do so in phases it will help us to implement the SOP and plan out the use of school infrastructure,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point. “We will start with the pre-boards, practicals and revision classes for X and XII. The students of Classes IX and XI are towards the end of the academic year,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, the principal of La Martiniere for Girls. “We will call all classes (IX to XII) but the focus is on Class XII practicals. We are trying to optimise the time they will be in school,” said DPS Ruby Park principal Joyoti Chaudhuri. Schools affiliated to state boards like Jadavpur Vidyapith are planning to call the students of Classes X and XII to “coaching class”, where they will be taught two subjects a day. Besides, students of Classes XI and XII will be called for practicals. “In a week's time we will be able to follow a system because the idea is to bring the children to school and yet not crowd the campus,” said Parimal Bhattacharyya, the headmaster of Jadavpur Vidyapith.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
06-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University labs to remain open ||The laboratories of Calcutta University that have remained open for postgraduate students since January 18 will continue to be functional, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said on Friday. The clarification comes two days after the higher education department said it would take a call on resumption of in-person classes for colleges and universities not before April. “The university had received several appeals from scores of teachers and students about reopening the labs and the decision was taken in the interest of the students…. The university took a collective decision on reopening the labs, strictly adhering to the safety protocols…” Chakravarti Banerjee told Metro. “CU will keep the labs open for postgraduate students until and unless the department formally tells us to shut them down.” Education minister Partha Chatterjee had on Wednesday sought to know from CU pro-VC (academic) Ashis Chatterjee why the university had reopened its labs in the absence of any directive from the education department. When asked about the interaction, the VC said on Friday: “Pro-VC Chatterjee explained to the minister why the university decided to reopen the labs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
06-02-2021||Calcutta||Sikh Sangat of Calcutta to show solidarity in Dankuni on February 6||The Sikh Sangat of Calcutta, many of whose members are from farmer families in Punjab, will block National Highway 2 in Dankuni between noon and 3pm on Saturday in response to a chakka jam  call by protesting farmers in Delhi. The Sangat has given a call to everyone to gather at the Dunlop Gurdwara by 10.30am, from where they plan to leave for the blockade venue, near the Dankuni toll plaza, by cars. A WhatsApp invitation created by the Sangat inviting people to join the blockade carries an image of a woman and her son in front of iron nails, resembling iron nails put up by Delhi police to block access to the protest sites at Delhi’s borders, where farmers are demonstrating to press for the repeal of three new farm laws introduced by the Centre. “We picked up the image from online. It shows an elderly lady and her son. The son is sitting while the lady is about to step on the nails. The son places a hand under her right feet to protect her from getting hurt in the nails,” said Gursharan Singh, a member of the Rashbehari Gurdwara, who helped prepare the WhatsApp invitation. “The woman resembles the Motherland. To a farmer, the Motherland is very important. In the image, the farmer’s son is trying to protect the Motherland. What the Centre has done with farmers in Delhi is very strange,” said Gursharan, whose roots are in Gurdaspur district in Punjab. The woman is also carrying a flag with a green border and a green circle in the middle amidst yellow. The green signifies the green revolution that was ushered in by farmers of India, said Ajit Singh, a member of the MG Road Gurdwara. “I still own 12 acres of farmland at my village in Ludhiana. I visit my village thrice or four times every year. How can I stay unfazed after what the Centre has done to farmers,” he said. There have been multiple rallies in Calcutta in support of the farmers’ movement since December. The rallies criss-crossed the city, with the participants carrying placards saying a nation cannot survive if its farmers are unwell. Even a religious procession of the Sikhs had some people carrying banners in support of the farmers’ movement. The Sangat members said the least they could do was show solidarity with the farmers who have been protesting for over two months. An officer of Dankuni police station confirmed to Metro that he had received a request from Sikh Sangat about Saturday’s blockade. “We have organised medical camps at the protest sites. I have been to the protest sites thrice. We provided medical aid, medicines to the frail and sick farmers. We will continue doing so. Groups of 15 to 20 people are staying there in rotation,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the general secretary of Behala Gurdwara. A Sangat member said the protests would not have gained this scale had the Centre dealt with the protesters with sensitivity. “The Centre should have repealed the three farm laws. Earlier, they were saying only Punjab’s farmers were involved in the protests at Delhi’s borders. But now there are farmers from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, too. The movement has spread,” said the member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
06-02-2021||Calcutta||Pet admirer molests girl in Garfa||A college student who was strolling with her pet puppy was allegedly molested by a taxi driver in a Garfa neighbourhood on Friday, police said. The accused first started cuddling the pet and then took it inside his house. When the woman went to take her pet back, the accused allegedly pulled her inside a room, the police said. The woman fled and alerted the local police station. The accused, Rabi Das, 48, has been arrested. “The victim is a 19-year-old college student. She was walking with her pet puppy when the taxi driver picked it up and took it home. When the woman went to get her puppy back, the accused allegedly pulled her inside a room and molested her,” said an officer of Garfa police station. “The taxi driver has been arrested based on the woman’s complaint.” The taxi driver has been booked under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code that deals with the offence of outraging the modesty of a woman. The charge, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of five years of imprisonment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
06-02-2021||Calcutta||Guard held for child rape and murder||A guard of the building where a nine-year-old girl was found with her throat slit on Thursday morning has been arrested on charges of rape and murder. Police said Ram Kumar, in his 40s, had admitted to the crime. The accused, who worked as a guard of the building where the body was found for over 10 years, was detained on Thursday and arrested on Friday afternoon. Investigators said the preliminary post-mortem report suggested that the girl’s throat was cut by a sharp weapon, causing her death. Sources said the girl was lured with chips laced with sedatives before she was allegedly raped and then killed. Kumar has been charged under IPC sections related to rape of a victim under 12 years (if convicted, he can be sentenced to death) and murder, and also for aggravated sexual assault on a minor under the Pocso Act. The guard, who said he had a family in Jharkhand, was one of the first to raise the alarm that the child’s body was found in the building. Cops detained him based on the suspicion that someone who knew that the first floor of the building was vacant must have committed the offence. Investigators also learned from witnesses that the victim was last seen with the guard before she went missing. The victim had gone to visit her maternal uncle’s home with her parents and two elder sisters on Thursday, hours before she went missing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
06-02-2021||Calcutta||Footballer who quit, shines as athlete at 43||A man who had to part ways with his dreams because he had to sustain his family is living them all over again. Pabitra Sarkar is the store in charge of a factory in Siliguri. But the 43-year-old is now better known as an athlete representing India in international meets, albeit for veterans. Sarkar had to quit football at the turn of the millennium to focus on getting a job, at a time when he was turning heads in the north Bengal club circuit as a budding left-winger. Now, he derives maximum joy from mentoring budding footballers. For one who had spent much of his playing days with borrowed boots, Sarkar has sponsored the boots and balls of several needy children in Jalpaiguri. From 2013, years into his professional life, Sarkar started running to “lose weight”. By 2016, he was taking part, and doing well, in domestic athletic meets for veterans. In December 2019, he finished ninth among over 40 participants in the 400-metre race at the 21st Asia Masters Athletics Championship, in Sawarak, Malaysia. Field sports demand absolute dedication and many a dream has been shattered for financial constraints. But Sarkar’s story is special because of two reasons; life does not give everyone a second shot at a long-lost dream and among the few who get lucky, not everyone grabs the chance with both hands like Sarkar. At 41, he finished 400 metres in one minute and 28 seconds. He has to tweak his work regimen to put in two hours of practice every morning and, sometimes, after work in the evening. “Being back in sports gives me a purpose that no other vocation can give,” Sarkar told Metro. Sarkar had made his mark in a string of local tournaments and earned a slot in a trial for a training camp at the Sports Authority of India’s campus in Salt Lake in 2000. He aced the trial and got a call-up from the country’s premiere sports training centre. But his mother was dead against him pursuing a career in sports. His father, a contractual employee of a college in Jalpaiguri, died when Sarkar was four. His mother was hired at the same college as a Group-D staff five years after her husband’s death. In the meantime, she knitted woollens to run the family — including Sarkar and his younger sister. “We need money, not medals,” his mother’s words still ring in the ears of Sarkar. The thought of “running away to Calcutta” had crossed his mind more than once. But he could not leave his family in the lurch. Sarkar remembers returning the boots borrowed for the SAI trial to a friend on a wintry morning. After graduation, he did a “diploma course in computer” and got a job of a “data-entry operator” at the Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages factory in Siliguri. That was 2001. The next decade was spent in the “9am to 8pm grind”. Sarkar, with some help from his mother, bought a plot and built a home. He got his sister married and settled down himself. The return to sports came unexpectedly. “I had gained a lot of weight and my fitness was on the wane. I had to do something about it. So, I started running early in the morning,” Sarkar told this newspaper. During the course of his daily workout sessions on the local ground, Sarkar met many of his old acquaintances. An “old coach” was the first to suggest Sarkar that he should give athletics a try. “I was back in shape within two years and took part in a veterans’ athletic meet in Calcutta in 2017. I won bronze in the 100m race,” said Sarkar. After a string of good showings in domestics meets, a fourth position in the 400m race at the national tournament in Guntoor, Andhra Pradesh, in 2018, earned him a slot in the Malaysia meet. He was slated to take part in more international meets last year but all were stalled by the Covid-19 pandemic. “There is no right or wrong age to resume competitive sports. Apart from preparation, there is one more thing that one needs — fire in the belly,” Arthur Cardozo, life and fitness coach based in Calcutta, said when Metro shared Sarkar’s story with him. A former state-level sprinter from Goa who had been “off sports” for a while, Cardozo is now into powerlifting. At 56, he lifts 200 kilos. “Sarkar is quiet and unassuming. But he is a team player and never shirks from a responsibility,” said Krishna Gopal Mandal, manager of the Siliguri plant. Sarkar now lives with his mother, wife and children, a 13-year-old daughter and a three-and-a-half-year-old boy. Once dead against his sports career, Sarkar’s mother is now “guilt-ridden” for not letting him continue football. “But I don’t blame her. She did what she had to. I am just happy to be able to be back in the field,” said Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
06-02-2021||Calcutta||Special camps to vaccinate children on February 22||Special camps will be held in Calcutta and elsewhere in the state later this month to vaccinate children who may have missed any of the vaccine doses administered under the universal immunisation programme. The camps under Mission Indradhanush, supposed to be held on Monday, have been postponed to February 22, said an official of the state health department. A second round of camps will be held on March 22. “Usually, children up to two years are registered as beneficiaries of the Mission Indradhanush camps, but we have been told not to refuse a child above two years if she or he is brought to a camp,” said a doctor of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The health department’s vaccinators are now busy administering Covid-19 jabs to health workers and frontline workers across the state. “We have to plan and execute both vaccinations with the existing human resources. It is a challenge for the vaccinators and other health workers,” said a health department official. Over 3.2 lakh people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in Bengal, said a senior health department official. Mission Indradhanush camps, usually held every year to vaccinate children who may have missed any dose of vaccine under the immunisation programme, could not be held in 2020 because of the pandemic, CMC doctors said. “Some of the children might not have received any of the scheduled vaccine doses last year. We have to find those children and get them vaccinated,” the official said. “The parents or anyone else who will accompany the child to the camp must carry the vaccination card, which will be proof that the child missed a dose of a vaccine under the universal immunisation programme. We cannot rely on someone’s spoken word,” the official said. One can know the location of the camps from the CMC’s ward health clinics, also called urban primary health centres, and from the borough executive health officer’s office. Teams from the state health department as well as the various municipalities and municipal corporations are visiting houses to find out the children who might have missed their vaccine doses. “The postponement of the camps (from February 8 to 22) will give us some more time to do micro-planning and, if necessary, another round of survey,” said a health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
06-02-2021||Business|| Sensex extends winning run for the fifth session||The Sensex extended its winning run for the fifth session, finishing at a fresh lifetime peak on Friday after the Reserve Bank kept interest rates unchanged but continued its accommodative stance and announced fresh liquidity measures to revive growth. The 30-share BSE benchmark briefly crossed the 51000-level, before ending 117.34 points or 0.23 per cent higher at its fresh closing record of 50731.63. The 50-share NSE Nifty scaled the 15000-mark during the day but shed some ground to close at its all-time high of 14924.25, up 28.60 points or 0.19 per cent. SBI was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying 10.69 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Dr Reddy’s, UltraTech Cement, ITC and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Axis Bank, Bharti Airtel, ICICI Bank, Maruti and HCL Tech were among the laggards, tumbling up to 3.30 per cent. India Inc saw the RBI’s first monetary policy review after the budget as its commitment to take the economy on a path of robust recovery. “The direction of the policy statement is positive. It is reassuring to note that the RBI continues with its accommodative stance to accelerate economic growth. The recovery signs are getting stronger, and the guidance provided by the central bank reflects its commitment towards supporting growth,” Ficci president Uday Shankar said. Assocham Secretary General Deepak Sood said the RBI''s monetary policy review has injected a power-packed accelerator to take the Indian economy on a path of robust recovery ensuring stability on inflation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
06-02-2021||Business||Three bids to save Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative ||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday disclosed that three investors have submitted their offers for the reconstruction of the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank. Evaluation of these proposals are underway. Last month, PMC Bank administrator A.K. Dixit informed in a letter to customers and stakeholders that three prospective investors were given time till February 1, 2021 for the submission of their final offers. “I have been informed that three final offers have been received. I am given to understand that PMC Bank itself is evaluating the offers,” Das told reporters after announcing the monetary policy. While he did not disclose the names, one of the interested party is understood to be Mumbai-based Centrum group which has joined hands with BharatP. The Liberty group is also reportedly keen on reconstructing the bank. Das added that once the evaluation is done, the bank would approach the RBI. In September 2019, the RBI had superseded the board of PMC Bank and placed it under various regulatory restrictions after the detection of certain financial irregularities and misreporting of loans. The central bank is awaiting a formal proposal from the government on the proposed bad bank made in the Union Budget for 2021-22. To a query at the post-policy press conference, Das said that while discussions on such an entity have taken place with the government earlier, the RBI is now waiting for a formal proposal from the Centre. “When that comes, we will examine that and take a view. Till such a time we get a formal proposal, it’s not right to comment,” he said. Das added that the central bank has deepened its supervision and is making an assessment of the true state of non-performing assets in all banks. On whether the RBI will go for an asset quality review (AQR), as suggested by Economic Survey 2020-21, Das said the central bank’s supervision exercise is already doing what an AQR requires, indicating that such a review is not needed for now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
06-02-2021||Business||Mahindra reports 6% fall in consolidated profit after tax||Homegrown farm equipment and utility vehicles major Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd (M&M) on Friday reported a 6 per cent fall in its consolidated profit after tax from continuing and discontinued operations to Rs 159.60 crore for the December 2020 quarter. The company had posted a consolidated profit after tax from continuing and discontinued operations of Rs 170.69 crore in the corresponding period last fiscal, M&M said in a regulatory filing. Its consolidated revenue from operations during October-December 2020 stood at Rs 21,625.95 crore against Rs 19,430.29 crore a year ago. The company named Tech Mahindra’s Manish Bhat as the chief financial officer of the Mahindra group, who will take over from Anish Shah. The latter will take over as the  managing director and chief executive of the company. Hero MotoCorp, the world’s largest two-wheeler manufacturer, on Friday reported its highest-ever revenue for the quarter. The company’s revenue from operations for the October-December quarter of 2020 stood at Rs 9,776 crore against Rs 6,997 crore a year ago. The profit after tax stood at Rs 1,029 crore, a 13.7 per cent rise over Rs 905.13 crore a year ago. This has been possible because of robust sales during the quarter and a combination of key strategic initiatives such as cost reduction efforts to partially offset the impact of the commodity costs and intense operational efficiencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
06-02-2021||Business||Boeing announces addition of new production line at its joint venture with Tata||Boeing on Friday announced the  addition of a new production line at its joint venture Tata Boeing Aerospace Limited to manufacture complex vertical fin structures for the 737 family of airplanes. The expansion reaffirms the commitment towards making India self-reliant in defence manufacturing, a joint press release from the Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) and Boeing said. TASL managing director and chief executive officer Sukaran Singh said the expansion of the aerostructure manufacturing capabilities with the new production line was another landmark in the company’s collaboration with Boeing. The Indian aviation sector is showing positive signs after being completely shut down during the coronavirus-induced lockdown but remains in the “eye of the storm”, Rémi Maillard, president and managing director, Airbus India and South Asia, has said. Indian airlines are carrying 60 per cent of the total pre-Covid domestic passengers and this is better than most countries in the world, he said. “There is a desire in people to fly again... Business travellers have started to come back... We are still facing a lot of headwinds with the virus. But in the midterm, I think there will be an upswing,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
06-02-2021||Business||Govt to reduce compliance burden on senior citizens||The sense of relief that senior citizens above the age of 75 years felt after the Budget speech of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman seems to be short-lived as the devil in the budget details is tumbling out. During her budget speech, Sitharaman said, “In the 75th year of independence of our country, the government shall reduce compliance burden on senior citizens who are 75 years of age and above. For senior citizens who only have pension and interest income, I propose exemption from filing their income tax returns. The paying bank will deduct the necessary tax on their income.” This brought cheers from senior citizens who had to file annual income tax returns even though they did not have to pay or claim a refund. Describing the relief in the cricket season in the game’s terminology, Mayank Mohanka, founder director at TaxAaram India, said the finance minister has bowled “googlies” and the fine print must be read carefully. “The interest income must be from the same pension paying bank only and that the pension paying bank must also be notified by the government, and for claiming refund, if any, ITR has to be filed,” he said. Tax experts said more clarity is needed from the government and the banks regarding whether senior citizens earning interest income from multiple banks would qualify for the exemption of filing tax returns. Also there is no clarity whether the declaration to the bank has to be done on an annual basis or one time, they added. The finance bill laid out the conditions that need to be fulfilled — the senior citizen is resident in India and of the age of 75 or more during the previous year; he has pension income and no other income. However, in addition to such pension income the senior citizen may also have interest income from the same bank in which he is receiving his pension income. Further, this bank must be a specified one. The government will be notifying a few banks which will be considered as a specified bank; and the pensioner shall be required to furnish a declaration to this bank. The declaration will contain all particulars in a specified form and will have to be verified in the manner prescribed. “Once the declaration is furnished, the bank would be required to compute the income after giving effect to the deduction allowable under chapter VI-A and rebate allowable under section 87A of the Act, for the relevant assessment year and deduct income tax on the basis of rates in force,” said the Budget document. “Once this is done, there will not be any requirement of furnishing returns  for this assessment year,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
06-02-2021||Business||RBI internal panel taking close look at model of proposed digital currency||An internal panel of the RBI is taking a close look at the model of its proposed digital currency and will come out with its decision “very soon”, deputy governor B.P. Kanungo said on Friday. The RBI had earlier announced its intent to come out with an official digital currency, in the face of the proliferation of cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin about which it had raised many concerns. The government last week moved to ban private cryptocurrencies. “With regard to digital currency, I think we have already released our document. Our digital payment document spells out that digital currency is work in progress in the RBI,” governor Shaktikanta Das told reporters on Friday. Here, RBI deputy governor said V.P. Kanungo said, “We had a committee that is still on the drawing board. An internal committee is taking a close look to decide on the model of the central bank digital currency and you will hear from the RBI very soon,” he said. “In India, the regulators and governments have been sceptical about private digital currencies and the associated risks. The RBI is exploring the possibility as to whether there is a need for a digital version of fiat currency and how to operationalise it,” the RBI had said in a report in January.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
06-02-2021||Business||RBI decides to normalise cash reserve ratio in a two-phased manner||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday disappointed the bond markets as it decided to normalise the cash reserve ratio (CRR) in a two-phased manner and extended the relaxation with regard to government securities under the held to maturity (HTM) category. These two measures came as the central bank looked to maintain comfortable liquidity so that the government’s higher-than-expected borrowing programme proceeds in a seamless manner. However, the bond markets were not enthused by the proposals. Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond rose around 8 basis points in intra-day trades. However, it came off these levels to end almost flat. The markets were also disappointed with the RBI for not announcing an open market operation (purchase of government securities) calendar. The RBI had reduced the CRR (which is the portion of bank deposits that must be maintained with the RBI) by 100 basis points to 3 per cent of bank deposits from the reporting fortnight beginning March 28, 2020. The dispensation was available till March 26, 2021. While the optimism in some circles was that this will be extended further (so that liquidity remains abundant), the RBI said it will gradually restore the cut in two phases in a non-disruptive manner. Thus, banks would now be required to maintain the CRR at 3.5 per cent of their deposits effective from the reporting fortnight beginning March 27, which will rise to 4 per cent of deposits from the fortnight beginning May 22, 2021. However, in another step, the central bank extended the time frame for bank statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) holdings in the HTM category by one more year till March 31, 2023. HTM is a category of banks’ bond investments which do not have to be marked to market with the current rates, thus protecting their balance-sheet from any valuation hits. At a press conference, RBI deputy governor Michael Patra allayed fears that the steps would adversely impact the systemic liquidity. He said the withdrawal of CRR relaxation will be replenished in a more durable fashion through other forms that are more market friendly. Patra reiterated that the RBI will ensure that the government borrowing programme will go through in a seamless manner. However, in another step, the central bank extended the time frame for bank statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) holdings in the HTM category by one more year till March 31, 2023. HTM is a category of banks’ bond investments which do not have to be marked to market with the current rates, thus protecting their balance-sheet from any valuation hits. SLR is that portion of bank deposits which must be maintained in the form of Government securities and it now stands at 18 per cent. Of this, 25 per cent can be held in HTM. Earlier, the RBI had said that this limit can rise, provided it is not over 19.5 per cent of bank deposit base. In September last year, this was increased to 22 per cent. The relaxation was available upto March 31, 2022. "In order to provide certainty to the market participants in the context of the borrowing programme of the centre and states for 2021-22, it has now been decided to extend the dispensation of enhanced HTM of 22 per cent up to March 31, 2023 to include securities acquired between April 1, 2021 and March 31, 2022’’, RBI said today. This announcement also left some disappointed as they had expected the central bank to raise the limit further from 22 per cent. Responding to a query on liquidity normalisation, deputy governor Patra said that the RBI will `cross the river by feeling the stone’ indicating that the central bank will proceed in a calibrated manner aligned with market response and sentiment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
06-02-2021||Business||RBI allows retail investors to directly buy government debt or G-Secs||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday allowed retail investors to directly buy government debt or G-Secs, the first in Asia to allow direct purchases and among the very few globally. While the move will broaden the investor base, it remains to be seen if retail investors will take up the option as past attempts have not yielded good results. A G-Sec is an instrument issued by the central government or the states and, therefore, offers maximum safety. They are short term (called treasury bills, with original maturities of less than one year) or long term dated securities. They carry a fixed or floating coupon (interest rate) which is paid on the face value, on a half-yearly basis. Generally, the tenor of dated securities ranges from 5 years to 40 years. At present, banks, mutual funds, provident funds and insurance companies are the major buyers of these instruments. The RBI on Friday said retail investors can directly open an account with it and buy or sell government securities in both the primary and secondary markets. Modalities of the scheme called Retail Direct will be announced in the coming days. At present, the central bank allows retail investors to buy government bonds through the goBID platform on the BSE and the NSE. They could also place non-competitive bids in auctions of government securities. “The Centre and the RBI have taken several measures to encourage retail investment in government securities... it is proposed to provide retail investors with online access to the government securities market,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said on Friday. Deputy governor B.P. Kanungo said the move will pave the way for investors to open accounts in the e-kuber platform. G-Secs are issued through auctions conducted by the RBI and these auctions are conducted on the electronic platform called the e-kuber, which is the Core Banking Solution (CBS) platform of the Reserve Bank. Commercial banks, urban cooperative banks, primary dealers, insurance companies and provident funds are members of this electronic platform. While experts welcomed the proposal, they pointed out that a key challenge was liquidity as retail investors invest small amounts. "The move is likely to broaden investor base and provide retail investors enhanced access to participate in the government securities market’’ Abheek Barua, Chief Economist, HDFC Bank said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
06-02-2021||Business||RBI monetary policy committee keeps policy repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday decided to hold rates and continue with its accommodative stance to help the recovering domestic economy gain more traction but was silent on the timeframe for normalising liquidity conditions after the Centre stunned the markets with a higher-than-expected borrowing programme. After a three-day meeting, the six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) of the RBI decided unanimously to keep the policy repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent. Though the central bank did announce some measures, bond markets were disappointed in the absence of a specific timetable for borrowings. All the members agreed to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary — at least during the current financial year and into the next fiscal year to revive growth on a durable basis, while ensuring inflation remains within target. The meeting of the MPC started a day after the budget  announced a Rs 12 lakh crore gross borrowing programme for the next fiscal. The panel whose mandate is to keep retail inflation at 4 per cent with a band of +/-2 per cent got a major relief from data which showed retail inflation at 4.59 per cent in December which was below the upper bound of  6 per cent. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said after the MPC meeting systemic liquidity will remain “comfortable” over the coming year. Bond markets were watching the RBI’s stand on liquidity as it had recently said it would normalise systemic liquidity with the economic and financial conditions stabilising gradually. The central bank stopped short of saying when it would do such an unwinding, though it did announce a two-phased restoration of the cash reserve ratio (CRR) that got reduced by 100 basis points last year. Das said the high-speed indicators tracked by the RBI have shown a growth in demand, an indication the revival in the economy is not solely on account of pent-up demand. Consumer demand has moved from being pent-up to actual and as people’s movements return to normality, there will be sustained demand. The MPC has forecast real GDP growth at 10.5 per cent in 2021-22: growth in the first half will be in the range of 8.3 per cent to 26.2 per cent and will be around 6 per cent from the third quarter. On inflation, the RBI governor said vegetable prices will remain soft in the near-term, while pressures may continue to persist on certain food items. Petroleum prices have reached historic highs because of a surge in international crude oil rates and high indirect taxes imposed both by the Centre and the states. This along with a sharp increase in industrial raw material prices have resulted in broad-based increase in prices of services and manufacturing. “Going forward, concerted policy action by both Centre and states, is critical to ensure that the ongoing cost build-up does not escalate further,’’ Das said. The panel revised CPI inflation estimates to 5.2 per cent in the current quarter of this fiscal from 5.8 per cent earlier and projected it will come between 5.2 per cent and 5 per cent in the first half of next fiscal and 4.3 per cent in the third quarter with risks broadly balanced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
06-02-2021||India||Tikait issues October 2 deadline as 'chakka jam' ends ||As a three-hour "chakka jam" enforced by farmers came to an end, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait declared that peasants protesting against the agri laws would stay put at Delhi's borders until their demands were met, and would not be coerced into holding talks with the Centre. Addressing a gathering at the Ghazipur border, Tikait issued an ultimatum to the Centre. He said their protest would be extended till October 2, by which time Centre would have to repeal the "black laws". If the government failed to comply, farmers' unions protesting against the three agriculture laws would chalk out further plans. “We won’t return home unless our demands are met,” Tikait said, adding, “We have given time to the government till October 2 to repeal the laws. After this, we will do further planning. We won't hold discussions with the government under pressure.” Interacting with the Press, he claimed a few inputs had been received regarding some miscreants trying to disrupt peace during the “chakka jam” that was announced for 12 noon to 3 pm on Saturday. “Because of these inputs, we had decided to call off the “chakka jam” in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand,” the 51-year-old leader, credited with reviving the farmers’ stir, said. Amid a stringent security set up installed around the Ghazipur protest site, the farmer leader, flanked by his supporters, also interacted with Delhi Police officials. “Nobody can touch our farmland, the farmers will protect it. Both farmers and soldiers should come forward for it,” Tikait said. Interacting with security personnel who were on the other side of the barricades, he said, bowing his head and folded hands, “My pranaam (a respectful salutation) to you all. Now you all will protect my farms.” During Saturday’s agitation, farmers parked their tractor-trailers in the middle of roads and raised slogans against the Centre in Punjab and Haryana. Women took part in the stir in a sizable number at several places. Police had stepped up security and had made all arrangements for traffic diversions, said officials, adding adequate security personnel were deployed in Punjab and Haryana. Several highways, including the Chandigarh-Zirakpur, Amritsar-Pathankot, Tarn Taran-Kapurthala, Ferozepur-Fazilka, Muktsar-Kotkapura, Bathinda-Chandigarh, Ludhiana-Jalandhar, Panchkula-Pinjore, Patiala-Kaithal, Jind-Karnal, Karnal-Kaithal, Ambala Chandigarh Highway, Ambala- Hisar and Mansa-Sirsa were blocked by the protesting farmers. Protests were also held at Shambhu near Ambala and at many toll plazas in both states. Protesting farmers said ambulances and school buses were allowed during the ''chakka jam''. Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said they blocked roads at 33 places in 15 Punjab districts, including Sangrur, Barnala and Bathinda. Farmers carried placards with slogans Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan and Kisan Ekta Zindabad. They also raised slogans against the Centre for not acceding to their demand of repealing the farm legislations. “The government should repeal the three laws as they are not in the interest of the farming community,” said a protester at the Shambhu border. From morning, Delhi Police intensified security at all border points of Delhi, deploying thousands of personnel, including paramilitary forces, to deal with any situation emerging out of the nationwide "chakka jam" Forces were deployed at important junctions across the national capital, including Red Fort and ITO, which witnessed violence on January 26 during the tractor parade by the protesting farmers. Police also used drone cameras to keep a tight vigil at protest sites. Multilayered barricades, barbed wires and nail-studded roads at the protest sites were also part of the police precautionary measures. Around 50 people were detained near Shaheedi Park in central Delhi on Saturday for allegedly holding a protest in support of Saturday’s movement, police said. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation temporarily closed 10 stations on Saturday morning, which were reopened after the protests ended. In the evening, the DMRC tweeted that entry and exit gates of all 10 metro stations closed in view of “chakka jam” had been reopened, and normal service had resumed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||PM hails judiciary, says positive interpretations strengthened our Constitution||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday praised the country's judiciary, saying that it has performed its duty well in safeguarding people's rights and upholding personal freedom, and added that it has also strengthened the Constitution. He said the Supreme Court in India has conducted the highest number of hearings via video-conferencing from among the top courts of all the countries in the world during the coronavirus pandemic. Modi also said that in order to make the country's justice system future-ready, the possibility of using Artificial Intelligence (AI) was being explored. He was speaking after virtually releasing a commemorative postage stamp on the Gujarat High Court for sixty years of its establishment. "Every countryman can say that our judiciary has worked with firmness to uphold our Constitution. Our judiciary has strengthened the Constitution by its positive interpretation," Modi said. "The Supreme Court has conducted the highest number of hearings through video-conferencing in the world during the pandemic," he said. Through constructive and creative interpretation of the Constitution, our judiciary has strengthened the Constitution itself, he added. "Whether it is to safeguard the rights of citizens, question of personal freedom, or a situation wherein the interest of the country is to be given top-most priority, the judiciary has both understood and fulfilled its responsibilities," he said. He said the root of good governance is in law, as has been held in the ancient Indian scriptures, he said. "This idea has been a part of our 'sanskar' since ancient times. This mantra gave moral strength to our freedom struggle, and the makers of our Constitution also gave it top priority," he said. This trust towards the judiciary has given confidence to the common man, given him the strength to stand for truth, Modi said. The prime minister said that "the proud structure of justice stands on the pillar of Bar". "Since decades, bar and judiciary have together been fulfilling the basic purpose of justice in our country," he said. Modi also highlighted that the Gujarat High Court became the first court in India to start live streaming of proceedings during the pandemic. "For us, it is a matter of satisfaction that the digital infrastructure created by the justice department under its e-court integrated mission mode has in such a short span of time helped our courts work in virtual mode," he said. "Digital India mission is rapidly modernizing the justice system. Today, more than 18,000 courts have been computerised in the country. With video-conferencing and teleconferencing getting legal sanctity from the Supreme Court, e-proceedings have gained pace across all courts. "We feel proud to hear that our Supreme Court has become the top among the apex courts in terms of conducting hearings through video conferencing," he said. Facilities like e-filing of cases, unique ID and QR codes to access case details, have given a new dimension to ease of justice, he said. Talking about the National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG), Modi said that the system will help lawyers and litigants see cases and orders with a click of mouse. "This ease of justice is not only improving the ease of living of our people but has also helped in ease of doing business. This has given confidence among foreigners that their judicial rights will be safe in India. In its 2018 ease of doing business report, the World Bank has also praised the NJDG," he said. The PM said that a Supreme Court committee and National Informatics Centre (NIC) are working together to further ease the justice system in India. "To make our justice system future-ready, the possibility of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is also being explored," he said. "With AI, the efficiency and speed of judiciary will increase. In these efforts, the country's Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign is going to play a big role. Under it, the video conference platform is also being encouraged," he said. Modi said that e-seva kendras are also being opened in the high courts and district courts to bridge the digital divide. He said e-Adalat has become "timely and convenient means of justice". During the pandemic, online e-Lok Adalat has become a new normal, he said. Modi further said the first Lok Adalat was held in Junagadh in Gujarat around four decades back and it was the first state to begin evening courts and took many initiatives for the benefit of the poor. Modi praised judiciary for presenting an excellent example of its dedication and duty during the COVID-19 pandemic period, by dispensing justice through video conferencing, SMS callout, e-filing and e-mail my case status services, streaming on court's display boards, uploading of orders on the daily basis, and others. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Supreme Court judge Justice M R Shah, Gujarat HC Chief Justice Vikram Nath, state Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and others attended the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||Roads blocked in several states as farmers enforce 'chakka jam'||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||Farmers block roads in Punjab, Haryana as ‘chakka jam’ kicks off||Farmers protesting against the Centre's new agri laws and other issues blocked roads at several places in Punjab and Haryana on Saturday on the call given by the farmers' unions for a nationwide 'chakka jam'. Farmers' unions had on Monday announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' from 12 noon to 3 pm on February 6 when they would block national and state highways in protest against the Internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. The police have stepped up security and made all arrangements for traffic diversion, said officials, adding adequate police personnel were deployed in Punjab and Haryana. Protesting farmers owing allegiance to different farmers' bodies blocked state and national highways at several places on Saturday, causing inconvenience to commuters. Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said they are holding road blockades at 33 places in 15 districts including Sangrur, Barnala and Bathinda in Punjab. In the morning, farmers started assembling at their earmarked protest sites for 'chakka jam' in both the states. "Elders and youth have gathered here to participate in chakka jam. It will be peaceful," said a protester at the Punjab-Haryana border in Shambhu near Ambala. "We want that the government should repeal these three laws as they are not in the interest of the farming community," said another protester. Protesting farmers said emergency vehicles including ambulances and school buses will be allowed during the 'chakka jam'. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||Peaceful protests of farmers in national interest, says Rahul Gandhi||Ahead of the nationwide 'chakka jam' called by the farmer unions protesting the Centre's new agri laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the peaceful 'satyagraha' of the 'annadatas' is in national interest as the farm laws are "harmful" for the country. Farmer unions had on Monday announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 during which they would block national and state highways between 12 noon and 3 pm to protest the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. "The peaceful satyagraha of annadatas is in national interest -- these three laws are not just harmful for farmers-labourers, but also for the people and the country. Full support!" Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also slammed the government over the farmers issue by posting on Twitter a picture of the multi-layered barricading at one of the farmer protest sites. "Why do you scare by the wall of fear?" she tweeted along with the picture. The Congress had on Friday extended support to the countrywide 'chakka jam' called by the farmer unions, saying party workers will stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers in their protest. Earlier in the day, Gandhi attacked the government over a media report that post-budget there had been a rise in prices of petrol-diesel and LPG gas cylinder, saying that the Modi government has disrupted the budget of both the country and of homes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India|| Delhi Metro stations closed ahead of farmers’ ‘chakka jam’||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on Saturday informed that entry and exit facilities of several prominent stations will be closed temporarily  in view of the 'chakka jam' protests by farmer unions. Protesting unions on Monday had announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways between 12 pm and 3 pm against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. However, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting the three farm laws, on Friday said the protesters will not block roads in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the 'chakka jam'. The DMRC in a series of tweets informed commuters that multiple stations have been closed. "Security Update Entry/exit gates of Mandi House, ITO and Delhi Gate are closed," it tweeted. It later also tweeted that entry and exit gates of Vishwavidyalaya station were also closed. "Entry/exit gates of Lal Quila, Jama Masjid, Janpath and Central Secretariat are closed. Interchange facility is available," the DMRC said. Elaborating on the security arrangements for the 'chakka jam', Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal on Friday had said in view of the violence that took place on January 26, adequate security arrangements have been put in place by the Delhi Police at the borders so that miscreants are not able to enter the national capital. After the Republic Day chaos, the Delhi Police has deployed additional measures, including tightening security and intensifying vigil at the city's border points, to deal with any situation emerging out of the 'chakka jam' on Saturday by farmers protesting the Centre's three new agri laws, officials had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||Chakka Jam: Delhi Police on toes despite farmers’ promise||The Delhi Police intensified security at all border points of the city as thousands of personnel including paramilitary forces have been deployed to deal with any situation emerging out of the nationwide 'chakka jam' being held on Saturday by the farmers protesting the Centre's new agri laws, officials said. However, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting the three farm laws, said on Friday the protesters will not block roads in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the 'chakka jam', even as it asserted that peasants in other parts of the country will block national and state highways for three hours but in a peaceful way. After the Republic Day violence, the Delhi Police has deployed additional measures, including tightening security and intensifying vigil across the city and its border points. Forces have also been deployed at important junctions across the national capital including Red Fort and ITO which witnessed violence on January 26 during the tractor parade by the protesting farmers in which over 500 police personnel were injured and a protester died. Police are also using drone cameras to keep a tight vigil at protest sites. Multilayered barricades, barbed wires and nail-studded roads at the protest sites are also part of the precautionary measures taken by the police force. The police will also be monitoring content on the social media to keep a watch on those spreading rumours against the force, officials said. Farmer unions on Monday had announced countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways between 12 noon and 3 pm to protest the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. Elaborating on the security arrangements for the 'chakka jam', Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal on Friday said in view of the violence that took place on January 26, adequate security arrangements have been put in place by the Delhi Police at the borders so that miscreants are not able to enter the national capital. Police said they have taken additional measures to deal with any situation emerging out of the 'chakka jam'. "We are monitoring content on the social media to make sure rumours are not spread against the police. The protesters are camping at the borders of Delhi. We are in touch with the police force of other states also," he added. A senior police officer said to prevent any kind of law and order situation and disruption of normal life during the 'chakka jam', adequate forces are deployed across the outer-north district of Delhi Police. "We have strengthened the security at the border and have deployed forces at all important points in the entire outer-north district of Delhi Police as a preventative measure to ensure that traffic and normal life is not affected, and also to ensure that there is no law and order situation or unauthorized 'chakka jam' being done by violating norms," he said. Another senior police officer from east district of Delhi Police said as a precautionary measure, iron nails studded on the roads have also been repositioned behind the barricades at the Ghazipur border, another protest site. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav said, "According to the protesting farmers, they will not enter the national capital, but still as a precautionary measure, we have made adequate security arrangements to maintain law and order. Adequate police presence is in place at all important points and junctions across the district." "There are additional deployment of pickets at all the border points. All vehicles are being checked thoroughly at the entry and exit points of pickets and borders. Additional buses have already been taken and extra barricades have been put up at the picket points across the city," Yadav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||Minimum temperature in Delhi rises slightly||Delhi's minimum temperature increased slightly to 7.4 degrees Celsius and is likely to remain within comfortable levels for the next three to four days, the India Meteorological Department said.  On Friday, the minimum and maximum temperatures had settled at 6.8 degrees Celsius and 23.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.  The city recorded a minimum of 12.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, 10.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday and 6.2 degrees Celsius on Tuesday.  The city's air quality was recorded in the "very poor" category, but is expected to improve slightly.  The city's 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) stood at 316 on Saturday.  An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".  The maximum wind speed was 15 kmph on Saturday, favourable for dispersion for pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||Covid: India records single-day spike of nearly 12,000 cases||India's Covid-19 tally of cases remained more than 1.08 crore with 11,713 people testing positive for the infection in a day, while the recoveries surged to 1,05,10,796 on Saturday, according to Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 1,08,14,304 and the death toll climbed to 1,54,918 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 95 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recovered from the disease surged to 1,05,10,796, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 97.19 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,48,590 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which accounts for 1.37 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.43 per cent. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 1,08,14,304 and the death toll climbed to 1,54,918 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 95 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 20,06,72,589 samples have been tested up to February 5 with 7,40,794 samples being tested on Friday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||India panel turns down Pfizer's emergency Covid vaccine plea||Pfizer has withdrawn its application for the emergency introduction of its Covid-19 vaccine in India, the US company said on Friday, a day after India’s regulatory panel rejected its application. The subject expert committee (SEC) of India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), after meeting with company representatives on Thursday, decided not to recommend the vaccine jointly developed by Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech. Pfizer was the first vaccine maker to seek emergency use authorisation in India for its Covid-19 vaccine, shown to be over 95 per cent effective in protecting people from the infection and approved for use across Europe and North America. The World Health Organisation too has approved emergency authorisation use of the vaccine, paving the way for its use in low and middle-income countries. While Pfizer’s application had bolstered hopes among many that the high-efficacy vaccine might become available in India, the company had consistently underlined that the vaccine would be available only to the government with no plans for private sales. Senior health officials guiding India’s vaccination strategy had since mid-December indicated that the Pfizer-BioNTech product was not a viable option for India, given the ultra-low temperatures (around minus 70 degrees Celsius) required to maintain its supply chain. The company has linked its decision to withdraw its application in India to the SEC’s verdict. “Based on the deliberations at the meeting and our understanding of additional information that the regulator may need, the company has decided to withdraw its application at this time,” Pfizer said in an “official statement”. “Pfizer will continue to engage with the authority and resubmit its approval request with additional information as it becomes available in the near future,” a company spokesperson told The Telegraph via email. “Pfizer remains committed to making its vaccine available for use by the Government of India and to pursuing the requisite pathway for emergency use authorisation that enables the availability of this vaccine for any future deployment.” A summary of the SEC’s meeting that the CDSCO released on Friday said the panel had “noted that incidents of palsy, anaphylaxis and other adverse events have been reported during post marketing and the causality of events with the vaccine is being investigated”. The SEC also said that the company had not proposed any plan to generate safety and immunogenicity data on the vaccine among the Indian population. The two Covid-19 vaccines granted accelerated approval in India — Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine made by the Serum Institute, and Covaxin, the home-grown vaccine from Bharat Biotech — have undergone safety and immunogenicity studies in India. The Union health ministry said on Friday that over 5.2 million healthcare workers across India had received the Covid-19 vaccines since the inoculation campaign started on January 16. The campaign’s first round seeks to immunise 9.6 million healthcare workers and around 20 million frontline workers. This will be followed by a second round, focused on people aged above 50 or suffering from chronic health disorders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand exempted from nationwide Chakka jam||Farmer union leader Rakesh Tikait has exempted Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand from the three-hour nationwide chakka jam from Saturday noon, apprehensive of efforts to orchestrate violence and discredit the movement. In the two states, farmers have been asked to organise protests at the district headquarters. Tikait’s late-afternoon announcement that the road blockade had been called off just a few minutes after the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had shared the modalities for the protest triggered speculation of a break-up. The SKM is the banner under which the protests are going on. The reasons Tikait’s spokesperson Dharmendra Malik had initially cited were the farming cycle -– the sugarcane harvest season --- and other circumstances. Later in the evening, Tikait himself clarified that the programme for these two states had been modified in view of clear “evidence” that some people would try to cause violence during the blockade. “We took the decision to call off the chakka jam in public interest.” Instead, farmers have been advised to hold demonstrations at the district headquarters and distribute leaflets about the reasons for their struggle. The SKM leadership, which was at first taken by surprise as it has become difficult for its members to stay in regular touch with each other because of the Internet ban at the protest sites, said it was unaware of any change and that the protest was on. Late in the night, the SKM leadership clarified that there was an assessment from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand that agent provocateurs might break windscreens of vehicles during the chakka jam to discredit the farmers – similar to the attempt on Republic Day during the tractor rally. Jagmohan Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) told The Telegraph from Jind that speculation about a possible rift in the SKM was incorrect. He said he had spoken to Yudhvir Singh of the Tikait-led BKU half an hour earlier. Yudhvir Singh has been representing the Tikait BKU during discussions within the SKM. “In any case, at the time of deciding to do a chakka jam on Saturday, we had decided that local units can work out their own programmes, depending upon objective conditions,” Jagmohan Singh said. Detailing the programme, the SKM said in a statement that only national and state highways would be blocked from noon to 3pm across the country on Saturday. Emergency and essential services like ambulances and school buses will not be stopped. Protesters have been urged not to enter into any conflict with government officials or ordinary citizens. “There will be no chakka jam programme inside Delhi since all the protest sites are already in chakka jam mode. All roads for entering Delhi will remain open except where farmers’ protest sites are already located,” the SKM said. “The chakka jam will conclude at 3pm with honking continuously for a minute to show unity among farmers,” the SKM said, urging all others to join the farming community in solidarity at 3pm for a minute. Ex-bureaucrats As many as 75 retired bureaucrats have endorsed a statement issued by Constitutional Conduct in support of the farmers. “The approach of the Government of India (GoI) towards the farmers’ protest has been an adversarial and confrontationist one from the very beginning, treating the apolitical farmers like an irresponsible opposition to be derided, demonised and defeated. The repeated, albeit unsuccessful, attempts to polarise the agitation along regional, communal and other lines are also reprehensible. Such an approach can never lead to a solution,” the statement said. Urging the government to take remedial measures, the former civil servants, who have retired from senior-most positions in the government, suggested that the cases against the farmers and others who have tweeted in their support, besides journalists, be withdrawn and the three laws repealed. “If the GoI is indeed interested in an amicable solution, instead of proposing half-hearted steps such as putting the laws on hold for 18 months, it can withdraw the three laws and think of other possible solutions, given the basic constitutional position that the subject of agriculture is in the states’ list in the Constitution of India,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||India||‘Superbly safe’ tag on Covid vaccines in India||The Covid-19 vaccines India is using are absolutely safe, top health officials have iterated, while also asserting that health authorities are adequately investigating all deaths among people who have been inoculated. The officials said the low rates of adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) and investigations so far have strengthened the evidence for the safety of the vaccines even as the campaign to vaccinate 9.6 million healthcare workers approaches midpoint. A digital system designed to track all AEFIs has so far documented 8,563 AEFIs among over 4.3 million healthcare workers vaccinated, a rate of 0.18 per cent, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. “So far, we’ve had 34 cases of hospitalisation which is .0007 per cent of the people immunised,” Bhushan said. There have been 19 deaths of vaccinated people which, he said, have been investigated. When a vaccinated person dies, a board of three doctors conducts a post-mortem at the site and the state AEFI committee looks at whether vaccination could have been the cause of death. A national AEFI committee looks at all the deaths nationwide to make its own independent assessment, Bhushan said. “Those who say local governments or state governments or the central government have rushed to certify that there is no causality is an absolute baseless narrative,” Bhushan said. Once the national AEFI panel has conducted its assessment, the findings will be placed in the public domain, he said. Health officials said the AEFI data show that only a very small proportion of recipients have experienced minimal side effects, pointing out that a robust AEFI tracking mechanism is designed to document even mild effects such as pain at the site of the injection. No death has been linked to the vaccine, said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national expert group on vaccine administration and member of Niti Aayog. “It is absolutely clear from the available data that the vaccines are superbly safe.” The assurances from the health officials come days after a group of 12 doctors and public health researchers asked the health ministry to make public details of investigations on each of the deaths among vaccine recipients. Experts familiar with the AEFI assessment process say natural deaths occur every day across the country and the rigorous AEFI tracking mechanisms that have been set up alongside the campaign are designed to record all deaths among vaccine recipients. The current campaign is relying on two vaccines — Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine produced in India by the Serum Institute of India, Pune, and Covaxin, a homegrown vaccine jointly developed by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad, and the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||India||Sachin tweets for govt, Malayalis apologise to Maria Sharapova||Indian netizens’ outrage at those perceived as toeing the government’s line on the farmers’ agitation runs so deep that it has shredded the immunity enjoyed by even Sachin Tendulkar, a man the country’s cricket fans habitually referred to as “God”. Indians, predominantly Malayalis, have flooded the Twitter handle of retired Russian tennis star Maria Sharapova, apologising for trolling her seven years ago when she said she didn’t know Tendulkar. The gist of most of the posts – triggered by anger at what the tweeters saw as Tendulkar’s endorsement of the government’s handling of the farmers’ protest — was that the writers too had realised they didn’t really know Tendulkar all these years. “Yes.... we also dont know the new @sachin_rt. Sorry for the comments two years before. #maapakkanam,” wrote Jiffy Shams. “Sorry to say after long seven years we could recognise him. We wish we didn’t know Sachin Tenduker, sorry for the FB abuse,” said Seeker. Tanmay’s acid comment was: “It’s better not to know who Sachin actually is, sorry for whatever was said before.” Hundreds of these tweets were posted in Malayalam, a language Sharapova would be even more unfamiliar with than the name “Tendulkar”, but the 33-year-old would have got a sense of the messages from the heart and flower emojis and smileys accompanying them. A reporter had asked the US-based Russian star at Wimbledon in 2014 whether she had noticed Tendulkar in the stands, to which she said she didn’t know who he was. The comment prompted Tendulkar fans to roast her on social media, unmindful that cricket was not a well-known game in Sharapova’s country of origin or domicile. The trolls were particularly sore because Sharapova had acknowledged noticing English footballer David Beckham in the stands and described him as a good human being. But the tables were turned when Tendulkar — along with several other Indian cricketers and Bollywood celebrities — joined a government-sponsored chorus against foreigners commenting on India’s “internal” matters after Barbadian singer Rihanna and climate-change activist Greta Thunberg expressed solidarity with the agitating farmers. “India’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let’s remain united as a nation,” Tendulkar wrote on Wednesday with the foreign ministry-created hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda. The avalanche of tweets apologising to Sharapova began on Thursday, with some going so far as to call Tendulkar “a fascism enabler” or a “puppet of BCCI”. “We apologise for the abuses hurled at you! We happened to excessively adore that xxxx xxxxx. We know we are late in rectifying our mistake. But please do forgive,” a Twitter user, Peter, posted in Malayalam. “Maria, please forgive this brother. We didn’t realise that Sachin was scared of ED and Modi,” tweeted Thanseel Acherivayalil. “A load of apologies. Sister, we failed to have your farsightedness,” tweeted Mohammed Riyas. It’s not clear how many of those apologising had actually targeted Sharapova in 2014. The sudden pro-Sharapova sentiment among Indians seems also to have helped escalate the responses to her recent tweets, which had nothing to do with the farmers’ protest or Tendulkar. While the “likes” she received for her posts ranged from a few hundred to about 6,000 until Wednesday, the number had by Friday rocketed to 13,000-odd for a tweet that showed an old image of hers in tennis gear. A random check suggested a massive Malayali presence among those who have “liked” or shared her tweets since Thursday. The keyboard warriors of Kerala  — the state with the second-highest smart phone penetration after Delhi --- have a proud history of trolling the Sangh parivar and its supporters. Sadhvi Saraswati of the Madhya Pradesh-based Sanatan Dharma Prachar Seva Samiti tasted their firepower in 2018 after telling a Hindutva convention in Kasaragod that those who slaughtered the “Gau Mata” in Kerala “have no right to live in India”. Malayalis flooded her Facebook page with recipes and pictures of beef dishes. Two years earlier, when the BJP brass including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and then party chief Amit Shah had descended on Kozhikode for the party’s national council, tweets with the hashtag #ShahtoRahmath invited them to the Rahmath Hotel, famous for its beef biryani. Sharapova too received invites, but the tone was different. Regretting “a mistake we did 7 yrs back”, Ivaanka Hatun posted: “Kindly accept the apologies sister. Please visit Kerala once after the pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||India||Supreme Court grants interim bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the release on interim bail of stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui who has been in jail for over a month on the charge of making indecent remarks on Hindu deities, accepting that none can be imprisoned without a valid reason and that the charges against him were vague. The Gujarat-based Faruqui, who was arrested on January 1 along with four others on the complaint of a BJP MLA’s son for the allegedly blasphemous comments at an Indore cafeteria, had moved the apex court after Madhya Pradesh High Court had rejected his bail plea. The comedian’s defence team had told the court that he was arrested before he could go on stage for a live show, contesting the claim that he had made objectionable remarks. Faruqui, booked under IPC Sections 295A (outraging religious feelings), 269 (unlawful or negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and other relevant provisions, is lodged in a Madhya Pradesh jail. The Supreme Court expressed surprise that its 2014 judgment in the Arnesh Kumar Vs State of Bihar case wherein it had held that no citizen can be arrested without adequate reasons for any offence that entails a punishment of up to seven years in jail, had not been followed in Faruqui’s case. The court had held that arrest brings humiliation and is a violation of a person’s fundamental right to life and liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. A bench of Justices R.F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai on Friday also stayed a production warrant issued by a court in Uttar Pradesh for Faruqui as some local leaders had lodged complaints against him citing the Madhya Pradesh incident. Senior advocate Saurabh Kripal, who appeared for Faruqui, told the bench that the comedian had been falsely implicated by the Madhya Pradesh authorities and alleged: “This is a case of victimisation.” Justice Nariman, heading the bench, observed: “Is it correct that the Arnesh Kumar judgment is not followed in the case? If that is not followed, then it is good enough (for bail and stay of the high court judgment). Under Section 41 of the CrPC, the police cannot arrest a person without justifiable reasons.” Kripal said the 2014 judgment and the principles enunciated in Section 41 of the CrPc relating to the arrest of a person had not been followed by Madhya Pradesh police. The counsel also urged the bench to grant protection to the comedian as a local court in Uttar Pradesh had issued a production warrant for his appearance. “All right,” Justice Nariman said while staying the production warrant and issuing notices to the Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh governments, besides the complainants. “…The learned counsel has pointed out to us that quite apart from the fact that the allegations made in the FIR are vague (and) that the procedure contained in Section 41 CrPC as adumbrated by our (2014) judgment…. has not been followed before arresting the petitioner,” the court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||India||Farmers protest: Congress calls out ‘mislead’ bid by agriculture minister||The Congress on Friday alleged agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had “blatantly tried to mislead Parliament and the nation” by claiming in the Rajya Sabha that no one had been able to identify any flaws in the three new farm laws. The Congress also declared support for, and participation in, the nationwide chakka jam (road blockade) announced by farmers’ unions on Saturday. Essential services are exempt. “The Union agriculture minister blatantly tried to mislead Parliament and the nation,” a statement issued by the Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, said. “It is public knowledge that the farmers’ organisations have held 11 rounds of talks with the government wherein they provided a point-wise detail of the deficiencies and lacunae in the three laws, consequent to which even the government has openly agreed to bring about as many as 18 amendments.” Farmers’ unions, the Congress and several independent experts have been saying that the three farm laws would together have a devastating impact on agriculture trade. They have said the mandi (regulated wholesale market) system would gradually shut down if corporate houses are allowed to run a parallel procurement system. They have objected to the removal of the stock limit from the Essential Commodities Act and expressed outrage at the provision that the courts cannot be approached directly in case of disputes relating to contract farming. While the farmers and Opposition parties view the government’s willingness to make large-scale amendments to the laws as an admission of their flaws, Tomar suggested the proposed changes meant no such thing and had been offered only out of respect for the farmers’ demands. He asserted that the farmers had been instigated and misled about the implications of contract farming. The protesting farmers have several reservations about contract farming, apart from their fear of possible procurements below the minimum support price (MSP) once corporate monopoly has been established. They have demanded a legally guaranteed MSP. Also, the new farm laws’ constitutionality has been challenged in the Supreme Court, with some experts suggesting they have transgressed into areas where the states alone are entitled to lawmaking. Critics have also cited how Bihar’s farmers have been suffering since the abolition of the APMC Act and the mandi system in the state. Although the Centre has promised to continue with the mandi system, the protesting farmers believe these market yards would close down with time. Fears have also been expressed about price manipulation if big companies are allowed unlimited storage and stocking facilities. “For the last 73 days farmers across the country are protesting against the three agriculture laws enacted fraudulently by the government,” Venugopal said in the statement. “As a part of this national movement, lakhs of farmers are agitating peacefully on the borders of Delhi in a Gandhian manner. However, the power-drunk Modi government is trying every mean trick of the trade to tire out and defame the protesting millions. “Driven by the sole motive of benefiting its corporate cronies and steamrolling the laws by the brute force of parliamentary arithmetical majority, the government neither consulted the Opposition parties nor took any farmers’ organisation into confidence before enacting the laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||India||Agriculture minister claims farm law protests confined to one state||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday told the Rajya Sabha the protests against the new farm laws were confined largely to one state, mouthing the government’s standard line that critics say reflects a divisive agenda. “People in one state are victims of misinformation,” Tomar said, alluding to Punjab. When the Opposition MPs contested this and argued that farmers across the country are opposing the laws, Tomar repeated: “It is an issue of only one state.” The minister spoke on a day thousands of farmers defied prohibitory orders in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh to attend a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Shamli district — the fourth such gathering in the state against the new farm laws. In Haryana, the khap (caste) panchayats have declared their support to the protests. The protests have even made their way into weddings in the state, with many invitation cards bearing slogans such as “No farmers, no food” and photographs of the pre-Independence peasant leader Sir Chhotu Ram and freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, PTI reported. Acknowledging protests in these states would give the lie to the government’s claims that only a small section of farmers are unhappy and that the protests have a Khalistani connection. Minister Tomar also told Parliament that neither the farmer unions nor the Opposition had explained what was wrong with the laws that have been dubbed as “black laws” by the protesters. “For two months I kept asking farmer unions what is kala (black) in the laws so that I can try to rectify. But I could not get the answer... Also nobody (from Opposition benches) tried to point out the provisions in the laws which are against farmers,” he said. The farmer unions have given their objections to the three farm laws in writing to the government several times and have also spoken on these at length in public. Opposition leaders, too, have repeatedly listed their problems with the laws. They did so again in Parliament on Friday. Tomar argued the three new laws were not too different from legislation that most states had enacted over the years. About 20 states have facilitated contract farming by either amending their Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Acts or enacting new laws, he said. The APMC Acts ban the sale or purchase of farm produce outside the APMC mandis (market yards). The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act — one of the Centre’s three new laws — allows the sale and purchase of farm produce outside the mandis. The farmers are worried this will undermine the mandis and lead to their eventual closure, leaving them at the mercy of corporate players. The Swaminathan Commission had recommended more APMC mandis — one every 80sqkm — while the national average remains one every 500sqkm. Tomar said the states collect a tax on trade at the APMC mandis, while there would be no taxes on trading outside these mandis. He said the agitation should be directed against the state governments instead of the Centre. Shiromani Akali Dal member Balwinder Singh Bhunder countered Tomar, saying the new laws would give private players a monopoly. He said the farmers feared the no-tax rule would cause agricultural trade to gradually shift outside the APMC mandis to private mandis. “Why do you not guarantee procurement on MSP?” Bhunder asked. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan had on Thursday told the Rajya Sabha that the government had already implemented the Swaminathan Commission recommendations on the MSP. On Friday, Biju Janata Dal member Sasmit Patra countered Pradhan. “The Swaminathan Commission recommended that MSP should be 50 per cent more than the cost of production, which should include the investment by farmers in terms of fertilisers, seeds and pesticides, family labour, rent on land and the interest on farm loans. But the government has only considered investment and family labour, not rent on land and interest,” Patra said. The MSP of one quintal paddy would have been Rs 2,340 in 2017 had Swaminathan’s formula been implemented, he said. However, the MSP notified by the government was Rs 1,750. Minister Tomar made a controversial statement that was later expunged from the records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||India||First thunderstorm research centre in Balasore||India’s first research centre on thunderstorm and lightning will come up in Odisha’s Balasore district. It will study the impact of Kalbaisakhi which is mainly active in Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha. The centre will be set up in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), India Meteorological Department (IMD) and Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro). IMD director-general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra told reporters on Friday: “We will set up a research centre at Balasore to study thunderstorms. We will set up a few observatories in the nearby areas to study thunderstorms. The results of the study will be put in a model form. Research would be conducted on the accuracy of forecasting thunderstorms.” He added: “We will mainly focus on the study of the Kalbaisakhi. It’s impact is generally noticed in Bihar, Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha.” The four states witness thunderstorms and lightning strikes between April and June. Odisha is one of the states to have reported the highest number of lightning-related deaths. Odisha special relief commissioner P.K. Jena told The Telegraph: “The area starting from eastern Uttar Pradesh to Odisha witnesses frequent thunderstorms. It’s one of the reasons for the IMD to take a decision to set up the research centre in Balasore. They are now setting up a radar centre there. Perhaps, they will convert it into a research centre. It’s good for Odisha.” In the last eight years, Odisha has reported 3,218 lightning deaths. While 352 deaths were reported in 2011-12, 294 in 2012-13, 370 in 2013-14, 312 in 2014-2015, 404 in 2015-16, 401 in 2016-17, 470 in 2017-18, 334 in 2018-2019 and 281 in 2019-20. On the increased frequency of lightning in Odisha, former professor of physics at the Utkal University, K. Maharana, said the ongoing climate changes because of the recent global phenomena could be one of the major reasons for the rise in these cases reported across the state. “Intense heat waves coupled with other climatic changes have intensified the recurrence of lightning in Odisha. The presence of high level of moisture in the air has also made lightning become a regular phenomenon,” Maharana said. Former director of the Bhubaneswar IMD centre, S.C. Sahu, said lightning generally occurs because of the cumulus clouds. “Because of intense heat and the presence of high content of moisture in the air from proximity to the Bay of Bengal, lightning has become a common occurrence. Most of the deadly lightning strikes have taken place in Sundergarh, Keonjhar and Mayurbhanj belt,” Sahu said. Meanwhile, the Odisha government has claimed that the number of deaths due to lightning in the state has reduced by more than 31 per cent because of effective use of the Early Warning Communication system to alert people about thunderstorm and lightning. The Odisha government had signed a memorandum of understanding with the US-based Earth Networks in 2018 to get early warning on lightning. “They have set up lightning detection centres and started giving us alerts and warnings about possible lightning strikes which we disseminate through different mediums, particularly using the GPS system. The alerts work on a location-based system (LBS). If someone is in the lightning zone, he or she gets an SMS alert about possible lightning that is going to take place. The entire operation from the receipt of information from the Earth Networks to the dispatch of the text message is completed in 2-3 minutes,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||India||Chhattisgarh farmers purchase highest quantity of paddy ||Pro-farmer policies have helped Chhattisgarh clock a record number of farmers selling their crops, according to figures released by the state government. This has led to the highest quantity of paddy being procured by the state since its formation two decades ago, the data suggest. The feat by the Congress government in Chhattisgarh assumes significance amid gloomy scenes of farmers’ unrest against the BJP-led central government’s new farm laws and the demand for guaranteed minimum support price. “A record number of 95.38 per cent of total registered farmers have sold paddy in Chhattisgarh in kharif marketing year 2020-21, thanks to the farmer-friendly policies implemented under the leadership of chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and a better system of paddy procurement at minimum support price. Out of 21,52,475 registered farmers, 20,53,483 have sold their paddy this year, which is the highest in the last 20 years. The number of farmers selling paddy at minimum support price, total registered acreage, area of paddy sold, percentage of farmers selling paddy and the total amount of paddy sold have increased significantly after formation of the new government in Chhattisgarh,” said T.P. Sinha, commissioner, public relations. According to data released by the Chhattisgarh government, it has purchased more than 92 lakh metric tonnes of paddy in 2020-21 as on January 31, 2021. Compared to the last six years, the percentage of farmers selling paddy in 2020-21 is 95.38, which is the highest ever since the state was formed. In 2015-16, 11,05,556 farmers out of 13,17,583 registered farmers had sold their paddy, a rate of 83.9 per cent. Out of 14,51,088 farmers registered in 2016-17, 13,27,944 sold paddy (91.5 per cent). Out of 15,77,332 farmers registered in 2017-18, 12,06,264 farmers sold paddy, a rate of 76.4 per cent. In 2018-19, out of 16,96,765 registered farmers, 15,71,414 farmers sold paddy (92.6 per cent). Similarly, out of 19,55,544 farmers registered in 2019-2020, a total of 18,38,593 farmers sold their paddy, which is 94.02 per cent. “Chief minister Baghel took the historic decision to waive off farmer loans and irrigation tax as soon as he came into power, which encouraged people to return to agriculture. Enthusiasm of the farmers was further boosted by providing Rs 10,000 per acre of agricultural input assistance under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. Under this scheme, farmers of the state are being provided direct assistance of Rs 5,750 crore. Three instalments have been already transferred to the farmers’ accounts and the fourth will be transferred by March. “So far loans amounting to nearly Rs 9,000 crore have been waived in the state. We have managed to procure paddy from tribals who have got land under the Forest Rights Act,” said Sinha. Senior agriculture officials said that despite the adverse circumstances in the state, the government made adequate arrangements for the purchase of paddy. Smooth availability of gunny bags was ensured through several alternative arrangements to overcome their shortage. Payments to farmers were continuous. In addition to custom milling, lifting of paddy in the collection centres is also continuing. There has been a significant increase in the area of farming and farmers in the state in the last two years. The area under paddy cultivation has reached more than 27 lakh hectares and the number of registered farmers has reached 21,52,000 lakh. There has also been a significant increase in the area registered for paddy cultivation and the quantity of paddy purchased in the last six years. In 2015-16, 21,26,000 hectares of land was registered for paddy cultivation and 59 lakh metric tonnes of paddy purchased at support price. The area registered in 2016-17 was 23,42,000 hectares and 69 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was purchased. The area registered in 2017-18 was 24,46,000 hectares and 56 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was purchased. In 2018-19, the area registered for cultivation was 25,60,000 hectares and 80 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was purchased. The area registered in 2019-20 was 26,88,000 hectares and paddy purchased was 83 lakh metric tonnes. During the 2018 Assembly polls, the Congress had promised paddy procurement at Rs 2,500 per quintal. It proved to be one of the catalysts in the party’s victory in the election. In view of the Covid-19 crisis hitting the farmers hard, the Chhattisgarh government has decided to pay for sugarcane and maize and other crops. “We have decided to pay an exchange grant of Rs 13,000 per acre for sugarcane farming,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata deprived farmers of PM Kisan scheme to satisfy ego, alleges Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda ate the humble khichdi seated on the floor with farmers as he reached out to peasants on Saturday in election-bound Bengal, and excoriated the Mamata Banerjee government for depriving them of the benefits of the PM Kisan Scheme to "satisfy her ego". On a day when farmer unions have called a 'chakka jam' against three contentious agricultural laws, Nadda reaffirmed the BJP and the Narendra Modi government's commitment to the welfare of the farming community. Mocking Mamata for agreeing to implement the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana only after realising that her party is fast losing ground among the farmers in the state, Nadda vowed justice for them once the BJP is voted to power in Bengal. "What Mamatadi did to the farmers of Bengal by depriving them of PM Kisan Scheme was an injustice. Due to her whims and to satisfy her ego, Mamata Ji did not allow the scheme to be implemented. This has affected over 70 lakh farmers who for the last two years have been deprived of annual aid of Rs 6,000," he said. Nadda was addressing a rally of farmers during the last phase of the month-long 'Krishak Suraksha Abhiyan' and 'Ek Mutthi Chawal' campaign which he had flagged off in order to mobilise the farming community in the state in favour of the BJP. The programmes were also a part of BJP's outreach to farmers to blunt the opposition's charge that the ruling party and the Modi government were "anti-farmer" following farm protests at Delhi's border points. Nadda said the prime minister recently inaugurated the 100th Kisan Rail, an initiative that will help farmers transport their produce anywhere in the country with great ease. Lauding the Modi government for its pro-farmer policies, the BJP leader said, it ensured that they got 1.5 times more than the input cost for their produce. "Today, when about 25 lakh farmers of Bengal sent applications for securing the benefits of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme to the central government, Mamata Ji is saying she will implement it. Mamata ji, elections are round the corner. Now, it's too late," he said, castigating the chief minister. Nadda said the state's people have made up their mind to bid "namaste and tata" to Banerjee and her party after the assembly polls. Nadda taunted the chief minister for losing her cool after hearing "Jai Shri Ram" slogans. "When I was coming here I was greeted with 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans. But I don't understand why Mamata ji gets angry after hearing it. Had you served the farmers well, you wouldn't have lost your cool," he said, while referring to the January 23 incident at Victoria Memorial Hall in Kolkata. Mamata had declined to speak at the event to celebrate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's birth anniversary where "Jai Shri Ram" slogans were raised in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Nadda, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and other party leaders later had a community feast where they ate a humble lunch of khichdi and vegetable curry while seated on floor with farmers. Amid chants of "Jai Shri Ram", Nadda also led a road show in Malda. Standing atop a decorated lorry with Dilip Ghosh and others, he showered jubilant supporters with marigold petals and waved to enthusiastic crowds that gathered along the 1 km stretch between Foara More and Guru Rabindranath Tagore's statue. People watched the procession from rooftops and balconies and were seen shooting videos with their mobile phones. The streets were lined with BJP's flags and buntings as the cavalcade inched its way through the narrow and crowded streets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Docudrama on life of Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina screened at Nandan||Hasina: A Daughter’s Tale, a 2018 docudrama on the life of Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, was screened at Nandan-I during the inauguration of Third Bangladesh Film Festival in Calcutta on Friday. The film festival is part of a bouquet of programmes that the country’s information ministry and the deputy high commission in Calcutta are hosting in the city to commemorate Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahaman’s birth centenary and the 50th year of Bangladesh’s independence. Bengal minister Bratya Basu and indian foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan were present at the inauguration (in picture by Bishwarup Dutta) of the film festival. The film — directed by Piplu Khan and produced by the Centre for Research and Information and Applebox Films — on Hasina has won international acclaim not only because of its narrative, but also because it has shown untold stories from Hasina’s life. In an attempt to get a peak into her life, the camera has followed her inside her kitchen and library. “Sheikh Hasina’s life with all the twists and turns and her journey as the daughter of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman has come alive on screen and we think all of you will like it,” said Muhammad Hasan Mahmud, who inaugurated the film festival. Thirty-two Bangaldeshi films would be screened at the festival. On account of popular demand, the film on Hasina would be screened again at Nandan-II on Sunday evening, said the organisers. It took around five years to make the one-hour-ten minute film, which captures through Hasina’s eyes the heyday of freedom struggle in Bangladesh, the capturing of her father by the Pakistani forces and finally, the assassination of Bangabandhu and his entire family. Several commentators have called the film, narrated in her voice, a brief history of Bangladesh as Bangabandhu is at the centre of the neighbouring country’s history. “Bangabandhu is an asset of both the Bengal on two sides of the border as well as that of the world… People involved in the world of art and culture on two sides of the border should come forward and collaborate in making films on Bangabandhu and the Liberation War and that would be a befitting tribute to this great man,” said Bratya Basu, science, technology and biotechnology minister in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Railway officials cite plans for north Bengal||Senior officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) elaborated on rail projects and plans for north Bengal in the wake of the Union budget tabled by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman earlier this week. According to NFR officials, around Rs 1,100 crore has been allotted for the Sevoke-Rangpo rail project taken up in 2009 to include the Himalayan state of Sikkim on the railway map of India. The project is likely to end next year. “Along with the Northeast, funds have been allocated to develop railway infrastructure in north Bengal. It includes Rs 110 crore for doubling the tracks between New Maynaguri and Gumanihat,” said a railway official. The NFR, sources said, has also decided to renovate a goods shed in Raninagar-Jalpaiguri and built a new goods shed at Mohitanagar. Both these stations are on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town. “A sum of Rs 26.44 crore would be spent for these projects to be taken up on PPP mode and we have floated the tenders. Once goods sheds become operational, there will be job opportunities for hundreds,” said S. Chanda, the NFR chief public relations officer. He said that at goods sheds, new facilities like improved signalling system, drinking water and sewerage facilities, restrooms for workers and toilets would be built. “Also, rail tracks would be laid and approach roads built in some stretches to connect the sheds,” Chanda added. K.S. Jain, the divisional railway manager of Alipurduar division of NFR, said they were coming up with a new attraction — two vista-dome coaches — for tourists to the Dooars. “These are air-conditioned chair car coaches with large windows and glass roofs. They will be tagged with local trains plying between Siliguri and Alipurduar to help tourists enjoy a great view along the Dooars route,” said Jain. From March, electric-driven locos will chug trains between New Cooch Behar and New Jalpaiguri, he added. “Initially, we will start running goods grains with electric locos and then passenger trains will also start plying,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Violence can prove hurdle to attract investments in Bengal: Trade outfits||Thursday’s vandalism at the inland container depot (ICD) near New Jalpaiguri station by INTTUC supporters prompted many trade outfits on Friday to point out that violence could prove a hurdle for the Mamata Banerjee government to attract investments in Bengal. The attack, which brought activities at the ICD to a grinding halt, has led to loss of face for ruling Trinamul, particularly as it occurred when chief minister Mamata Banerjee was at state branch secretariat Uttarkanya barely 3km away. On Friday, representatives of a number of trade bodies visited the site. They spoke with representatives of Pristine Hindustan Infraprojects Private Limited, the Delhi-based company running the ICD. “At a time the chief minister and her government are trying to get new investments, such an incident can discourage entrepreneurs,” said Nishant Mittal, chairman of the Indian Chamber of Commerce in north Bengal. Sanjay Tibrewal, vice-chairman of the NB zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), pointed out new investments were needed to create jobs. “Those involved in the attack should face legal steps,” added Tibrewal. On Thursday, around 300 INTTUC supporters led by a New Jalpalguri based leader, Prasenjit Roy, entered the ICD and indiscriminately ransacked the company’s office, vehicles and equipment. The attackers alleged the company did not hire New Jalpalguri trucks and workers. Police dispersed attackers, and later arrested five. As of now, altogether nine persons have been arrested, including Sushanta Das, an office bearer of a taxi union and Roy’s associate, said a source. On why the ICD was closed, Sanjay Mawar, one of the directors of Pristine Hindustan Infraprojects, said they needed time for repairs and wanted evidence to stay intact for the police probe. He said the attack hurt their confidence. Amid a storm of criticism, INTTUC leader Roy has been show-caused. INTTUC and Trinamul leaders alike have criticised the vandalism. Arup Ratan Ghosh, the Darjeeling district INTTUC president, called the vandalism “irresponsible”. “It should never have happened. We should consider workers' interests but refrain from acts that can affect private investments,” Ghosh said. Ranjan Sarkar, Darjeeling (plains) Trinamul president, was equally critical. “The police have managed to bring the situation under control but they should take stern steps as instructed by the chief minister. Nobody is above the law,” said Sarkar. Party insiders said a decision on Roy would be taken after Gautam Deb, state tourism minister and MLA of Dabgram-Fulbari — the ICD is located under his constituency — returns from Calcutta. New Jalpaiguri station premises and surrounding areas wore a deserted look on Friday. All shops were closed and vehicles stayed parked. Residents said some INTTUC supporters had "imposed a strike" to protest the arrests of some of their colleagues. Hundreds of passengers who reached the station on Friday faced inconveniences till policemen and some Trinamul leaders urged shop owners and transporters to restore normality. Some vehicles plied in the area but most shops stayed shut.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
06-02-2021||West Bengal||28-year-old mother, kid found dead in Nadia, neighbour suspect||A 28-year-old homemaker and her two-year-old daughter from Nadia’s Chapra were found dead near their neighbour’s courtyard early on Friday, a day after they went missing from home. Police sources said prima facie it appeared that Mamtaj Mandal and her daughter Muskan had been murdered for the latter’s gold chain. “The bodies bore strangulation marks. We have sent the bodies for post-mortem," said an officer from Chapra police station. The discovery of the two bodies sparked tension in Chapra’s Gachha locality during the day, with neighbours ransacking accused Tahara Mondal’s home. Tahara and her family have reportedly absconded. “Residents refused to hand over the body to the police, accusing them of negligence despite a formal police complaint lodged by Mamtaj’s husband, Najmul Mandal, against Tahara, late on Thursday itself (when the bodies had not been found),” said an eyewitness. Najmul, a farmer, had begun searching for his wife and daughter on Thursday evening after he returned home from work and found them missing. “I came to know that my wife went to our neighbour Tahara’s home after I had left for work (in the morning),” he said, adding that Tahara had been “visibly interested” in the gold chain that Najmul had recently bought for his daughter. “She had been eyeing it and asking about it for weeks, which has convinced me that they were trapped and killed for the gold chain,” Najmul added. Residents of the area said Najmul was “ridiculed” when he went to the local police station citing his suspicion about the involvement of his neighbour behind his wife and daughter going missing. “The police should have begun their investigations much earlier. Instead, they initially ignored our pleas to start a probe,” added Saheb, Mamtaj’s brother. A police team had interrogated Tahara late on Thursday, and residents sustained a night-long search in the area for the missing Mamtaj and Muskan. Early on Friday, both their bodies were recovered from a bush adjacent to Tahara's courtyard. Asked, local police sources denied any negligence on their part in investigating the case. “We had begun our interrogations immediately to ascertain the cause of the disappearance of the woman and child,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
06-02-2021||West Bengal||CID sleuths start probe into coal smuggling in West Burdwan||A dozen sleuths of the Criminal Investigation Department led by deputy inspector general Ajay Thakur on Friday started a probe into complaints of coal smuggling lodged by Eastern Coalfields Limited with various police stations in West Burdwan. The CID team on Friday reached the office of the general manager of ECL’s Kajora mining area in West Burdwan’s Andal and interacted with the officials. Later, they visited some open cast mines at Andal and some other places where illegal mining allegedly takes place. “We have come here to probe the complaints lodged by ECL regarding coal smuggling and pilferage of national property. We have just begun our work,” Thakur said after speaking to the ECL officials in Kajora. Sources said the CID had initially started investigating three complaints in the Kajora area in Andal police station limit out of the 33 lodged at various police stations in the coal belt. “The complaints that we are now looking into had been pending for investigations for a long time. We will visit some more places, including the ECL headquarters, in phases during our investigations,” said a CID official. However, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has been carrying out investigations into coal smuggling for the past two months in which an alleged coal kingpin Anup Maji alias Lala has been named as accused. The CBI has issued lookout notices for the two who are reportedly absconding. Trinamul sources in West Burdwan said sending the CID team to investigate coal smuggling complaints was an attempt of the Mamata Banerjee government to turn the heat on the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls. The BJP has accused Trinamul of promoting illegal coal trade in the area. “BJP leaders, including Suvendu Adhikari, are constantly blaming our party for shielding those involved in the coal smuggling racket in Bengal. The CBI is probing the racket but sending the CID to probe the same charges is an initiative to keep pressure on the central investigative agency,” said a Trinamul leader in Asansol. Speaking in Calcutta on Friday, BJP leader Samik Bhattacharya said: “Coal smuggling has been going on for years. The state government did not bother to investigate the complaints in all these years. When the CBI is investigating the case, the decision of the state government to send its own investigating agency smacks of an attempt to shield the culprits. The move will create a constitutional crisis.” Trinamul spokesperson Kunal Ghosh had on Thursday spoken about the CID probe into coal smuggling and claimed that none involved in the crime would be spared. Sources said the recent induction of a businessman Rajesh Jha alias Raju, who is facing charges of coal smuggling, and Sankha Biswas, a former police officer considered close to Jha, into the BJP had led Trinamul leaders in Durgapur to accuse the saffron camp of patronising those involved in pilferage of coal. “Several complaints of coal smuggling, possessing illegal firearms, carrying fake currencies and cannabis are lodged at various police stations in the district against Raju Jha. He was inducted into the BJP recently and aspiring to contest the polls banking on his money and muscle power. The CID will obviously investigate the complaints against him and the truth will come out who is backing the criminals,” said Uttam Mukherjee, Trinamul leader in Durgapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee brings people above 60 and widows under pension plans||Mamata Banerjee on Friday brought people aged above 60 and all widows under pension plans, raised annual dole for farmers to Rs 6,000 per acre and announced a series of infrastructure projects in an apparent attempt to outdo the schemes and proposals in the central budget. “I propose to bring all people over 60 years of age irrespective of caste, creed and religion under old age pension scheme. Similarly, all widows over 18 years of age would be brought under the widow pension scheme. There are people who are in need but can’t say anything to anybody. This will help them,” said the chief minister while tabling the vote-on-account for the 2021-22 financial year. Sources said the initiative by the chief minister could be considered as a smart move as it would benefit nearly 2 crore aged people in the state and at least 15 to 20 lakh widows. “The Union budget did not offer much to these sections of people. The chief minister has sensed an opportunity and played a smart stroke,” said a senior government official. As of now, 60 lakh aged people, who comprise those in  SC and ST communities and economically weaker section, fishermen and farmers, get Rs 1,000 every month under the old-age pension scheme. Opening up the scheme for all sections of people is considered to be significant as no other state has dared to do so. “Under the Krishak Bandhu scheme, financial aid will be enhanced from the existing amount of Rs 5,000 and acre to Rs 6,000 annually,” said Mamata while allotting Rs 500 crore for this purpose. The Krishak Bandhu scheme is a direct benefit transfer mechanism of state government for farmers. The sources said the move was initiated clearly to match the Centre’s PM-Kisan scheme that offers Rs 6,000 annually to all farmers, except those who pay income tax. The chief minister put pressure on the Centre by demanding that all bargadars (sharecroppers) be included in the Centre’s scheme. BJP leaders had claimed the farmers in the state were being deprived of the Centre’s assistance as the Bengal government did not implement the scheme. “In Bengal, 47 lakh farmers and more than 5 lakh bargadars have been registered under the scheme. Of them, 23 lakh have already applied for the central scheme online even after the state did not agree to accept the scheme here. This put the chief minister under pressure and she has put the ball on the Centre’s court by raising the demand to include bargadars in the scheme. As the bargadar or sharecropper concept is prevalent extensively in Bengal, it would be tough for the Centre to include them,” said an official. Mamata also announced that the state government would construct 46,000km of rural roads in the next five years and announced a series of infrastructure projects, including a flyover over B.T. Road connecting Tala and Dunlop. “This is also to counter the Union government’s allotment of Rs 25,000 crore to develop a 675km economic corridor between Calcutta and Siliguri. The chief minister made it clear that the state could develop the roads on its own,” said another official. The Opposition, however, raised questions on the intention of the state government to carry out the projects announced in the state vote-on-account. “The government announced 46,000km of new rural roads in the next five years and allotted only Rs 500 crore for next financial year. If it is assumed the state will construct 9,000km this year, the funds are too meagre to achieve the target,” said Manoj Chakraborty, a Congress MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid-19 cases drop below 5,000 in Bengal||Bengal on Friday achieved the Covid-19 goal of below-5,000 total active cases. The state now has 4,992 active cases, back almost to where it was on June 9 last year. On Friday, Bengal logged 297 Covid-19 recoveries, 194 new infections and two deaths, including one from Calcutta, aiding the fall in total active cases for 102 days straight since Vijaya Dashami, October 26 last year. The state had 37,190 active cases then. Bengal’s Covid-19 recovery rate rose for 105 consecutive days to touch 97.34 per cent, leading the national rate by 0.17 per cent. Its positive confirmation rate is 7.05 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 77 days. On Friday, the state reported 23,167 tests, taking the total past 81.04 lakh, at 90,048 tests per million people. The state’s total of Covid-19 cases is nearly 5.71 lakh, including around 5.56 lakh recoveries and 10,201 deaths. Of the total toll, 8,568 deaths (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate also was unchanged at 1.43 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee announces financial incentives for tea, tourism and education sectors in north Bengal||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced financial incentives for tea and tourism sectors, which are the major employment generators in north Bengal, and reached out to different communities in the region by augmenting educational infrastructure in the budget. Mamata said the state government would set up 200 new schools in the next five years, where students would be taught in languages like Nepali, Hindi, Urdu, Kamtapuri, Kurmali and Sadri languages. For these proposed educational institutions, she announced an allotment of Rs 100 crore in the next fiscal (2021-22). “There are many people in the state who speak Nepali, Hindi, Kamtapuri, Urdu and Kurmali language. We will open 100 new schools in these languages in the next five years and 300 para-teachers will be engaged…. also, in the tea gardens, 100 schools will be opened where students would be taught in Sadri…. another 300 para-teachers would be engaged in these schools,” Mamata said. Added to it, the chief minister also announced that the state would grant recognition to 200 Rajbanshi-medium schools and allotted another Rs 50 crore. A political analyst said it was an attempt to reach out to different communities of north Bengal by ensuring elementary education in different regional languages. In the budget, she has also proposed opening 100 new English medium schools in areas having higher concentration of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and another 500 Ol Chiki-medium schools in the state, some of which are also expected to come up in north Bengal. “Cha Sundari,” or the free housing scheme launched by the state for tea workers, also found a place in the budget with Mamata announcing Rs 150 crore for the scheme in the next financial year. For the tourism sector, the chief minister announced a scheme to support the industry that has taken a beating because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Under the scheme, loans ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 10 lakh will be provided to those who are associated with the sector and in the first year, the state will bear half of the interest. A sum of 10 crores has be-en allocated for the scheme,” Mamata said. She also announced the introduction of a new incentive scheme for a period of five years for the tourism industry with effect from the next financial year as the previous scheme expired on December 31, 2020. “It is a great step that the state government has taken to help the industry. This will largely benefit the homestays, guest houses and the government’s thrust is on development of rural tourism and smaller places. From the association, we are very happy that the state government has looked up to tourism whereas the Centre has completely ignored us,” said Sudesh Poddar, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India. Laying stress on augmenting physical infrastructure to improve connectivity, the chief minister announced a 9.5km-long two-lane bridge over the Raidak 1 river on the Baxirhat-Jorai Road in Cooch Behar district. She also announced that another bridge would be constructed over the Balason river along SH12 along the Siliguri-Mirik route. Also, the Changrabandha-Jamaldaha-Mathabhanga-Cooch Behar road on SH16 will be extended by 75km, while a 60km stretch that connects Botolbari and Dhantala (both in North Dinajpur) will be widened to a two lane road, she mentioned in the budget. For the north Bengal development department that she had formed in 2011, Mamata announced an allocation of 776.51 crores for 2021-22. The allocation for the tourism department, on the other hand, was 457.38 crore for the next fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP lawmakers raise Ram slogans in Assembly||Chaotic scenes dubbed “unprecedented” by some veterans in the treasury benches unfolded in the Assembly on Friday as chief minister Mamata Banerjee tried placing the vote-on-account for poll-bound Bengal. BJP lawmakers rushed to the well of the House with “Jai Shri Ram” slogans to protest state finance minister Amit Mitra’s absence. Mitra has been unwell, sources said. As Mamata rose to read the vote-on-account speech, BJP members led by their legislature party leader Manoj Tigga came to the well and started  sloganeering, demanding answers on why the chief minister was replacing Mitra. Mamata paused amid the commotion. A visibly displeased Speaker Biman Banerjee took charge, repeatedly asking the BJP members to return to their seats or leave the House. The Speaker said due process had been followed and that Tigga shouldn’t complain as he — being part of the Assembly’s business advisory committee — was aware of it. “...This is grossly disorderly behaviour. I have to be very harsh, I tell you…I don’t want to take any harsh action. Please, please… return to your seats,” said Speaker Banerjee. “The honourable governor (Jagdeep Dhankhar) has authorised the chief minister (to place the vote-on-account), you have heard. I don’t get this. You will not know the laws and rules, you will choose not to learn, and you are shouting meaninglessly…Please go to your seats or leave the House.” After a hullabaloo of about five minutes, the BJP staged a walkout, aggressively shouting “Jai Shri Ram”. The Left and the Congress staged walkouts before Mamata rose to speak. Resuming her address, Mamata said: “Sorry, Speaker Sir, even you had to take a lot of trouble...I have placed many a (railway) budget...I attended many general budgets in Parliament. Nobody does this during a budget speech. It is customary courtesy in parliamentary processes within the democratic system.” “…These BJP members, they know nothing, can do nothing...Listen to it (the vote-on-account), participate in the discussions. Instead, a handful of members doing this… ki obostha (what a situation),” she added. A senior cabinet member said the behaviour of the BJP legislature party was “unprecedented”. Tigga and other BJP MLAs such as Swadhin Sarkar, Joyel Murmu, Ashis Biswas and Dulal Bar claimed they were protesting Mamata’s alleged ploy to project herself and misuse the vote-on-account platform for a poll pitch. “Not only did they do away with the governor’s address, they kept the finance minister away...a clear disregard of parliamentary democracy,” said Tigga. Later in the day, the BJP lambasted Mamata over the budget. “Given the current state of the economy, the slew of announcements that she made, where the money for them will come from, nobody knows…. She mainly renamed central schemes and projects to stake claim on the credit ahead of the polls…We firmly believe the people of Bengal will summarily dismiss this joke of a budget, laden with nothing but meaningless promises that will not be kept,” said BJP state chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. Congress state president and its leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury accused Mamata of replacing Mitra to cover up possible questions on the source of funds for the promises made in the budget and the credibility of claims made therein. Left legislature party leader Sujan Chakraborty, a CPM central committee member, also demanded answers on Mitra’s absence. “This government has not done any work over the past 10 years. Now she says everything will be completed in three months. Three months later, she won’t even be in power anymore. What do these promises mean?” asked Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Manish Shukla murder case: CID officers arrest ‘shooter’ in Tamil Nadu||A key accused in the murder of BJP leader Manish Shukla has been arrested in Tamil Nadu in a different case, prompting a team of officers of Bengal’s Criminal Investigation Department (CID) to leave for the southern state on Friday to interrogate him. CID officers said that the arrested Anish Thakur had been allegedly one of the shooters present near the BJP party office at Titagarh in North 24-Parganas, some 18km from Calcutta, on the evening of October 4, 2020, when Shukla was gunned down. Anish had been eluding the police net for months since his name surfaced following interrogation of those arrested so far in connection with the murder of the BJP leader and former councillor of Titagarh who was also close to BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh. On Friday, the Tamil Nadu police informed Bengal CID that they had arrested Anish in connection with a robbery at the office of a gold loan company a few days back. Anish’s photograph matched the one that the Bengal CID had given out to other state police departments in its search for the fugitive. “We have been on the lookout for Anish for some time. He was one of the shooters who killed Manish Shukla,” said a senior officer of the CID. “The Tamil Nadu police have informed us they arrested him in a separate case. We will now try and interrogate him before pleading for his custody,” the officer said. The CID while scanning through the CCTV camera  footage of the murder had zeroed in on Anish. Originally from Bihar, he is known to be a close associate of Subodh Kant Singh, a ganglord of the state. CID officers also said Sanjay Roy, a resident of Vishali in Bihar who had been arrested from Patna Station Road within days of the BJP leader’s murder in Titagarh, had identified Anish from the footage and later admitted his involvement in the crime. The gang that was allegedly involved in this murder case was also the one accused of robbing 30kg of gold ornaments worth Rs`15 crore from a gold loan company office close to the police and administrative district headquarters in Burdwan town on July 17, CID officers said. Excluding Anish, 10 persons have been arrested in the Shukla murder so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee promises to create 1.5 crore jobs in five years||On February 25, 2011, Mamata Banerjee presented her last budget as the railway minister — that was largely billed as a Bengal budget — with the hope of unseating the Left Front government in the Assembly polls scheduled to be held in another two months. Ten years later, she rose on Friday afternoon to present a vote-on-account — filling in for ailing Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra after obtaining permission from governor Jagdeep Dhankhar — barely two months before another Assembly election, but this time with the hope of remaining in the seat of power of Bengal. Like what she had done as railway minister by not raising passenger fares, the Rs 2,99,688-crore vote-on-account she read out on Friday didn’t include any proposal to raise taxes. “Today, I shall speak about hope and not about despair,” said Mamata, defining the theme of the vote-on-account. The statement of intent that Mamata laid before the House, which the Opposition parties had boycotted, had elements of a Trinamul poll manifesto, expected anytime after the Nirvachan Sadan announces the election dates, as the focus was on pension scheme for all, job creation, welfare schemes for the weaker sections, promise of industrialisation and creation of infrastructure. Expansion of educational opportunities for religious and linguistic minorities was a special feature in the vote-on-account as she announced 100 new English medium schools for SC, ST communities, besides promising to set up schools in Alchiki, Nepali, Hindi, Urdu, Kamtapuri, Kurmali, Sadri and Rajbanshi languages across the state. The proposals indicated a 20 per cent hike in outlays for education, sports, art and culture. The most-talked about claim in the vote-on-account, however, was about the Trinamul government’s performance and plans in creating employment opportunities in the state. “With the planned development of huge industrial centres and infrastructure, we will be able to create 1.5 crore new employment opportunities in the next 5 years at the government, semi-government and non-government levels and through self employment,” said the chief minister, who also claimed that her government had created 1.12 crore jobs in the last 10 years. The promise of creation of job opportunities — with special emphasis on filling up 50,000 posts lying vacant in the government and over 60,000 posts in the police set-up — was clearly an attempt to woo the voters at a time the BJP has started attacking her government on the issue of employment. Sources close to her said the recent Bihar elections, where employment became a key issue, was another reason why she had instructed Mitra, who had drafted the proposals, to punctuate the vote-on-account documents with job promises. The Opposition questioned the past and projected employment figures, besides accusing her government of not doing enough for development of large-scale industries in Bengal. Several BJP leaders said the theme of their campaign would be lack of employment — and irregularities in recruitment in government and government-aided schools — would be the mainstay of their campaign. “We have created jobs, we have made huge capital investments in the state and also improved the state’s fiscal health,” said Mitra, in a post-vote-on-account news conference that he held virtually. Unlike other budget speeches, where macro-economic situation is discussed in details before placing the proposals, Mamata’s one-hour-address revolved around welfare schemes and she took care to read out each one of them. As the government has almost doubled the outlay under the head of social welfare and nutrition — from around Rs 19,000 crore to little over Rs 35,000 crore — Trinamul insiders said that the chief minister’s proposals were backed with sound arithmetic. There was, however, lack of clarity on the vote-on-account’s projection of a tax revenue collection exceeding Rs 75,000 crore for the next fiscal, around 32 per cent more than the revised estimate of 2020-21. While neither Mamata nor Mitra explained the basis of this projection, sources in the government said that the forecast was based on expectation that the vote-on-account proposals would trigger heightened economic activity in the state, which, in turn, would result in tax buoyancy. After laying a set of proposals with the theme of hope, Mamata drew inspiration from Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose’s famous call of “give me blood, I shall give you freedom” to lay her demand before the people of Bengal. Seeking another term at the helm, she said: “Keep faith in me, I shall give you unconditional and selfless service with utmost dedication.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Dhunseri Ventures and Berger Paints seek land to set up two manufacturing units in Burdwan||Homegrown industry majors Dhunseri Ventures and Berger Paints have sought land from the Bengal government to set up two manufacturing units at Panagarh industrial park in Burdwan, documents presented in the state Assembly revealed. The two projects will stand apart as the state has not been the recipient of many large manufacturing units in recent years, though several small and medium scale industries have come up in Bengal. Promoted by Chandra Kumar Dhanuka, Dhunseri plans to put up a packaging material unit primarily targeting food processing, cosmetics, personal care and pharmaceuticals. It has applied for 38 acres at the industrial park. Stock market listed Berger Paints, India’s second-largest paints company, is seeking 22 acres at the park to build a construction chemicals and putty manufacturing unit. This would be its third unit in Bengal, the other two located in Shibpur and Rishra. Speaking to The Telegraph, Dhanuka said the Dhunseri unit would be ready for production by March 2023. “It will entail an investment of Rs 400 crore. We have ordered plants and machinery from Germany,” Dhanuka said. The Panagarh plant will be a downstream unit of Dhunseri’s Haldia unit where it makes PET that goes into making plastic material. “There are no manufacturers of such polyester packaging material in the east,” Dhanuka explained. The unit will create close to 200 permanent jobs in the first phase, sources said. Berger’s proposed plant at full capacity is expected to manufacture 120,000 tpa of construction chemicals and putty and the company will explore manufacturing additional products as well. “Our existing factories in Bengal are old and there is no land to build anymore. So, we applied for around 22 acres at Panagarh industrial park. We are yet to get the land,” said Abhijit Roy, managing director and CEO of Berger Paints. “As of now the plan is in the drawing board stage. Once we get the land transferred, we will start thinking about investment. We will make some construction chemical products. We were originally thinking of Rishra but once we will have this land, we will set up the entire construction chemical range at this location (Panagarh),” said Roy. According to sources, its proximity to Durgapur expressway and approved clearances for red category industries were among the reasons Berger chose Panagarh. These two projects apart, the vote-on-account disclosed a Rs 150 crore investment to upgrade Andal airport to international standards in two years and a Rs 100 crore allocation to develop an industrial park in Raghunathpur, Purulia. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee again iterated the state’s focus to develop the Tajpur port, Deocha Pachami coal block, Silicon Valley hub and financial hub at Rajarhat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||Opinion||They are not amused: comics under attack||Laughter, a medicine that should lighten the heart, can taste bitter to some. Responding to the Supreme Court’s notice on petitions for contempt proceedings on the charge of ridiculing the court in tweets, the comedian, Kunal Kamra, did not apologize, since jokes need not be defended. Instead, his affidavit addressed the role of comedy and satire in a democracy, claiming that to place any institution of power in a democracy above criticism was like asking migrant workers to find their way home during an ill-planned lockdown. Mr Kamra also laid emphasis on the stature of the Supreme Court. The complaint that Mr Kamra’s tweets would diminish people’s faith in the court was mistaken, because public respect for the court came from the court’s actions and not from criticism and commentary. Although this could be a veiled glance at the court’s sensitiveness, Mr Kamra said with impeccable humility that to think his tweets could shake the foundations of the greatest court in the world was an overestimation of his abilities. Irreverence and hyperbole are intrinsic to the comedic project which, while comforting the afflicted and afflicting the comfortable — presumably by exposing the clay feet of power — brings attention to bear on thorny issues with brevity, wit, laughter and satire. This is the comedian’s unique method of pointing to problems of public relevance. Mr Kamra’s response was a reminder of comedy’s function in repressive regimes through history. Stand-up comedy, parodic plays, rip-roaring farce and even cabaret — all have at different times shown up the emperor’s lack of clothes. No constitutional authority can be protected from jokes, said Mr Kamra, just as no one was prevented from discharging their duty, not even judges, by being targets of comedy and satire. But at a time when intolerance of criticism had turned taking offence into a national sport, laughter, the best medicine, was bound to taste bitter. By alluding to the fundamental values of a democracy, Mr Kamra’s affidavit showed up the conditions behind this distortion. Freedom of speech and expression, a constitutional right, held the possibility of offence — a comment that implied the inclusive, tolerant, accommodating spirit of democracy. Restraining this freedom would result in “incarcerated artists” and “flourishing lapdogs”, according to Mr Kamra, whose examples of such restraining — one was Kashmir — were as withering as his phrases. These proceedings go beyond one particular case of contempt. Laughter criticizes and cures by exposure and inversion; it fights excess. Over-sensitiveness to criticism, and hence the stifling of humour, is a sign of insecurity and brittleness, characteristics of those who aspire to create total compliance and rule with unquestioned power. Even the suspicion of laughter is stifled: a detained comedian, Munawar Faruqui, had to go to the Supreme Court just for interim bail. Humour, being the manifestation of a sense of proportion, is an attack on unreason. Muzzling laughter would be to let unreason win.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
06-02-2021||Opinion||Powerful blow: Rihanna tweets in support of farmers||Sir — It was greatly amusing to witness how hot and bothered the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre and its supporters got over a tweet by the renowned Barbadian pop singer, Rihanna, over the ongoing farmers’ agitation within the country (“Inaccurate tag on govt statement”, Feb 4). The tweet highlighted the internet blockades around the protest sites and led to more international personalities like Meena Harris — she is the niece of the vice-president of the United States of America, Kamala Harris — and the young climate change activist, Greta Thunberg, drawing attention to the issue. The external affairs ministry embarrassed itself further by putting out a statement accusing “foreign individuals” and celebrities of “sensationalism”. It is interesting that the government claimed that internet services were suspended to “maintain public safety” after it defended the Delhi Police’s use of violence and tear gas against protesting farmers. The Centre is clearly squirming over the unexpected attention that its objectionable actions are receiving in the international arena, and is doing whatever it can in a desperate attempt to discredit those who are questioning it. The global community must come together to continue mounting pressure on the Indian government. Debalina Roy,Calcutta Sir — Rihanna’s tweet regarding the farmers’ protest in India shows that the world can no longer be kept ignorant about the human rights violations in the presence of a free global media, and no government can push undemocratic agendas in their country without making ripples across the world. Be it China’s repression of Uighur Muslims and protesters in Hong Kong, the family separation policy followed by the administration of the former US president, Donald Trump, or the plight of the Rohingya community in Myanmar, the international community has always voiced its concern. No national government can escape global scrutiny by trying to pass off its oppressive actions as “internal matters” of the country in question. Moreover, while Rihanna’s tweet has not gone down well with the Indian government, attempting to discredit her words on the grounds that she is a foreign national is egregious. In the age of social media, it is foolish to assume that the world will merely remain a spectator to an important event and not become a participant. Indranil Barat,Dhanbad, JharkhandBig relief Sir — It was heartening to read that the Centre has agreed to offer an extra chance to people who had missed their last attempt at sitting for the Union Public Service Commission examinations in 2020 on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. The contagion and the subsequent lockdown threw the professional and academic plans of thousands of Indians into a disarray. For many citizens, sitting for and cracking the civil services exams is a lifelong dream; it would have been greatly unfair to them if their final chance at fulfilling their ambitions were thwarted for no fault of their own. Anirban Ganguly,Calcutta Still alive Sir — In what is being touted as a miracle, a stray dog in Karnataka’s Bilinele village escaped unharmed after being trapped in a toilet with a leopard for hours. Few would have expected the dog to emerge alive — especially since the leopard was reportedly chasing the dog before they got locked into the toilet — but footage revealed that both creatures kept to themselves during the hours that they were trapped together. Mercifully, the leopard, too, escaped unhurt after forest department officials got involved. While it is a stroke of luck that the dog emerged in one piece, the incident shows that it is possible to free wild animals from sticky situations without injuring them. Nidhi Rai,Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
06-02-2021||Opinion||Cricket: How Britain's imperialist tool unified India||Now that England are touring India, I have gone back to re-read what I think is the best book on Indian cricket: Andy Carter’s Beyond The Pale: Early Black and Asian Cricketers in Britain 1868-1945. Carter began the project as a series of weekly podcasts for his Master’s dissertation in public history at Royal Holloway, University of London. The book looks at some influencers of Indian cricket: most notably Prince Ranjitsinhji, an inspirational and generous man but a flawed ruler; Vizzy (Maharajkumar of Vizianagram), “a man with a nasty streak who put Indian cricket back 20 years”; Lord Harris, one time governor of Bombay and “one of the villains of the book” who used the game to encourage animosity between Hindus, Muslims and Parsis in India and later tried, unsuccessfully, to keep Ranji out of the England side; Maharajah Bhupinder Singh of Patiala; and the Nawabs of Pataudi. This is an absolute gem of a book which looks at cricket in the context of class, race and ethnicity in Britain. The British in Britain “had a far more open mind compared with British people (like Harris) who had been in India”. Carter tells me that “sometimes the class angle would trump the race angle. Since Ranjitsinhji was a prince, his glamour carried him over any doubts the public might have had over his ethnicity.” The English upper classes assumed they could never be beaten by “lesser folk”, including Indians, Australians and, at home, the working class. In India, cricket was used to try and “turn princes into English aristocrats” and later in a policy of “divide and rule”. Joe Root’s side happily reflects all that is best about multicultural Britain but Carter writes about another world. He notes that cricket today unites India: “Despite British efforts to use cricket as a tool of imperialism it actually became a vehicle for identity and ultimately self-determination.” Dangerous plot The British apparently had a plan to assassinate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose during World War II, according to his daughter, Anita Bose, who gave a Zoom interview to mark her father’s 124th birth anniversary on January 23. In a conversation with London-based Lalit Mohan Joshi, director of the South Asian Cinema Foundation, she revealed the alleged plot. “They [the British] had thought he would be passing through Turkey and wanted to have him assassinated there. He was probably one of the best [most] hated people for the British rulers. It’s not surprising that they were not very fond of him because he was a very uncompromising opponent to His Majesty.” In 1943, when Adolf Hitler agreed to provide Bose with safe passage to the Far East, the Germans chose a submarine because they thought a plane carrying Bose might be shot down by the British. “In fact, first they [the Germans] thought of getting him to South-East Asia by plane. But then somehow there was concern that this plan had been leaked to the British.” Anita said she would have been happier if Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee joined forces to honour her father’s memory, but she recognized this as unlikely with assembly elections due in West Bengal soon. She hoped, however, for the return of her father’s ashes from the Renko-ji Temple in Tokyo. “It would be very nice if we could bring the remains back to India in the course of this coming year. I personally would welcome closure on the issue.”An old connection Family treasures belonging to Patricia Mountbatten, the elder daughter of Lord Louis Mountbatten, the last Viceroy of India, are to be auctioned by Sotheby’s in London on March 24. Over 350 lots “spanning jewellery, furniture, paintings, sculpture, books, silver, ceramics & objets d’art” reflect the Mountbatten family’s close links with India. Patricia died in 2017 and her film producer husband, John Knatchbull, the 7th Baron of Brabourne, in 2005. He produced such movies as the David Lean-directed A Passage to India. If there is one item I would like Mamata Banerjee to buy for Bengal, it is the portrait of Patricia’s father-in-law, Michael Herbert Rudolf Knatchbull, the 5th Baron of Brabourne, who died in 1939 and is buried in St. John’s Churchyard in Calcutta. He was briefly acting viceroy of India and, as governor of Bombay, laid the foundation stone of Brabourne Stadium. My cousins will know their alma mater, Lady Brabourne College in Calcutta, was named after Doreen, wife of the 5th Baron when he was governor of Bengal.Pay attention During an informal conversation between Cambridge academics on Zoom earlier this week “Partha” got an honourable mention. “Don’t forget he is Meade’s son-in-law”, gossiped one old-timer, referring to the fact that the economist, Professor Sir Partha Dasgupta, is married to Carol, whose late father, James Meade, won the 1977 Nobel Prize for Economics. Partha’s landmark report on biodiversity, published recently, calls for governments to obsess less about GDP and concern themselves more with the damaging environmental costs of development. His findings have been welcomed by everyone from Prime Minister Boris Johnson to Sir David Attenborough, who praised “this comprehensive and immensely important report”.Footnote The author and chef, Asma Khan, who grew up in Calcutta and now runs the Darjeeling Express restaurant in London, picked out “macher jhol” for an article in The Observer from the many recipes in her book, Asma’s Indian Kitchen. In the absence of rui, she has suggested using either cod or halibut. I have found salmon works better. I am delighted Bengali cuisine, which is missing from the Punjabi-dominated Indian food scene in Britain, gets a mention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
06-02-2021||Opinion||The Plandemic||A health official telephoned within hours of my first anti-Covid-19 jab and asked if everything was alright. One reason could have been the controversy over the German and French insistence — which Britain rejects — that the AstraZeneca vaccine should not be given to anyone over 65. It may also have been because black and minority ethnic (Bame) people, comprising 35 per cent of London’s population and 14 per cent of the nation’s, are lagging behind in being vaccinated. Boris Johnson’s ambitious programme to vaccinate 15 million of the most vulnerable by the middle of this month and millions of others immediately afterwards so that nearly 99 per cent of those who are most at risk of dying from Covid-19 are covered by spring faces huge challenges. Money, the highly competitive international demand for scarce vaccines, rigorous safety checks and deep-freeze storage all present daunting problems. The campaign depends on mass vaccination centres with armies of trained and dedicated vaccinators. It must also counter the whispers and rumours seething below the surface. The task has fallen on the National Health Service, which was ceaselessly reviled only a few years ago for mismanagement, waste and corruption. Now, it is clear people should be eternally grateful for Clement Attlee’s vision of post-war reconstruction. Vaccination centres all over London, including the Shri Swaminarayan Mandir in Neasden, the ‘biggest Hindu temple outside India’, are managed with smooth and silent efficiency. The health official who telephoned me seemed pleasantly surprised when I told her I was particularly impressed by the courtesy and the competence of the half-a-dozen volunteers — actuaries, accountants and teachers in everyday life — at the Earl’s Court Health and Wellbeing Centre. I was surprised when she asked my reason for taking the injection until I remembered last month’s survey attributing “vaccine hesitancy/resistance” to 31 per cent of Britain’s population and 35 per cent of Ireland’s. While 80 per cent of the overall target has been vaccinated, the Filipino share is only 25 per cent. An ethnic Bangladeshi professional, born and brought up in Britain, made things clearer by inadvertently reminding me of the Calcutta to which I returned in 1970 after a three-year stint abroad. Street corners bustled with makeshift altars, coins were heaped on trays draped in red cloth, and alms were sought and given from door to door. A radical friend who dismissed all this as superstitious nonsense to placate the malefic Shani — Saturn — overlooked the profound insecurity that underlies all propitiatory ritual. My British-Bangladeshi friend’s sinister tale suggested even more dangerous nervousness. He had heard that hospital wards reserved for coronavirus victims were lying empty. Doctors were being urged, he said, to certify that patients who had succumbed to other diseases had died of Covid-19. “I don’t know if the government gets a subsidy or something from outside for the number of coronavirus deaths,” he murmured darkly. The data show that black people are four times more likely to die from coronavirus than whites especially in areas like Tottenham with high unemployment and probably more blacks than whites. People of African descent nurse atavistic fears of being exploited for laboratory experiments. But the second wave of coronavirus attacks has hit Asians the hardest, says Kevin Fenton, the Glasgow-born, Jamaican-origin London director at Public Health England. He attributes this to economic deprivation, which doesn’t allow Asians to work from home, and crowded living conditions. The Evening Standard quoted two respected senior doctors, Harmandeep Singh and Gurjinder Sandhu, condemning residents of immigrant-dominated areas for treating the virus as a hoax. Some are in Southall where shopkeepers are most comfortable in Hindi; some in Ealing where a Liverpudlian friend used to joke he had enough Indian and Pakistani neighbours to get a small Kashmir war going. Many don’t wear masks. Social distancing is ignored. People “walk around as if everything was fine and normal”. Some send subversive messages which sound credible being in an Asian language. Another ploy is to attribute Covid-19 deaths in India to heart attacks. The pandemic has given us the word, ‘Covidiot’, for a stupid person who ignores precautions. It has also given us ‘Plandemic’. A video titled, Plandemic: The Hidden Agenda Behind Covid-19, promoted the myth that vaccines are “a money-making enterprise that causes medical harm”. Its sequel, Plandemic: Indoctornation (“doctor” being highlighted in the logo to suggest indoctrination) also “taps into people’s uncertainty, anxiety and need for answers”. Shades of 1975, some fear the impact on fertility. Shades of 1857, others believe vaccines contain forbidden animal products despite the announcement by Magda Smith, an NHS director, “I can absolutely assure you there is no animal product, no human product, no eggs, no gelatine, no alcohol” in the vaccines. An anonymous blog in France linking 5G technology to a mysterious coronavirus strain soon went viral on this side of the Channel. Immigrants may be victims but are not the only culprits. Sir Desmond Swayne, a Tory grandee formerly attached to David Cameron’s government and still a member of parliament, told the Save Our Rights UK group, which has more than 60,000 followers, that the NHS had manipulated statistics to exaggerate the crisis.  Thousands of people marched during the Save Our Rights UK rally at the end of October to protest against the lockdown. According to the group’s founder, the coronavirus regulations “are not proportionate and appropriate, and are causing more harm than good”. They are said to violate human rights, especially the rights to privacy, family life, bodily autonomy and medical freedoms. Across the political divide, Piers Corbyn, brother of the former Labour party leader, Jeremy, designed a leaflet likening vaccination — a confidence trick “just to make money and to control you” — to the Nazi death camp at Auschwitz. Friction with the European Union aggravates difficulties. Although Britain’s exit was finalized on December 31, the 159-page export rules are not easily interpreted or implemented. Recent weeks have seen dramatic developments like the EU trying to prevent vaccines reaching British Northern Ireland, Belgians raiding AstraZeneca’s production site near Brussels, and Dutch officials seizing ham sandwiches (unauthorized meat exports!) from British truck drivers. No doubt these difficulties will be resolved as Europe settles down to a new political equation but the grim spectre of the mysterious QAnon, with its image of a coiled serpent viciously poised to strike and the caption, “Where we go one we go all”, looms over all controversies. The story goes back to October 2017 when a series of posts appeared on 4chan, an anonymous English-language imageboard website, with the user signing off as “Q” and claiming to enjoy a level of American security approval called “Q clearance”. Known as “Q drops” or “breadcrumbs”, these messages were often written in cryptic language peppered with slogans, pledges and pro-Donald Trump themes. QAnon rests on the belief that the world is secretly run by a satanic cult of paedophiles and liberal elites and that Covid-19 was planned to shut down the global economy for resetting. According to this version, Trump was the superhero sent to vanquish the cult and usher in utopia. Another variant includes Hillary Clinton’s arrest and execution. Trump reportedly called QAnon activists “people who love our country”. Although he stopped short of endorsing the movement which viewed him as a hero, Trump apparently preened, “They do like me.” No wonder his parting shot as his plane took off for Florida was to vow to “be back in some form”. Bame and white would be equally affected if that happens for as Britain’s vaccine minister, Nadhim Zahawi, puts it, the pandemic is “a race against death”. Death can come in many forms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police still clueless about missing JNAC supervisor, scan call records||The disappearance of 34-year-old Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) supervisor Sanjay Chutel continues to remain shrouded with mystery as his body was not found nor were his whereabouts detected after 48 hours of his missing. Concerned with the disappearance of Sanjay in a mysterious way, the police have intensified search operations and have started taking every possible step to unravel the mystery. Father of a five-year-old child, Sanjay had left home early on Thursday morning, revealing his wife Sudha Devi that he was going for a special work. Later in the evening, the family members discovered a suicide note which triggered fear in their mind, leading them to lodge a complaint with the Kadma thana alleging the JNAC supervisor might have taken a decision to end his life due to scolding by his boss at the civic body. Sanjay also left his cell phone at home, making the family members as well as the police to get puzzled further. Revealing about the investigation, OC of Kadma thana, Manoj Thakur said that they had obtained the call details record (CDR) of Sanjay's cellphone on Saturday but could not get any clue from the CDR. "The missing supervisor had made on average 50 calls a day during the last week. The calls he made was either to his family members, relatives, departmental colleagues or to his friends. None of the calls was such that it might draw attention. Despite that, we spoke to each of those who had talked to Sanjay during the past one week," said Thakur while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC said apart from trying to detect a clue from the Sanjay's cell phone CDR, they scanned the CCTV footage of the Shastrinagar locality in Kadma where Sanjay resided and also at the Tatanagar railway station as well as Sitaramdera bus terminus. "There is no CCTV camera installed near his house at Shastri Nagar in Kadma, but we scanned the footage of the surveillance camera installed at a little distance away from his house but in vain. We checked the footage of the surveillance cameras installed at Tatanagar railway station and also at the Sitaramdera bus terminus meticulously, but did not find his image anywhere," informed the OC. He said the police also talked to the JNAC workers with whom Sanjay would pass time together and also with his relatives, as well as friends, having summoned them at the police station on Saturday morning. Everyone gave a general impression about the missing supervisor that they did not saw any such unusual behaviour in him that would lead him to commit suicide. Thakur said they are also taking the stock of bodies at the MGM Medical College mortuary and also at the mortuaries of Seraikela Sadar Hospital as well as Chaibasa Sadar Hospital, but found no such body resembling the feature of Sanjay. "Finally, one aspect which might be linked to the disappearance of Sanjay is a probable extra-marital affair. We have, therefore, decided to talk to some of his close friends and try to find out whether he had an affair," the OC pointed out, adding that they have kept every other option open in the investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||At Nirsa, over 100 Left supporters block NH-2||The nationwide 'chakka jam' organised by political parties and social organisations in support of the ongoing farmers agitation impacted the outskirts of Dhanbad, stalling traffic for hours in some areas, especially Nirsa, on Saturday. At Nirsa, more than 100 supporters led by a former MLA sat on dharna on NH-2 and blocked the road for more than one hour near Sanjay Chowk leading to a traffic snarl. A similar blockade was held by trade unions and other Left organisations near the district headquarters on Randhir Verma Chowk. But since the protesters blocked only one side of the road, movement of vehicles wasn’t hampered. Protestors led by district president of Marxist Coordination Committee Hari Prasad Pappu and others, including former national general secretary of CITU S.K. Bakshi, raised slogans in support of farmers during their three-hour blockade. Talking to the media, Pappu said, “We are protesting against the farm laws enacted by the Union government. We are demanding the withdrawal of the controversial laws which are aimed at benefiting corporates at the cost of common farmers.” “Government should desist from carrying out atrocities against farmers and labourers and immediately hold talks with the protesters in Delhi,” he added. District president of JMM Ramesh Tuddu, said, “Farmers provide us food. No country in the world can progress by crushing its farmers. But the Narendra Modi-led government, at the behest of corporates, have brought the farm bills which will adversely affect them.” Asked what provisions of the farm laws were against the farmers, Tuddu cited the MSP issue. “The government has plans to abolish the minimum support price for foodgrains through the farm laws. It is also carrying out atrocities against farmers by lodging cases against them when they are protesting against the farm laws peacefully,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Congress activists set up picket at Dimna Chowk||Local Congress activists on Saturday staged a blockade at Dimna Chowk on NH-33, extending support to the nationwide agitation of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of 40 farmer unions protesting against the three new farm laws. The blockade which began at noon continued for about an hour before police arrived the spot and dispersed the party activists led by a local leader Manoj Jha. As a result of the blockade, there was a long queue of stranded vehicles, including trucks, trailers, buses, cars and two-wheelers on either side of the busy highway. On the call of district president Bijay Khan Congress workers in solidarity with the protesting farmers supported the protest. "We are here to extend support to the cause of farmers. Ambulances and private vehicles carrying elderly persons and women were allowed to go through, " said a party worker. The blockade delayed a Ghatshila-based businessman bound for Ranchi's Birsa Munda Airport. "I was scheduled to catch a flight for Delhi from Ranchi in the afternoon. But, I think due to the chakka jam agitation I won't be able to catch the flight," said Vikas Agarwal, a local trader of Ghatshila. Congress leader Iqbal Ansari, who was participating in the agitation, said the farmers’ agitation had become a global issue but even then, the Union government was not paying heed to their problems. Farmers in several other parts of the Kolhan region also took part in the “chakka jam” agitation on national and state highways from noon to 3pm in response to the nationwide agitation call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Sangh-linked NGO files complaint against Rihanna’s firm for using mica extracted by children||An RSS-backed NGO has lodged a complaint with the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights against popstar Rihanna for allegedly using mica extracted by child labourers in Jharkhand in cosmetic products and hair colour manufactured by her company, Fenty Beauty Foundation, NCPCR members said on Saturday. Vinay Joshi, a founder member of Legal Rights Observatory (LRO), a civil society organisation affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), lodged the complaint against the popular singer, requesting the NCPCR to take cognizance of alleged child rights violation in functioning of the cosmetics company owned by Rihanna. “We have received a complaint against Rihanna’s company for (allegedly) encouraging child labour by using mica extracted by children from mines in Jharkhand. Necessary action will be taken as per the provisions of the law after thorough investigation,” said Priyank Kanoongo, the chairman of NCPCR. Rihanna has been in the news for extending support to the ongoing farmers’ protest in India on microblogging website Twitter. The singer found herself in the crosshairs of several famous Indian celebrities who called her out, unjustifiably, for “interference in internal matters of the country”. Several hundred children visit the abandoned mica mines in Koderma and Giridih districts of Jharkhand daily to gather mica flakes, risking their wellbeing and inviting various respiratory diseases. Activists claim that almost a dozen children die every year in mine cave ins, but their deaths are never reported. The mica, which the children collect, are often sold in the open market from where they are exported to other countries, said Rishikesh Mishra, an activist from Giridih. Mica dust is one of the major causes for tuberculosis among local residents of  the area. Mica miners are prone to lung ailments, and the local villagers are at a higher risk due to lack of protective gear and awareness. “Besides mine cave-ins, tuberculosis and other lung ailments claim several lives here,” said Mishra. India is one of the world's largest producers of mica, which has gained prominence in recent years as an environment-friendly material, used in car and building sectors, and electronics and cosmetics. Jharkhand, researchers say, used to produce superior quality mica in the 1970s, some of which were exported. The Forest Conservation Act 1980 banned mica mining in forest areas where most of Jharkhand's mines were operating since the Birtish era. However, in the wake of casualties and health hazards associated with illegal mica mining and scavenging, the government is proceeding with regularisation of mica mining in the tribal state, officials from the mines and geology department of Jharkhand said. Sanjay Mishra, former member of the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR), said that local agents purchased mica from children at throwaway price, and sold them to cosmetics and hair colour companies. “This matter needs to be taken seriously as several children have lost their lives while extracting mica and many more are compromising with their health and future by visiting abandoned mica mines every day,” Mishra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Shuttler Aadhya Singh signs 3-year deal with Yonex||Jharkhand’s emerging shuttler Aadhya Singh has signed a three-year sponsorship contract with Yonex Sunrise – world’s number 1 brand for badminton equipment. The youngster, a resident of Adityapur in Seraikela-Kharsawan district and currently ranked fourth in India (under-15 age group), is the first badminton player from Jharkhand to get the sponsorship support. Yonex Sunrise will sponsor complete equipment like racquet, shoes, kitbag, shorts, t-shirts, etc. to Aadhya for a period of three years. Aadhya, a student of Sheyn International School in Kandra (Seraikela-Kharsawan), hones her skills under national coach Sachin Rana at Mohan Ahuja Stadium in Jamshedpur. Jharkhand Badminton Association (JBA) secretary, K Prabhakar Rao said, “Aadhya has a long way to go and she has got the sponsorship at the right time. Aadhya is a talented shuttler who is ranked number 4 in the country. She’s a hard worker and is making rapid improvements in her game.” The 14-year-old is the first player in Jharkhand and Bihar to participate in all age groups – under-13, under-15, under-17 and under-19 – in one calendar year. Aadhya likes to compete in higher age groups, added Rao, who is also the joint secretary of the Badminton Association of India (BAI). The shuttler seldom skips daily training sessions. “Aadhya is a talented shuttler who is making steady improvements. She loves to take up challenges. Her hand and eye co-ordination is very good,” said mentor Sachin, who has accompanied Indian badminton teams for off-shore competitions on more than one occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Agri minister leads charge to enforce chakka jam at Booty More||The ruling coalition in Jharkhand, joined by Left parties, fanned out on national highways across the state on Saturday to enforce a “chakka-jam” from 12pm to 3pm in solidarity with farmers who have been leading an agitation for over two months on the borders of Delhi to demand a rollback of three new farm laws. In Ranchi, the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD dispatched several teams of leaders to the borders of the state capital to stage sit-ins, hold demonstrations and raise  slogans against the Union government while describing the laws as anti-poor and anti-farmer. In areas like Booty More and Durga Soren Chowk at Namkum —two points on NH-33 that serve as gateways to Ranchi _ several trucks and private vehicles were forced to wait in queue because of the blockade. Booty More remained the hub of major activities as state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh sat on the road there with party workers to enforce the blockade. Leaders of the JMM, Left parties, joined by various social outfits, were also present to drum up support for lakhs of protesting farmers. “Let us make it very clear to the Union government that this protest isn’t just restricted to one state,” Badal said, referring to Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar’s calling the protests as a problem of a handful of farmers in one state. Badal added, “The three laws are like death warrants for farmers in this country. Till the time they are rolled back, the agitations won’t stop. Congress party and Jharkhand government stands in solidarity with the farmers of the country in their fight for survival.” Tomar had in Parliament criticised the Opposition and farmers for calling the legislations “black laws”. And Badal reacted to it strongly. “The Union government’s intentions behind these laws are wrong. That is black. The way the law was brought in without consulting states was wrong. That is black. Farmers don’t want this law, but government is hell-bent on thrusting it on them and calling the protests anti-national. This is black. If the laws are so good, then why are the farmers on the boil?” he said. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee, who also joined the Booty More stir, added that even though the BJP regime has been operating in the most autocratic way in terms of dumping its decisions and policies on the country since it came to power, this time, they are pitted against farmers, who the backbone of the country. “It is the farmer’s fight for survival and the entire nation stands by them today,” he said, adding that the government’s attempts to privatise everything would not work. “If the Union government is for farmers, they must repeal the laws immediately,” Bhattacharjee added. In Namkum, many truck drivers came out openly in favour of the farmers’ agitation. Satwinder Singh, a middle-aged driver from Haryana, said, “We too hail from the farmers’ community and support this agitation. Even if we were to park our trucks for five days in their support, we won’t mind.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Cold wave to make a comeback on Sunday||The weather office has warned of a cold wave, expected to kick in on Sunday and Monday (January 7 and 8) in several districts of Jharkhand, with the mercury taking a sudden plunge and pushing down night readings. According to IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre, the cold wave alert has been issued for Ranchi, Palamu, Garhwa, Chatra, Koderma, Latehar, Lohardaga, Ramgarh, Gumla, Bokaro, Hazaribagh ,  Giridih, West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum and Simdega districts. "Night readings are expected to plummet by three to four degree Celsius in all these districts from Sunday because of the restoration of dry and crisp north wind," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Most parts of the state are likely to experience shallow to moderate fog in the next 48 hours. "The clear weather and favourable wind pattern will result in an abrupt drop in minimum readings in most parts of the state from Sunday. Minimum readings will again witness a gradual rise around midweek," said a duty officer at IMD's regional meteorological centre at Alipore in Calcutta. On Saturday, several places in northern and central Jharkhand witnessed light rain and overcast skies due to a cyclonic circulation caused by the impact of a western disturbance passing through Jammu and Kashmir. Daltonganj and its adjoining areas experienced around 0.5 mm rain. Capital Ranchi, Ramgarh and several places in central Jharkhand experienced rainfall in traces (that cannot be measured). The cloud cover and change in wind pattern resulted in a rise in minimum readings on Saturday. Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 13.2 degree Celsius while the local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur recorded 11.8 degree Celsius. Daltonganj recorded a minimum temperature of 14.1 degree Celsius while Bokaro recorded 13.1 degree Celsius. Met data revealed a trend of rising minimum temperatures in several other districts on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Tatas to deploy women in all shifts at Noamundi mines||Tata Steel has chosen 22 women who will now be trained to operate earthmovers and then deployed at its Noamundi iron-ore mine in an initiative titled Tejaswini 2 which was launched on Friday. Tejaswini 2 was launched at Noamundi in West Singhbhum district in the presence of senior Tata Steel officials, including Atrayee Sarkar, vice-president, human resource management, D.B. Sundara Ramam, vice-president, raw materials, Atul Bhatnagar, general manager (OMQ Division), and Siddhartha Shah, chief human resource management (raw materials). As per, Tejaswini 2.0, technical training is provided to unskilled women workers to enable them to work in core jobs at mines. The ore mines & quarries (OMQ) division became the first division in the company to launch the initiative. It received over 350 applications of which 22 candidates were selected after a written test and interview. The average age of the new trainees is 23 years and the minimum qualification required to apply was matriculation. The candidates will undergo intensive training to hone their skills as HEMM (heavy earth moving machinery) operators. After successful completion of their training, the women will be deployed as operations assistants to operate earth moving machinery such as dumper, dozer, shovel, excavator and drill. This initiative is also a step towards empowering local talent as a majority of these women are locals from Noamundi located in neighbouring West Singhbhum district. “We are happy to induct the first batch of 22 women who will join as HEMM operators at our Noamundi iron-ore  mine,” said Atrayee Sarkar. “The Tejaswini 2.0 initiative reflects our commitment towards fostering a culture of diversity and inclusion. Tata Steel has been a torchbearer in the manufacturing sector by introducing several pathbreaking initiatives such as ‘women@mines’ to encourage diversity at the workplace.” Tata Steel has consistently taken steps to improve diversity and inclusion in the organisation and is working towards a workforce of 20 per cent women by 2025. Earlier, in September 2019, the steel major had become the first company in the country to deploy women in all shifts in mining operations. Tejaswini 2.0 is another step in this direction to empower and employ women in the mining sector. West Bokaro division of Tata Steel has also initiated the process of recruiting women HEMM operators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro to get two new indoor badminton courts at Sports Complex||Bokaro is all set to get international level badminton courts for the players here as two modern badminton courts are being constructed at the Sports Complex situated in Sector-4, with a huge investment by Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL). There is already one badminton court in the Sports Complex, where the players practice every day. These two new courts are being set up apart from the existing one. Sports Complex is owned and maintained by BSL, a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL). The Sports Complex used to be a club earlier. About a decade ago the club was transformed into the Sports Complex where players, BSL officials and bureaucrats play badminton and other games. With Bokaro being listed among the Global Active City, BSL will celebrate this year as a ‘Sports Year’ motivating everyone in the town to get themselves involved in sports activities to lead a healthy life. In this process, BSL is undertaking the development of sports facilities in the township. The construction of world-class badminton courts is almost 70 per cent completed. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “Work related to the new indoor badminton courts in Sport Complex in the town is being done with a view to promote and encourage the activities related to sports. BSL is working hard to achieve the goal for a remarkable change for the betterment of sports which seems feasible to our conditions.” The new indoor badminton courts are coming up with a dimension of 1320 square feet. “Teakwood planks is to be installed of size about 22 x 60 mm. Anti-termite treatment, laying of polythene paper, fixing of conical high induction cushion rubber (pads), line marking and installation of YONEX badminton mats is to be done,” informed Dhan. Arun Kumar Behra, an officer in Bokaro Power Supply Company Limited (BPSCL), who is a badminton player, said, “At present, we have to either play doubles or wait hours for our turns as there was only one court in the Sports Complex. There are about two dozen players who come in the evening. All have to wait. We are very happy with the addition of two badminton courts as now we don’t have to wait and we can also play singles.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Active Covid-19 cases drop below 200 in Ranchi||The number of Covid-19 active cases dropped below the 200 mark in Ranchi on Friday as the district reported 29 recoveries against 26 cases on the day, according to the figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM). However, Ranchi still accounted for nearly half of the total active cases in the state. As many as 41 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Friday, while 49 patients recovered, bringing the count of active cases down to 441. As per government data, at least 198 of the 441 Covid patients in the state were residents of Ranchi. Meanwhile, as many as 8,962 people were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Friday. The state achieved only 39 per cent of its vaccination target as at least 22,971 beneficiaries were registered to get the Covishield jabs on Friday and more than half of them did not turn up at the vaccination centres. At least 7672 healthcare workers and 1,290 frontline workers, mostly policemen, were administered Covishield jabs on the day. As per the records with NHM, the state has so far achieved 46 per cent of its vaccination target for healthcare workers and only 3 per cent of the registered frontline workers have been vaccinated. As many as 5,495 of 1,58,919 registered frontline workers have got the Covishield shots, while 78,608 of 1,69,785 registered health workers have been administered the vaccine shots. As many as 1,200 of the registered 3,125 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Ranchi on Friday, while at least 600 of the registered 1,587 beneficiaries were inoculated against the virus in West Singhbhum. So far 8,820 people have been vaccinated in Ranchi – the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. However, the district has achieved only 17 per cent of its target, which is the lowest among districts in Jharkhand. Jharkhand has so far reported 246 cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) and at least 169 of the cases occurred in Ranchi. East Singhbhum has reported only five AEFI cases, while Koderma and Jamtara have reported 18 and 10 AEFI cases respectively. As per the figures shared by NHM, the growth rate of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent. As per NHM, it would take more than 2,008 days for the cases to double in the state at the current pace. The doubling rate in India was 926.29 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||10,000 to join Jharkhand chakka jam||Over 10,000 farmers from all 24 districts of Jharkhand will take part in the “chakka jam” (road blockade) along national and state highways on Saturday from noon to 3pm in response to the nationwide agitation call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions protesting against the three new farm laws. “We have decided to join hands with our fellow farmers in response to the call given the Samyukta Kisan Morcha after the Union budget ignored our demands and also against the oppressive measures of the central government especially banning of Internet at various farmer protest sites bordering Delhi,” said Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvay Samity state convener Sufal Mahato, a farmer from Tamar area in Ranchi. The Samity is coordinating the agitation in Jharkhand. Mahato said that they would allow essential services to ply on the highways and other roads. “It would be a peaceful protest and we will not stop any vehicle on emergency services like ambulances and those carrying edible items and students going to attend exams. Our members will also provide drinking water to the passengers of commercial vehicles and inform them about the demerits of the three new farm laws before allowing them to leave. We do not mean to harass anybody during the agitation,” he added. Leaders have asked farmers not to resort to violence at any cost during the agitation. “It is difficult to ascertain the number of farmers who will be out on the streets on Saturday. But we expect over 10,000 farmers coming out to stage protest along the national and state highways. There would not be violence at any cost. We have asked protesters to desist even from burning tyres or forcibly stopping any vehicle,” said Sapan Mahato, president of the East Singhbhum district unit of the Samity and a farmer from Baharagora block. Meanwhile, the state Congress unit extended its support to the February 6 agitation and also announced it will organise a state-level tractor rally near Hazaribagh later this month to demand repeal of the new farm laws. State Congress president and cabinet minister Rameshwar Oraon said the tractor rally is tentatively scheduled for February 20 and is a means to express the solidarity of farmers in Jharkhand with their counterparts elsewhere in India in the protest against the farm laws. Congress and Left-backed unions will also be joining hands on Saturday in enforcing the “chakka jam” across the state. Farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been camping at Delhi’s borders seeking the repeal of the Centre’s three agriculture laws. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. The Union government, however, has rejected these claims stating that the laws will only give farmers more options to sell their produce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
