07-02-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj's convocation address||St Xavier’s University aims to form men and women who will be “global agents of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam — the world is one family”, vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj said in his convocation address on Saturday. The VC later told Metro: “Since the world is one family, everybody has a right to comment on atrocities committed in any part of the world and that comment should be made in the right spirit and seen in the proper perspective and right spirit.” “We must all be ready to introspect, we must all be ready to speak out, we must all be ready to listen to one another and we must all be humane,” he said. St Xavier’s University’s second convocation was held on the New Town campus where only medal winners were awarded prizes and degree certificates. In his convocation address, Father Felix Raj said: “In this temple of knowledge we aim to form men and women who will be global agents of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam — the world is one family. Therefore, the Jesuit dictum ‘give us your child, we will return to you a man, a citizen of the country and the child of god’.” Explaining why global agents of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam were needed, he later told Metro: “Today we are fragmented on the basis of caste, colour and religion. Then there is a lot of divisive forces and there is a lot of violence, inhuman behaviour, expressions. The world is going through a period of turmoil. That is why we need to produce agents of social change who will go out as ambassadors of peace and harmony.” As the world is one family, therefore anything inhuman or an atrocity in any part of the world affects everybody, Father Felix Raj said. “What happens in the United States influences everybody. What happens in India also influences many people across the world. It is economically true, socially true, politically true. One is bound to have an opinion. You need to go beyond political division, fragmentation of colour and countries and see the comment in the proper perspective and right spirit. The opinion should be heard.” The Centre on Wednesday took the extraordinary step of schooling celebrities in social media etiquette after singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted about the farmers’ protest and the Internet ban and drew global attention to the movement and the clampdown. “There used to be this spirit of oneness, beyond borders, beyond boundaries. We need to build human families,” Father Felix Raj said. He gave a report on the academic, research and extra-curricular activities carried out in the last one year despite the pandemic. Only 76 of 451 graduating students (the first three rank holders in each subject) were present at the ceremony and were awarded medals according to their ranks. The others will go to the campus in a staggered way later to collect their certificates. The event was live streamed on digital platforms. Sanghamitra Bandyopadhyay, the director of the Indian Statistical Institute, was the chief guest for the ceremony. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was the guest of honour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
07-02-2021||Calcutta||Fraud cuffs on Jamtara 5||Five young men were arrested from Jamtara in Jharkhand on Friday for allegedly cheating an elderly Jorabagan resident of almost Rs 3 lakh by posing as officials of his bank and asking him to download an app to help him keep his account active. In January, one of the arrested called Praveen Kumar Agarwal posing as an employee of his bank, police said. He asked Agarwal to update his KYC, failing which he wouldn’t be able to make a transaction. For this, he asked him to download an app, “Quick Support Application”. Within minutes of filling his details on it, Agarwal received messages that around Rs 3 lakh had been withdrawn, a senior police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
07-02-2021||Calcutta||Online birth certificate option launched||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Saturday launched the option to apply online for birth certificates through its website, a move that is likely to help hundreds who found it difficult to visit a civic office to apply for the certificate or those who stay outside the city. Applicants have to visit the website https://www.kmcgov.in/KMCPortal/jsp/KMCPortalHome1.jsp. On the right hand side menu there is the option ‘online birth certificate’. The applicant can create an account or log in by receiving a one-time password (OTP) in the mobile phone. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) announced the launch of the system on Saturday. “People can now apply online to get a birth certificate. They can also submit the documents online. The certificates can be collected physically from our offices at a chosen date and time,” said Hakim. “Hospitals and nursing homes can also log in and enlist a child’s birth records in the new system,” Hakim added. Earlier, those applying for a birth certificate had to apply at the borough executive health officer’s office or in the headquarters of the CMC. “Usually, birth certificate records are entered in our computers within a month from the date of birth of the child. Anyone coming after that can get the birth certificate. We issue free birth certificates if the application is made within a year from the date of birth. If the application is made after a year then Rs 100 is charged for each copy,” said a senior official of the CMC. Officials of the CMC said that the online application system will allow the applicant to choose a date and time to visit the CMC as per their convenience to collect the certificate, an option that was not available earlier when the applicant had to come at the date given by civic body’s officials posted at the counter. “The payment of fees can also be made online,” said the official. During physical collection of the certificate, the applicant has to bring original documents that will be verified at the counter before the certificate is handed over, said an official. “We usually prefer that either of the parents come with their identity proof to collect the birth certificate. In case that is not possible, the parents should give an authorisation letter to the person who comes to collect the certificate,” said an official. Applicants who visit the headquarters of the CMC have to drop their applications in a drop box nowadays, a system that was introduced after the pandemic to avoid long queues that was the feature before the pandemic. The application letter must contain the applicant’s phone number. But there was no way to know if the application was being processed till the time the applicant received a call from the CMC. The online application gives a sense of assurance that the application would reach the right hands, said one official. Binod Kumar, the commissioner of the (CMC) said correction of errors can be done through the online process also. “People can apply for new birth certificates as well as for correcting errors in an existing certificate,” said Kumar. Children who are born in a hospital within the Calcutta municipal area will get the birth certificate from the CMC. “If the place of birth is in Calcutta municipal area then CMC will issue the birth certificate. The place of residence does not matter,” said one official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
07-02-2021||Calcutta||Soumen Mitra returns as city police chief, replaces Anuj Sharma ||The IPS officer who was removed from the post of Calcutta police commissioner after a 38-day stint at Lalbazar during the 2016 Assembly elections has been brought back to the chair by the Mamata Banerjee government amid another poll season. Soumen Mitra, a 1988-batch officer, has been named the new city police commissioner, replacing Anuj Sharma, a 1991-batch officer who will be the new state CID chief. The decision to shift Sharma comes at a time he was about to complete three years as the city police commissioner. The Election Commission usually transfers officers posted in operational chairs who have spent three years or more in the same post. Mitra, under whose leadership the Calcutta police force was said to have got back its “spine” and earned widespread praise in controlling the poll bullies in 2016, would be the 43rd Calcutta police commissioner. He would return to the same Lalbazar where he had earlier been police commissioner, special commissioner, additional commissioner, deputy commissioner (detective department) and deputy commissioner (detective department-special) over a period of time. He has also served in multiple posts across Bengal, including additional director-general of CID, additional director-general (training), inspector general of police (CID) and deputy inspector-general of police (CID). The transfer order came out on Saturday along with the government order for transfer of 23 other IPS officers holding key posts in the state administration. The police commissioners of Bidhannagar, Howrah and Barrackpore have also been changed. Supratim Sarkar, who was additional commissioner in Calcutta police, has been posted as Bidhannagar police commissioner; Ajay Nand, who was additional director-general (counter-intelligence force), has been posted as the new Barrackpore commissioner and C. Sudhakar, who was deputy inspector-general (Barasat range) has become Howrah police commissioner. Jawed Shamim has been posted as additional director general of police (law and order). A section of the administration feels the shuffle was made to avert the glare of the Election Commission that usually transfers officers citing their allegiance to the ruling dispensation. “If someone is posted only a few days ago, what allegations of bias can the commission possibly mount on the officers and how will they justify that anyway?” said a senior bureaucrat. Mitra, 59, is a history graduate from the erstwhile Presidency College who did his MPhil from Jawaharlal Nehru University on “the football crowds in Calcutta Maidans”. Known for his knack to spruce up buildings where he is posted, some of his colleagues recalled how Mitra had been pivotal in the renovation of the traffic building in Lalbazar, setting up the Calcutta police traffic museum and re-decorating parts of Bhabani Bhavan during his stint at the state CID. Someone who knows Mitra from his younger days shared with Metro how he had turned a boat seized with a large quantity of illicit liquor into a barb wire shelter for birds during his first posting as the SDPO Barrackpore. Another officer, who has done multiple assignments with Mitra, said his speciality has been his “human touch for the force and his eye for their welfare”. As the superintendent of police in Murshidabad, Mitra has started several developmental and welfare projects —some for the constabulary and some for the development of backward pockets known for notorious activities. “He started the Chandradip Mela in Hariharpara (one of the police station areas in Murshidabad that was infamous of violence and ganglord killings) as an annual developmental project that changed the entire area,” said a senior officer in the force. An officer described Mitra as an “enthusiastic cricketer” while another recalled his pen sketches that he would scribble “unmindfully” even when he is on the phone. Mitra, who had occupied the chair of Calcutta police commissioner once and had gained praise as an ace administrator, now faces a similar challenge of holding the Assembly polls that is almost around the corner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
07-02-2021||Calcutta||Sugata to Victoria: Some Netaji relics ‘fake’||Sugata Bose, chairman of the Netaji Research Bureau and the leader’s great-nephew, has objected to some of the exhibits at an ongoing exhibition commemorating Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary at the Victoria Memorial Hall. Bose stated in a letter to the secretary and curator of Victoria Memorial that a “fake copy” of Subhas Chandra Bose’s letter of resignation from the Indian Civil Service is being displayed at the exhibition. He has also expressed shock that Netaji Research Bureau has been mentioned as the “source” below this fake. Bose wrote that VMH “never contacted NRB for help with your exhibition” and asked on what basis has it given acknowledgments. The Gardiner Professor of oceanic history at Harvard University said the original resignation letter in Netaji’s own handwriting and signed by him was in the India Office Records of London. A photocopy of it was taken by Sisir Bose and Krishna Bose in September 1971 which is on display at Netaji Museum at Netaji Bhavan for 50 years. The letter was published in facsimile form for the first time in the book Itihasher Sandhane by Krishna Bose. Bose has urged VMH’s secretary and curator Jayanta Sengupta to take down the “fake” exhibit. Sengupta said he was away attending to a medical emergency and was not able to comment. Bose has said in the letter that the photograph of Netaji disguised as Md Ziauddin was also fake. “No photographs were taken or allowed to be taken of Netaji in disguise during his ‘mahanishkraman’ or great escape.” There is a way to display relics, said the NRB chairman. “At the museum at Netaji Bhavan, we have a photo of Netaji with Emilie Schenkl and beside it in a glass enclosure we have the black overcoat that Netaji was wearing in the photo to underline the authenticity of the relic displayed,” said Bose. Sengupta, had earlier stated: “There is a range of artefacts related to Netaji and INA at the exhibition which have been loaned from the Archaeological Survey of India museum on Netaji at the Red Fort Complex in Delhi. And there are also the original files from the National Archives of India known as Netaji Files. But the bulk of the exhibition consists of graphic panels that use facsimiles or digital reproductions of historic photographs and documents like Netaji’s many letters whose originals are with Netaji Research Bureau which houses a museum on Netaji.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
07-02-2021||Calcutta||Chakka jam: 500 people block road against farm laws||More than 500 people, most of them with roots in Punjab, blocked a stretch of road near Dankuni toll plaza on Saturday as part of a nationwide chakka jam, in support of the farmers’ demands to repeal three farm laws. The demonstrators had kept a lane of the road free for ambulances, people headed to the airport or others with any emergency. A member of the Calcutta Sikh Sangat, organisers of the blockade at Dankuni, said they also allowed cars with families to pass. The protesters even served tea to the truck drivers and others stuck in the blockade. The road blockade, held between noon and 2.30pm, was in response to a call for all-India chakka jam (road blockade) by the farmers who have been camping at Delhi’s borders for over two months demanding that the Centre take back the three farm laws. The protesters who blocked National Highway 2 in Dankuni said in their speeches during the blockade that everyone would have to pay more for their meals if the laws were implemented. There were many women and elderly in Saturday’s protests. The demonstrators came from various places. Tajinder Singh Bal, who came from Durgapur, said he was pleasantly surprised that none of those who got stuck in snarls because of the blockade were complaining. “I feel even the common people, the truck drivers and others who got stuck felt for our cause. No one requested us to let them pass,” said Tajinder, who owns nine acres of farmland at Patiala in Punjab. “The laws allow hoarding. Large corporates will hoard grains and rice and create artificial crisis. People will have to buy rice and grains at a higher cost,” Tajinder added. Along with the Tricolour, there were many yellow flags with Long live farmers’ unity written in green in the centre, at the blockade site. “Yellow is the colour of mustard flower, grown abundantly in Punjab and green symbolises the Green Revolution that was ushered in by the hard labour of the farmers,” said Ajit Singh, who came to the protest from Bhowanipore. There were placards with the words “We are farmers not terrorists”, “Farmers want reversal of new reform” written on them. One of the cars that ferried people from Calcutta to the blockade site had two loudspeakers fitted on its roof. There have been multiple rallies in Calcutta in support of the farmers’ movement since December. The rallies criss-crossed the city, with the participants carrying placards saying a nation cannot survive if its farmers were unwell. Even a religious procession of the Sikhs had some people carrying banners in support of the farmers’ movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
07-02-2021||Business||RBI, government to work together on bank privatisation, says FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said the government will work with the Reserve Bank for execution of the bank privatisation plan announced in the budget. Speaking to reporters in the financial capital, Sitharaman also said that the government has no plan to form any bank investment company to house the government stakes in banks. In the union budget presented last week, Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two banks as part of its disinvestment plan. Bank unions have opposed the move. "The details are being worked out. I have made the announcement but we are working together with the RBI," she said, when asked about the proposal. She, however, declined to comment on any specific details about which will be the candidate chosen for privatisation. "We will let you know when the government is ready to announce," she answered when asked about the details. On the bad bank, Sitharaman said the government may have to give some guarantee for the National Asset Reconstruction Company (ARC), but stressed that this is a solution which has come from the banks itself and will also be led by them. Sitharaman alleged that the banks' non-performing assets, which are to be transferred into the National ARC, are a legacy of the mismanagement in the past. There is no phone banking happening now, with favours being sought for anyone from New Delhi. On the Bank Investment Company (BIC), she said no such proposal is on the table and wondered what resulted in the discussion. "There is no such discussion. I don't know where it is coming from. At least it is not before me. I am not discussing that, she said. She said that there is a need for professionalisation of banks and the government is trying to ensure the same. The minister also said that the banks are gradually getting out of the risk aversion, which had set in during the early days of the pandemic. When asked about the ambitious divestment targets and the government's ability to push through necessary reforms to earn the projected revenues, Sitharaman exuded confidence of hitting budgetary estimates of Rs 1.75 lakh crore divestment. Sitharaman said the government stands to get up to Rs 30,000 crore from the newly introduced agricultural infrastructure cess. On the issue of fuel prices, and inflation therein because of the duties, Sitharaman said if the Centre lowers excise, states will increase their taxes to keep the prices at the same level and also earn some revenues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
07-02-2021||Business||Finance ministry additional grant leeway||The finance ministry has granted permission to Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab to borrow an additional Rs 5,034 crore for undertaking ease of doing business reforms. “Thus, these states have become eligible to mobilise additional financial resources and have been granted permission to raise additional Rs 5,034 crore through open market borrowings,” it said. With this, 12 states, including Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Telangana, have undertaken the stipulated reforms to facilitate ease of doing business. On completion of reforms facilitating ease of doing business, these 12 states have been granted additional borrowing permission of Rs 28,183 crore. In view of the resource requirement to meet the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the government had in May last year enhanced the borrowing limit of the states by 2 per cent of their GSDP. Half of this special dispensation was linked to undertaking citizen centric reforms by the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
07-02-2021||Business||Bengal-run Bhel suffers loss||State-run engineering firm Bhel on Saturday reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 217.86 crore for the October-December quarter because of lower revenues. The consolidated net profit of the firm was Rs 161.81 crore in the quarter ended December 31, 2019, a BSE filing stated. The total income of the company dipped to Rs 4,532.39 crore in the quarter from Rs 5,827.74 crore in the same period a year ago. On the impact of the pandemic, the company said, “During the quarter, the group operations recovered compared with the second quarter of 2020-21, but the pre-Covid level of operations are yet to be achieved. Based on its assessment of business/economic conditions as on date, the company expects to recover the carrying value of its assets.” JK Cement profit up 74.82% JK Cement Ltd on Saturday reported an increase of 74.82 per cent in its consolidated net profit at Rs 217.28 crore for the third quarter ended December 2020. The company had posted a profit of Rs 124.29 crore in the October-December period a year ago, JK Cement said in a regulatory filing. Birlasoft net at Rs 96 crore Birlasoft, part of the $2.4-billion diversified CK Birla Group, on Saturday reported a 32.6 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 96.3 crore for the December quarter of the ongoing financial year. The IT services company had posted a profit of Rs 72.6 crore in the year-ago period, Birlasoft said in a regulatory filing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
07-02-2021||Business||Start-up value at $180bn||India’s internet start-ups leaders that operate business ranging from food delivery, e-commerce to online insurance are now on the cusp of listing, a report said putting their combined value at $180 billion by 2025. “The growing scale and maturity of India’s internet economy is starting to create more investment opportunities. More than $60 billion has been invested in India’s internet start-ups in the past five years, with around $12 billion in 2020 alone,” HSBC Global Research said in a report of India’s internet. It put the total sector value (ex-Fintech) at $180 billion by 2025. India has 42 Unicorns and over 45 soonicorns, HSBC said. E-commerce is the largest opportunity, worth an estimated $67 billion by 2025, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
07-02-2021||Business||Case for bad bank ||The proposed bad bank could mitigate the challenge of offloading stressed assets in cases where the lending is done by a consortium of banks. Punjab National Bank managing director and CEO S. S. Mallikarjuna Rao on Saturday said the bad bank could act as an aggregator, giving prospective bidders an estimate of the stressed assets in totality from all the banks in a consortium. “At present, each bank sells its stressed loan portfolio separately to the asset reconstruction company even though the account is supervised by a consortium. This is one of the challenges which could be overcome if the bad bank comes, because it will aggregate all the stressed assets from various banks,” said Rao. He added that the provisioning requirements will go down once the assets are transferred from the books of the banks to that of the bad bank. “The balance sheet will look more clean and we will have a more realistic understanding of capital adequacy,” he said. Fund chase State-owned PNB said it planned to raise Rs 3,200 crore from share sale during the current quarter to enhance its capital base. The bank has raised Rs 3,788.04 crore from qualified institutional placement (QIP) in December following which the government holding in the bank came down to 76.87 per cent from 85.59 per cent. The bank had taken an approval to raise Rs 14,000 crore through a mix of equity and debt. According to the plan, the bank decided to raise Rs 3,000 crore from AT-1 bonds, Rs 4,000 crore from Tier-II bonds and Rs 7,000 crore from QIPs. “We have already taken Rs 4,000 crore from Tier-II and Rs 3,788 crore through QIPs at the end of December. In January, we have taken AT-1 of another Rs 500 crore. So, I am very confident that the remaining Rs 2,500 crore of additional Tier-1 bonds will be garnered before March 31,” Rao said. “We are also looking at going for the QIP again for the remaining Rs 3,200 crore to be acquired from the market at an appropriate time... it could be in this fiscal also,” he added. PNB has reported a standalone net profit of Rs 506.03 crore for the December quarter of 2020. However, he said, the current level of capital adequacy ratio is sufficient to take care of not only the requirement in the month of March 2021 but also during the next financial year. Besides, Rao said, the bank has sold some of the non-core assets, including the sale of its holding in UTI Mutual Fund. PNB on Friday reported a standalone net profit of Rs 506.03 crore for the December quarter on the back of a reduction in bad assets. It had posted a net loss of Rs 492.28 crore in the year-ago period. Total income in the quarter under review rose to Rs 23,298.53 crore against Rs 15,967.49 crore earlier. On the outlook, Rao said, the bank expects to close the current financial year with annual profit of Rs 2,000 crore. He said the bank has received debt restructuring requests worth Rs 12,000 crore. “Out of this Rs 9,000 crore was for corporates, which we have already invoked before December 31," he said, adding that the bank had earlier expected a total amount of Rs 40,000 crore to be restructured. In August, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had allowed banks to restructure some loans to support economic recovery and help businesses survive the covid-19 induced crisis. Rao said that he expected better recoveries in January. “If you remember, the last time we had given the guidance of around Rs 8,000 crore cash recovery… there are big major accounts such as Bhushan Power and in that we are anticipating cash recovery of Rs 3,800 crore," he said, adding that he expects good recovery from the DHFL account as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
07-02-2021||Business||Budget designed for new world order: Finance minister||“The budget was undertaken in circumstances like never before…” The opening statement of the finance minister in her budget speech soon moved into overdrive on her promise of a “budget like never before!” Overall, this budget has been designed for the new world order. What is heartening is that digital has been made the underlying theme of the six pillars of growth. The launch of MCA21 Version 3.0; the government's support for the development of a world-class FinTech hub at the GIFT-IFSC; the Rs 1500-crore boost to digital payments and transactions; and the outlay of Rs 50,000 crore for the National Research Foundation in next five years — these will undeniably strengthen our digital ecosystem. The increase in thresholds for both paid-up capital and turnover, and capital gains tax exemption for start-up investment are welcome steps. The move to incorporate One Person Companies to grow without any restrictions on paid-up capital and turnover, allowing their conversion into any other type of company at any time, and reducing the residency limit are big boosts for entrepreneurs. The extension of tax holiday by one more year, and the provision of Rs 15,700 crore for the MSME sector (more than double of last year) will certainly help small businesses to grow. There is a three-pronged approach to infrastructure development — creating institutional structures, monetising assets and enhancing the share of capital expenditure in central and state budgets. The push to roads, railways, power, ports, shipping and waterways, petroleum and natural gas, and urban infrastructure will create the right backbone for sustained growth and expansion of industries. Increasing the permissible FDI limit to 74 per cent in insurance companies will enthuse foreign investment. The setting up of formal umbrella structures for better synergy between research institutions, universities and colleges is a great step. The amendments to the National Apprenticeship Act will help young workers. A strong emphasis has been laid on diverse employment generation — especially for contractual, gig and platform workers. Ease of compliance is a highlight of this budget, especially the single-window compliance mechanism, simplification of the reconciliation mechanism for dispute resolution, the positive moves on direct and indirect taxes, reduction of the time-limit for re-opening of assessments, exemptions from audit and the relief measures for dividends. Keshav Murugesh is Group CEO, WNS, and former Nasscom chairman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
07-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Two teams of glaciologists will head to Joshimath-Tapovan to study causes||Two teams of glaciologists will head to Joshimath-Tapovan on Monday to study the causes of massive flood caused after a part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, the director of the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology said. Kalachand Sain said two teams of glaciologists - one with two members and other with three members - will leave Dehradun on Monday morning. The Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehradun, under the aegis of the Department of Science and Technology (DST), studies various aspects of the Himalayas, including the glaciers and seismic activities in the region. It had also conducted studies on the 2013 flash floods in Uttarakhand that killed nearly 5,000 people. "The teams will study the reasons behind the incident. Our teams will be looking into different aspects of glaciology," Sain said, adding that it is too early to comment on the development. A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, triggering an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations, leaving at least seven people dead and 125 missing who are feared dead. Sain added that the Sunday's incident was quite "peculiar" as there was no rain or melting of snow. The glacier burst led to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and caused large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
07-02-2021||India||Twitter India policy head Mahima Kaul resigns||Microblogging site Twitter’s Public Policy Head for India and South Asia, Mahima Kaul resigned on Saturday citing personal reasons, a senior official of the company said. In a statement, Monique Meche, Vice President, Twitter Public Policy, said, "At the start of this year, Mahima Kaul decided to step down from her role as Twitter Public Policy Director for India and South Asia to take a well-deserved break. It's a loss for all of us at Twitter, but after more than five years in the role, we respect her desire to focus on the most important people and relationships in her personal life." The centre has served a showcause notice to the company for "unilaterally" unblocking around 250 accounts that had been tweeting using hashtag ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide over the ongoing farmers' agitation. The Twitter handles had been tweeting or retweeting "fake, intimidatory and provocative tweets", according to the government. The handles of Caravan magazine and Kisan Ekta Morcha were among those withheld. The accounts of farmers’ group Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta Ugrahan were also blocked. Twitter has said Kaul’s resignation is not related to the Centre’s action. Prior to her resignation, Kaul has been allegedly blocking users who tagged her in posts asking her about Twitter’s pro-government stand. Facebook’s India policy head Ankhi Das had also quit after the company’s handling of hate speech was questioned. Facebook had denied any link to her resignation and the controversy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
07-02-2021||India||Green experts point at increased human intervention in Himalayan region||Increasing human intervention in ecologically sensitive Himalayan region is making it more vulnerable to climate change, environment experts said on Sunday as a glacier broke off at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, triggering massive flood in the state. The glacier burst triggered a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and caused large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of Himalayas. Over 150 labourers working at a power project in Tapovan-Reni are feared dead, an Indo-Tibetan Border Police spokesperson said while quoting the project-in charge. Three bodies have been recovered so far. “It is an unfortunate incident. Our thoughts are with the missing construction workers and affected people of Uttarakhand. While the exact cause of this incident is yet to be ascertained and needs an honest investigation, it is evident that increasing human interventions in ecologically sensitive Himalayan region are making it more vulnerable to climate change.” “Heavy construction work in the fragile eco-sensitive zones should be avoided,” Avinash Chanchal, senior climate and energy campaigner, Greenpeace India said. Another expert, Anjal Prakash, one of the lead authors of a special report on oceans and cryosphere of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), said while it was too early to explain the cause of the devastation, prima facie it seemed to be due to climate change and global warming which has become an alarming and irreversible situation now. He also said that the Himalayan region is the least monitored region and requires the government to spend more resources in tracking these areas closely so that there is more awareness. Himalayan region is the least monitored region and this event actually shows how vulnerable we could be. I would request the government to spend more resources in monitoring the region better so that we have more information about the change process. The result would be that we are more aware and could develop better adaptation practices, Prakash, who is also a Research Director and Adjunct Associate Professor at the Indian School of Business (ISB), Hyderabad, said. Terming the glacier burst as a rare incident, Mohd Farooq Azam, Assistant Professor, Glaciology and Hydrology, IIT Indore said satellite and Google Earth images do not show a glacial lake near the region, but there is a possibility of a water pocket. "It is a rare incident for a glacial burst to happen. Satellite and Google Earth images do not show a glacial lake near the region, but there is a possibility that there may be a water pocket in the region. Water pockets are lakes inside the glaciers, which may have erupted leading to this event. We need further analysis, weather reports and data to confirm if this indeed was the case, he said. Azam further said the thermal profile of ice is increasing, as earlier the temperature of ice ranged from -6 to -20 degree Celsius, it is now -2 degrees, making it more susceptible to melting. It is unlikely that this was a cloud burst since weather reports in Chamoli district show sunny weather till today with no record of precipitation. There is no doubt that global warming has resulted in the warming of the region. Climate change-driven erratic weather patterns like increased snowfall and rainfall, and warmer winters have led to the melting point of a lot of snow, he said. Greenpeace India's Chanchal said there was a need to rethink about the current development model for the Himalayan region. In 2013, Uttarakhand saw similar incident because of glacial lake outburst flood (GLOF). Researchers said this happened because of global warming which is leading to melting glaciers. They also had warned that such events might happen more frequently in the future. To tackle this, we need to rethink the current development model for the Himalayan region. It cannot happen at the cost of environment and local communities, Chanchal said. According to official sources, several districts in Uttarakhand, including Pauri, Tehri, Rudraprayag, Haridwar and Dehradun, are likely to be affected and have been put on high alert. Pointing out the findings of a recent report of Hindu Kush Himalayan Monitoring and Assessment Programme (HIMAP), Prakash said temperatures are rising in the Hindu Kush Himalayan region so the impact in this area will be more. The HIMAP report facilitated by ICIMOD (International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development) shows that temperatures are rising in the Hindu-Kush Himalayan (HKH) region and the rise in global temperature will have more impact in the Himalayan region due to elevation-dependent warming. If the world can keep the temperature rise to below 1.5 degrees Celsius in the HKH region, it will translate to at least a rise of 1.8 degrees, and in some places, above 2.2 degrees Celsius, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
07-02-2021||India||Glacier bursts in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district triggering an avalanche||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
07-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand flood: 2019 study warned Himalayan glaciers melting at alarming speed||A part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday, leading to massive floods, recalling a 2019 study that warned about the dangers of climate change and said Himalayan glaciers have been melting twice as fast since the start of this century. The glacier collapse at Joshimath led to a massive flood in the Alaknanda river system and caused large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. Two years earlier in June 2019, a study spanning 40 years of satellite observations across India, China, Nepal and Bhutan, indicated that climate change is eating the Himalayas’ glaciers. The study, published in the journal Science Advances in June 2019, shows that glaciers have been losing the equivalent of more than a vertical foot and half of ice each year since 2000 - double the amount of melting that took place from 1975 to 2000. “This is the clearest picture yet of how fast Himalayan glaciers are melting over this time interval, and why,” said Joshua Maurer, a PhD candidate at Columbia University in the US. While not specifically calculated in the study, the glaciers may have lost as much as a quarter of their enormous mass over the last four decades, said Maurer, lead author of the study. The study synthesised data from across the region, stretching from early satellite observations to the present. The data indicates that the melting is consistent in time and space, and that rising temperatures are to blame, the researchers said. Temperatures vary from place to place, but from 2000 to 2016 they have averaged one degree Celsius higher than those from 1975 to 2000, they said. Researchers analysed repeat satellite images of some 650 glaciers spanning 2,000 kilometres from west to east. Many of the 20th-century observations came from declassified photographic images taken by the US spy satellites. They created an automated system to turn these into three dimensional (3D) models that could show the changing elevations of glaciers over time. The researchers then compared these images with post-2000 optical data from more sophisticated satellites, which more directly convey elevation changes. They found that from 1975 to 2000, glaciers across the region lost an average of about 0.25 metres of ice each year in the face of slight warming. Following a more pronounced warming trend starting in the 1990s, starting in 2000 the loss accelerated to about half a metre annually. Researchers noted that Asian nations are burning ever-greater loads of fossil fuels and biomass, sending soot into the sky, adding much of it eventually lands on snowy glacier surfaces, where it absorbs solar energy and hastens melting. They compiled temperature data during the study period from ground stations and then calculated the amount of melting that observed temperature increases would be expected to produce. The team then compared those figures with what actually happened. “It looks just like what we would expect if warming were the dominant driver of ice loss,” Maurer said. The Himalayas are generally not melting as fast as the Alps, but the general progression is similar, the researchers said. The study did not include the huge adjoining ranges of high-mountain Asia such as the Pamir, Hindu Kush or Tian Shan, but other studies suggest similar melting is underway there as well. The researchers noted that some 800 million people depend in part on seasonal runoff from Himalayan glaciers for irrigation, hydropower and drinking water. The accelerated melting appears so far to be swelling runoff during warm seasons, but scientists project that this will taper off within decades as the glaciers lose mass. This, the researchers said, will eventually lead to water shortages. The study shows that “even glaciers in the highest mountains of the world are responding to global air temperature increases driven by the combustion of fossil fuels,” said Joseph Shea, a glacial geographer at the University of Northern British Columbia in Canada, who was not involved in the study. “In the long term, this will lead to changes in the timing and magnitude of streamflow in a heavily populated region,” said Shea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
07-02-2021||India||Instead of 'tareekh par tareekh' it should be 'prastav par prastav': Piyush Goyal||Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday said the government is ready to resume talks with the farmers protesting the new farm laws but asserted that despite repeated proposals, the protesters have not come up with any "concrete suggestion" so far.  Reiterating Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to farmer unions that the government was "just a phone away" to discuss any issues raised by them, Goyal said "but for that somebody at least has to make a call so that we can move forward."  "This government is sensitive towards farmers' issues. The PM and the government is ready to discuss it with them. The PM even said he was just a phone call away, but somebody at least has to call so that we can move forward," the minister said during a press conference here.  He added that the farmers were being misled on a few issues and some people have been successful at confusing them.  "We even proposed to make the laws stricter through change of wordings, we proposed to suspend the laws for 18 months. We keep reading in the news 'tareekh par tareekh' (date after date) but it should be 'prastav par prastav' (proposal after proposal). But we are yet to hear a concrete suggestion from the farmers," said Goyal, who is also the minister of Railways and Commerce and Industry.  The government has held 11 rounds of talks with farmer leaders, the last one being held on January 22 before the tractor parade on January 26 which ended in violent clashes between the police and the protestors.  The minister also condemned the act of hoisting a religious flag at the Red Fort during the tractor parade on Republic Day, calling it "unfortunate", while insisting that the government was ready to move past that and find a solution through dialogue.  He added that when the government brings a bill it is for the benefit of the people and if anyone has issues with it, they should bring it up instead of depriving others of it.  "There are crores of farmers in India, these laws will benefit them, especially the small farmers. We have looked into how to improve their income. We understand these will only benefit the farmer, if you have issues we can discuss but why deprive the rest of them from its benefits," the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||PM approves Rs 2 lakh ex gratia for kin of those dead||The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Sunday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the avalanche caused by a glacial burst in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. The PMO also mentioned that Rs 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured. A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday, triggering an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations and trapped over 100 labourers who are feared dead. “PM Narendra Modi has approved an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from PMNRF (Prime Minister's National Relief Fund) for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the tragic avalanche caused by a Glacier breach in Chamoli, Uttrakhand. Rs 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured,” the PMO tweeted. The sudden flood in the middle of the day in the Dhauli Ganga, Rishi Ganga and Alaknanda rivers - all intricately linked tributaries of the Ganga - triggered widespread panic and large-scale devastation in the high mountain areas. Two power projects NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project and the Rishi Ganga Hydel Project were extensively damaged with scores of labourers trapped in tunnels as the waters came rushing in. Sixteen men were rescued safely from a tunnel in the Tapovan project but about 125 were still missing. As night fell in the ecologically fragile Himalayas and rescue work in the difficult to access areas became more difficult, there were fears they may be dead. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said seven bodies were recovered and at least 125 were missing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||Narendra Modi accuses Bengal government of misgovernance ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday slammed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for not implementing several central schemes in Bengal, saying people expected her to show 'mamta' (affection) but got 'nirmamta' (cruelty). At his first public rally in the poll-bound state here, Modi tore into the TMC government, accusing it of "corruption and misgovernance", and said the ruling dispensation committed "several fouls" in the last 10 years because of which the people have decided to oust it from power. "Bengal expected 'mamta' (affection) from Mamata Banerjee but got 'nirmamta' (cruelty) in the last 10 years... The TMC government is just a rebirth of the misrule of the Left Front government in the state," he said. Mocking Mamata for getting angry over slogans of 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai', Modi wondered why she remained silent when conspiracies were hatched to malign the country. "She gets angry when she hears slogans hailing the motherland. She gets angry when you demand your rights. But she remains silent when conspiracies are hatched to malign the nation," he said. "There are some conspirators who're trying to destroy India's image associated with tea and yoga-- made famous by iconic Indians-- all across the world. Has Didi spoken anything about these conspirators? The country will respond to such conspiracies with all force at its command," he said. Accusing the TMC of criminalising politics, institutionalising corruption and politicising civil administration and police, he exuded confidence of forming the next government in Bengal. "The people of Bengal have made up their mind to elect a BJP government in the next assembly polls. In the first cabinet meeting of the BJP government, a decision will be taken to implement all central schemes in the state," he asserted. PM inaugurates host of project in poll-bound state Modi also dedicated to the nation several infrastructure projects in the oil and gas sector in this port town on Sunday, including the ambitious 348-km Dobhi-Durgapur natural gas pipeline built by government-owned GAIL. The prime minister said that apart from laying gas pipelines across the country under the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga Project, focus is on reducing the price of natural gas. He also inaugurated an LPG import terminal of Bharat Petroleum, besides a four-lane road overbridge at Ranichak in Haldia as part of the port connectivity highway project. He also laid the foundation stone for the second catalytic dewaxing unit of IOC at Haldia refinery. "Gas-based economic systems are India's need and 'One nation one gas grid' is an important project to meet this requirement," Modi said. He said that apart from Bengal, the Dobhi- Durgapur gas pipeline will benefit 10 districts in Jharkhand and Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||President, VP, other leaders condole 'shocking' Uttarakhand floods||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday said he was deeply worried about the massive glacier burst at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district and prayed for the wellbeing and safety of people. In a tweet, Kovind also said he was confident that rescue and relief operations on ground are progressing well. "Deeply worried about the glacier burst near Joshimath, Uttarakhand, that caused destruction in the region. Praying for wellbeing and safety of people. Am confident that rescue and relief operations on ground are progressing well," he tweeted. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday prayed for the safety of those affected. "I join the nation in praying for the safety of all those affected by the flash flood caused by a glacier burst in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. The vice president said he is sure that the state and central governments are trying their best to mitigate the crisis. PM Narendra Modi tweeted, "Am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation in Uttarakhand. India stands with Uttarakhand and the nation prays for everyone's safety there. Have been continuously speaking to senior authorities and getting updates on NDRF deployment, rescue work and relief operations.” Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and assured him of all possible support to deal with the situation arising from the glacier burst and the resulting floods. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah also said teams of the NDRF were deployed for rescue and relief operations of the affected people while additional troops of the force were being airlifted from Delhi. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said she was deeply shocked over the disaster. "Deeply shocked and very saddened at the loss of lives in the disaster that took place in Uttarakhand. My deepest condolences to the families of the deceased. Wishing a speedy and full recovery for those injured in the calamity," she said on Twitter. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government is ready to extend every possible help to the people of Uttarakhand. "The news about the disaster in Chamoli is really worrisome. I pray for everybody's safety. The Delhi government is ready to send every possible help to people of Uttarakhand in this difficult time," he tweeted in Hindi. A part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, leading to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and causing large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. Over 150 labourers working at a power project in Tapovan-Reni are feared dead, an Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) spokesperson said while quoting the project-in charge. Three bodies were recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||India after US, UK in terms of number of vaccines administered||India has become the third topmost country in the world in terms of the number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. Only the United States and the United Kingdom remain ahead of India. The ministry said 12 states in India have vaccinated more than 2 lakh beneficiaries each. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 6,73,542 of all vaccinated beneficiaries. Till February 7, 8 am, a total of 57.75 lakh beneficiaries have received the vaccine under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise. The cumulative vaccination coverage includes 53,04,546 healthcare workers and 4,70,776 frontline workers, the ministry said. In a span of 24 hours, 3,58,473 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 8,875 sessions. Also, a total 1,15,178 sessions have been conducted so far. "There has been a sustained increase in the number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day," the ministry said. "In another significant development, the country has reported less than 80 daily deaths in the last 24 hours, lowest in nine months," it said. The country's total Covid-19 active case is 1.48 lakh which consists of 1.37 per cent of India's total infections. India's cumulative recoveries surged to 1.05 crore. A total of 12,059 new daily cases have been recorded in a span of 24 hours whereas 11,805 patients have recovered and discharged during the same period. The ministry said 81.07 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6 states and UTs. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 6,178 newly recovered cases. A total of 1,739 people recovered in Maharashtra in a span of 24 hours followed by 503 in Tamil Nadu. The ministry said 84.83 per cent of the daily new cases are from 6 States and UTs. Kerala reports the highest daily new cases at 5,942. It is followed by Maharashtra with 2,768, while Karnataka reported 531 new cases. A total of 78 fatalities have been recorded in a span of 24 hours. Five states and UTs account for 69.23 per cent of the daily deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (25). Kerala follows with 16 daily deaths and Punjab reported 5 casualties, the ministry said. Seventeen states and UTs have not reported any deaths in a span of 24 hours. These include Haryana, Goa, Jammu and Kashmir (UT), Jharkhand, Puducherry, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Lakshadweep, Assam, Manipur, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Ladakh (UT), Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||Ladakh inks MoU with ONGC Energy Centre to become carbon-neutral||A historic tripartite agreement for establishing India's first-ever geothermal field development project here has been signed, with Ladakh Lieutenant Governor R K Mathur terming it a step towards achieving the goal of carbon-neutral Ladakh. The pact was signed between Union Territory Administration Ladakh, Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Leh and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) Energy Centre in presence of Mathur and MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal on the sidelines of the first developmental conclave here on Saturday, an official spokesperson said. Ladakh Power Development Department Administrative Secretary Ravinder Kumar and LAHDC Chief Executive Officer Sachin Kumar Vaishya signed the memorandum of understanding (MoU) with ONGC Energy Centre. In Phase-1 of this pilot project, 1 megawatt (MW) power generation capacity shall be generated and 100 per cent free power shall be supplied to the general public, the spokesperson said adding that ONGC Energy Centre is the implementing agency for this pilot project. The Phase-2 shall involve deeper and lateral exploration of geothermal reservoir by drilling optimal number of wells and setting up of a higher capacity demo plant in Ladakh, while Phase-3 shall be a commercial project as per discovered capacity, the spokesperson said. "The signing of the MoU with ONGC for the first geothermal project in India is a promising initiative towards innovative and sustainable development of Ladakh and also a step towards achieving the goal of carbon-neutral Ladakh," the lieutenant governor said. He stressed the need to study and learn from other countries about developing tourism and greenhouses around the geothermal project. Mathur thanked ONGC Energy Centre for commencing the geothermal project in Ladakh and urged it to execute the project at the earliest and ramp it up to 200 MW capacity for greater benefit. Giving a description of the pilot project, ONGC Energy Centre Director General Sanjeev S Katti said the energy from this project will give round-the-clock power supplies and the hot water from the spring could be used for space-heating and establishing hot swimming pools to attract tourists. Namgyal thanked Mathur for helping Ladakh enter a new era of development and emphasised on advocating the 'Vocal for Local' concept for making Ladakh a self-sustainable region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||Modi launches Assam Mala scheme, says he dreams of launching medical college||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday he has a dream of setting up at least one medical college and a technical institution in each state that will impart education in the local language. He was addressing a gathering after launching the 'Assam Mala' scheme to upgrade state highways and laying the foundation for two medical colleges. "There is no dearth of talent in the villages and far-flung areas. I have a daring dream of each state having at least one medical college and a technical institution imparting education in the local language," he said, promising setting up such institutions in Assam after the assembly elections. He said this will improve medical services in remote areas as more and more doctors will be able to reach out to people in their mother tongue and understand their problems. The two medical colleges and hospitals will come up in Biswanath and Charaideo districts. He claimed Assam has witnessed unprecedented development in the last five years with increased health and infrastructure development. Until 2016 there were only six medical colleges in the state but six more were added in just five years. The number of seats in medical colleges have gone up from 725 to 1,600 now, he said. The prime minister said the 'Asom Mala' scheme will lead to creation of new oppurtunities. Under the scheme the Public Works Department (PWD) will upgrade the state highways. Modi said he always linked the condition of tea garden workers to the development of Assam. "But documents have emerged to show that a conspiracy has been hatched outside the country to defame Indian tea. I am sure the tea workers from Assam will give a befitting reply to these forces," he said without elaborating. The Asom Mala scheme, with an outlay of Rs 8,210 crore, will provide inter-linkage between highways and rural roads and high speed corridors. The Medical College and Hospital at Biswanath will be set up at an estimated cost of Rs 565 crore and Rs 557 crore will be spent on the facility at Charaideo. They will have 100 seats each and serve as hubs of medical education and also improve doctor to patient ratio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||U'khand glacier burst leaves seven dead, at least 125 missing||Seven bodies were recovered and at least 125 people went missing following a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river which broke a part of the Nanda Devi glacier at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, causing large-scale devastation and a massive avalanche in the Alaknanda river system. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the numbers could be higher and announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the next of kin of those killed in the "massive disaster". Hydel power projects devastated Two power projects - NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project and the Rishi Ganga Hydel Project - were extensively damaged with scores of labourers trapped in tunnels as the waters and sludge came rushing in. Seven bodies have been recovered from one of the tunnels in Tapovan and a search for the rest of the missing people is underway by Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel, Rawat said on his return from a visit to the affected areas. He said at least 125 people including two policemen were missing and the numbers could be higher as authorities of the damaged hydel projects are not in a position to give a precise figure. A 13.2 MW small hydro project on the Rishiganga river was swept away in the glacier burst, but there is no danger of floods in the downstream areas as the water level has been contained. This was conveyed to the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC), headed by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, at an emergency meeting held here on Sunday evening. The extent of damage to the two hydel projects is being assessed by their management, he said. Rescue operations The NCMC was also informed that people trapped in a hydropower project tunnel were rescued by the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), while efforts are on to rescue those trapped in another tunnel. The operation is being coordinated by the Army and the ITBP, an official spokesperson said. Two teams of the NDRF (35-45 personnel each) have been sent and three additional teams have been flown in from Hindon airport in Ghaziabad. All efforts are focussed at the moment to pull out those feared trapped inside the other tunnels that are clogged with 35-40 feet of debris, Rawat said. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and the National Disaster Response Force personnel have penetrated up to 150 metres into the 250-metre-long tunnel but they have not been able to contact any of the trapped employees or workmen, he said. Roads and bridges damaged One motorable road and four suspension bridges connecting 7-8 villages in the area with the district headquarters have also been washed away by the avalanche. The disconnected villages include Gahar, Bhangyun, Raini Palli, Pang Lata, Suraithota, Tolma and Fagrasu. Arrangements have been made to continue uninterrupted supplies of essentials to these villages, Rawat said. Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadoriya and Superintendent of Police P Yashwant Singh Chauhan are camping at the site, the chief minister said. There are 17 gram sabha areas affected by the avalanche, out of which 11 are inhabited while the residents of the rest had moved to lower areas during the winter, Rawat said. All arrangements are in place to deal with any eventuality including IAF and private helicopters which are on stand-by. Centre assures help Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Rawat and assured him of all possible support to deal with the situation arising from the glacier burst and the resulting floods. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah also said teams of the NDRF were deployed for rescue and relief operations of the affected people while additional troops of the force were being airlifted from Delhi. "I have spoken to Chief Minister @tsrawatbjp ji, DG ITBP and DG NDRF regarding the natural disaster in Uttarakhand. All the concerned officers are working on a war footing to secure the people. NDRF teams have left for rescue operations. Every possible help will be provided to 'Devbhoomi'," he said. Shah said the central government is constantly monitoring the situation in Uttarakhand. "Some more teams of NDRF are being airlifted from Delhi and sent to Uttarakhand. We are constantly monitoring the situation there," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||Covid: 78 fatalities in a day, lowest in nine months||India's tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 1,08,26,363 with 12,059 new infections being reported in a day, while the daily deaths fell below 100 for the third time this month, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,54,996 with 78 daily new fatalities, the lowest recorded after nine months, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,05,22,601, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.20 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,48,766 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.37 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore mark on December 19. According to ICMR, 20,13,68,378 samples have been tested up to February 6 with 6,95,789 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||One month after being detained, Munawar Faruqui released from Indore jail||Stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui walked out of Indore central jail late on Saturday night, a day after the Supreme Court granted him bail in a case for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. Faruqui was released from the jail after the prison authorities received the order of the Supreme Court, an official of the jail said. Arrested for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, Faruqui was lodged  in Indore jail since January 1. On Friday, the Supreme Court granted him interim bail after the Madhya Pradesh High Court had rejected his bail plea on January 28. The Apex court also stayed the production warrant issued against Faruqui by a court in Prayagraj in connection with an FIR lodged there. Eyewitnesses said that the comedian walked out of the jail silently and quietly possibly to avoid a backlash in the wake of accusations made against him. Mediapersons also flocked outside the jail after getting the news of his release. Sometime before his release, an official of the Indore central jail, had said that a court in Prayagraj had ordered Faruqui's production in a similar case on February 18. Citing the jail manual, he said that an order from the Prayagraj court or a competent government officer was needed to release him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||For talks to resume, end repression: Farm leaders to Govt||Amid informal feelers from the government on resuming talks, farmer union leaders on Saturday said a conducive atmosphere should be created first by ending the repression, including the Internet ban, withdrawing fake cases and putting an end to the false narrative being spun around the movement. The union leaders addressed a news conference from the Singhu border after the completion of the nationwide chakka jam that was largely peaceful and drew participation from beyond the northern states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, with farmers blocking highways in Hyderabad and Karnataka. The union leaders described the widespread participation as a fitting response to the Centre’s claim that the protest was limited to one state — Punjab. In particular, the union leaders are upset with agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar for “lying” in Parliament and claiming that farmer unions had not pointed out what was “black” (wrong) with the three new farm laws. During the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President’s address in the Rajya Sabha on Friday, Tomar had said the farm laws were an issue in only one state. He had added that neither the Opposition nor the farmer unions had explained what was wrong with the laws that the protesters had dubbed “black”. “This is nothing but an outright lie,” a union leader said, pointing not just to the chakka jam by farmers in various states on Saturday but also to half-a-dozen state legislatures having either passed resolutions against the farm laws or come out with their own laws to counter them. While Delhi, Kerala, Punjab and Bengal have passed resolutions against the three laws, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh have enacted their own laws as a counter. Balkaran Singh Brar of the All India Kisan Sabha (Punjab) said Tomar was misrepresenting facts in Parliament. “He said something else during the 11 meetings with farmers and something else in Parliament to paint us in a poor light.” Others asked why the government had agreed to the amendments if the laws were perfect. Asserting that the farmers were determined to continue with the agitation till their demands were met, Kirti Kisan Union (Punjab) president Dattar Singh said: “On the one hand, the government says it is willing to talk and on the other, it claims that the farmers have nothing to say. They should create a conducive atmosphere first. They should drop the false cases against the farmers, release those they have arrested on trumped-up charges, end the repression at the protest sites and restore the Internet.” Earlier, at the Ghazipur border, Rakesh Tikait had again made it clear that the farmers were prepared to continue their agitation till October 2, after which a new strategy would be drawn up. He asked the farmers to follow the method of rotation adopted by Punjab farmers at Singhu to keep the movement energetic, with fresh batches coming from the villages at regular intervals to replace those at the protest site. Instead of everyone converging at Ghazipur, Tikait said, those back home should remain on alert to move towards Delhi at short notice the way they had done on January 28. With the government persistently trying to project the farmers’ protest as “anti-national”, Tikait has now asked the farmers to join the protests with pictures of their family members in the armed services and the police in the spirit of “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan”, echoing the refrain that the average soldier is a farmer in uniform. In a statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha —which had given the chakka jam call to protest the repression and the cut in the agricultural budget and demand the repeal of the three laws — said farmers had participated even in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, besides Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala. In Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, there was participation despite the late Friday evening decision by Tikait to exempt the two states, fearing efforts to orchestrate violence to discredit the movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Meena Harris highlights Indian woman and trade unionist’s plight||A tweet by American activist Meenakshi “Meena” Harris, niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris, has drawn public attention to the arrest of a young Indian woman and trade unionist who was agitating against erratic wage payment in an industrial cluster near Delhi. Nodeep Kaur, arrested on January 12 after a demonstration in front of metal-cutting firm Sharan Elecmech in Haryana’s Kundli Industrial Area, faces charges of attempt to murder, extortion and other offences and has twice been refused bail. The cluster is close to the farmers’ Singhu protest site, where she has delivered speeches. Meena Harris has expressed support for the agitating farmers and been vocal about the misogynist online trolling she has since faced from Right-wing Indians. On Saturday she tweeted two photos, one of a Hindu extremist group burning her picture on Thursday and the other of a girl holding a poster for Kaur’s release at a protest on Wednesday. “Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India,” Harris tweeted. “I’ll tell you — 23 yo (year old) labor rights activist Nodeep Kaur was arrested, tortured… in police custody. She’s been detained without bail for over 20 days,” Harris added, mentioning a charge that does not permit under law identification of the victim in India. The police of Sonipat, Haryana, issued a statement on Saturday that did not mention Harris but denied the specific charge. According to the police, seven of their personnel were injured by the protesting workers, including Kaur, a Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan activist. She was arrested from the spot on January 12 and is in Karnal district jail. A January 17 statement by a rights group, Campaign Against State Repression, said that Kaur — who is from a poor Dalit family of activist peasants in Punjab’s Muktsar district — was thrashed in police custody and specified injuries. In response to a question on the charge levelled by Harris, Kaur’s lawyer Jitendar Kumar told The Telegraph on Saturday: “She was beaten up…. She was present at the protest in front of the factories when police did a lathi charge. When she tried to defend herself, she was arrested and booked.” Kaur’s photo has been displayed at the anti-farm-law protests, and farmer leaders have called for her release. An interview she gave at the Singhu protest was widely circulated after her arrest. In the video, tweeted by several people including poet Rupi Kaur, Nodeep Kaur says: “Farmers and labourers are inseparable. We are both producers. Workers produce in the factories and farmers produce in the fields…. We are both constantly being pushed backwards. The government is selling us, our rights, to make money for themselves.” She goes on to castigate privatisation and the violation of minimum-wage laws at Haryana’s factories. “Women are even more oppressed than men, be it in the fields or the factories,” she says. “When a revolutionary organisation speaks out against the government, there are other things that happen like a change in mindset. That’s why we ask more women to join us.” Kaur had begun working as a daily wage earner in Kundli a few years ago to save up to enrol in Delhi University, where her sister Rajveer is doing her PhD in Punjabi. Kaur had not been employed for the past few months since joining the farmers’ protest at Singhu. The Sonipat police’s statement came ostensibly in response to a report by the “Sikh Press Association” that said Kaur had been assaulted in custody. Apart from denying the charge, the police shared videos of the workers clashing with personnel on January 12. “From the police station, she (Kaur) was taken to Civil Hospital, Sonipat, on the same day after her arrest for the mandatory medical examination. Here again she was escorted by two lady personnel the entire time,” the statement says. “At the Civil Hospital, she underwent not just a general medical examination but also a special medical examination by a lady doctor… where she herself gave a written statement to the female doctor that she doesn’t want to be medically examined as she had not been assaulted. “Immediately after the medical examination, she was presented before the chief judicial magistrate within a few hours of arrest to seek judicial remand. Notably, she was again escorted by two lady police officials for this purpose. Here again, she did not disclose/ mention anything about any assault by police officials to the magistrate. “As per the directions of the magistrate, she was taken to Karnal jail that very night, accompanied by two lady police officials, for judicial custody. And she has been staying there for the past three weeks. “It is pertinent to mention that police did not seek any police remand in the case and the accused was arrested, produced in court and sent to jail on the same day within a matter of a few hours following due procedure under law.” Informal workers in India last year witnessed an average 22.6 per cent fall in wages, while formal-sector employees had their salaries cut by 3.6 per cent, according to the International Labour Organisation. Its report, released in December, said that real wage growth in India was one of the lowest in the Asia Pacific.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir schools seek 4G loss apology from Centre||Jammu and Kashmir’s private schools on Saturday sought an apology from the government for depriving the region’s students of high-speed Internet for 18 months, underlining the academic loss and mental trauma it had caused to tens of thousands of youngsters. Expressing surprise that certain dignitaries had lauded the government for restoring 4G on Friday night as though it was a favour, the schools asked who would compensate for the academic years and jobs lost. “When a small road is dug up or there is interruption in TV services, even the contractor or operator says ‘Sorry for inconvenience’,” the Private Schools Association of Jammu and Kashmir, which represents hundreds of schools, said. “But here, the high-speed Internet service was cut off for 18 months for millions of people and there was not even a murmur or sadness in their words.” The schools’ association added: “The government could have shown a small courtesy by announcing its restoration with a small apology.” High-speed Internet had stayed suspended in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370 provisions on August 5, 2019. All these months, educational institutions in the region had remained shut except for a few days, first because of a government clampdown and then the pandemic. Along with many other institutions and individuals, the schools had fought unsuccessfully to have high-speed Internet restored so that online classes could be held. Last month, the association had approached the Supreme Court, describing how students had “already lost two academic years because it is impossible to conduct online classes using videoconferencing tools like Zoom or WebEx at 2G mobile Internet speed”. It had said the prolonged school closure had prompted the local board to reduce the syllabus by 40 per cent for the annual exams but no such concession was available at national-level competitive exams. “Many students have been forced to leave their families and live outside Jammu and Kashmir to prepare for competitive exams. Those without such privilege are left to compete with students from the rest of (the) country on an unequal field,” the petition said. Association head G.N. Var said those celebrating the restoration of 4G and thanking the government were rubbing salt into the students’ wounds. “Why should it be celebrated? They are trying to show they have done some favour to us,” Var told The Telegraph. Several dignitaries including lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha have thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for the restoration of 4G but expressed no regrets over its long suspension. “I thank the Hon’ble PM @narendramodi Ji and HM @AmitShah Ji for acceding to our request and restoring 4G services in the entire J&K UT. The move will fulfil the aspirations of the people, particularly the youth,” Sinha’s office has tweeted. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah has tweeted “4G Mubarak.... Better late than never”, and BJP ally Altaf Bukhari has thanked Modi. Var said many students were suffering from stress, anxiety and depression. “You have students who purchased the study material for online classes but could not download it. The online classes were characterised by repeated buffering, all of which takes a toll,” he said, adding he feared an outbreak of post-traumatic stress disorder. “One cannot undo the huge psychological and academic loss caused by 18 months of Internet ban. But another aspect of it was the financial loss, which the government should consider for compensation. Similarly, thousands of jobs and thousands of opportunities for our students were lost because of the Internet blockade.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Union Budget 2021: Modi govt cuts defence pension allocation for this fiscal year||The Narendra Modi government has cut its defence pension allocation in this year’s budget, angering ex-servicemen who were expecting an increased outlay in keeping with the one-rank-one-pension (Orop) scheme’s requirement of five-yearly pension revisions, already delayed by a year. Retired officers said the country’s more than 30.5 lakh ex-servicemen felt cheated by a government that habitually hails the army to underline its nationalistic credentials. They now feared that let alone an increased pension, they might not even receive their arrears from previous years. “The government had earlier cheated ex-servicemen by failing to implement Orop in letter and spirit (by balking at yearly pension revisions). It has now reduced the pension bill in this year’s budget. Neither jawan nor kisan is happy with this government,” a former army commander told The Telegraph, requesting anonymity. Orop had been a longstanding demand from ex-servicemen seeking pension parity between those who had retired with the same rank and same length of service, irrespective of when they retired — with any future hikes for recent pensioners “automatically” passing on to their older peers. While the Manmohan Singh government kept stalling, Modi had during the 2014 election campaign promised to implement the demand. His government introduced Orop in 2015 but stipulated parity-restoring revisions every five years, disappointing the veterans who wanted annual revisions. While last year’s budget set aside Rs 133,804 crore for defence pensions in its budget, the allocation for 2021-22 is Rs 115,826 crore, a fall of more than 13.4 per cent. Even the actual spending in 2019-20 on defence pensions was higher than this year’s budget allocation. (See chart) Defence ministry officials said the pension bill had been inflated last year to pay arrears of about Rs 18,000 crore, so the allocation was essentially the same this year. Told that this year’s allocation suggested the government would not implement the five-yearly revision — already due last year — they said Orop was draining the exchequer and coming in the way of buying military hardware and executing modernisation programmes. “The defence pension bill has more than doubled from Rs 55,000 crore in 2015, and is threatening to overtake the salary bill for serving personnel,” a ministry official said. “The government has realised that its decision to implement Orop has boomeranged. This was why the UPA had dragged its feet on the matter.” A serving army official too said: “The rise in pension expenditure has hobbled the modernisation of the armed forces amid the border standoff with China. The government has realised it and slashed the pension budget.” But the veterans are unhappy. A retired officer said that had the five-yearly revision taken place, the government would have had to cough up an additional Rs 8,000-10,000 crore each year. “Orop is another jumla (wordplay) by the government,” he said. A retired colonel said: “It’s clear that the plank of Balakot-driven muscular nationalism was meant only to win votes. This government has cheated ex-servicemen by not even revising the pensions as promised.” Overall, this year’s defence outlay is Rs 4.78 lakh crore, up from Rs 4.71 lakh crore last year. The allocation for capital expenditure is Rs 1.35 lakh core, up 19 per cent from last year’s Rs 1.13 lakh crore. A recent proposal by the department of military affairs, headed by the Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, to raise the retirement age for officers and reduce pension for those choosing premature retirement too has angered serving and retired personnel. Defence ministry sources said the proposal is to raise the retirement age from 54 to 57 for colonels, from 56 to 58 for brigadiers, and from 58 to 59 for major generals. Lieutenant generals’ retirement age remains 60. Army sources said the main cause of the resentment was the suggestion to cut the pension entitlement of those seeking premature release. Now, an officer can seek premature release after having served 20 years and is entitled to a pension that is half his or her last-drawn salary. Under the new proposal, an officer with 20-25 years of service will get 50 per cent of the “entitled pension”, which in turn is half the last pay drawn. An officer with 26-30 years’ service will get 60 per cent of the “entitled pension” and one with 30-35 years will get 75 per cent. Only officers who have served more than 35 years will be entitled to the full pension. A defence ministry official said raising the retirement age would “ensure productivity” while “reducing the pension outgo will cut costs”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Govt jobs on contract raise quota concern ||The government has advertised 30 posts of joint secretaries and directors to be appointed on contract, the second such instance in two years prompting Ambedkarite scholars and Opposition politicians to allege a ploy to bypass reservation for socially deprived sections. The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Friday issued an advertisement for three posts of joint secretaries and 27 posts of directors in central government ministries and departments for professionals, including those working in the private sector. The interested candidates will be selected on the basis of interviews. Adherence to reservation policies is not needed while recruiting employees on a contractual basis. In 2018, the government had advertised 10 posts of joint secretaries through lateral entry on contract. The UPSC selected nine candidates, of which eight joined. Arun Khobragade, chairman of the Babasaheb Ambedkar Services and Industry Chamber, said appointments on contract and the sale of public sector undertakings (PSUs) were part of a “systematic process” to bypass reservation. “This kind of appointments through lateral entry has become a regular phenomenon. The government wants to pick its preferred persons and bypass reservation through these appointments and the privatisation of government sector organisations,” Khobragade said. A central government official currently working as a deputy secretary in a ministry said he was among several officials who were eligible for promotion to the post of director but had not been given an opportunity. The contractual appointments in the posts of director will further defer their promotion, he said. Rastriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday raised the issue. “You (the government) should explain whether UPSC selection procedure is failing to ensure ‘willing, motivated & talented’ candidates for ‘nation building’ or hand-picked ones are more so? Isn’t it another ploy to sideline & reduce reservation for deprived section?” he tweeted. He had on Friday demanded the immediate halt to lateral entries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Big crowds at UP farm rallies||Farmers organised panchayats at 10 places in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur district on Saturday and pledged to continue the protests against the three farm laws till the Narendra Modi government repealed them. At several places, the attendance at the rallies was in excess of 10,000. Earlier, the farmers’ organisations had planned to hold a big panchayat in Saharanpur city after Saturday’s chakka jam but altered the plan after farm leader Rakesh Tikait announced that Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand would be kept out of the purview of the strike for fear of orchestrated violence to discredit the movement. Also, as farmers would be busy in their fields and might not be able to travel to the city, the need was felt to hold panchayats in several areas across the district. Chaudhary Vinay Kumar, vice-president of the Uttar Pradesh unit of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), said: “We worked round the clock for the past week for the success of the chakka jam. We had also planned to hold a mahapanchayat in the afternoon. But it was decided at the eleventh hour that the chakka jam would not be implemented in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Also, a large number of peasants would be transporting their sugarcane harvest to mills and they shouldn’t be disturbed. So, we quickly resolved to organise 10 panchayats in the districts. It was a huge success as on an average 8,000 farmers were present at each of the panchayats.” Kumar said the panchayats were held at those points where the farmers had planned to organise the chakka jam. At several of the places the attendance was over 10,000, such as at Shahjahanpur-Ambala Road in Sarsawa, Manoharpur-Dehradun Road in Biharigarh, Nagla-Muzaffarnagar Road in Nagla, Tikraul-Nanauta Road in Deoband, Vikasnagar-Behat Road in Mirzapur and Gagalheri-Bhagwanpur Road in Gagalheri. “The speakers pledged to continue with the protests at Delhi’s borders till the Centre realises its mistakes and withdraws the controversial laws,” Kumar said. Amit Mukhiya, a farmer leader in Saharanpur, said: “We have understood from our successful panchayats that such events should be held across the country. There was constructive debate on the three farm laws. The farmers were of the view that they should keep holding more such panchayats at the village level every day and keep an eye on the developments at Delhi’s borders where massive dharnas are going on. We should be ready to reach the borders if the government uses force to remove the protesters from there.” Farmers’ mahapanchayats in Uttar Pradesh against the farm laws have been drawing massive crowds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Twitter Inc refuses to comply with Centre's directive to block more than 250 accounts and posts ||Twitter Inc’s refusal to comply with an Indian government directive to block more than 250 accounts and posts has put the social media giant at the centre of a political firestorm in one of its key markets. Government officials, business people and ordinary netizens are split over free speech and the US company’s compliance practices, in a controversy that comes soon after Twitter’s top lobbyist in India resigned. The showdown, after the firm this week “declined to abide (by) and obey” the order to remove posts and accounts that the government said risked inciting violence, is the latest instance of worsening relationships between Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration and US social media platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp. For Twitter, the stakes are high in a country of 1.3 billion where it has millions of users and is ardently used by Modi, his cabinet ministers and other leaders to communicate with the public. Farmers are conducting a growing protest against new agriculture laws, with tens of thousands camping out on the outskirts of New Delhi and launching a nationwide road blockade on Saturday. As the prolonged crisis escalated, the government this week sought an “emergency blocking” of the “provocative” Twitter hashtag “ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide” and dozens of accounts. Twitter initially complied but later restored most of the accounts, citing “insufficient justification” to continue the suspensions. The technology ministry warned the company, in a letter seen by Reuters, of legal “consequences” that could include fines or jail, saying the government was not required to justify its demand to ban accounts. Twitter’s public policy director Mahima Kaul recently resigned from her role, two sources said. A LinkedIn ad showed the company is seeking candidates for the key government relations position. Kaul did not respond to a request for comment. Twitter confirmed Kaul’s resignation, saying she would stay on through March and was helping with the transition, but otherwise declined to comment. It said this week that it withholds access to content on receiving a “properly scoped request from an authorised entity”. Free speech activists say the government should not attempt to use legal provisions to muzzle freedom of expression, while others argue Twitter should comply or go to court. “Twitter is playing with fire,” said an Indian social media executive who was surprised by the company’s non-compliance. “If there is a legal request, you are required to take down content. You are free to challenge it” in court. In 2019, a parliamentary panel headed by a BJP lawmaker warned Twitter after CEO Jack Dorsey failed to appear before the committee. The previous year Dorsey sparked a social media storm after a picture of him holding a poster saying “smash Brahminical patriarchy” went viral. This week, Dorsey became a talking point on Indian TV news after he liked a tweet suggesting the company should consider introducing a farmer protest emoji. Meenakashi Lekhi, a BJP lawmaker who heads a parliamentary panel on data privacy, criticised Twitter for disobeying government orders, adding she has yet to decide whether to summon company executives. “Twitter needs to understand they are not lawmakers,” Lekhi told Reuters. “It is not their policy which will work, it is the policy of the state, country which will work.” Prasanth Sugathan of Software Freedom Law Centre India, said: “The selective government approach to ask social media companies to ban content when it doesn’t suit the official narrative is problematic. It stifles free speech and press freedom.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Congressional India Caucus urge Modi govt to ensure that norms of democracy are maintained ||The co-chairs of the Congressional India Caucus, the largest country-specific caucus of the US House of Representatives, have urged the Narendra Modi government to ensure that norms of democracy are maintained and protesters are allowed to demonstrate peacefully and have access to the Internet. They have decided to speak to the Indian ambassador in Washington regarding the farmers’ protests, co-chair Brad Sherman said in a tweet. “Today I convened a meeting of the leadership of the India Caucus with Co-Chair @RepSteveChabot and Vice Chair @RepRoKhanna to speak with the Ambassador of India @SandhuTaranjitS regarding the farmers’ demonstrations. I urged the Indian government to make sure that the norms of democracy are maintained, that protesters are allowed to protest peaceably and to have access to the Internet, and to journalists. All friends of India hope that the parties can reach an agreement.” Both Sherman and Khanna are Democrats and represent congressional districts in California. Chabot is Republican. US lawmakers from across the political spectrum have extended solidarity with the farmers and spoken up for their right to peaceful protest. Congressional caucuses are issue-based and meet to pursue common legislative objectives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Protesting farmers spare Delhi, police detain trade union leaders||Several trade union leaders were detained or put under house arrest here on Saturday despite no road blockades being scheduled in Delhi, prompting workers’ bodies to suggest the crackdown was an attempt to break the worker-peasant unity against the NDA government’s policies. Delhi police began the detentions and house arrests of workers’ leaders, students and civil society activists on Friday night, ahead of Saturday’s nationwide “chakka jam” or road blockade protest called by the agitating farmers and supported by 10 central trade unions. The national capital had been exempted since some of its borders are already blocked because of the farmers’ siege. Vipin, North district vice-president of CPM labour arm Citu, was picked up around 12.30am from his home and taken to Badli police station, Citu secretary A.R. Sindhu told The Telegraph. On Saturday morning, the police detained nearly 100 activists from several trade unions, students’ organisations and civil society body Delhi for Farmers Forum who had gathered at the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Park near the ITO to hold a meeting. Delhi Metro immediately closed the entry and exit gates of its Mandi House, ITO and Delhi Gate stations. Surya Prakash, leader of CPIML Liberation labour arm AICCTU, and Manager Chaurasia, Delhi state secretary of SUCI workers’ wing AIUTUC, were detained at their homes. International Federation of Trade Unions national treasurer Animesh Das too was detained. Over 40,000 police were deployed in and around Delhi and prohibitory orders clamped around the Red Fort, ITO and Shaheed Park. “Since the Bharat Bandh of December 8, the 10 central trade unions have been supporting the farmers’ agitation. The government is trying to break the farmer-worker unity,” Sindhu said. “No road blockades had been planned in Delhi; only a small meeting was scheduled at the Shaheed Park. But the police are trying to (create an impression) as though a big law-and-order issue was created.” Sindhu described the police action as a ploy “to scare off the farmers’ sympathisers and a segment of the middle class that support this movement”. The Joint Platform of Central Trade Unions — which includes the 10 workers’ organisations supporting the farmers, among them Congress labour arm Intuc and CPI-affiliated Aituc — condemned the arrests and detentions and defended the farmers’ demand for the repeal of three new farm laws. Aituc general secretary Amarjeet Kaur said that trade unions had conducted protests in various cities, villages and workplaces. While supporting the farmers, they also aired their demand for the repeal of four new labour laws, she said. “In Delhi, the programme in front of Bhagat Singh’s statute near the ITO was not allowed. It reflects the paranoia of the home ministry, which lacks the stomach for democratic expressions by the struggling masses for their rights,” Kaur said. The trade unions have condemned the planting of nails near the sites of the farmers’ agitation, the snapping of water and electricity supply, and the Internet ban. “Police have erected layers of barricades and fortifications, dug up trenches on highways, put up rows of nails and spikes on the pretext of maintaining law and order. They are behaving as if they are dealing with some enemy across the borders and not with the farmers, the citizens of our own country, feeding our people,” the Joint Platform said in a statement. “The joint trade union movement strongly condemns and expresses its indignation at this type of treatment towards the farmers. It is also being condemned the world over.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Spurious liquor kills three in ‘dry’ Bihar||At least three persons died and several others had to be hospitalised after allegedly consuming illicit liquor at a village in Kaimur district of Bihar on Friday evening, again highlighting the flouting of prohibition in the state. The incident happened at Kurasan village under Bhabhua police station, around 200km southwest of state capital Patna. “Three persons from our panchayat have died after consuming liquor while at least three others had to be hospitalised. One of them is being treated at Varanasi. More could have been affected in the incident but we know only about these persons so far,” Kurasan resident Chandan Paswan told The Telegraph. He claimed the incident revealed that the ban on liquor was being flouted at will in Kaimur district that shares its borders with Uttar Pradesh. The deceased are Lal Mohar Bind, 30, Sitanagina Bind, 48, and Ramkeshi Kahar, 55, while Dharmendra Kahar, Gorakh Ansari and Santosh Gond are undergoing treatment. However, the district administration said that only two persons died in the incident while the third had died of some other illness. It also said the post-mortem report was inconclusive about the cause of death. “As per our knowledge only two persons have died in the incident, and the third could have died due to some other reason as he was not keeping well for some time. One person is undergoing treatment in a hospital,” Kaimur district magistrate Navdeep Shukla told this newspaper. “The post-mortem report was inconclusive about the cause of death. But the viscera of the deceased has been preserved and will be sent to the forensic science laboratory (FSL) for further investigation,” Shukla added. A man identified as Munna Musahar has been arrested in connection with the incident. He is accused of brewing the liquor that the group of villagers had consumed. He had been named in two other cases related to illicit liquor in the past. There have been several reports of hooch tragedies in Bihar since chief minister Nitish Kumar enforced prohibition across the state on April 5, 2016. In one incident at Gopalganj town in August 2016, 16 people lost their lives. In the smaller incidents, the post-mortem reports either declared the reasons of death as inconclusive, or the bodies were cremated before the autopsy could be performed. It is believed that on the one hand the well-oiled and deeply entrenched liquor mafia has been bringing in India-made foreign liquor (IMFL) to Bihar with impunity, while on the other hand, country liquor is also being brewed rampantly across the state. “Our men are seizing and destroying IMFL and country liquor continuously, but that is just a fraction of the alcohol that is being supplied to different parts of the state,” a senior police officer said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Ahead of Bengal polls, PM Modi warns Mamata of ‘Ram Card’||On Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing his first public rally ahead of West Bengal’s assembly polls, accused Mamata Banerjee government, of “criminalised politics, institutionalised corruption and politicised the police”. He maintained that instead of ‘mamta’ (affection) people suffered ‘nirmamta’ (cruelty) under her rule. Confident about forming the next Bengal government, he said “Bengal loves football. Speaking in that language TMC has committed several fouls in the last 10 years and the time has come to show it the ‘Ram Card’ in the assembly elections”. Cautioning people about “match-fixing” between the TMC, Congress and the Left, Modi said only a BJP government can free the state of “misgovernance” and bring about a “real change” in their lives as was being experienced in Tripura. He assailed the West Bengal government for not implementing central schemes like Ayushman Bharat and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi in the state, and asserted that once the BJP formed its government it will take a decision at the very first cabinet meeting to execute all such stalled programmes. “Bengal expected ‘mamta’ (affection) from Mamata Banerjee but got ‘nirmamta’ (cruelty) in the last 10 years. The TMC government is just a rebirth of the misrule of the Left Front government in the state, rebirth of corruption, of crime and criminals, of violence and attack on democracy,: he alleged. Mocking Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for getting angry over slogans of ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’, Modi wondered why she remained silent when conspiracies were hatched to malign the country. “She gets angry when she hears slogans hailing the motherland. She gets angry when you demand your rights. But she remains silent when conspiracies are hatched to malign the nation,” he said. Modi was referring to Banerjee’s refusal to deliver her speech at a function to mark the 125th birthday of West Bengal's legendary freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at Kolkata's Victoria Memorial after Jai Shri Ram slogans greeted her. “There are some conspirators who're trying to destroy India’s image associated with tea and yoga-- made famous by iconic Indians-- across the world. Has Didi spoken anything about these conspirators? The country will respond to such conspiracies with all the force at its command,” he said. He was apparently referring to Swedish environmentalist Greta Thunberg’s controversial ‘toolkit’, which she tweeted and then deleted, outlining ways in which people can participate in the farmers protest. One of the points reportedly mentioned there was to “disrupt yoga and chai image of India in general”. Referring to the game of football, a hugely popular sport in Bengal, Modi said that the people of the state are ready to show “Ram Card” to TMC now. “Bengal is a state that loves football. In football parlance, I want to say that the TMC government has committed many fouls. From corruption, misgovernance, extortion, to attack on opposition workers. The people are ready to show them the Ram card,” he said. “The people of Bengal will bid Ram-Ram to TMC and chant Jai Shri Ram to welcome the BJP,” he said, adding Trinamool Congress leaders and workers wanting to work for the country were quitting the state's ruling party and joining the saffron camp. Lashing out at “dynasty politics” in the TMC, Modi said the people of Bengal have decided to end “Bua-Bhatijawad” rule in the state, without naming TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and nephew Abhishek. Modi assailed the TMC government for not implementing various central schemes in the state. “Under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, over 10 crore small farmers have received Rs 1.15 lakh crore in their accounts. But farmers of Bengal could not because the state did not implement it. Now that the farmers have made up their mind to teach Mamata Didi a lesson, the state government has grudgingly agreed to join the scheme,” he said. He claimed while more than 25 lakh farmers in the state applied online to join the scheme, the names of only 6,000 were forwarded to the Centre. “Are farmers enemies of Mamata Didi?” he asked. Accusing the TMC government of siphoning off central funds and aid sent by the Centre in the aftermath of the destruction caused by cyclone Amphan, he alleged it found “avenues for corruption even during tragedy. There cannot be a bigger crime than this”. The prime minister claimed foodgrains and other aid sent by the Centre during the COVID-induced lockdown did not reach the beneficiaries. He recalled how the Calcutta High Court had to intervene and order an audit of relief funds by the CAG. Modi alleged the Left Front, Congress and Trinamool Congress were playing a fixed political match in the state. “You should be wary of the hidden friends of the TMC. The Left Front, Congress and the TMC are together in Delhi to fix their political agenda and are engaging in a shadow fight in Bengal. In Kerala, the Left and the Congress are doing the same thing having decided to loot people alternately for five years,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
07-02-2021||West Bengal||TMC calls out BJP over claims of boosting rail projects in Bengal ||The TMC on Sunday lashed out at the BJP over its assertion that it has allocated the highest-ever funds for railway works in Bengal, and claimed the state has been deprived of funds for years and multiple rail projects shelved. The allocation of Rs 6,636 crore to poll-bound Bengal is the highest-ever funds earmarked for the state in the history of Indian Railways, minister Piyush Goyal had said soon after the Union Budget was announced, blaming successive state governments for the delay in rail projects in the state. Taking to Twitter, TMC MP and national spokesperson Derek O'Brien said, "In election season, BJP's tourist gang are touting 'record Railway allocation' for Bengal. The truth is, multiple rail projects have been shelved in Bengal and funding choked all these years." Posting two documents, O'Brien has highlighted "How Bengal has been deprived of Railways funds for years." In the document, the Rajya Sabha MP has highlighted how over one dozen rail factories across Bengal, initiated by Mamata Banerjee when she was the Minister of Railways, have received only a token financial allocation this year. "The new rail coach manufacturing unit at Kanchrapara had been allocated Rs 74 lakh in the last budget. This year the allocation is just Rs 1,000. (One thousand rupees, not a typo!)," he said. He further said in Budget 2020 the Centre shelved 20 new connectivity ventures and 10 upgradation projects launched by Banerjee as Minister of Railways, especially in rural Bengal. "In Budget 2019 the Sealdah Coach Repair Factory - One thousand rupees Rail Museum in Bolpur - One thousand rupees! Coach Washing Workshop in Howrah - One thousand rupees!The list goes on," he said. Accusing the BJP of only focussing on states in the election year, he said that from 2016-17 to 2020-21, no new lines in Railways were announced in South-Eastern Railways, let alone Bengal. In 2020-21, four new projects were announced for SER but all of them went to Odisha and not Bengal. Banerjee had inaugurated the East-West metro corridor as the Rail Minister. "The BJP government has allocated funds very slowly for it since 2014. Kolkata Metro received an outlay of Rs 850 crore for 2019-20 which came down to Rs 750 crore in 2020-21. Come election year and this outlay is Rs 1330 crore, " he said. O'Brien also alleged that BJP states benefitted at the expense of the rest of India, citing two examples of the bullet train project and the broad gauge like in Surendranagar in Rajkot. He also highlighted how in Budget 2020-21, Rs 980 crore was sanctioned for the National Railway University in Gujarat. The Railway minister has said that there is no shortage of funds for the state and blamed the political dispensations for the delay in execution of works. Bengal has 53 ongoing projects including new lines, gauge conversion, doubling projects costing Rs 48,275 crore for 4,463 km. "The allocation for Bengal is the highest-ever in the history of Indian Railways. It is 2.5 times the average amount allocated between Budget 2009-2014 and 26 per cent more than last year," he had said while addressing a press briefing recently. "Projects there remain incomplete or are delayed because the state governments - first it was the Left front government and now the TMC-- have been unable to provide land to us. Projects which are 45 year old are pending in the state. I appeal to Mamata didi to expedite the process and give us land," he had said. Goyal said that due to non-availability of land, as many as 34 projects in the state have received only token allotment in the budget 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata likely to skip Modi’s event at Haldia to inaugurate projects||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is unlikely to attend Prime Minister Narendra Modi's scheduled programme at Haldia in Purba Medinipore district on Sunday evening, a top official at the state secretariat said. The exact reason for this uncertainty has not been specified, but the "insult meted out to her" on January 23, when Jai Shri Ram' slogans were raised at an event just before her speech, could be the cause, he said. Modi is set to inaugurate four projects in Haldia in oil, gas, and infrastructure sectors. “Tomorrow evening, I will be in Haldia, West Bengal. At a programme there, will dedicate to the nation the LPG import terminal built by BPCL. Will also dedicate to the .nation Dobhi–Durgapur Natural Gas Pipeline section of the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga project,” Modi said in a tweet on Saturday "Madam (CM) is unlikely to attend this evening's programme at Haldia where PM Modi will be inaugurating projects," the official told PTI. The TMC boss has also asked her party members to skip the programme, he added. Mamata had on January 23 refused to deliver her speech at an event on the occasion of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniversary, after a section of the audience raised 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans in the presence of the prime minister. She had said that such "insult was unacceptable". Sources in the Raj Bhavan said Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar is scheduled to attend Sunday's event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee levels charges against turncoat Suvendu ||Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee levelled a volley of charges against party turncoat-turned BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari at a well-attended rally in East Midnapore’s Contai on Saturday. In a scathing attack, Abhishek suggested that the “answers to the Saradha and Rose Valley” deposit collection scams lay at Shanti Kunj, which is the family residence of the Adhikaris. Abhishek’s 29-minute tirade was aimed almost solely at Suvendu, reviving the sensitive deposit-collection discourse at a time the district is set to witness a keen contest between Trinamul and the BJP with chief minister Mamata Banerjee deciding to contest from Nandigram. Suvendu, before his resignation, had been the Nandigram MLA. “The Enforcement Directorate cannot be relied upon. The court cases (in deposit collection cases) are still ongoing, and they will continue for a long time,” said Abhishek, rallying the crowd at Doisai village near Contai. “If those of you who were wronged ever want to see your money again, you must surround that traitor’s home so that he cannot leave,” the Diamond Harbour MP added. Abhishek held the rally in Contai more than six years since his last meeting in the district when on January 4, 2015, he was slapped in the face by a purported supporter of the Adhikari clan. Starting mid-December, Suvendu’s rallies have also been rife with monikers of “extortionist nephew”. “I reiterate that Sudipta Sen (chief of the Saradha group of companies) testified in a letter from prison that he had given Suvendu Rs 6 crore... The day Sen absconded to Kashmir, Suvendu had gone to his office the previous night... Now he wants to be with the central powers so he can steal more easily,” Abhishek said. Towards the end of his speech, Abhishek exhorted the 25,000-strong crowd with rhetoric aimed against Suvendu. “Just like we gave birth to the land agitations in 2007, so we must evict the traitor from the same land. Will or will you not beat him out with a broom,” he urged the crowd to reply, adding “louder, so that Shanti Kunj trembles”. As an aside, he said Trinamul would win by “over 150 seats” and “Mamata Banerjee will be chief minister again”. BJP district president Anup Chakraborty said “people would respond” to “Abhishek’s insults aimed at their leader”. “Trinamul’s downfall is imminent,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Assembly elections: Kurmis set up poll test for BJP ||The Kurmi community, which makes up a big part of the Jungle Mahal population, has thrown a dare at the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls, asking the party to ensure that the Centre approves the community’s re-inclusion in the Scheduled Tribe (ST) category. Leaders of the community have pointed out that the Trinamul-led state government had sent its proposal to that effect to the Narendra Modi government last month. Leaders of the community said that the Kurmis, who account for around 50 lakh of Bengal’s population and play a decisive role in the outcome of some 35 Assembly constituencies in the four Jungle Mahal districts, had been registered under the Scheduled Tribe category till 1931, but dropped from the list after Independence for “unknown reasons”. The community was later included in the list of Other Backward Classes, but has long been demanding its re-inclusion in the ST category. Addressing this emotive issue, chief minister Mamata Banerjee met a top leader of the community during her visit to Purulia on January 20 and said that the state government would soon send a letter to fulfil their demand. Shortly afterwards, the state government had sent a written request to the Centre. “Our chief minister did what she promised. Now, we want to see if the BJP-run Centre approves the proposal and takes necessary steps in Parliament. They should not forget that the Kurmis played a major role in the victory of the BJP in Jungle Mahal in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. We are not a political organisation but we have the right to support the party that will help fulfil our demand,” said Ajit Prasad Mahato, chief advisor of the Adivasi Kurmi Samaj. A Trinamul insider said in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls most Kurmi votes had shifted from Trinamul to help the BJP bag five of six Lok Sabha seats in the Jungle Mahal districts of Purulia, Jhargram, Bankura and West Midnapore. Any shift in Kurmi votes now will impact the BJP’s chances to win in Bengal and Mamata’s letter to the Centre “has turned the tables on us”, admitted a tribal leader of the saffron camp in Bankura. BJP MP from Purulia Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato, who is a member of the Kurmi community, called Mamata’s role a “political gimmick”. “Interestingly, she did not pass the proposal in the Assembly and has only sent a letter to the Centre. The Centre can approve it only if the proposal is passed in the Assembly,” he said. However, chief advisor of the Adivasi Kurmi Samaj Ajit Prasad did not agree. “There is no need for the Assembly to adopt the proposal as it is for Parliament to pass it. We want to see what our MP does to get us re-included under the ST category.” The Kurmis, however, are wary about the outcome of the state government’s efforts. A similar bid to re-include them in the ST category had failed in 2017 when Mamata had written to then Union minister for tribal affairs Jual Oram, but the Centre had asked the state to resend the application with further comments and had said the office of the registrar of general of India did not support the proposal. The Kurmi community on Saturday sent a warning signal to the BJP about their discontent with the saffron camp when its members blocked roads at many places demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Chakka jam: Farmers block national and state highways at 213 points in Bengal ||Farmers affiliated to the CPM-backed All India Kisan Sabha, along with Congress workers, blocked national and state highways at 213 points in Bengal on Saturday in solidarity with the nationwide chakka jam call given by peasant unions protesting against the three contentious farm laws on Delhi borders. “We staged road blockades at 73 points on national highways and at 140 points on state highways across Bengal. The road blockades continued for an hour across the state. The farmers want repeal of the three farm laws but the Narendra Modi government has remained insensitive,” said Amal Haldar, state secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha. In East Burdwan’s Nawabhat, farmers, led by Haldar, blocked the NH-2 (Durgapur Expressway) for over an hour with senior leaders of the Kisan Sabha speaking on how the farm laws would benefit corporates at the cost of farmers and the farm sector. “In East Burdwan, we had blocked around a dozen points and farmers had gathered in large numbers at Nawabhat to extend their support,” said Apurba Chatterjee, a CPM district secretariat member in East Burdwan. Trinamul leaders and ministers Sujit Bose and Swapan Debnath, who were on their way to a government event in East Burdwan, were briefly stranded in the blockade at Nawabhat. Kisan Sabha members blocked vehicles of the ministers and raised slogans against farm laws. Bose told reporters that they also wanted a repeal of the farm laws but the movement must go beyond road blockades. In Birbhum, supporters of the Left and Congress blocked roads at 22 points. Many farmers gathered in Rampurhat, Suri and Bolpur. In Bolpur’s Shibpur, where the state government is setting up Biswa Bangla University and Gitabitan housing project, farmers blocked the state highway demanding the return of their land that had been originally acquired for industrialisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Adhir slams TMC for failing to harness tourism potential of Darjeeling and north Bengal||Congress leaders of Darjeeling tested waters in and around Siliguri with a rally to protest Centre’s new farm laws and held a public meeting at Baghajatin Park on Saturday. The Congress, which allied with the Left for the state polls, could bring in around 5,000 supporters to the rally led by PCC president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, district chief Sankar Malakar and others. Adhir slammed the Trinamul-led state government for failing to harness the tourism potential of Darjeeling and north Bengal and create jobs for residents. He also questioned Morcha leader Bimal Gurung’s recent U-turn from the BJP to Trinamul. “He (Gurung) was earlier hounded by the state government and accused of perpetrating violence. But now, things have changed and he has bowed down before the chief minister. This politics is unacceptable,” said Adhir. It was during the Congress tenure at the Centre that the issue of Darjeeling was resolved through talks both in the 1980s and in 2012 (when the DGHC and the GTA were formed), he pointed out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
07-02-2021||West Bengal||State forest department officials seize 1,500 softshell turtles||State forest department officials seized 1,500 softshell turtles from a van on Saturday morning. Four persons suspected of smuggling the turtles — brought from Uttar Pradesh in sacks and hidden under vegetables  — were arrested. Held with lakhs Dilip Agarwal, a prominent  businessman of Siliguri, was intercepted  by CISF personnel  at Bagdogra Airport on Saturday, with Rs 40 lakh in cash. The CISF informed income tax  officers who also went to the airport. Sources said Agarwal could not clarify why he was carrying the cash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 197 new infections and one death||Bengal on Saturday logged 293 Covid-19 recoveries, 197 new infections and one death, resulting in a dip in total active cases for the 103rd day on the trot since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 last year. A minister said this was the first instance after April 2020 of not a single Covid death being reported from Calcutta in the 24-hour window. “From a daily toll of 50-plus barely two months ago, including 20-plus in Calcutta, it is now lowered to less than five daily, with just one or two from the city. But Saturday’s figure of just one, with none from Calcutta, is quite an achievement,” said the minister. The state’s total active cases, which were 37,190 on Dashami, now number 4,895. Bengal’s recovery rate has risen for 106 consecutive days to touch 97.36 per cent now. The national figure is 97.19. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.03 per cent, having fallen steadily for 78 days. On Saturday, the state reported 24,011 tests, taking the total past 81.28 lakh, at 90,315 tests per million people. Of the total Covid-19 toll of 10,202, the state attributed 8,569 deaths (84 per cent) to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate stayed at 1.78, while the national rate remained 1.43 per cent. “With the drastic fall in deaths, mortality rate would have come down sharply, but it hasn’t happened as the daily number of infections has nosedived...We aren’t complaining as both are huge positives,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Event to commemorate 50th year of Sheikh Mujibur Rahaman’s historic address at Brigade Parade Grounds ||The information ministry in Bangladesh and its deputy high commission in Calcutta organised an event on Saturday to commemorate the 50th year of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahaman’s historic address at the Brigade Parade Grounds on February 6, 1972. That event, immediately after Bangladesh’s independence, had also been attended by then Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Hasan Mahmud, information minister in the Bangladesh government, presided over the event in the afternoon. “As far as I know, the rally was attended by over 15 lakh people... Their cheer for our leader Bangabandhu marked the country’s victory celebrations,” he said. Subrata Mukherjee, the panchayat minister in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, in his speech, recalled his memories of that meeting. “Bangabandhu was very dear to the people of Bengal...That day, the Brigade was full (packed with crowds) by 1pm. Bangabandhu turned up at the venue around 3pm with Mrs Indira Gandhi. I think it was the biggest rally ever at the venue,” Mukherjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls: J.P. Nadda promises to bring change in Bengal||BJP national president J.P. Nadda kicked off the first leg of his party’s ambitious Parivartan Yatra from Nabadwip in Nadia district on Saturday with the promise of bringing a change in Bengal in the upcoming Assembly polls. At a rally in the Vaishnab hub of Nabadwip at the launch of the yatra, which in five phases will cover all 294 Assembly segments, Nadda said change was imminent as people had suffered under Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul regime. “Ten years ago Mamatadi formed a government promising change and to protect Maa Mati Manush. But eventually, Maa was looted, Mati was disrespected and people suffered heavily,” he added. Nadda said people of Bengal were deprived of the benefits from central schemes because of the “chief minister’s ego”. “Nearly 23 lakh farmers have submitted applications to avail the benefits of the PM Kisan Samman (Nidhi) scheme. But Mamata didi stopped the verification of their applications only because of her ego...” he alleged. “Prime Minister Modiji has been trying to provide everything to the people of Bengal. But she does not want it...She has renamed the Nirmal Bharat Abhiyan as Nirmal Bangla, launched the Bangla Gram Sadak Yojana renaming the Pradhan Mantri Sadak Yojana,” Nadda said, accusing Mamata of preferring politics over development. Claiming that the BJP would form the next government in Bengal, Nadda said all the central schemes would be implemented after May this year. “Nothing can prevent the BJP from forming the next government... I can see people in Bengal have made up their minds to end the rule of Mamata and her bhaipo (nephew Abhishek),” he said. Stopping at Malda, the BJP national president tried to reach out to farmers and mango growers of the district and played the polarisation card. He attended a public meeting in Old Malda, joined in a group-lunch with farmers, and later in the day, participated in a roadshow in Malda town. Throughout his visit, Nadda tried to drive home the point that if his party was voted to power in Bengal, farmers and mango growers of the district would get more benefits from both central and state governments. At the road show, Nadda played the polarisation card and referred to the chief minister’s protests over the “Jai Shri Ram” slogan on Victoria Memorial premises in Calcutta on January 23. “As I moved through Malda, I heard the chant time and again. It is difficult to understand why Mamata Banerjee has a problem with it,” he said. Amit Shah visit Bongaon MP and chief of the All India Matua Mahasangha Shantanu Thakur on Saturday said Union home minister Amit Shah would visit Thakurnagar, the headquarters of the Mahasangha, on February 11. Shah’s visit assumes importance as the parliamentary committee on subordinate legislation has recently granted the ministry of home affairs an extension till April 9 to frame CAA rules. The development has caused heartburn among a section of the Matuas — Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh — who had been demanding immediate implementation of CAA in Bengal. “Amit Shah will address a public rally on February 11. He will hold the rally on the same stage set up for the meeting that was cancelled last time,” Thakur told the media. On December 19, Shah replaced Thakurnagar with Midnapore in his itinerary as Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari switched to BJP. On January 30, Shah cancelled a trip to Thakurnagar in the wake of the explosions near the Israelo embassy in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
07-02-2021||North East||BJP-led Assam govt promises tea wage hike in 10 days||The BJP-led Assam government on Saturday said it will hike the minimum daily wage of tea garden workers within 10 days, a move which is set to rob Opposition parties of a key poll plank in the upcoming Assembly elections in the state. The announcement was made by Assam finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma during the third phase of the “Chah Bagicha Dhan Puraskar Mela” ceremony held here for the direct transfer of Rs 3,000 each to the bank accounts of 746,667 tea garden workers across the state. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal were present at the function. Sarma said a notification announcing the tea wage hike will be issued soon. “Wait for 10 more days. There is more good news coming... on the minimum wage front whenever the next cabinet meeting is held,” he said without specifying the quantum of hike. Presently the minimum daily wage of tea workers in Assam is Rs 167 and the BJP had committed to hike it to Rs 351. Sources said the minimum wage committee set up by the state government met on Saturday evening to discuss issues related to the hike, a development which suggests that Dispur would fast-track the process before the poll dates are announced sometime this month. The minimum daily wage for tea garden workers is an issue which is being flagged by the Opposition in the run-up to the polls to corner the ruling BJP for its “unfulfilled” promises. On Friday, PCC chief Ripun Bora had asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who will address a rally in Assam on Sunday, about “what happened” to the BJP’s “promise” of ensuring a minimum daily wage of Rs 351.33 to a tea garden worker. The earlier phases of the Dhan Puraskar Mela programme had seen the garden workers get Rs 2,500 each in the 2017-18 and 2018-19 fiscals. Sarma said the government remains committed to the welfare of the tea community which is an “integral part” of the Assamese society. The community’s hard labour produces tea for which Assam is known over the world, he said. The direct transfer of Rs 3,000 comes close on the heels of the Rs 1,000 crore announced in the Union budget on February 1 for the welfare of tea community women and children in Assam and Bengal. “All these steps, including the announcement of wage hike, is sure to boost our poll prospects in the tea belt but will make it difficult for our political rivals to woo the community which has decisively tilted towards the BJP since 2014,” a BJP member said. The tea community has a decisive say in about 42 of the 126 constituencies in the state. Sitharaman said Assam is known the world over for its tea and while people start their mornings with a cup of Assam brew, the labourers who grow tea have been neglected for long, making them live a disadvantaged life “where their children have to eat overnight food”. “Since the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government assumed power in 2014, various measures have been taken for uplift of the tea community,” Sitharaman said. She credited bank and state government employees for completing the task of opening more than 8 lakh bank accounts in tea garden areas after demonetisation. Praising Sonowal, she said Rs 1,000 crore was allocated in the Union budget for the empowerment of tea garden women in Assam and Bengal “acting on the plea” of the Assam government and the Centre’s commitment towards the community. “In future also, measures for uplift of the tea community would be taken,” she said. Thanking Sitharaman for her support to Assam, Sonowal referred to Modi’s motto of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas” as the guiding principle for the state government to work for equal development of all sections. He also thanked the Modi government for conferring Padma Shri on artiste Dulal Manki, terming it as a gesture of respect towards the tea community. None of the BJP leaders spoke about the granting Scheduled Tribe status to six communities of Assam, including the tea community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-24
07-02-2021||Opinion||Before the rah rah about RiRi||The fault, dear farmers, is not in the stars but in ourselves that we are such undiscerning beings. The disappointment at celebrities in India who appear to support the government stance against the continuing farmer protests is quite misplaced. It is not in the primary job description of cricketers, actors and nightingales to lend voice, ear and heart to people’s movements. So what if we the people contributed to their celebrity? So what if we the people applauded, adored and eventually deified them? And so what if all of it earns them dividends, intangible and tangible? They didn’t beg to endorse your dandruff shampoo. You did. They don't care about what hair oil you choose or toothpaste or what cooking oil for weak hearts. No Sir. The cricketers played well and that lent taste to your bucket of Sunday chicken wings. That’s on you. Did Kohli not give a cramp stricken Joe Root a physio on field last week? He was being a sport in and on his chosen field. He was leading by example where he has been chosen to lead. Can you say as much about your choices? But to sigh like the Nor'wester and discuss and feel let down when he tweets truisms --- “Farmers are an integral part of our country” --- and talks about being sure of an “amicable solution” is unfair. That’s way off-field. The singers sang with feeling and you chose to romance on those numbers. That's on you too. And did Lataji not sing an ode to jawans once; it is said to have moved Nehru to tears. And now the elder has chosen to sing for India and Indians in general, instead of the kisan in particular. All the actors did was get into the skin of the characters they played --- Akshay Kumar played Krishna Vasudev Yadav in OMG, Ajay Devgn played Bhagat Singh in Bhagat Singh --- and you believed that was them. Kumar had reportedly dedicated Singh is Kinng 2 to Manmohan Singh. And so what if Devgn played the lead in Son of Sardaar and also tweeted equivocally last week --- "It's important to stand united at this hour w/o any infighting (sic)"? Kangana played Rani of Jhansi and you forgot that she commands an army of trolls when you settled down with strawberry popcorn? Your fault. That’s all on you, you and you.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
07-02-2021||Opinion||Right decision||Sir — Canada has now officially labelled the Proud Boys, a far-right, all-male, white supremacist outfit in the United States of America, a terrorist group. One of its top leaders has also been arrested in the US over the Capitol Hill violence that took place earlier this year. It is important to note that the former president of the US, Donald Trump, had avoided condemning this group in strict terms. But outfits like Proud Boys, which are inimical to social harmony, exist in different forms in different countries. Respective governments must take steps to curb their violent activities. Suranjana Dey, Calcutta Sir — The seizure of power in Myanmar by the military in a coup and its declaration of a one-year emergency period, overturning the landslide win by the Aung San Suu Kyi-led National League for Democracy in the recently held election, has provoked widespread condemnation (“Boots return”, Feb 3). This is an assault on democracy. The military takeover of power reveals the vulnerability of a fledgling democracy. The military junta held power in the country from 1962 to 2011. The transition to democracy was rather short-lived; it could not last even a full decade. Perhaps circumstances have not been congenial in Myanmar for democracy to take deep root. The recent pogrom of the Rohingya Muslims by the Myanmarese military in Rakhine State while Suu Kyi was tenuously in power projected Myanmar as a country with scant respect for basic human rights. Suu Kyi came in for a lot of flak for her defence of the military crackdown on the Rohingya and her callous disregard for the lakhs of people who had to flee to neighbouring Bangladesh to escape torture and killing. Undoubtedly she lowered her stature as the icon of democracy as she was earlier perceived. The NLD’s demand to release Suu Kyi and other civilian leaders and restore democratic rule is unlikely to be productive in the immediate future. Powerful military and economic interests are entrenched and ordinary people disempowered in Myanmar. To add to that, the country is torn by strife. As such, there appears to be no real possibility of a popular uprising to force the military to hand over power to elected leaders. The threat by the United States of America to impose sanctions could push the military to move closer to China, which seems to be a byword for self-interest. Whatever the strategic compulsions, India, too, must speak up for a return to the path of democracy. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It is unfortunate that democratic rule has been stifled by the military through a coup in Myanmar, although the democratic process never truly attained a complete form in the country. The NLD, which got over 80 per cent votes at the hustings, has been denied its chance to rule. In other words, the voice of the people has been ignored to upkeep the interests of the junta. The junta’s stated excuse of electoral fraud as the reason for seizing power holds no water. It must accept that the party that it supported fared poorly in the elections. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — All through Myanmar’s post-colonial history, democratic rule has taken a back seat as it was primarily the military that ruled the country. As such, the recent developments are not so surprising. But India needs to tread carefully as it is an open secret that Myanmar’s army will have close relations with China and this will likely have serious ramifications for the peace process in the region. Recently, in a goodwill gesture, India supplied 1.5 million anti-Covid-19 vaccines to Myanmar. One hopes that democracy is restored at the earliest in the country for the larger interest of the region. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The state of affairs in Myanmar is worrying. All nations must condemn this undemocratic seizure of power. International sanctions might help pressurize the junta to cede power to the democratically elected government. Pradeep Sinha,New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
07-02-2021||Opinion||Cricket nationalism||To watch Test cricketers being conscripted into a Twitter chorus aimed at foreign critics of the Indian government, in the name of the Nation, is embarrassing and strange. But nationalism isn’t something that has been injected into cricket by politically connected administrators or drum-beating media men; it is native to modern sport, a part of its historical evolution. It isn’t a coincidence that the period between 1870 and 1914, when the balance of power between empires and nations began to shift, when Germany, Italy and Japan began to reorganize themselves as nations, was the era when modern sports formalized their rules, set up regulatory associations and established international competitions, which cast athletes and sportsmen primarily as representatives of their nations. The first international Test match was played in 1877. This wasn’t a match played between two nations as much as an intra-Imperial competition between the Mother Country and a Dominion, but being represented at cricket in a match ‘against’ England helped Australians imagine Australia as a nation. Prashant Kidambi has shown us that in exactly this way did the ‘All-India’ cricket team that toured England in 1911 prefigure and embody the idea of an Indian nation in the making. FIFA, football’s governing association, was founded in 1904 to oversee international competition among the national associations of Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany and Switzerland. The governing bodies for football, cricket and tennis were set up in the decade between 1904 and the outbreak of WWI. Even a sport as individualistic as tennis was nudged into national competition in 1900 with the Davis Cup, which started life as a transatlantic tournament between Great Britain and the United States of America. Even more central to the developing relationship between nationalism and sport than these tournaments organized by brand new sporting bodies was the nationalization of the Olympic Games. The revived games were imagined by Pierre de Coubertin as a festival of fraternal brotherhood where the best athletes in the world would compete against each other in a sporting lull, rather like the ancient games at Olympia where warring kingdoms observed a truce for the duration of the Olympics. The way the Olympics evolved was rather different. Till the 1908 Games, entry was not restricted to teams nominated by National Olympic Committees. Mixed teams participated in some team events. But from 1908 onwards, the IOC consisted entirely of representatives of sovereign nation states. The Olympics always begin with a march past of nations, each under its own placard. Alan Bairner wrote that “sport, arguably more than any other form of social activity in the modern world, facilitates flag waving and the playing of national anthems...” The Olympics, more than any other sporting event, pioneered this non-stop identification of sport and the nation. Despite this identification, there was a contradiction at the heart of the Olympian vision of sporting competition that complicated the relationship between sport and politics. This complication shaped all sport because all modern sport took its cue from Coubertin’s ideals. On the one hand, the Olympics hardwired the nation state into modern competition. On the other, the IOC insisted that it would brook no interference from national politicians in the autonomy of National Olympic Committees. “Members of the IOC will not accept from governments... any mandate or instructions liable to interfere with the freedom of their action and vote.” The IOC’s position on this issue was copied by sports federations like FIFA and the FIH. The BCCI fought a rearguard action for nearly a decade to stay out of the purview of the Right to Information Act on the ground that it was a private body. The Indian State periodically tried to regulate it as a public body precisely because it selected teams that represented India. This Olympian ideal of autonomy grew out of the liberal idea that the nation state had a demarcated sphere that didn’t extend to the freedom of action of civil society organizations. The regulatory bodies for sport were implicitly saying that they wanted to harness the cachet of the nation state to magnify the significance of sport, but they wouldn’t allow the functionaries of the nation state to intervene in their affairs. When anti-apartheid protesters mobilized against the South African cricket team’s 1970 tour of England, Harold Wilson’s government hesitated to ban the tour precisely because of this principle of autonomy, this polite fiction that the nation state should not formally interfere in sport. Sport was the domain of civil society organizations like the Test and County Cricket Board. The Marylebone Cricket Club and the TCCB were adamant that the South African tour should go ahead on the principle that sport and politics ought to be kept apart. The protesters won a famous victory when this principle was breached. The TCCB cancelled the tour after a strong ‘request’ from the home secretary, James Callaghan, asking it to do so. This was the right thing to do because South Africa’s Whites-only cricket team was constituted by the politics of apartheid, so the argument that a sporting tour of England ought not to be disrupted by politics was self-serving and incoherent. If the cancellation of the South African tour taught the lesson that the principle of autonomy could not insulate sporting bodies from huge shifts in political opinion, the on-demand nationalism of India’s best cricketers shows us the consequences of abandoning the principle of sporting autonomy altogether. When sports organizations are captured by politicians, the players regulated by them run the risk of becoming clients of the netas who happen to run the nation state at the time. The principle of sporting autonomy, the idea of a necessary distance between the State and its sportsmen, might have been a liberal conceit but it was an enabling fiction. In its absence, we had Dhoni and Kohli wooing the nation in military fatigue caps, performing patriotism. Once cricketers cross that line, once they go from playing for the country to role-playing for the Nation, there is no going back. They will be asked to reprise those roles. Having played at being soldiers, they will, for instance, be conscripted by their political patrons to defend the nation against Rihanna, to man Twitter’s trenches against the Barbadians at our gates. The next time politicians decide to use India’s cricketers as extras in some nationalist drama, the Nation won’t ask which of them tweeted; It will ask which of them didn’t.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
07-02-2021||Opinion||Cops and robbers||Nearly five decades after one of Bengal’s beloved fictional characters — Lalmohan Ganguly alias Jatayu — uttered those immortal lines in the film, Sonar Kella, not one but several dacoits of this once dacoit-infested land are likely to enter the proverbial hall of fame. The credit, ironically, goes to the daku’s great adversary: the police. State police personnel in Madhya Pradesh are apparently donating money so that India’s first ever Museum for Dacoits can see the light of day in Bhind. Of course, there is always a thin line separating the police from the philanthropist. Altruism may not be the only motivation here for the men in uniform. The museum, cops say, is necessary to tilt the scales. Popular culture has often embellished the lives of the outlaw, edging out the keeper of the law in the process. Bhind’s museum is expected to preserve not just larger-than-life dacoits but also the sacrifices made by their nemesis — the policemen. The law and the lawless have clashed in the form of fierce contests; but, occasionally, their intersection has also resulted in a pursuit that was purely intellectual. India, once again, is a case in point. William Henry Sleeman’s success in hunting down the dreaded thuggee has, unfortunately, eclipsed his substantial literary output on the tribe of outlaws; many of Sleeman’s books can be read as sociological, albeit problematic, accounts of the gang. This cerebral engagement with the underbelly of society has been weakened by the depredations of ‘entertainment’. Museums dedicated to those who lived and died without doffing their hat to the law are not uncommon. But their claims as sites of pedagogical engagement can be specious. Historians, for instance, were up in arms when a proposed museum on Jack the Ripper and women’s history sought to cash in — the pun is intended — on the misogyny of the serial killer; the Mob Museum in Las Vegas — where else? — allows visitors to get married. Bhind’s Dacoit Museum should remain immune to such theatrics. If its architects are serious about challenging the gratuitous glorification of the outlaw in cinema and politics and conserve the rich, layered legacy of the cop-and-robber story, they should think of inviting scholars, conservators, historians and investors et al to be a part of this welcome project. For the story of crime and punishment is never complete without an investigation of the social and historical conditions that produce both. Chambal and the Aravallis — Jatayu’s dacoit-infested country — are fecund territories for the sprouting of the outlaw precisely because of the convergence of such diverse factors as feudalism, economic penury, political patronage and an inhospitable terrain. The stories, each a unique blend of all or some of these causal histories, would deepen public awareness of the symbiotic relationship between delinquency and deprivation. Yet another consequence of the endeavour could be the dissemination of the knowledge concerning the futility of violence. Dead men and women bearing arms teaching the living to lay down weapons could be the ideal tribute to dacoits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
07-02-2021||Opinion||How we came to claim lunacy||Always told you things will happen after NothingHappened. After that long gaping hiatus pervaded by normality, the utter boredom of it. Always told you I would shake things up. That is why you embraced me, that is why I am here: doing things that never happened in NeverHappened. Don’t be alarmed, you’ll survive. Though only if I will. That’s the plan, you see, what happens now is boobytrapped for my survival, but you could be collateral beneficiaries. Depends on which side of things you are. Choose your side. In this age, you are either what happened, or you are nothing. We broke the age of NothingHappened, we broke it at least in two. And the debris of that breakage you can see. It is visible from the moon, you know, that breakage. Or wreckage. Better word, I am told. I have friends who tell me. Better words from not so good ones. I will tell you his name, but only if you promise to be good. Deal? Deal. Be good. Here’s the name: The Saurus. Fellow knows his stuff, has his uses. He can give me the right words at the right time for the wrong kind of things. Like he says I should always say, Oh, Duck! when I feel like saying Oh, Duck! and not to bother with how others say it or hear it. When they say what I am doing is tantamount to ducking disaster, he says, well — and he bats his hooded eyelids in that most endearing fashion, like you know they are false because they are so long but they don’t even fall, you know, like real-real false ones — so he says well, as a matter of fact, this is exactly what — ducking disaster! Anyway. I am at ease now, relieved by the real meaning of this and that, what the duck! Folks see ducks and start ducking all over the place and crying fowl and pheasant and what the duck else! I am a builder and some folks think I am bulldozing. What the duck! Can’t you see? The Saurus, look at it, what would you call this? All these arrangements I have marshalled? Give me a word for it. In fact give me several words, as many as the number of times I change clothes so that with every change I have a changed word. Behold tonnage of cement and sand. The galactic lengths of iron and steel. The scores and scores of armoured ranks. Whatever for? To build, you stupid, not to bulldoze. Don’t you know what this is all about? I am building. A Wall. Not a loser Wall. A winner Wall. It’s my revenge for the revenge I have no gut for. I changed the field of play, I shifted goalposts. They think they can come and become visible on my soil? Well, theek hai, bataata hoon. Not batata, not potato. Bataaataaa. Like, I shall tell you, I shall show you. I shall show you from the moon. You think you have the only Wall that can be seen from down there? Just you wait. I am building one too, and it will spear into you and fill your lungs with so much molten concrete and mortar you will choke on it till you have become incapable of remembering what the meaning of a Wall is. You invade me on Earth, I shall diminish you in the Cosmos; this, here, is the Wall of all walls, layers and layers of it, and I just started building. I will build and build till there is no place to build anymore and the Cosmos begins to gape in awe. And you think this is about you, you puny creatures who brought me where I am, from where I command you to retreat because I wish to vacate this place because I need it to accord you pride of place in the eyes of the Cosmos? You fools, you think this is about you? This Wall? Go on, delude yourselves, cry yourselves till my kingdom comes again. You are not the intended ones, you are merely collateral damage of my grand design. Mere debris. Go have a look from the moon, you loons. Chalo dildaar chalo Chaand ke paar chalo Jeet yaa haar chalo Hum hain taiyaar chalo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
07-02-2021||Opinion||BJP on the offensive in Bengal, Assam; but misfires on celeb tweets ||While the Bharatiya Janata Party’s overdrive to wrest West Bengal from Mamata Banerjee is frequently making the headlines, the ruling party is not taking it easy in poll-bound Assam either. This in spite of the fact that it is much stronger in terms of organization and winnability than in 2016 when it unseated the well-entrenched Congress. With anti-BJP forces closing ranks, the ruling party, too, has unleashed a publicity, development and largesse blitzkrieg to neutralize the Opposition’s narrative of the BJP being a threat to Assamese identity. Every other day something or the other is launched or inaugurated at massive rallies; every 10 days or so a senior leader visits and attends well-staged rallies to fan the buzz around the party which has set a target to win more than 100 of the 126 seats. The prime minister, Narendra Modi, the home minister, Amit Shah, the national party president, JP Nadda, and the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, have all visited the state since January and more such visits are lined up. The BJP has also toned up its monitoring team by assigning the agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, as election committee in-charge with the minister of development of north eastern region, Jitendra Singh, as in-charge. The national vice-president, Baijayant Panda, is the Assam in-charge. The top three state leaders — the chief minister, Sarbananda Sonowal, the senior minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, and the state president, Ranjeet Kumar Dass — are almost everywhere, everyday, attending huge rallies and roadshows to occupy the media space. The Opposition surely has a lot of catching up to do, and fast, if it sincerely wants to stop the BJP from retaining the Dispur crown, said a Congress insider. It was considered the perfect plan in the saffron circles. The BJP would demand the home department in the Bihar cabinet from its smaller ally, the Janata Dal (United), and its leader and the chief minister, Nitish Kumar, would reject it. Then it would gun for the education department and Kumar would not be able to deny it. A senior BJP leader said that his party really wanted it so that it could provide better, nationalistic education loaded with dollops of Indian culture in schools and colleges, as designed by various organizations affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. But suddenly the party backtracked and there were no takers for one of the biggest departments in Bihar. “Actually... education, more so school education, in the state is in a shambles. Lakhs of schoolteachers are constantly on the warpath against the government for better salary, perks, facilities and service conditions. The state coffers are virtually empty. Nitish bore the brunt of their agitation for the last several years. It dawned upon us that by taking the education department, we would become the target of teachers,” a senior BJP leader said, explaining why his party dropped the idea. Meanwhile, the JD(U), which is happy with not having to part with the home department, is wondering whether to laugh or be sad at having retained the education department. The current regime takes pride in the fact that it now has a strong ‘intellectual force’ to counter the Left-Congress combine. The saffron brigade for long suffered from an inferiority complex, vis-à-vis Leftists in particular. These days, one can hear BJP leaders boasting that they virtually command an army of backers to propagate their Hindutva ideology and counter the Leftists. “You can see now that on all important issues, if they have 100 prominent people backing them, then there is almost double that number pushing our line,” one RSS leader claimed. A sense of overconfidence and an offence-is-the-best-defence mindset has gripped the regime. This overconfidence, many within the BJP believe, was behind the angry pushback over the tweets by the pop star, Rihanna, and the climate activist, Greta Thunberg. Privately, some BJP leaders acknowledge that the government should not have reacted to the tweets, but publicly they justify the government. There is increasing realization in sections of the regime that all this betrays frustration over its political failure on the farmers’ protests. All of the BJP in Bihar, barring a few senior leaders, is terrified of a certain ‘heavyweight’ politician. Educated at one of the most famous universities in the country, he came back to his native state at the behest of the late Arun Jaitley, and has now become close to the party’s Bihar in-charge and Rajya Sabha member, Bhupender Yadav. He keeps throwing his weight around, browbeating all and sundry, and shouting at almost everybody in an attempt to establish himself as an important leader managing the day-to-day affairs of the party in the state. “This man keeps picking up fights with everybody and keeps flaunting his closeness to Bhupender Yadav. It seems that with the passage of time he is becoming more and more frustrated on not getting anything significant. We really hope that he gets something this time, else he will keep making our lives miserable,” a senior BJP leader confided. Amen, chorused the others present at the scene. Anyone who has something to do with Karnataka politics is waiting for the ‘tell-all’ biographic account of the turncoat BJP leader, AH Vishwanath. A former state president of Janata Dal (Secular) who was among the 17 Congress-JD(S) lawmakers who brought down the HD Kumaraswamy government in 2019, Vishwanath recently declared that his book, titled Bombay Days, would recount the operation engineered by the BJP. Many in the party feel that he plans to use the book to rattle the BJP, especially the chief minister, BS Yediyurappa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||Eight members of interstate cyber crime gang arrested in Bokaro||On Saturday, police arrested eight cyber criminals, hailing from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar from Yamuna Hotel in Bokara. The cyber thugs had been operating from the hotel rooms when the cops nabbed them after getting a tip-off. A woman was also arrested during the raid. Their four-wheeler – a Scorpio, has also been seized by the police. Confirming the news and sharing details about the arrest, Chandan Kumar Jha, SP, Bokaro, said, “Police have recovered several passbooks, ATM cards, cheque books, 19 mobile, gold chain, and Rs 4.17 lakhs from their possession.” According to sources in the police, the gang has been actively cheating people for the past three years. People across the country have been robbed by them. However, the police claimed that the gang of thugs had entered Bokara, two days back. The modus operandi was simple – team members of the gang would pose as bank executives or call centre executives and call the victims, seek their bank details over the phone and then make online transactions in their favour. The SP said, “Police on a tip-off conducted a raid at the Yamuna Hotel and found that the gang members were staying in room numbers 206 and 407. They came to Bokaro via road, two days back.” These cheats would keep moving between places, hire hotel rooms from where they would call people and trap them into sharing their bank details. Later they would transfer the money to their fake bank accounts and then withdraw it from the ATM. Police found passbooks, cheque books, ATMs, mobile numbers which are on fake names from the hotel rooms. The arrested individuals have confessed before the police that they also have fake bank accounts in the name of other people. “Those arrested have been identified as Vijay alias Veer Hans of Uttar Pradesh, Atmanand Kumar alias Shambhu, Gaurav Kumar of Bihar Nawada, Mintu Kumar of Bihar Sheikhpura, Avinash Anand of Nalanda, Rajmuni Sehgal of Bihar, Kunal Kumar of Nawada and Anita Kumari wife of Atmanand of Nawada,” said SP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||One COBRA personnel, two naxals injured in encounter in West Singhbhum||One CRPF jawan was injured in an encounter between paramilitary forces and CPI-Maoist rebels at the bordering areas of West Singhbhum, Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts under the West Singhbhum district about 80 km away from here on Sunday morning. The injured jawan identified as Narayan Khetri (25) who is posted in the COBRA's 209 battalion of CRPF sustained gun-shot injury in the shoulder and has been air-lifted to RIMS at Ranchi. Revealing about the encounter, West Singhbhum superintendent of police Ajay Linda said that the encounter took place while the police and paramilitary forces were carrying out a special operation at the bordering area of West Singhbhum, Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts. "The special operation of the police and paramilitary forces were going on in the stretch of Rolahatu and Lanji jungle which is located in a triangular point in Toklo thana area in West Singhbhum near the border of Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts since early on Sunday morning. The encounter started at around 8.30 am after the rebels had started firing at the paramilitary forces," said Linda while talking to The Telegraph Online. The superintendent of police said that in the encounter two rebels have also sustained bullet injuries, but the fellow rebels managed to take the injured rebels away while fleeing the spot. "We got the information regarding two rebels being injured in the encounter from the villagers who had seen the fellow naxals carrying them in their shoulders," he pointed out. Linda said the police have recovered ammunition, IEDs, haversack and other materials from the spot of the encounter. He said from the investigation that followed it was learnt that the naxals were holding a camp at the stretch while keeping a watch on the operation by the police and paramilitary forces, and had resorted to firing at the forces as the latter had come close to them. He said the encounter lasted for about 30 minutes, but seeing greater firepower from the paramilitary forces, the rebels fled the area, leaving their belongings including ammunition, IEDs and other materials. The superintendent of police said soon after the jawan was injured, a helicopter was pressed into service and the injured was carried to RIMS. Linda said he was monitoring the condition of the injured jawan and he is out of danger, adding that a combing operation was going on in the adjoining areas of the encounter spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||MP seeks CBI probe into killing of naval officer from Palamau||Palamau MP V.D. Ram wrote to Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh on Sunday seeking a CBI probe into the mysterious abduction and killing of a naval officer from Jharkhand while he was returning to duty from his home in Palamau.  The 26-year-old naval officer, Suraj Kumar Dubey, a resident of Purabdiha village in Chainpur block of Palamau, was reportedly abducted by three unidentified assailants who set Dubey ablaze after failing to get a ransom of Rs10 lakh from his family, police have found prima facie. He died at a Maharastra hospital on Saturday. The Telegraph Online has a copy of both the letters addressed by the local MP to Union home minister Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh. “I have requested home minister Amit Shah for a CBI inquiry into the murder of Navy sailor Suraj Kumar Dubey since this case is a fit case for a CBI probe,” said Ram, adding that the incident was murky and mysterious. In the letters, Ram wrote that Dubey was kidnapped around 11pm on January 30 from Chennai airport by three unknown people who whisked him away in an SUV. Ram stated Dubey was found in “semi-conscious state” at Vaiiji Veljipada forest in Gholvad Palghar Maharashtra on Saturday. The sailor succumbed to 90 per cent burn injuries while on way to the Sion/ INHS Ashwini hospital in Maharashtra where he was declared dead. A former DGP of Jharkhand V.D. Ram has raised pertinent questions in regard to the design and motive behind this gruesome crime where he reiterated the utter failure of Maharashtra police which could not find Dubey until some civilians brought this case of 90 per cent burns to the notice of the Palghar police. He has written that it baffles most that the killers of Dubey travelled 1,500km from Chennai in Tamil Nadu to Palghar in Maharashtra to dispose of the body in the forest of Vaiiji Veljipada Gholvad Palghar in Maharashtra. It is the same place (Palghar) where sadhus were lynched last year. Mithilesh Kumar Dubey, father of the deceased navy sailor, submitted a written complaint to the Chainpur police on February 1 stating that his son, after availing of one month leave, had left for the INS Agrani unit in Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu on January 30 itself. But his cell phone was found switched off from 6.46pm on January 30, Ram wrote in the letter. Officer in charge of the Chainpur police station Uday Kumar Gupta said, “We registered this complaint as ‘Sanha’ and made a proper entry in our police station diary dated February 1.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||Over 2,000 attend Congress-JMM ‘Jan Akrosh’ rally in Ranchi||Congress and JMM, two key constituents of the ruling coalition in Jharkhand, held a Jan Akrosh Rally near Durga Soren Chowk at Namkum on Sunday to condemn the attack on chief minister Hemant Soren’s cavalcade last month and demand a rollback of the three contentious farm laws. Over 2,000 people, majority of them tribals from Namkum, Khijri and adjoining blocks of Ranchi, attended the rally carrying banners and posters denouncing the attack on Hemant. Several protestors comprising women and children also turned up at the rally on tractors carrying spades and other farm tools to vent their ire against the farm laws in solidarity with the farmers protesting on Delhi borders. As the crowd began trickling from 11am, vehicular movement was disrupted on the road that connects Ranchi with NH-33 and serves as a gateway to the state capital. Traffic police struggled to maintain order as cars and buses jostled for space. On January 6, the chief minister’s cavalcade was attacked by protestors at Kishoreganj Chowk while they were demanding action against those responsible for the murder of a young woman whose body was found earlier that week at Ormanjhi. After weeks of investigations, the accused are finally behind bars. But the ruling coalition blames the BJP for orchestrating the attack on the chief minister’s entourage. Congress MLA from Khijri Rajesh Kachchap, who conceptualised Sunday’s rally, said, “The ‘jan-akrosh’ rally is to tell the BJP that the entire state and its tribals are behind our chief minister. The rally is to warn the BJP for acting against people of this country. One by one, they are conspiring to sell everything to private players to suit their capitalist friends. Now, lives of the farmers, who are the backbone of this country, are at stake due to the three black farm laws. The laws must be taken back.” Congress ministers Rameshwar Oraon (finance), Badal Patralekh (agriculture) and a host of workers attended the rally. Oraon said the Congress would not sit idle till the farm laws were repealed. “While farmers are fighting for their rights along Delhi borders for the last two months, in Jharkhand, we stand in solidarity with them. On February 20, the Congress party is going to stage another state-level tractor rally at Hazaribagh after the grand success of the Hul tractor rally in Santhal Pargana last week,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||Special athlete injured ahead of national camp ||An injury after a recent road mishap has cast doubts over the participation of Rakesh Bagh in the national floorball preparatory camp for the Special Olympics World Winter Games. Three special athletes and a coach from Jharkhand will be attending the national floorball preparatory camp which is scheduled from March 6 to 11 in Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh. The camp is being organised by Special Olympics Bharat (SOB) with logistical support from Sports Authority of India (SAI). It is the final camp for selecting the national floorball squad for the Russia Games. The Special Olympics World Winter Games is scheduled to be held in Kaza, Russia from January 22 to 28, 2022. Rakesh (24), a resident of the city’s Sitaramdera locality, experienced unbearable pain in his left leg during a short training camp held at JRD Tata Sports Complex last month. “Rakesh just could not move properly and left the camp after 10 minutes. He was also not being able to walk properly,” said Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) assistant area director, Satbir Singh Sahota. According to him, chances of Rakesh making it to the preparatory camp looks very slim. “We blame Rakesh’s parents for the situation. They allowed him to drive motorbike which caused an accident. We appeal to the parents of our athletes to not allow their wards to take any unnecessary risk,” Sahota added. The SOJ has also requested parents to allow their wards to do some physical exercises. “The special athletes sat idle due to the Covid-induced lockdown. Light exercise will help the special athletes to tune-up for the camp,” Sahota explained. According to him, the preparatory was originally scheduled from March 15 to 20 but has been preponed due to a festival in Himachal Pradesh. “The Indian floorball team for the Russia Games will be selected during the camp in Bilaspur. Rakesh is a good player and stands a fair chance of getting the nod. But his injury has forced us to keep our fingers crossed,” Sahota said. This is the second time Rakesh would miss the preparatory camp. He missed the national powerlifting camp for Special Olympics World Winter Games in 2019 (in Abu Dhabi) as he fractured his collar bone after falling down from his bike. Sital Sikka (East Singhbhum) and Rahul Kumar Sharma (Giridih) are others who would be attending the camp. Abhiranjan Kumar (Ranchi) will go as a coach. According to Sahota, the athletes and their coach will leave for Bilaspur on March 4. “We will shortly book their train tickets. We will ensure that valid passports, Aadhar cards, and IQ certificates of the special athletes are ready by February 15,” he informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI organises 28th Annual JRD Tata Oration virtually||XLRI hosted the 28th Annual JRD Tata Oration on Business Ethics virtually on Saturday. Fr. Stephan Rothlin, director of the Macau Ricci Institute and CEO of Rothlin International Management Consulting Ltd delivered the oration. Fr. Rothlin delivered his speech on the topic – China - The Emerging Superpower, The Ethical Underpinnings. He emphasised on the ethical perspectives and explained the key elements of business ethics, which he has been teaching in business schools in Beijing, Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, and Taiwan for the last 23 years. He also shared his insights about business ethics in China. “Case studies should be used as the most effective pedagogy for business ethics. Business schools should combine both the wisdom and traditions of India and China to cultivate moral virtues,” he said. Talking about China’s dramatic economic transformation, he referred to the data from the 2019 and 2020 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) economic survey and shared some outstanding figures vis-à-vis the growth of China. “The growth has slowed in the first half of 2020 but remains strong. China has managed to control Covid-19 pandemic and will remain the major driver of global growth, as is reflected by China’s significantly high GDP growth,” he said. In his oration, he also pointed out that China witnessed enormous trade frictions, which hurt not only both sides but also the global economy. “China has made impressive gains claiming to have lifted 700 million people out of poverty in 40 years since the open door policy. China should be given credit for the alleviation of mass poverty and handling the Covid-19 crisis very well after initial failures. If China manages to opt for a more sustainable economic growth, it would significantly impact the world economy,” he added. Earlier, in his welcome address, Fr. P. Christie, director of XLRI said, “Globalisation has further enhanced the importance of ethical, moral compass in business. Globalisation means that business strategy and business ethics cannot be separated from each other. Corporations have entered a new era, the ‘prove-to-me’ era. Unethical practices and organizations are not being shrugged off anymore. Even reputed organisations and some outstanding CEOs are named, shamed and fined, or imprisoned for their ethical lapses the world over. The culture of an organisation is established by the tone set at the top. Chief executives must lead by example.” He went on to say that the B-school has always emphasised the importance of adopting an ethical code of conduct within the corporate world. “We believe that no management education curriculum is entirely complete unless and until the students are instilled with a set of values that are necessary decision-making ingredients for the corporate manager today,” he said further. In 1991, XLRI, in association with a few select Tata Group Companies, established the XLRI-JRD Tata Foundation for Business Ethics to mark their long-standing commitment and contribution to business ethics in India. The foundation seeks to address itself by publicly affirming the imperative need for adopting ethics in business and striving to shape an enabling eco-system to foster ethical business practices. JRD Tata, himself a role model extraordinary, set the bar high for the successive ethics orations for over two decades as the first orator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||After rain & thunderstorm, brace for a cold wave||Unseasonal rain and thunderstorm lashed several parts of the state, especially Jamshedpur and Ranchi, on Saturday night in tune with predictions of the Met office that had flagged a western disturbance-induced cyclonic circulation as the trigger. Torpa in Khunti district recorded the highest rainfall of 5mm while Jamshedpur followed second with the local IMD observatory recording rainfall of 3.4 mm. Met statistics revealed that Ramgarh recorded 2mm rain while Arki experienced 1.5mm. The IMD observatory at Lohardaga recorded 1.2 mm rain while capital Ranchi recorded 1 mm. Kanke on the outskirts of Ranchi experienced a hailstorm. Branches of trees fell at several places in Jamshedpur and other parts of the Kolhan region as gusty winds swept at a speed of 35 Kmph. "The weather condition will gradually improve from Sunday in most parts of the state. We are expecting dry weather and clear sky with fall in minimum readings by 3 to 4 degree Celsius in the next two days," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Ranchi Meteorological Centre also issued an alert of moderate to dense fog in isolated pockets of the state during the next two days. The Met department also predicted a cold wave for the next two days as minimum readings are expected to fall abruptly. On Sunday, Ranchi and Chaibasa in West Singhbhum recorded a minimum temperature of around 11 degree Celsius. Jamshedpur recorded 13.4 degrees Celsius. Daltonganj witnessed plummeting night readings with the local observatory recording 9.6 degrees Celsius on Sunday. Bokaro, Dhanbad and Ramgarh recorded around 10 degree Celsius. As per forecast, minimum readings will witness a further fall in the next 48 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||Changing weather prompts migratory birds to stay put in Dhanbad||Many migratory birds are staying back at different sites of Dhanbad like the scenic Maithon and Panchet Lake due to the chilly weather conditions prevailing in the coal town, after a brief spell of warm weather from January 1 to 12. The weather condition is developing a favourable atmosphere for the birds to stay back. A group of bird lovers in Dhanbad, led by a retired banker A K Sahay (62) who are carrying out extensive survey of bird spots in Dhanbad since September last year, have spotted Red Crested Pochard  and Ruddy Shellduck during a visit to the Maithon Lake on Saturday. The team also spotted a few Tufted duck, a small diving duck of Northern Eurasia during their trip to Maithon Lake. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sahay said, “The migratory birds usually stay until the temperature lies below 10 degrees C and we expect the migratory birds to stay at least for 10 more days.” “We are very happy to spot around 25 Tufted duck at Maithon and probably they have drifted here from Doom Dooma area of Assam which is the favourite place for migratory birds. It is a good sign as we have spotted around 70 Tufted duck at Maithon last year also,” said Sahay and added that Dhanbad can be developed as a favourite spot for migratory birds with little support from the authorities. “We are working here under the banner of Dhanbad Birders and are identifying bird spots in the town as well as in the surrounding areas. We have identified six bird spots in the town including Jagjivan Nagar, DS Colony (near Pampu Talab), Bartand (in the vicinity of CIMFR), Bekar Bandh, Bhelatand (near DPS Hirak Branch) and Bhelatand village,” informed Sahay. “We have simultaneously identified seven bird sites during our extensive survey since September 202 on suburbs including Dhokra near Domerpur (17 km from Dhanbad), Govindpur (12 km from Dhanbad), Chhai Gadda near Kargali Ghat in Baliapur (20 km from Dhanbad), Domgarh Boating Point (23 km from Dhanbad), Maheshpur in Katras (23 km from Dhanbad), Aamtal (6.2 km from Dhanbad), foothills of Dhangi Pahar in Pradhan Khanta (14 km from Dhanbad),” further said Sahay. Dhanbad based renowned radiologist Dr Manish Vishwakarma, who is also the president of Dhanbad Birders, said, “There are some spots in the town like Domerpur which have good potential to be developed as a favourite site for migratory birds. Our delegation met the Dhanbad DFO, Bimal Lakra on February 3 and presented him our report.” “Lakra assured all cooperation in developing the bird spots including putting the signboards at these sites including Domerpur. The signboards will mention the names of the species of birds found at these sites and later declaring them as a prohibited area,” added Vishwakarma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jagarnath Mahto to be discharged from Chennai hospital on Monday||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto is to be discharged from a Chennai hospital on Monday afternoon three months after he underwent a transplant surgery on account of Covid-induced lung fibrosis, doctors in the Tamil Nadu capital said on Sunday. However, the minister, who was flown to Chennai in an air ambulance from Ranchi on October 19 last year, will return to Jharkhand after spending at least a week in an accommodation in Chennai, said Dr. Suresh Rao, the Co-Director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare, Chennai. “He is fit to lead a normal life and we will discharge him on Monday afternoon. But his family members have decided to keep him at a private accommodation in Chennai for a week to see how he adapts to regular day-to-day activities after staying hospitalised for several months,” said Dr Rao. Mahto, doctors said, was fit to travel in passenger flights, but he would need to maintain social distance, wear masks and not visit crowded places even after returning to Jharkhand. “He will have to stay cautious in order to avoid any chances of developing an infection in the surgically operated lungs,” Dr Rao said. Mahto’s discharge from the hospital also indicates that he will attend the upcoming budget session in the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha scheduled to begin on February 26, sources from his party, the JMM, said. While Mahto may have won his battle against the Covid-19 virus, several issues in his ministry back home have aggravated. For one, protesting para teachers in Jharkhand are waiting for a dialogue with the education minister once he returns home. Demanding regularisation of services, the 70,000-odd ad hoc teachers have been staging protests outside the residence of all ministers in the Hemant Soren cabinet. Mahto, who was in the news for taking admission in an inter college at the age of 53, will also not be able to appear for his exams this year as he did not fill up the examination form due to his prolonged illness. Mahto tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 and was admitted to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He was shifted to the ICU of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in the state capital on October 1 and put on non-invasive ventilation. The 54-year-old MLA from Dumri in Jharkhand, was put on a life support system called ECMO for around three weeks in Chennai before he underwent a lung transplant surgery on November 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||State meets 42 per cent vaccine target on Saturday||Jharkhand achieved 42 per cent of its vaccination target on Saturday, inoculating 6,306 healthcare and 3,609 frontline workers, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. More than 16,000 healthcare workers and almost 7,500 frontline workers were registered across the vaccination centres in 24 districts of Jharkhand. While 49 per cent of the registered frontline workers got the Covishield jabs, only 39 per cent of the registered healthcare workers turned up the vaccination centres to get the vaccine shots. Dhanbad inoculated at least 1,476 of the 1,569 registered beneficiaries there, achieving 94 per cent of its target, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi, on the other hand vaccinated only 1,311 of the 4,030 registered beneficiaries, achieving only 33 per cent of its target – one of the lowest in the state. As many as 512 of the over 1,400 beneficiaries were administered the Covishield shot in East Singhbhum. Since the beginning of the immunisation drive on January 16, Jharkhand has inoculated as many as 95,916 people against the Covid-19 virus, highlights government data. As per NHM data, more than 10,000 people were vaccinated in Ranchi alone – the highest among districts in Jharkhand. Of the 95,916 people vaccinated so far, 85,544 were healthcare workers, while 10,372 were frontline workers, mostly police personnel and sanitation workers, stated a report released by the NHM. The state has reported 246 cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) and 169 of these cases occurred in Ranchi. However, doctors say that none of the people who reported AEFI complained of severe symptoms. Meanwhile, recoveries outnumbered the fresh cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand, bringing the count of active cases down to 428, NHM said. Ranchi, however, registered a rise in active cases as the district reported 25 cases against 24 recoveries. As per the NHM bulletin, 41 people were infected in Jharkhand on Saturday, while 54 patients recovered in the state. At least 19 of the 24 districts did not report fresh cases of infection, but Ranchi accounted for more than 60 per cent of fresh cases reported in Jharkhand on the day. More than 1.18 lakh people have been infected by Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.73 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of Covid cases in the state was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.07 per cent. At the current pace, it would take more than 2,009 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was 924.65 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||Lunch packets for chakka jam-hit drivers||Around 20,000 farmers and representatives of the ruling UPA alliance in Jharkhand took part in the “chakka jam” (road blockade) at 64 places along the national and state highways on Saturday in response to the nationwide protest call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions, against the Centre’s three new farm laws. “It was a completely peaceful agitation. We are grateful to the political outfits who expressed solidarity with our cause and supported the Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s symbolic protest against the Union budget which ignored our demands and against oppressive measures of the central government, especially banning Internet at various farmer protest sites bordering Delhi,” said Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvay Samity vice-president Prafulla Linda, a farmer from Ranchi. The Samity is coordinating the agitation in Jharkhand. Linda reiterated that farmers had abided by their directives against causing harassment to the passengers and commuters during the “chakka jam” from noon to 3pm. “The agitation was a mark of protest against the central government and not intended to cause harassment to the masses. Along national highways in Dhanbad and Jamshedpur, our front members, with support from the Congress, the JMM, the RJD and the CPM, gave lunch packets to the truck drivers stuck in the jam. “In most of the other places drinking water, tea and snacks were provided to the truckers and in some cases to the passengers as well. At no place were the passengers or ambulances and vehicles carrying essential commodities stopped,” said Sufal Mahato, a Tamar-based farmer and convener of the Samity. Inspector-general (operations) and state police spokesperson Saket Kumar Singh also said that nobody was taken into preventive custody during the agitation. “Following a directive from the state police headquarters, security forces had been deployed at strategic places along the highways. There has been no report of violence from anywhere in the state. In most places, the agitators relented after persuasion by the police and lifted the blockade after an hour or so. So far nobody has been taken under preventive detention from anywhere in the 24 districts,” the officer said. Jarmundi Congress MLA and state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, who had met farmer leader Rakesh Tikait in Delhi, spearheaded the agitation at Lowadih along National Highway 33 in Ranchi. “It was a peaceful agitation against the central government by the farmers, youth and some political parties. We want to express our solidarity with our farmers. We will continue to agitate till the new farm laws, which are nothing but a death warrant for the farmers, are not repealed by the government. The Congress and likeminded parties will be undertaking phase-wise rallies and agitation on February 10, 13 and 28 in different parts of Jharkhand,” said Patralekh. Meanwhile, a 10-member delegation of the Kisan Andolan Ekjuttha Manch, Jamshedpur, on Friday night met Tikait at Delhi’s Ghazipur border, presented a memento of tribal icon Birsa Munda and expressed solidarity with the agitation against the farm laws. The delegation also met the agitating farmers at the Singhu border on Saturday to express their solidarity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
