08-02-2021||Calcutta||Trafficking, early marriage and child labour concern over school dropouts||Many students who have dropped out in the wake of the long closure of schools are vulnerable against trafficking, early marriage and child labour, people at the helm of schools said in Calcutta on Sunday. Over 100 headmasters and headmistresses from 23 districts of Bengal assembled at a city auditorium on Sunday to discuss ways to combat trafficking against the backdrop of the pandemic. “There were 450 Madhyamik aspirants in our school before the pandemic. But around 350 of them have enrolled for the exam. The rest have not contacted the school for a long time,” said Chandan Kumar Maity, the headmaster of Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, South 24-Parganas. All schools have been closed since March last year as a precaution against Covid-19 and classes are being held on digital platforms. The state government has allowed the reopening of schools from February 12 for students of Classes IX to XII. “Most of the parents are extremely poor. Their livelihood has taken a massive hit because of the pandemic. Many of them want to get their girls married off,” said Maity, the general secretary of the State Forum of Headmasters and Headmistresses, West Bengal (SFHM). The forum had organised the day-long workshop, in association with International Justice Mission, an NGO that works with trafficking survivors. Maity has been campaigning in South 24-Parganas to raise awareness about the perils of trafficking for almost two decades and has rescued over 200 girls from child marriage and trafficking. Maity echoed many child rights activists who fear the economic hardship caused by the lockdown might prompt many parents to consider getting their underage daughters married to men who do not demand dowry. Traffickers are always on the prowl, looking for such vulnerable families, they said. The Telegraph has reported on a spike in child marriages in the districts of South and North 24-Parganas during the lockdown. “My area has over 400 brick kilns. There are a lot of daily wage earners. Their children are most vulnerable to these threats…. I cannot keep an eye on all of them. There is a block child protection wing but that is not enough. We need an institutionalised support system,” said Shyamal Kumar Majumder, the headmaster of a school in Murshidabad. “It is imperative to stop child marriage. It is imperative to change the way girls see themselves. A girl should know that she is no less than her brother. A boy should treat his sister as an equal. Teachers have a huge role to play in bringing about a change in the mindset,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights ( WBCPCR). Last month, the commission had recommended to the education department that schools be reopened for senior classes and students called to the campuses in a staggered way. “The majority of stakeholders stressed the importance of reopening the schools immediately (especially Class IX and above) for the benefit of rural children, many of whom are drifting into child labour or are being forced into child marriage by their families,” the commission had said. “Any grassroots campaign against trafficking is incomplete without transforming schools. The key to transformation is with the headmasters and headmistresses,” said Saji Phillip, the director of operations of IJM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Parents asked to monitor children's movements once in-person classes resume||Some of the schools have decided to ask parents to monitor the children's movements after they leave for home once in-person classes resume. Since the students who will be going to school are in senior classes and they can travel on their own, they might be under "temptation" to take a detour home and expose themselves to the risk of contracting Covid-19. The state government has allowed schools to reopen from February 12 for students of Classes IX to XII. Julien Day School, Ganganagar, has sent a note to parents asking them to send a message to the respective class teachers that the child had reached home. “Parents need to call the concerned teachers daily to let them know that their wards have reached home safely and on time. We care for their safety hence, you need to help us monitor their movement from home to school and back home,” stated the letter from the principal to the parents. “The class teachers will alert you every day through a message if your ward is present at school and you in turn should inform the teacher that your ward is back home on time.” The letter also mentions the timing of the classes to help parents monitor the students. It also mentions that if necessary, the class teachers will create WhatsApp groups of the parents. “For those students who will agree to come to school, we will keep a record of where they are staying. It would give us an idea of how long a student would take to get back home. These are senior children who were at home for many months, so there is a possibility that they would want to roam about unsupervised and we want to curb that for everyone’s safety,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School, Ganganagar. The authorities of Mahadevi Birla World Academy and Sri Sri Academy will talk to parents about monitoring the children’s return home and Indus Valley World School has decided to address students since they are “senior students who have to be taught to be responsible”. Also, monitoring is needed because the students who will be going to school are board examinees and they should not jeopardise their safety before the examinations. Several schools are calling students for practicals and rehearsals before the board examinations. “We have a parent's orientation before the students start coming to school with a video simulation of how things will run. During that meeting, we will also tell parents to make sure students follow the safety protocols and parents should not give in to the children's whims and fancies because they have to appear for board exams. The concern for safety is both for children and adults,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. Rita Chatterjee, the director of North Point Senior Secondary Boarding Schools in Calcutta, said there were many areas that would have to be covered before bringing in students to school. “We are writing to parents telling them they have to strictly oversee how children are coming to school and returning home…. Children, too, have to be counselled," said Chatterjee. “Many of the Class XII students are on the brink of adulthood and we will address them about the safety concerns. It is imperative to come to school but they have to be told that not being responsible can expose themselves and others to the risk and further jeopardise their coming to school,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta witnesses a Vintage and Classic Car Rally ||Around 70 vintage and classic cars and more than a dozen bikes from yesteryears took to the streets of Calcutta and drove from Calcutta Club to Anandapur, off EM Bypass, on Sunday. The Vintage and Classic Car Rally gave an opportunity to the owners of the golden oldies to drive their prized possessions across the city. Whenever anyone came to take a close look at the cars or click photographs, the owners explained to him or her the need to maintain social distancing and personal hygiene to keep Covid-19 at bay. On display was a 1913 Stoewer, a 1928 Studebaker, a 1947 Chevrolet Fleetmaster Sport Sedan, a 1951 Mercury Sport Sedan and a Rolls Royce Phantom III from 1937, among others. The rally was organised by the Automobile Association of Eastern India (AAEI) and the Classic Drivers' Club. Prithvi Tagore, an organiser of the rally, said the idea was to keep the cars running as well as to let Calcuttans have a glimpse of the city’s rich motoring heritage. “Calcutta was the car capital once and we want to make people aware that such cars do exist and despite being so old, they still run,” said Tagore, who drove a 1963 Fiat Super Select. One of the oldest cars was a 1928 Studebaker, which was driven by Pallab Roy.“This was a great event. We had the chance to go around the city on a Sunday morning with so many other cars around and it was the perfect mix of the beauties of the past with the city of the present,” said Roy. The curtain came down on the seventh edition of the IIHM Young Chef Olympiad, in association with t2, on Saturday. The competition, which was held virtually this year, saw participants from more than 50 countries fight it out over five days. Lee Maan Ki from Hong Kong was declared the winner of the Golden Trophy. The UAE won the Silver Trophy, while New Zealand won the Bronze. Streamed from the IIHM Global Campus, Sector V, the evening was a mix of fun, performances and great food. Speaking at the closing ceremony, Suborno Bose, chairman, IIHM Young Chef Olympiad, said: “The 7th IIHM Young Chef Olympiad this year on a virtual platform was a marriage of top-class culinary skills and cutting-edge technology. It's one of the most exciting experiences connecting 50 countries over 24 time zones.  This year it’s all about hope and bouncing back and so we called it Hope YCO.” Reporting by Aniruddha Biswas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Convocation call after Calcutta University campus opens||Calcutta University will decide on holding the convocation after campuses reopen for in-person classes, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said on Sunday. The university usually holds its convocation in winter. Over the past three years, the event was held at Nazrul Mancha in January. “We will be able to take a call on holding the convocation once the campuses are formally reopened,” Chakravarti Banerjee told Metro. The state government will not decide on resumption of in-person classes at colleges and universities before April, education minister Partha Chatterjee had said on Wednesday, following a meeting with representatives of universities. “Reopening of campuses will send across the message that the risk posed by the coronavirus has subsided. The state government will take a call on resumption in consultation with the health department. So only after the campuses reopen will the university decide when the convocation can be held,” a CU official said. CU has distributed degree certificates to those who have completed MPhil and PhD in small groups adhering to all health protocols. “The degree recipients came in small groups and collected their certificates from designated offices adhering to the health protocols,” the VC said. Those who failed to come will have the certificates mailed to their residential addresses. In a normal year, the certificates are distributed during the convocation. CU also honours the honorary degree recipients and eminent academics from elsewhere in the country and abroad during the convocation. Since there is restriction on international flights because of the pandemic, academics based abroad cannot be invited, a CU official said. “Not just reopening of the campuses, we are also looking forward to resumption of international flights before deciding on the date of the convocation,” an official said. Jadavpur University, which usually holds its convocation in an open air auditorium on the campus on December 24, did not hold the ceremony last year as it wanted to avoid any assembly as a precaution against Covid-19. The university will distribute the degree certificates in a staggered way on the campus from February 8 to 22. St Xavier’s University held its second convocation on the campus on Saturday with limited attendance and following all health protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Season’s last cold spell is set to grip Calcutta from Monday||Another cold spell, likely to be the season’s last, is set to grip Calcutta from Monday, the Met office has said. The first few days of February were unusually cold in Calcutta. The spell was broken by a cyclonic circulation over central India that had led to moisture incursion into the atmosphere, stalling the flow of cold winds from north and triggering a rise in temperature. The moisture incursion led to the formation of clouds and the city saw a spell of rain late on Saturday. The Met office at Alipore recorded only 1.5mm of rain. Some areas, however, saw more than a drizzle. But the sky cleared on Sunday morning and is expected to remain so over the next few days. “The cyclonic circulation over Chhattisgarh has become much less marked. It is going to dissipate by Sunday. After a fresh bout of snowfall in Kashmir, the cold north-westerly winds are set to enter Calcutta,” said a Met official. The effect of the winds was felt from Sunday night. “The minimum temperature is likely to be under 15 degrees for the next few days. If the winds are strong, the Celsius can slide to around 13 degrees,” the official said. The mornings in the city are, however, likely to be foggy. The cold winds will start losing steam from the middle of February, the official said. The Celsius in Calcutta had been consistently under 13 degrees in the first week of February, several notches below the usual temperature for this time of the year. At 11.4 degrees, Monday (February 1) was the coldest February day in over a decade and the second coldest this winter. The low day temperature was the main reason behind the slide in mercury. The maximum temperature was in the range of 22 and 23 degrees for a few days, a whopping seven-degree deviation from the usual (29 degrees) for February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Delayed start to vaccination of frontline staff||Administration of Covid-19 vaccines to frontline workers in the city began at 16 clinics of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Saturday. The state health department has planned to add more sites by the middle of the week. Officials in the department said vaccination of frontline workers, which was to start on February 2, had not gathered pace yet. The Union health ministry on Saturday asked states to increase the pace of Covid-19 vaccination so that all health workers received at least one dose by February 20 and all frontline workers received at least one dose by March 6. Officials in the state health department said achieving the target was tough and they had to scale up vaccination of frontline workers. An official of the department said over 3.5 lakh health-care workers, out of 6 lakh who have been registered, had been given the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine by Saturday. There are about 2.5 lakh frontline workers in the state, said another official. Inoculation of police personnel will start on Monday at Calcutta Police Hospital. “More sites will be added in two to four days to vaccinate frontline workers,” said an official of the health department who is involved in the vaccination programme in Calcutta. The Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines, issued by the Centre, lists “personnel from State and Central Police department, Armed Forces, Home Guard, prison staff, disaster management volunteers and Civil Defense Organisation, Municipal Workers and Revenue officials engaged in COVID-19 containment, surveillance and associated activities” as frontline workers. An official in the state health department had said they would prioritise municipal workers, police personnel and revenue officials associated in the Covid-19 containment, surveillance and associated activities for vaccination. Municipal solid waste cleaners and civic engineers were among the frontline workers who were vaccinated at the 16 clinics of the CMC on Saturday. All those being vaccinated now are employees of the CMC. A CMC official said they had planned to vaccinate 50 frontline workers and 40 health workers of the civic body, and 30 health workers from nursing homes and hospitals per day. “But on Saturday very few frontline workers turned up. We are calling up those featuring on Monday’s list so that they come. Every day we will call frontline workers scheduled to take a dose the following day,” said the CMC official. The health department has asked frontline workers to turn up at health clinics even if they do not receive any text message about vaccination. If a person’s name does not feature on a day’s list, he or she can still be vaccinated by exercising the “Add beneficiary” option in the CoWIN app, a digital platform created for Covid-19 vaccination. Some private hospitals are waiting for lists from the health department to start vaccinating health workers not attached to their institutions and frontline workers. “We have completed vaccinating our health workers. We are in a position to start large-scale vaccination of frontline workers and health workers from other institutions,” said an official of Belle Vue Clinic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Health and frontline workers can turn up at any Covid-19 vaccination site for jabs||Health and frontline workers can turn up at any Covid-19 vaccination site for their jabs from Monday, a decision aimed at speeding up vaccination against the disease. Only health and frontline workers are eligible for Covid shots in the current round of vaccination, which started on January 16. Since the start of the drive, prospective recipients are getting text messages mentioning where and when they will get their jabs. “For a week from Monday, health and frontline workers can turn up at any site for their Covid jabs. We will run the trial for a week to increase the speed of the Covid vaccination. Necessary instructions have been sent to officials concerned,” said an official of the health department. “We want to see for a week how this works. The only criterion is that the recipients’ names must figure on the lists of health workers and frontline workers. Detailed lists have been sent to officials at the vaccination sites.” Bengal has around six lakh health-care workers and five lakh frontline workers from various government departments, including police, panchayat, civic bodies and public works department. As part of the trial, it has been decided that the vaccine recipients will have to mention their institutions or departments and districts so vaccinators can run a quick check through the lists. “Not more than 100 persons can be vaccinated at each site. And depending on the location of a site, a recipient will be given Covishield or Covaxin,” said an official. The state health department has decided that 25 per cent of the vaccination centres will be earmarked for Covaxin. All Covaxin recipients will have to sign a consent form before being given the doses. So far only those who have received a text message from CoWIN, an app created by the Centre for Covid-19 inoculation, about vaccination on a certain day would be eligible for a jab and that too at the site mentioned in the message. But with the app continuing to throw challenges and text messages remaining elusive for many, the health department has decided to find an alternative. “If the mechanism we have thought of to speed up vaccination works, a recipient from central Calcutta can get the jab at any centre in, say, north Calcutta,” an official said. “Once a person has received the first dose, his or her name will be uploaded on the CoWIN app. It wouldn’t matter if that person was scheduled to get the jab at that site on that day. Collectively, the numbers will go up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College convocation deferred to March 13||St Xavier’s College has postponed its convocation for a second time and rescheduled it for March 13, officials said on Sunday. The Park Street institution had first deferred the convocation from January 16 to February 28 because of the Covid pandemic. “The second postponement is not because of the pandemic,” said an official of the college. “The convocation has been scheduled for March 13 because we want more number of degree recipients to attend the event.” The college had earlier invited only 35 degree recipients to attend the convocation. But now, it will invite 350 of the 2,700 recipients (undergraduate and postgraduate). The venue has been changed as well. Earlier, the college had planned to hold the convocation at the auditorium on the campus. Now, following an increase in the number of recipients, the authorities have decided to hold the event on the football ground on the campus. “The ceremony was initially decided to be held on February 28. It has been further deferred in the interest of the student community. The programme has been rescheduled for March 13 at 11am. With the post-examination review/grafting procedure completed, we intend to confer degrees on the maximum number of students possible, in the present situation,” said Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college. “From every department, the first 20 students according to the marks secured in all six semesters will be invited to attend the convocation. We are keeping the figure at 350.” Asked whether it would be safe to let 350 degree recipients gather at the convocation venue, the principal said: “We are keeping the number within 350 because of the pandemic. That is why we are holding the event in an open-air spacious facility, where it will be easier to maintain physical distancing norms. We had to somewhat honour the wishes of the students while keeping the safety protocols in mind.” Altogether, 450 people, including teachers and officials, will gather at the venue, officials said. The college will mail the degree certificates to the residential addresses of those who will not be able to attend the convocation. The ceremony will be live streamed on digital platforms like Facebook and YouTube. “Those who will attend the event will have their body temperature checked with thermal guns and guards and volunteers will ensure all protocols are followed,” a college official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Sugata accuses Victoria Memorial Hall of changing credits at Nirbhik Subhas||Sugata Bose, grand-nephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, has said the Victoria Memorial Hall has overnight changed the captions and credit of the displays at Nirbhik Subhas, an exhibition on Netaji, that he had said were “fake” in a letter on Saturday. The display showing the resignation letter by Subhas Chandra Bose from the Indian Civil Service was called “fake” by Sugata Bose as “the handwriting was not that of Netaji and had several anomalies including spelling mistakes and wrong salutations”. On Sunday, the display had no spelling mistakes, the salutation was changed and the credit to the display reads: “This is the original letter published in the book A Pictorial Biography NRB (Netaji Research Bureau). Above is the artistic recreation of the original document for bettervisibility.” Sugata Bose said on Sunday: “They have obviously drastically changed their display today in response to my letter. Netaji’s own handwriting is perfectly legible and could be read easily from a distance if enlarged. Netaji A Pictorial Biography was edited by my father and published by Ananda Publishers in 1979. It is clear the organisers simply made copies of many photos and documents from that book. The copyright of the book is with Netaji Research Bureau as most photos are from the NRB archives.” Numerous phone calls to the curator and secretary of the Memorial, Jayanta Sengupta, through the day went unanswered. He had said in a WhatsApp message on Saturday that he was away attending a medical emergency. Union culture secretary Raghavendra Singh, who was present at the inauguration of Nirbhik Subhas and showed Prime Minister Narendra Modi around the exhibition on January 23, did not respond to calls and messages from Metro. Nirupama Kotru, joint secretary in the culture ministry, said the curator of the Memorial would respond to Bose’s letter. But Sugata Bose has not received any response so far. A Delhi-based agency, Design Factory India, has designed the exhibition. When contacted by this newspaper, Siddharth Bathla, the founder and director of the agency, said: “We just design and manufacture stuff.” Sugata Bose said: “People from Design Factory India had visited the Netaji museum at Netaji Bhavan and took photographs with their cell phones, I was told.” The exhibition had remained closed for a few hours on January 29. After it reopened, Sugata Bose had extensive photographs taken of the displays and sent the letter to the Memorial. He wrote in his letter: “I understand you closed your exhibition Nirbhik Subhas for a day to include acknowledgements to Netaji Research Bureau. While it appears that the originals of many photographs and facsimiles of letters and documents exhibited by you are indeed from the archives of Netaji Research Bureau collected with dedicated effort over more than six decades, Victoria Memorial never contacted NRB to seek help with your exhibition. I am puzzled therefore about the basis on which you have given acknowledgements.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta schools train staff for reopening||Schools are organising training sessions for security guards and those involved in housekeeping, telling them to be “strict with the students” about rules and to follow the protocols themselves as a precaution against Covid-19. The staff members are being told to regularly clean door knobs and taps after every use, keep an eye on whether everyone is wearing a mask properly and not allow parents on the campus when students arrive or leave. The training started in most places after the government had last week announced that schools could reopen for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. “Many of the security personnel have been here for some time and they tend to be soft with children. But from now they will have to be very strict and merciless in following the protocols. For example they cannot allow any child on the campus without a mask,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. At Indus Valley, the guards have been told to ensure that parents do not enter the campus when students arrive in the morning or leave for home. “Earlier, parents or guardians would wait inside the campus. During dispersal (of students) some of them would park two-wheelers on the campus. This has to stop and security guards have been trained accordingly,” Prasad said. At some institutions, the training sessions are being held thrice a week. Once the campuses reopen, the sessions will be held only on Saturdays. “We are doing everything possible to train our staff who clean, sanitise and operate lifts to understand the uncompromising importance of following the Covid safety protocol,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Once schools reopen, the duty of the guards will include measuring the temperature of the students and others at the gate and attendants must ensure everyone santises his or her hands while entering the campus. “The door knobs, toilets and the railings will have to be cleaned frequently. The schedule has been drawn up and they (the staff) have to adhere to it,” said Sharmila Bose, the director of Sushila Birla Girls’ School. “There is an added dimension to their role because they are now a second pair of eyes, in addition to the teachers.” Training the housekeeping and security staff was always a part of the school routine, but following the Covid outbreak, the focus of sensitisation has widened beyond child abuse and upkeep of the campus. “We are telling them that they could be of help to children to stick to the protocols and also they need to take care of themselves to keep others safe,” said Papia Lahiri, a teacher who is in charge of safety and inclusion at Sri Sri Academy. The staff members at Sri Sri Academy are being told how to wear a mask, the personal hygiene everyone has to follow and how many children can be allowed in a washroom at a time. With the increase in workload, the duty of attendants and guards has been split into shifts and days so they do not burn themselves out, the head of a school said. “Their role has extended. Also, earlier sweeping could be done twice a day, but now sweeping and scrubbing has to be done constantly. We can’t compromise on that and hence we have divided them in shifts,” said Hilda Peacock, the director of Gems Akademia International School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
08-02-2021||Calcutta||How virus helped discover kitchen||Now that we have all learned to bake banana bread and stir-fry frittata during the lockdown, maybe we should ask ourselves why, if the kitchen is such an important place for both men and women, was it hardly ever seen before the pandemic? Where was it all along except in Instagram, where designer kitchens are presided over by even more designer hashtag-owners? Calcutta is food-obsessed. Yet even a century earlier in a prosperous Bengali household, the kitchen would be hidden away. It would compete with the other most-neglected, least-ventilated places: the bathroom and the toilet, which would often be separate (for ritualistic sanitation rules that defined what was impure), the antur ghor (the birthing shed where children of the family would be delivered; birthing would generate impurity) and the cowshed. The kitchen would, with the places mentioned above, be on the margins of the household, literally, because cooking and cooked food would be impure in various ways according to the elaborate rules of etho or sakri, which basically explain the method by which impurity is transmitted through food. Cooked rice is etho, so is food that one has already eaten. The kitchen, though it fed the family, had to be kept in its place. In a smaller, poorer house, often the kitchen had no location at all. A portable unun (oven) would be lit anywhere, in a corner of a room, in the courtyard, in the space outside the room. In how many novels, short stories, films and paintings can you recall the kitchen being shown clearly. In the Saratchandra novel Mejdidi, where the food Hemangini (Mejdidi) cooks for Keshto is powerfully identified with her capacity to love, a lot happens in the kitchen and around it. But do you remember the kitchen? In Leela Majumdar’s Padipishir Barmibaksho, Padipishi, the redoubtable aunt, who can make the fiercest robber quake, cooks a very memorable ghee-bhaat. But what about the kitchen? And Majumdar was not a stranger to the kitchen: she celebrated food. Rassundari Debi, the first Bengali woman whose autobiography was published, taught herself to read and write at the age of 26 hidden in the kitchen. One exception to the tradition is Tapan Sinha’s film Galpa Holeo Satyi, where the kitchen is rightfully claimed as the pivot of the household, far more than just a site of kitchen politics. World literature is not much different. Formidable women, such as Marquez’s matrons, or Proust’s household staff, or the characters of Dickens, operate in their formidable kitchens, but how many of these are memorable? In Alice in Wonderland, the wonderfully distorted reflection of Victorian England, among other things, the cook keeps pouring in so much pepper into the pot of soup that is being prepared for the Duchess’s baby that the soup begins to look lethal. The kitchen turns into a vicious place even as the literature of the age idealises the home and the hearth. And till recently, in how many of our homes was the kitchen a place that was visited by all? Not in many. Till men began to pour into it since lockdown, learning how to make jalebis. Before that it was that featureless place which, if not dark, dingy and oppressive, was almost invisible. A bit, sometimes, like the women in the house. The invisibility of the kitchen is about the invisibility of the production of food within the domestic sphere, a work traditionally done by women. The undermining of cooking at home coincides with the undermining of women and the privileging of men’s work outside home. In one of the most important sociological essays ever written, The Origin of the Family, Private Property and the State (1884), Friedrich Engels speaks about what he considers the moment of the subjugation of women. He imagines a long period of human existence when women enjoyed a superior status, because children were known by their mothers. But then came domestication of animals and the breeding of herds and unsuspected wealth and private property, all of which the men wanted to control and pass on to their own children. Men took control. “The overthrow of mother right was the world historical defeat of the female sex,” says Engels. About two thousand years ago or so, monogamy was invented, the perfect social tool to identify paternity. (Monogamy, reminds Engels, was always monogamy for women, not men.) In the course of time, the domestic sphere inhabited by women lost its status and so did their work: food production and reproduction. We are back to the equivalence of the antur and the henshel (kitchen). Never mind if the two are the most fundamental workplaces that sustain mankind. We know, after the lockdown. Only with food magazines and television did things begin to change a bit in the 20th century. Julia Child changed the kitchen forever with first her book on French cooking and her large, robust presence on American television. Much later, in India we had Tarla Dalal and then Sanjeev Kapoor — and the modular kitchen. And the exhaust fan in the kitchen — a minor revolution. Then came the social media, which turned food sexy. Now breakfasts in Indian homes also have to be “yummy”! Then came the lockdown. Now that there is hope of a vaccine, and the initial euphoria about home-cooked biryani is over and fewer men are being spotted among the pots and pans, we suspect we are back to square one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
08-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 617 points to close above 51,000 mark||Extending its winning streak to the sixth session, equity benchmark Sensex rallied 617 points to end above the 51,000-mark for the first time on Monday, tracking strong gains in Infosys, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 51,523.38 during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 617.14 points or 1.22 per cent higher at its record closing peak of 51,348.77. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 191.55 points or 1.28 per cent to its lifetime closing high of 15,115.80. It touched an intra-day record of 15,159.90. Mahindra and Mahindra (M&M) was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring around 7 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid, Infosys and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, HUL, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finance and ITC were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities remained in the grip of bulls with benchmark indices extending gains for the sixth consecutive day. "Improved prospects of sustained economic recovery on the backdrop of sharp increase in capital expenditures and bold reform measures have emboldened investors. "While global equities remained favourable today, benchmark index Nifty and Sensex recorded fresh all-time highs," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with significant gains, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.76 per cent higher at USD 60.01 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 600 points to hit record high||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 600 points to scale fresh lifetime high in early trade on Monday tracking strong gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and M&M amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 668.36 points or 1.32 per cent higher at its record intra-day peak of 51,399.99. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 192.55 points or 1.29 per cent to its lifetime high of 15,116.80. Mahindra and Mahindra (M&M) was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring around 10 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, SBI and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, NTPC and Bajaj Auto were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 117.34 points or 0.23 per cent higher at its fresh closing record of 50,731.63, and Nifty closed at its all-time high of 14,924.25, up 28.60 points or 0.19 per cent. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,461.71 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities continue to look good at the moment. High CAPEX and bold reforms announced in the Union Budget emboldened investors. It indicates that recent uptick in high-frequency key economic data and rebound in corporate earnings is likely to sustain in subsequent quarters. Additionally, RBI supporting the pro-growth strategy of government by maintaining liquidity at required levels and balancing bond yields bodes well, he said, Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with significant gains. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.55 per cent higher at USD 59.89 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Bengal joins national gas grid ||Bengal is set to reap the benefit of a natural gas-led industrial development with the state finally becoming part of the national gas grid, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday. Inaugurating a 348-kilometre trunk pipeline connecting Dhobi (near Gaya) to Durgapur, Modi said the availability of natural gas would help revive old units and set up plants, apart from providing clean fuel to the transport sector and piped gas connection at home. The pipeline has been laid by GAIL India Ltd at an investment of Rs 2,400 crore. The PM urged the Bengal government and GAIL to expedite the remaining part of the work, extending the pipeline from Durgapur to Calcutta and then Haldia. “The Centre has taken one nation, one grid project. This will be a big movement. In this Union budget, we have created a mission to get hydrogen as clean fuel,” Modi said from Haldia. The pipeline will allow the state-run fertiliser plant at Sindri, Jharkhand, and a private plant at Panagarh, Bengal, to function to its full potential. Modi was at Haldia to inaugurate four projects, totalling Rs 4,700 crore, belonging to public sector GAIL, Indian Oil Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation and NHAI. The visit comes a few months before the Assembly polls in the state. The projects include a LPG import terminal set up by BPCL for Rs 1,100 crore, a catalytic de-waxing unit to produce base oil for lubricants by IOC for Rs 1,019 crore and a rail overbridge to ease congestion of port traffic at Ranichak, Haldia. While the BPCL plant and bridge was commissioned on Sunday, along with the GAIL pipeline, the IOC unit will be ready by 2023. “The four projects will help in ease of doing business and living in the east, and make Haldia a major centre for export and import,” Modi said. Modi also weaved the dream of a port-led development for Haldia and Bengal days before the poll dates are announced. “Our efforts will be directed towards making the state a premier one in trading and business activity in the country. For this, port-led development is feasible and Haldia will play an important role in it,” he said. ”Haldia will help the East to become self-reliant in the energy sector. This will in turn help in the aim of a self-reliant India,” Modi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Misgivings over new advance ruling body||The Centre’s move to replace the Authority for Advance Rulings (AAR) with the Board for Advance Rulings comprising revenue department officials has raised qualitative concerns among tax advocates and practitioners. The AAR, which pronounces binding rulings on applications of non-residents and residents, consists of revenue members and members from the judiciary. There are three benches of the authority and the benches cannot function if the post of chairman or vice-chairman is vacant. Retired judges of the Supreme Court, retired chief justice of a high court or retired judges of the high court who have served for at least seven years are eligible for appointment as the chairman of the benches. At the Union budget, the government has decided to dismantle the AAR and has proposed the constitution of one or more Board for Advanced Rulings. Each board is stated to constitute two members, both being an officer not below the rank of chief commissioner. Unlike the AAR, the orders of the board shall not be binding and the applicant, if aggrieved, can appeal against a ruling before the high court. The government's rationale is to impart more efficiency in the system. According to department officials, the posts of chairman and vice-chairman at the benches of the AAR often remain vacant for a long time because of non availability of eligible persons. This delays the passing of orders. However, industry observers point out the lack of balance because of the absence of judicial members in the proposed board and the freedom of an aggrieved applicant to go to the high court against a ruling mean more pile-up of cases at the judiciary level. “When we have somebody from the judicial background, then there is more faith that they will be deciding judiciously. But when everything is with the income tax people who have served their whole life in revenue authorities, what can we expect from them?” tax advocate Narayan Jain said at a panel discussion organised by the Calcutta Club and the Concern for Calcutta on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman rejects charge of 'selling family assets'||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday rejected the Opposition’s charge of “selling family assets” through the budget stress on privatisation, terming it as a “lazy allegation”. All the previous governments have done disinvestment in the past, and the Narendra Modi regime has formulated a clear policy on which companies to be divested and the strategic sectors that are not to be touched rather than doing one company selloff at a time, she said in an address to businesses here. The budget proposals to divest stakes, which includes the sale of two public sector banks and a general insurer, have been panned by the Opposition. “It is not what the Opposition says about selling family silver, it’s not at all,” she said at meeting of business people here. “Family silver should be strengthened, it should be our takat (strength)... because you’ve spread it so thinly, there are many of them (PSUs) who are not able to survive and the few who can perform do not get the due attention. You need them to scale up so that they meet the aspirations of a growing India,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Reliance O2C gets bulk of own gas||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries has picked up two-thirds of its own new gas from the KG-D6 block that was auctioned under the new rules with state-owned GAIL and Royal Dutch Shell getting smaller volumes, sources said. Reliance and its partner UK’s BP Plc on Friday auctioned 7.5 million standard cubic metres per day (mscmd) of incremental gas from the R-series gas field in the KG-D6 block, benchmarking it to a gas marker for the very first time in the country. The auction was held under the liberalised price discovery rules notified by the government that allowed affiliates of the gas producer to bid and buy natural gas. Reliance O2C, an affiliate of Reliance, picked up 4.8mscmd of gas in Friday’s auction that lasted for seven-and-a-half-hours, sources with direct knowledge of the development said. State gas utility GAIL (India) Ltd won 0.85 mscmd of supplies while Shell picked up 0.7 mmscmd. Adani Total Gas Ltd got 0.1 mmscmd, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) 0.2 mscmd and Torrent Gas 0.02 mscmd. Other buyers include IRM Energy (0.1 mscmd), PIL (0.35 mscmd) and IGS (0.35 mscmd), they said. Sources said the gas was bought at a price of $0.18 per million British thermal unit discount to JKM, that is price of JKM (minus) $0.18 with tenures ranging from three to five years. Reliance did not respond to email sent for comments. Reliance O2C is the new unit that holds the firm’s refinery and petrochemical assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Income tax settlement panel scrapped||The budget has proposed to discontinue the Income-Tax Settlement Commission (ITSC) and set up an interim board to settle pending cases. The government expects the move will simplify tax administration, ease compliance and reduce litigation. However, tax practitioners have expressed serious concerns as any non-compliance would have severe cost and penalty implications. “For reducing litigation and to give an impetus to the dispute resolution for small taxpayers, a Dispute Resolution Committee is proposed to be constituted. A taxpayer having taxable income up to Rs 50 lakh and disputed income up to Rs 10 lakh shall be eligible to approach the Committee,” the budget said. “For ensuring efficiency, transparency and accountability, the procedure of the Committee will be conducted in a faceless manner. Consequently, the Settlement Commission shall be discontinued from 01.02.2021. However, the pending cases shall be decided by an interim board if opted by the applicant,” the document said. Aravind Srivatsan, tax leader & partner, Nangia Andersen LLP, said penalty would fully apply under the faceless mode, in contrast to the current system where the settlement commission can waive penalties. “The proposal also ushers an era where the government is confident of using its tax payer profiling and surveillance mechanisms to collect full taxes on their own,” Srivatsan said. “The move to end the settlement commission signifies the end of an era where a taxpayer is allowed to volunteer and settle disputes which arise in the course of assessment and search. Taxpayers going forward need to be fully onboard tax compliances and fulfil tax obligations knowing that any non compliance would have severe cost and penalty implications,” he added. Ruchesh Sinha and Anmol Batra of Taxmann said issues of prejudice may arise in the case of the interim board, for which the working regulation was yet to be finalised. “It is not known as to which conditions shall be inserted by the legislature, unlike the previous conditions which existed for the functioning of the income tax settlement commission,” Sinha and Batra said. “The alternative given to the assessee which is  to file the application for withdrawal and go before the assessing officer for assessment also prejudices the interest of the assessee. ” “The amendment gives a right to the Assessing Officer to use the material and other information collected irrespective of whether such information was produced before the ITSC by the assessee or by the AO. No clear definition of the word ‘inquiry’ has been given,” Sinha and Batra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Adani acquires additional stake in Mumbai International Airport ||Adani Airport Holdings Ltd (AAHL), the flagship holding company of the Adani group for its airports business, has acquired  an additional 23 per cent stake in Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) from ACSA Global Ltd (ACSA) and Bid Services Division (Mauritius) Ltd or Bidvest for Rs 1,684.25 crore. With this, the Gautam Adani-led group will have a 74 per cent stake in MIAL with the rest being held by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). In August, the group had said it would acquire GVK Airport Developers’ (GVKADL) 50.50 per cent stake in MIAL. The group had then said that it was also looking to buy out the 23.5 per cent stake held by Airports Company of South Africa or ACSA and Bidvest. AAHL had entered into an agreement to acquire the debt of GVK Airport Developers Ltd (GVK ADL). GVKADL is the holding company through which the GVK group held the 50.50 per cent equity stake in MIAL, which in turns holds a 74 per cent equity stake in Navi Mumbai International Airport Ltd (NMIAL). Subsequently, the Competition Commission approved the Adani group’s acquisition of the controlling stake in Mumbai airport from GVK Airport Developers under the green channel route. The green channel route provides for automatic approval of certain deals. In a regulatory filing on Saturday, Adani Enterprises said its wholly owned subsidiary AAHL has acquired a 23.5 per cent stake, translating into 28.20 crore shares, from the two overseas entities. MIAL is engaged in the business of development, construction and operation of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai. It had posted a turnover of Rs 3,489.46 crore in the previous fiscal. With the acquisition of the country’s second busiest airport, the Adani group, which also has six non-metro airports, will become the largest private operator of airports. “The addition of the Mumbai International Airport and the Navi Mumbai International Airport to our existing portfolio of six airports provides us a transformational platform that will help shape and create strategic adjacencies for our other B2B businesses,” Gautam Adani had said in a statement last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Retrospective tax rocks social clubs||The Narendra Modi- government simply isn’t able to shake off the captivation of a retrospective tax to undermine the effects of an adverse ruling by the Supreme Court — and this time the brunt of the change will fall on the stately, colonial-era social clubs in the country. In a significant amendment to the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Act, the government has introduced a new clause in sub-section 1 of Section 7 — which is being inserted with retrospective effect from July 2017 — which makes it mandatory for entities to “ensure levy of tax on activities or transactions involving supply of goods or services by any person, other than an individual, to its members or constituents or vice versa, for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration”. This change effectively rips the cloak of immunity that the social clubs had after a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court ruled in October 2019 that all “showcause notices, demand notices and other action taken to levy and collect service tax from incorporated members’ clubs are declared to be void and of no effect in law”. Despite that order, several top clubs in the city, including the Calcutta Club, have been levying GST on food and refreshments they serve to the members. “We levy GST at the applicable rate on all members. All the top clubs in the city do that. We are collecting the levy since the time it was introduced. As a large organisation, we abide by all rules and regulations,” a senior member of a city club said tonight. Liquor, however, does not fall within the ambit of GST and is subject to state excise duty. It could not immediately be ascertained if the leading clubs were charging the state’s levy on their liquor sales to members. The latest controversial tax amendment is a blow back to the infamous decision of then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee to amend the Income Tax act with a 50-year retroactive effect and undermine a verdict of the Supreme Court that held that Vodafone Plc was not obliged to withhold tax while sealing its deal with Hutchison Whampoa group when it acquired a telecom entity in India for over $11 billion in 2007. That case drags on with the government having decided to challenge an adverse verdict handed down by a court in Singapore. Another arbitration case involving Cairn Energy Plc has also gone against the Centre. The Modi government had promised it would not resort to retrospective changes in law to extract taxes from entities that the courts had declared as a malafide. But it clearly isn’t abiding by the assurance that the late finance minister Arun Jaitley made in his budget speech in 2014 that the government “would not ordinarily bring about any change retrospectively which creates a fresh liability”. Tax on clubs The genesis of the case against social clubs arose from a notice that the assistant commissioner of commercial taxes sent to the Calcutta Club saying that it had “failed to make payment of sales tax on sale of food and drinks to the permanent members during the quarter ending 30th June 2002.” A similar notice was sent by the Chief Commissioner of Central Excise and Service to the Ranchi Club. In their order the Supreme Court bench comprising judges R.F. Nariman, Surya Kant and V. Ramasubramanian said the Calcutta Club, which is an incorporated entity under the Companies Act 1956, charged and paid sales tax whenever it sold products to non-members or guests accompanying permanent members. But when the invoices were raised in respect of supply made in favour of the permanent members, no sales tax was collected. The club had argued that the transactions with its permanent members could not amount to a sale as the doctrine of mutuality would come into play. The doctrine basically states that permanent members form a club and, therefore, there can be no sale transaction between a club and itself (represented by the members). The club had argued that it was not a “dealer” within the meaning of the Act as there was no “sale” of goods in the form of food, refreshments or drinks by the club to its permanent members. The club also contended that it was acting as an agent of its members while supplying food and beverages to its members. The Supreme Court upheld this view — the rationale for the decision founded on the principle that if there are no members, there is no club and vice-versa. As a result, the clubs felt they were safe from the axe of the taxman. The case against the Calcutta Club had been initiated by the Bengal government under the West Bengal Sales Tax Act 1994. The state government’s counsel had argued that the doctrine of mutuality had been blown away by the 46th amendment of the Constitution which inserted Article 266 (29A). The revenue authorities had argued that the doctrine of mutuality was not applicable after the amendment to Article 366(29-A), wherein a deeming fiction was created, holding that the supply of goods by clubs to its members would be treated as a sale for the purpose of levy of sales tax. It argued that the doctrine of mutuality, as applicable to sales tax, was not applicable to service tax, after the introduction of negative list (in 2012) came into force. The apex court refused to accept the proposition put forth by the revenue authorities. The levy of sales tax has since been subsumed under the Goods and Services Act which came into force from July 2017 — which is why the latest Finance Bill has made the retrospective amendment from that date. The Finance Bill 2021 now explicitly says: “For the purposes of this clause, it is hereby clarified that, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or any judgment, decree or order of any Court, tribunal or authority, the person and its members or constituents shall be deemed to be two separate persons and the supply of activities or transactions inter se shall so be deemed to take place from one such person to the other.” The move to treat the permanent member and the club as “two separate persons” cleaves the doctrine of mutuality argument and effectively undermines the apex court order of 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||New financing options await debt market||“Faith is the bird that feels the light and sings when the dawn is still dark” Rabindranath Tagore (As quoted by the FM in her budget speech last Monday) The budget, which appears as a shot in the arm for infrastructure, has emphatically brought to the fore the government’s reformist stance on the debt market, which is expected to throw up fresh opportunities for investors seeking to allocate in the infra space. In a scenario marked by what the finance minister termed as “asset monetisation”, a host of newer financing options may well await debt market participants. Some of the more benign budgetary pronouncements have actually found resonance in the latest credit policy announced on Friday by the Reserve Bank of India, which has, inter alia, paved the way for a new investment avenue for ordinary debt investors. The latter will now have direct access to government securities (G-Secs) — a structural reform that further unshackles the common man. The RBI, which incidentally has not tinkered with the key policy rates, has allowed retail participants to acquire government bonds, courtesy a specific window. Individuals can open accounts and take part in the g-sec market, both primary and secondary. It remains to be seen how smaller investors can really be dovetailed into the government’s reformist agenda in so far as infra financing is concerned, as this is clearly a domain of heavyweight institutional players. However, there have been a number of sporadic attempts in the past to involve even the retail segment on the infra front. Various development financial institutions (like IDBI) have, for instance, issued infra bonds largely for the ordinary investing public. These did achieve a certain kind of popularity; after all, there was little doubt that interest payments and principal repayments would be jeopardised. These days, when credit risk is an all-round threat, such infrastructure bonds may again serve as a viable alternative for discerning sections. Pointers for investors The investing fraternity, in the context of the budget, needs to remember the following: The future From the standpoint of budgetary provisions, the future looks exciting, although a few roadblocks are visible quite clearly. We would keep the discussion on roadblocks for another day. For starters, the much-discussed “National Monetisation Pipeline” (with potential brownfield infrastructure assets) would surely be expected to throw up interesting cases. The government has ambitious targets for railways, roads, power and the like. These would require copious quantities of money — newer financing avenues are, therefore, simply inevitable. A series of smart debt options for investors, as envisaged by the budget, would thus stem from infra projects. For retail investors to get enthused, perhaps a tax break would be essential too. It remains to be seen whether “zero coupon bonds” can in the coming days figure on the average investor’s radar. Keeping recent developments (including quite a few high-decibel credit defaults) in mind, there seems to be general absence of viable debt options. The best of the breed are typically low-yielding in nature. Their performance actually pales when the impact of inflation is taken into account. Traditional debt investors, therefore, need to re-work their strategies in order to secure superior returns. A shift in allocation pattern can perhaps be recommended. If this is not really possible, a gradual allocation to actively-managed debt can be considered. In many cases, AA-rated paper (or lower rated ones) offer superior returns over certain periods of time. These can prove useful, provided the investors can justify their presence in portfolios from a risk-return point of view. Key debt market dynamics would now be determined by the apex bank’s latest policy. For more cautious investors, I recommend investment in short- to medium-duration debt funds. These can provide unit holders with a steady income. These also add stability to portfolios. With every asset management company offering its own set of products, a wide range of such debt funds is available. Debt fund investors must consider all relevant factors while exercising their choices. In particular, credit rating profiles must be examined thoroughly before investing. For an investor driven by caution, a marked exposure to Triple A-rated securities would be the nearest thing to mental peace. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
08-02-2021||India||‘Foreign Destructive Ideology’ ‘andolan-jivi’: Newfangled concepts in Modi’s Rajya Sabha speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday slammed those abusing agitating Sikh farmers, saying it will not do the country any good as he went on to appeal to the protesting farmers to call off their over two-month-long stir, assuring them of continuing with the purchase of crops at an administered price or MSP. In the same vein, he also hit out at deleterious influences from abroad, referring to them as 'foreign destructive ideology', as well as a new "breed" of agitators -- 'Andolan-jivi' -- in the country who cannot live without a tumult. He dug out old statements such as one by his predecessor Manmohan Singh supporting farm reforms to allow farmers to sell their produce where they get the best price, saying the opposition parties had done a 'U-turn' on their own words and they have not been able to give out reasons for the continuation of the farmers' agitation. "Give the agriculture reforms a chance," he said while replying to a discussion in the Rajya Sabha on a motion thanking the President for his address to Parliament at the start of the current Budget session. In an apparent reference to tweets by pop star Rihanna and Swedish climate-activist Greta Thunberg favouring the agitating farmers, Modi played on the term 'Foreign Direct Investment or FDI' to warn against deleterious influences from abroad. "I see that a new FDI has come to the fore. We have to protect the nation from this new FDI. We need Foreign Direct Investment but the new FDI is 'Foreign Destructive Ideology', we have to protect ourselves from it," he said. He also hit out at some of the protestors, saying a new crop of agitators has emerged in India who cannot live without agitation and the country should be beware of them. "There is a new crop of 'Andolan-jivi'. They live for protests. They look for ways to start a new movement. The country needs to be aware of these Andolan-jivi," he said. Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November demanding the repeal of three new agriculture laws that they say will end the minimum support price (MSP) based procurement of crops like wheat and paddy by the government and usher in big corporates into the farm sector. They have rejected the government's offer to suspend the reforms for 18 months and have not joined talks after 11 rounds of talks ended last month. The Prime Minister promised to continue with MSP-based procurement at the 'mandis' as well as subsidised ration supply through the public distribution system (PDS) to the poor. He indicated the government was open to amending the laws. "We are ready to remove shortcomings," he emphasised. "I assure you that mandis will be modernised," he said. "MSP was there (in past). MSP is there (now). MSP will remain in the future." He also cited former agriculture minister and Maratha leader Sharad Pawar's support for agriculture reforms to buttress his point on the U-turn by the opposition. "Those taking a U-turn will perhaps agree with him (Singh)... Whether they were able to do it or not, but everyone has advocated that it should be done," he said. Attacking TMC -- which his party BJP is challenging in the forthcoming assembly elections in West Bengal, Modi said he was left wondering if party MP Derek O'Brien using phrases such as 'freedom of speech' and 'intimidation' were for the country or his state. "He (Derek) sees all this (in West Bengal) 24 hours, so he might have thought that is how it is in the rest of the country too," he remarked. The farm laws are aimed at empowering the small and marginal farmers, who make up for more than two-thirds of the farming community in the country and often do not benefit from loan waivers and other schemes as they cannot avail of credit from banks, Modi said. The government has toughened its stance against the protesters following violence during a tractor rally on Republic Day last month. Three main protest sites have been fortified with concrete barricades, concertina wires and long metal spikes. In an oblique reference to agitating Sikhs being called 'Khalistani' terrorists and other names, the Prime Minister said the nation was proud of every Sikh. "India is very proud of the contribution of Sikhs. This is a community that has done so much for the nation. The words and blessings of the Guru Sahibs are precious," he said. "Language used by some for them and attempt to mislead them will never benefit the nation." "We mustn't forget what happened with Punjab. It suffered the most during the Partition. It cried the most during the 1984 riots. They became victims of the most painful incidents. Innocents were killed in Jammu and Kashmir. And the business of weapons was carried out in the northeast. All this affected the nation," he said. These laws, he said, address the root cause of the agrarian problem and are aimed at helping small farmers. "We urge those sitting on the agitation that even though it is their right to agitate, the manner in which the old people are sitting there is not right. They (agitators) should be taken back. "They should end the agitation and we will together find a solution as all doors are open for dialogue. From this House, I again invite them for dialogue," he said while appealing to farmers to end their agitation. All the amendments moved by the opposition to the President's address, including mention of the repeal of farm laws, were negated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
08-02-2021||India||Congress launches 'Join Social Media' campaign||The Congress on Monday launched a 'Join Congress Social Media' campaign with an aim to have five lakh online "warriors" who, former party chief Rahul Gandhi said, will counter hate and "defend the idea of India". The country needs non-violent warriors to fight for truth, compassion and harmony, Gandhi said in a video message that was streamed at the launch of the campaign. Launching the campaign along with AICC social media head Rohan Gupta and party spokesperson Pawan Khera, AICC in-charge (Administration) Pawan Kumar Bansal said the aim is to have five lakh social media "warriors". In his video message, Gandhi said, "As a young person you know what is going on. Nothing is hidden from you, in your schools, colleges and universities, you can see the oppression, you can see the attack on the idea of India." "Look outside Delhi, you can see what is happening to the farmers. The backbone of this war on the nation is a troll army. Thousands of people who spread hatred and anger and are paid to do so. We also need warriors to defend liberal values, to defend the ideas of compassion, peace, harmony and affection," the former Congress chief said. "Come, join this army. This is not an army of hatred, this is not an army of violence, this is an army of truth and this is an army that will defend the idea of India. We are building this platform for you to give you the tools to fight this battle and win it," Gandhi said. Gupta, in his remarks, alleged that the Modi government is scared of social media and "we are giving a platform to the youth to raise their voice". He said people can join through website, toll-free number or by WhatsApp. Gupta said the party will take this campaign to people for a month and invite them to join. Then there will be a basic interview in all states and "we will give responsibilities accordingly", he said. He said people can work at different levels -- district, state and national -- and they will be given responsibilities accordingly. After a month of interviews those who do well will be given training, Gupta added. In his remarks, Khera said when the BJP came to power in 2014, many criticised the Congress for not being on social media, and when the party became active on social media, many said it is not on the ground, but now "we are on both".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
08-02-2021||India||Naseeruddin Shah not on Twitter, clarifies wife||Veteran actor Ratna Pathak Shah on Monday clarified that her husband, actor Naseeruddin Shah does not have a Twitter account, after an unverified profile in his name posted a series of tweets about the ongoing farmers agitation on the microblogging site. This account, which has nearly 49 thousand followers on Twitter, had also tweeted a video interview of Naseeruddin Shah that the 70-year-old actor gave to the human rights movement Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP) last month in the support of farmers. Ratna Pathak Shah said the couple has been "quite annoyed" with the fake profile, operating on Twitter since July 2019. They have also "tried to complain" to both, Twitter and Cyber Crime Cell, she said, but to no avail. "Mr Shah doesn't have a Twitter account but has been unable to stop these fake accounts," Ratna Pathak Shah, 63, told PTI. "We have tried to complain to the company as well as the Cyber Crime Police here but were told there's nothing that can be done. Please help us to put an end to this nuisance," she added. Earlier, fake profiles in Naseeruddin Shah's name existed on Facebook as well, but since the actor joined the site and got verified in 2016, other accounts were disabled. Notably, the government on Monday ordered Twitter to block 1,178 accounts with links to Pakistan and Khalistan supporters which were spreading misinformation and provocative content on farmers' protest. The IT Ministry, on February 4, shared a list of these Twitter accounts that were flagged by security agencies as accounts of Khalistan sympathisers or backed by Pakistan and operating from foreign territories, and causing threat to public order amid the ongoing farmer stir||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
08-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand survivor recalls how a phone call kept them alive||They had lost hope of survival when one of them found his mobile phone network working, helping them contact the authorities who rescued them from an underground tunnel at Tapovan in Uttarakhand's Chamoli where flash floods wreaked havoc following a glacier burst. "We heard people screaming at us to come out of the tunnel but before we could react, a sudden gush of water and heavy silt swamped upon us," rescued Tapovan power project worker Lal Bahadur said. He, along with 11 of his other colleagues, was rescued by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) from an underground tunnel in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday evening. According to officials, they remained stuck there for about seven hours, from around 10 am to 5 pm, till the last man was evacuated by rescuers. The ITBP provided their recorded video accounts to the media. They are now being treated at an ITBP hospital in Joshimath, about 25 km from the incident spot. This is also the base of the ITBP's Battalion No. 1, tasked with guarding the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China that runs along the state. At least 11 bodies have been recovered while 202 are still missing since the disaster struck in the upper reaches of Chamoli district, according to the ITBP. "We were 300 metres deep in the tunnel when the water gushed in. We got trapped. The ITBP rescued us," Nepal resident Basant said. Another unidentified worker who hails from Dhak village in Chamoli and worked at the Tapovan project said as the water gushed in, the only thing they could do was to lunge onto the crown of the tunnel. "We lost hope...but then we saw some light and felt some air to breathe...suddenly one of us found he had network on his mobile and then he called up our general manager informing him about our situation," the man said from the hospital bed. Officials said the project GM subsequently informed the local authorities who requisitioned ITBP rescuers to save them. The ITBP teams, armed with ropes, pulleys and carabiners, rappelled down a steep slope and brought out these men from the narrow snout of the tunnel on Sunday evening. Vinod Singh Pawar, a resident of Joshimath, said they climbed up half-way inside the tunnel through the rods but got stuck as a gush of water came in. "We are thankful to the ITBP rescuers for saving us," he said in the video. The border force began air-dropping food packets on Monday in at least nine villages that have been cut off due to the floods. "Beyond the Raini bridge (which was swept away by the floods), there are nine villages and choppers are dropping food packets after picking them up from our base in Joshimath," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
08-02-2021||India||ISRO, DRDO working to ascertain exact cause of disaster: Uttarakhand CM||As multi-agency relief operations continue in Chamoli and adjoining areas of Uttarakhand, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat Monday said a comprehensive analysis of the entire incident is being carried out to avert future tragedies, and asserted the immediate priority was to provide food and other assistance to the affected people. In an interview to PTI, he said the incident appeared to have happened due to the breaking of the glacier and the Chief Secretary has been instructed to find out the real reasons. Preliminary estimates show that around 200 people are still missing, while 11 bodies have been found, he said. "A DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) team is already studying the cause of this tragedy and we have also sought the help of ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) scientists and experts for the same," he said. After a comprehensive analysis is undertaken to find out the reasons of this incident, "we will build an elaborate plan to avert any potential tragedy going forward", Rawat said. Asked about the ongoing relief operations, he said they are continuing in full swing. "We have made all arrangements needed for the rescue and relief operations along with providing healthcare facilities to the affected people. Most importantly, we are working on re-establishing the connectivity to the affected villages," he said. Rawat said while the extent of economic loss will be ascertained in due course, the topmost priority, for now, is to save as many lives as possible and to rehabilitate those who have got displaced from their homes. Multiple agencies are coordinating efforts to search for survivors on Monday, a day after a portion of the Nanda Devi glacier possibly burst through its banks at Joshimath, triggering an avalanche and a deluge that rippled through the Alaknanda river system in the upper reaches of the Himalayas. Rawat said multiple teams have been drawn, both from the Centre and the state's disaster relief agencies, along with the defence forces who have been convened to lead the huge rescue operations. The state's Director General of Police has been camping in the affected areas since Sunday while the Garhwal Commissioner and the DIG Garhwal have also been instructed to remain there, he said. "The entire team of the district administration has been engaged in the relief and rescue operations in the area since Sunday. Officers from other districts have also been sent on the spot so that the post-mortem of the dead bodies found can be done on priority," Rawat said. Asked what could be the economic loss of this tragedy, he said as far as the assessment of economic loss is concerned, it will be available only after the relief work is over. "The Rishiganga Power Corporation and the NTPC are assessing the damage to their projects. But, right now our topmost priority is to save lives and rehabilitate the affected people," he said. Immediate financial assistance of Rs 4 lakh each has been sanctioned to the dependents of the dead, he said. "Army and SDRF personnel, as well as army and state government helicopters, have been convened to provide the necessary medical facilities to the 11 affected villages in the region," Rawat said. He asserted the entire state machinery is engaged in the relief and help operations. "I myself have been monitoring the relief operations. There has been full support from the Centre while other states too have extended the support during this tragedy," Rawat said. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been in constant touch with them since the tragedy struck and has assured the state of all possible help. "Prime Minister Modi has also announced a financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh each to the dependents of the deceased," Rawat added. On the support from other quarters, he said President Ram Nath Kovind, Home Minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, CDS General Vipin Rawat, among others have assured of all possible cooperation. "Home Minister Amit Shah expressed his concerns and assured me of all possible cooperation from the Centre to the state. Acharya Balakrishna, too, has assured his cooperation and is ready to adopt orphans," he said. On steps being taken to help those displaced due to the disaster, Rawat said many people have been displaced from their homes and their immediate need is food. "Ration is being provided to them by the state government. Ration kits have been prepared including flour, pulses, rice, tea, edible oil, sugar, spices, soaps etc. The distribution of the same has already started in Chamoli district," he added. On the cause of the natural disaster, Rawat said, "This incident happened due to the breaking of the glacier. Instructions have been given to the Chief Secretary to find out the real reasons. "Besides, we are also undertaking a comprehensive analysis to find the reasons for this incident and build a plan to avert any potential tragedy going forward in the future," the chief minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Farm leaders ready for talks, ask govt to choose date after PM appeal||Farmer unions agitating against the three agri laws on Monday asked the government to fix a date for the next round of talks, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged them to end their stir and invited them to resume the dialogue. They, however, objected to Prime Minister Modi's remarks in Rajya Sabha that a new "breed" of agitators called "andolan jivi" has emerged in the country, and said that agitation has an important role in a democracy. Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka, who is a senior member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha which is spearheading the ongoing stir, said they are ready for the next round of talks and the government should tell them the date and time of the meeting. "We have never refused to hold talks with the government. Whenever it has called us for dialogue, we held discussions with Union ministers. We are ready for talks with them (government)," Kakka told PTI. Eleven rounds of talks have been held over the contentious farm laws but the impasse continues as the farmer unions remain firm on their demands -- the repeal of the three laws and legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP). In the last round of talks, the government had offered to suspend the laws for 12-18 months, but the farmer unions rejected it. Thousands of agitating farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for over 70 days. While replying in Rajya Sabha on Monday to a debate on the President's address, PM Modi assured the farmers that Mandis will be modernised, saying "Not just this, MSP was there, it is there and will remain." "We urge those sitting on the agitation that even though it is their right to agitate, the way the old people are sitting there, is not right. "They (agitators) should be taken back. They should end the agitation and we will together find a solution as all doors are open for dialogue. From this House, I again invite them for dialogue," Modi said while appealing to farmers to end their agitation. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is also a member of Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, said that the government has already said "hundreds of times" that the MSP will not go anywhere and it will remain in place. "If the government is claiming that MSP will remain, why doesn't it provide a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for our crops," Kohar told PTI. He said that the farmer unions are ready to resume talks with the government, but there should be a formal invitation. "Any issue can be resolved through proper dialogue. We are ready in-principle to resume talks," the farmer leader. In his speech, Modi slammed the mushrooming of a new breed of 'andolan-jivi' -- professional protestors -- who are seen at every agitation. These "parasites feast on every agitation," he said. "Agitation has an important role in democracy. People have a right to oppose the government's wrong policies," Kakka said, referring to the remarks by the prime minister. Sukhdev Singh, Punjab general secretary of BKU Ekta Ugrahan, sought to know why the government is not ensuring a legal guarantee on MSP for crops and alleged that it is trying to divert the issue. Farmer leader Baldev Singh also said that government should repeal these farm laws and provide a legal guarantee on MSP for farmers' crops. Earlier in the day, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said business over hunger will not be allowed in the country. "There will not be any business over hunger in the country. If hunger goes up, the price of crops will be decided accordingly. Those who wish to do business over hunger will be driven out of the country," Tikait told reporters at the Ghazipur protest site. To press their demands, protesting unions held a nationwide 'chakka jam' last week, during which national and state highways were blocked in Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Over 200 still trapped in debris as rescue efforts gain momentum at Chamoli||Eighteen bodies have been recovered and 202 are still missing after the glacier burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, officials said on Monday, as multiple agencies joined hands to rescue at least 30 workers trapped in a tunnel at a power project site. With more bodies being recovered, the death toll touched 18 and could go higher, officials in the state emergency operation centre here said, a day after a portion of the Nanda Devi glacier possibly burst through its banks at Joshimath, triggering an avalanche and a deluge that rippled through the Alaknanda river system in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. The 202 still missing include those working at hydel power project sites as well as nearby villagers whose homes were washed away with the force of the raging waters, officials said. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said a comprehensive analysis of the incident was being carried out to avert future tragedies, and asserted the immediate priority was to provide food and other assistance to the affected people. "A DRDO team is already studying the cause of this tragedy and we have also sought the help of ISRO scientists and experts for the same," he said. Union ministers Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and R.K. Singh, as well as Pauri MP Tirath Singh Rawat, Uttarakhand minister Dhan Singh Rawat, also met the affected families in disaster-hit Tapovan and Raini and assured them of all support. Two power projects _ NTPC's 480 MW Tapovan-Vishnugad Project and the 13.2 MW Rishi Ganga Hydel Project _ were extensively damaged with scores of labourers caught in tunnels as the waters came rushing in. Rescue efforts in the affected areas near Joshimath, about 295 km from here, gained momentum with teams of the Army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) coordinating to rescue 30-35 people feared trapped in a tunnel at the Tapovan-Vishnugad project. Sniffer dogs and heavy mechanical equipment, including bulldozers and JCBs, were deployed in the areas to aid the rescue workers. While Indian Air Force teams left for the affected areas to ramp up relief efforts, personnel from multiple forces worked through the night. The State Emergency Operation Centre said 27 people were rescued alive. Of these, 12 were saved from the smaller of the two tunnels at the Tapovan-Vishnugad project site and 15 from the Rishi Ganga site. Uttarakhand Director General of Police Ashok Kumar added that efforts were focussed on rescuing 30-35 labourers trapped in a 250-metre tunnel at Tapovan. Two villages are cut off and essentials are being supplied to them. The work was complicated by the fact that the tunnel was slightly curved, making it difficult to clear the slush, debris and silt blocking it. The entire landscape was coloured a sandy grey, many structures swept away and buried under piles of silt. "Our teams worked overnight to rescue about 30 workers who are trapped in the tunnel. Specialised equipment for such operations has been deployed. We are hopeful we will be able to rescue everyone," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey told PTI in Delhi. "There is a huge amount of debris inside the tunnel. About 80 metre inside the tunnel is cleared and accessible, and it looks like about 100 more metres of debris will have to be cleared," he added. Pandey said nearly 300 ITBP personnel are currently deployed at the site. Another official said 34 people are estimated to be trapped in the “head race tunnel” or HRT. ITBP Additional Director General (Western Command) M.S. Rawat also reached the spot Monday morning to take stock of the situation and interacted with officials and others working at the site. In a video provided by the force, a team of senior officials was seen analysing the tunnel's map to find the best way of approach. The tunnel has only one entry, an official said. Teams of the NDRF had reached late Sunday night and were seen using shovels to clear the tunnel's approach. The force also used canine squads to help rescuers detect traces of life under the debris. More teams have been sent to the site on Mi-17 helicopters that landed at the helipad in Joshimath, NDRF chief S N Pradhan said in a Twitter post. With no clarity on what led to the disaster and experts pointing to climate change, scientists also headed to Chamoli to understand what had happened. Some teams from the Army, including from the Medical Corps, have also reached the disaster spot, a senior official supervising the operation said. Three of those rescued on Sunday evening were admitted to the ITBP hospital at Joshimath, nearly 25 km from the Tapovan power project site, as they were feeling uneasy, the officials said. They are stable now. As rescue efforts continued on a war footing, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said the United Nations stands ready to contribute to the ongoing rescue and assistance efforts in Uttarakhand if necessary. The Secretary-General is deeply saddened by the reported loss of life and dozens missing following the glacier burst and subsequent flooding in Uttarakhand state, India, on Sunday, said St phane Dujarric, spokesperson for Guterres. Expressing solidarity with those affected by the glacier burst, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the whole country is with the people of the state and it is important that relief operations are not hindered in the next few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||2.5 lakh Bengal farmer names sent to Centre for PM Kisan scheme: Mamata||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi slammed the TMC dispensation for not implementing central schemes in West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday told the Assembly that her government has sent to the Centre names of 2.5 lakh farmers who are eligible for benefits under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. She sought to know why the Union government has not disbursed any cash benefit to the beneficiaries as yet. Banerjee told the House that the state government had received a list of six lakh applicants from the Centre for verification, of which 2.5 lakh names have been sent to the Centre for financial assistance under the central welfare programme. She also said that her government would float 19 industrial projects in the state, entailing an investment of Rs 72,200 crore, and create 3.29 lakh employment opportunities. The CM was responding to questions raised by the members of the House during a debate on a vote-on-account that she had presented on February 5. With state elections round the corner, Banerjee had presented a vote-on-account for Rs 2.99 lakh crore in the Assembly and made a slew of announcements, including a hike in the annual aid of farmers. The chief minister has increased the annual financial assistance, under the state government's 'Krishak Bandhu' scheme, to Rs 6,000 from Rs 5,000, keeping in mind the interest of farmers. She said that benefits of the central scheme should be made available to the sharecroppers, along with support provided by the state to all cultivators, irrespective of their landholdings. Under the PM Kisan scheme, Rs 6,000 per year in three equal instalments is provided to small and marginal farmer families having a combined landholding of up to two hectares. Addressing a rally in Haldia on Sunday, the prime minister had assailed the state government for not implementing central schemes like Ayushman Bharat and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. He asserted that once the BJP forms its government in the state, it will take steps to implement all such stalled programmes at the very first cabinet meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Rafale induction ceremony cost exchequer over Rs 41 lakh, Rajnath tells Rajya Sabha||The induction ceremony of the first five Rafale jets at the Ambala Air Force base on September 10 last cost the exchequer a little over of Rs 41 lakh including Rs 9.18 lakh GST, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said in Rajya Sabha on Monday. "The first five Rafale aircraft of IAF were formally inducted into IAF on September 10. The arrangements for this event were made mostly through local resources of IAF. The total expenditure on the event was Rs 41.32 lakh including Rs 9.18 lakh of GST," he said. Singh said all-new variant of aircraft are traditionally inducted into the Indian Air Force through a "befitting ceremony" The Rafale induction ceremony was attended by French Defence Minister Florence Parly and the top echelon of the French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, the manufacturer of the aircraft. The first batch of the five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore. The formal induction ceremony of the fleet had taken place nearly six weeks later. The second batch of three Rafale jets arrived in India on November 3 while a third batch of another three jets joined the IAF on January 27. The Rafale jets are India's first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 year after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia. The fleet has been carrying out sorties in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a standoff for the last nine months. The first squadron of the Rafale jets is stationed at the Ambala airbase while the second one will be based at the Hasimara base in West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait demands law on MSP as guarantee after PM’s remarks in parliament ||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said business over hunger will not be allowed in the country and once again demanded a law on minimum support price (MSP) for crops along with the repeal of new contentious agri-marketing laws. The Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson's comments came soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address in the Rajya Sabha during which he assured: "MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future". "Desh mein bhook pe vyaapaar nahi hoga. Bhook kitni lagegi anaaj ki keemat utni hogi. Desh mein bhook se vyaapaar karne walon ko baahar nikaala jaaega (There will not be business over hunger in the country. If hunger goes up, price of crops will be decided accordingly. Those wanting business over hunger will be driven out of the country)," he told reporters. "The way rates of a flight ticket fluctuate three to four times a day, the price of crops will not be decided the same way," Tikait said. On the PM's remark about the emergence of a "new community" which is "engaged in protests", Tikait said, "Yes, this time it is the farmers' community which has emerged and people are also supporting the farmers". He said what the farmers protesting against the new laws have highlighted that there is no law on MSP, because of which traders loot them by buying crops at lower prices. He also slammed the attempts to divide the ongoing movement of farmers on caste and religious lines. "This movement was first portrayed as Punjab's issue, then Sikhs' then Jats, so on and so forth. The farmers of the country are united. There is no small farmer or big farmer. The movement belongs to all farmers," he said. Earlier in the day, Modi in his response to the Motion of Thanks on the President's address in Rajya Sabha, said, "MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future. Affordable ration for the poor will continue. Mandis will be modernised". Reacting to the PM's speech, another farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is also a member of Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, said that the government has already said "hundreds of times" that the MSP will not go anywhere and it will remain. "If the government is claiming that MSP will remain, why doesn't it provide a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for our crops," Kohar told PTI. Asked about the PM's invitation to farmer unions for talks, he said that protesting farmer unions are ready to hold talks with the government, but it should come through formal channels. "Any issue can be resolved through proper dialogue. We are ready in principle to resume talks," the farmer leader. Sukhdev Singh, Punjab general secretary of BKU Ekta Ugrahan, sought to know why the government is not ensuring a legal guarantee on MSP for crops, adding that it is trying to divert the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Rescue efforts intensify as toll in Uttarakhand glacier disaster rises to 18||Eighteen bodies have been recovered and 202 are still missing after the glacier burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, officials said on Monday, as multiple agencies joined hands to rescue at least 30 workers trapped in a tunnel at a power project site. With more bodies being recovered, the death toll touched 18 and could go higher, officials in the State Emergency Operation Centre here said, a day after a portion of the Nanda Devi glacier possibly burst through its banks at Joshimath. It triggered an avalanche and a deluge that rippled through the Alaknanda river system in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. The 202 still missing include those working at hydel power project sites as well as villagers nearby whose homes were washed away with the force of the raging waters, the officials said. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said saving lives and extending all help to the families of the deceased is the state government's priority. Union ministers Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and R K Singh as well as Pauri MP Tirath Singh Rawat, Uttarakhand minister Dhan Singh Rawat also met the affected families in disaster-hit Tapovan and Raini and assured them of all support. Two power projects NTPC's 480 MW Tapovan-Vishnugad project and the 13.2 MW Rishi Ganga Hydel Project were extensively damaged with scores of labourers caught in tunnels as the waters came rushing in. Rescue efforts in the affected areas near Joshimath, about 295 km from here, gained momentum with teams of the Army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) coordinating to rescue 30-35 people feared trapped in a tunnel at the Tapovan-Vishnugad project. Sniffer dogs and heavy mechanical equipment, including bulldozers and JCBs, were deployed in the areas to aid the rescue workers. While Indian Air Force teams left for the affected areas to ramp up relief efforts, personnel from multiple forces worked through the night. The State Emergency Operation Centre said 27 people were rescued alive. Of these, 12 were saved from the smaller of the two tunnels at the Tapovan-Vishnugad project site and 15 from the Rishi Ganga site. Uttarakhand Director General of Police Ashok Kumar added that efforts were focussed on rescuing 30-35 labourers trapped in a 250-metre tunnel at Tapovan. Two villages are cut off and essentials are being supplied to them. The work was complicated by the fact that the tunnel is slightly curved, making difficult to clear the slush, debris and silt blocking it. The entire landscape was coloured a sandy grey, many structures swept away and buried under piles of silt. "Our teams worked overnight to rescue about 30 workers who are trapped in the tunnel. Specialised equipment for such operations has been deployed. We are hopeful we will able to rescue everyone," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey told PTI in Delhi. "There is a huge amount of debris inside the tunnel. About 80 metres inside the tunnel is cleared and accessible, and it looks like about 100 more metres of debris will have to be cleared," he added. Pandey said nearly 300 ITBP personnel are currently deployed at the site. Another official said 34 people are estimated to be trapped in the 'head race tunnel' or HRT. ITBP Additional Director General (Western Command) M S Rawat also reached the spot Monday morning to take stock of the situation and interacted with officials and others working at the site. In a video provided by the force, a team of senior officials was seen analysing the tunnel's map to find the best way of approach. The tunnel has only one entry, an official said. Teams of the NDRF had reached late Sunday night and were seen using shovels to clear the tunnel's approach. The force also used canine squads to help rescuers detect traces of life under the debris. More teams have been sent to the site on Mi-17 helicopters that landed at the helipad in Joshimath, NDRF chief S N Pradhan said in a Twitter post. With no clarity on what led to the disaster and experts pointing to climate change, scientists also headed to Chamoli to understand what had happened. Some teams from the Army, including from the Medical Corps, have also reached the disaster spot, a senior official supervising the operation said. Three of those rescued on Sunday evening were admitted to the ITBP hospital at Joshimath, nearly 25 km from the Tapovan power project site, as they were feeling uneasy, the officials said. They are stable now. As rescue efforts continued on a war footing, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said the United Nations stands ready to contribute to the ongoing rescue and assistance efforts in Uttarakhand if necessary. The Secretary-General is deeply saddened by the reported loss of life and dozens missing following the glacier burst and subsequent flooding in Uttarakhand state, India, on Sunday, said St phane Dujarric, spokesperson for Guterres. Expressing solidarity with those affected by the glacier burst, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the whole country is with the people of the state and it is important that relief operations are not hindered in the next few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Twitter asked to block 1178 accounts for spreading misinformation amid farmers protest||The government has ordered Twitter to block 1,178 accounts with links to Pakistan and Khalistan supporters which were spreading misinformation and provocative content on farmers' protest, sources said. The IT Ministry, on February 4, shared a list of these Twitter accounts that were flagged by security agencies as accounts of Khalistan sympathisers or backed by Pakistan and operating from foreign territories, and causing threat to public order amid the ongoing farmer stir, they said. Many of these accounts were also automated bots that were used for sharing and amplifying misinformation and provocative content on farmers' protests, sources said adding that Twitter has not yet complied with the latest order. Earlier, the government had ordered Twitter to take down handles and hashtags that suggested a farmer genocide was being planned, saying such misinformation and inflammatory content will incite passion, and impact public order. It has also warned Twitter of penal action in case of failure to comply with its directive. Twitter had blocked those accounts for few hours before unilaterally unblocking them. At that time, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology had asked the microblogging site to block 257 URLs (web addresses) and one hashtag under the relevant provision of the law as they were "spreading misinformation about (farmer) protests and has the potential to lead to imminent violence affecting public order situation in the country." Sources said while Twitter is yet to fully comply with the previous order, the government has issued another order asking the microblogging platform to block accounts backed by Pakistan and Khalistan supporters. The IT Ministry's displeasure is also apparent over Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey recently liking several tweets made by foreign-based celebrities in support of farmer protest. The source said the move casts aspersions over neutrality claims of the platform, and defiance of government orders by Twitter raises several questions. Moreover, sources argued that any company is free to appeal against any government order if it feels it cannot comply with that order. Twitter has neither challenged any of these orders in any court of India nor complied with the government's directive, they pointed out. In an e-mail response, Twitter spokesperson said the platform is guided by principles of transparency and empowering the public conversation. "If we receive a valid legal request about potentially illegal content on Twitter, we review it under both the Twitter rules and local law. If the content violates Twitter's rules, the content will be removed from the service," the spokesperson said. The spokesperson added: "If it is determined to be illegal in a particular jurisdiction, but not in violation of the Twitter rules, we may withhold access to the content in the location only. In all cases, we notify the account holder directly so they're aware we've received a legal order pertaining to the account."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Modi urges farmers to end agitation against farm laws||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday made a fervent appeal to protesters to end their agitation against the new farm laws even as he questioned opposition parties for their sudden "U-turn" on the agriculture reforms. The Prime Minister also hit out at those behind the protests, saying a new "breed" of agitators has emerged in the country who cannot live without agitation and the country should be beware of them. He also said the new FDI (Foreign Destructive Ideology) has emerged in the country and "we need to be more aware to save the country from such ideology". Modi also stressed that India is very proud of the contribution of Sikhs and the language used by some for them will not benefit the country. He alleged that some people are also trying to defame Sikhs. "This is a community that has done so much for the nation. The country takes pride in the contribution of Sikhs, but some people are trying to defame them. The words and blessings of the Guru Sahibs are precious. The language used by some for them will not benefit the country," he said, replying to the Motion of Thanks on the President's address in Rajya Sabha. On the farm sector and the ongoing protest, Modi said, "MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future. Affordable ration for the poor will continue. Mandis will be modernised". He quoted former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on the need for reforms in the farm sector and said Congress should take pride that Modi had to do what the former Prime Minister wanted. Modi said since 2014 his government has initiated changes in the agriculture sector aimed at empowering the farmer. The crop insurance scheme was changed to make it more farmer-friendly. The PM-KISAN scheme was also brought in, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Multi-agency operation on to rescue those trapped inside tunnel in Uttarakhand's Tapovan||A multi-agency operation to rescue an estimated 34 people trapped inside a big tunnel at Tapovan was carried out overnight after a glacier burst-triggered deluge killed 10 people in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district while over 140 are missing, officials said on Monday. Personnel from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and some state disaster response teams are clearing the tunnel that has been blocked with slush, debris and silt, and are inching closer towards the stuck workers. "Our teams are working overnight to rescue about 30 workers who are trapped in the tunnel. Specialised equipment for such operations has been deployed. We are hopeful we will able to rescue everyone," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said in Delhi. Around 300 ITBP personnel are currently deployed at the site, he said. Another officer said it is estimated that around 34 people are trapped in the 'head race tunnel' or HRT. The force's Additional Director General (Western Command) M S Rawat also reached the spot Monday morning to take stock of the situation and interacted with officers working at the site, Pandey added. ITBP teams were seen clearing the over 1,500-metre-long tunnel, which is executed till over 1,329 metres, using earthmovers driven by local workers. A team of senior officials, in a video provided by the force, were seen analysing the tunnel's map to find the best way of approach. The tunnel has only one entry, an official said. ITBP rescuers were seen carrying wooden planks which will be used to create a platform to pull out the trapped people using ropes. Teams of the NDRF also reached the spot late Sunday night and were seen using shovels to clear the tunnel's approach. The force has also brought along canine teams that will help them detect lives trapped underneath better. More teams have been sent to the site on Mi-17 helicopters that landed at the helipad in Joshimath, NDRF chief S N Pradhan said in a Twitter post. He said the agencies are working in close coordination. Some teams from the Army have also reached the Tapovan spot, a senior official supervising the operation said. At least 12 workers were rescued from a smaller tunnel in this area by ITBP on Sunday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Over 11,000 fresh Covid cases, 84 casualties in a day||India's tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 1,08,38,194, with 11,831 new infections, while the daily deaths fell below 100 for the fourth time this month, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,55,080 with 84 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,05,34,505 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.20 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total COVID-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,48,609 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.37 per cent of the total cases, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,19, 00,614 samples have been tested up to February 7 with 5, 32,236 samples being tested on Sunday. The 84 new fatalities include 30 from Maharashtra and 19 from Kerala, 6 from Chhattisgarh, 5 from West Bengal, 4 from Uttarakhand, 3 from Karnataka, 2 each from Delhi, Goa, Haryana and Punjab. A total of 1,55,080 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,310 from Maharashtra followed by 12,383 from Tamil Nadu, 12,236 from Karnataka, 10,879 from Delhi, 10,207 from West Bengal, 8,687 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,159 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: Monument to ‘political insanity’||Farmer and air force veteran S.S. Randhawa is trying to crack a riddle: Is the Prime Minister trying to wipe out the name of Mohammad bin Tughlak, the sultan of administrative misadventures, with his own actions? In an open letter written with “due respect and apology”, the 88-year-old retired wing commander has urged Narendra Modi to preserve for posterity the multi-layered barricades at the farmers’ protest sites as a “monument of political insanity”. Randhawa is not a blind critic of the Prime Minister. He appreciates Modi’s tenacity and actions against Pakistan. Upset at the manner in which the Centre is handling the farmers’ movement and incapacitated by age from visiting the protest sites, Randhawa has been wondering whether the government is trying to prove to the world that Winston Churchill was right about Indians not being able to govern themselves. The veteran has addressed the letter to the President as well as the Prime Minister. Caustically describing the barricades as “state of the art architecture, a technology never ever witnessed by me in my long life of 88 years”, the octogenarian has asked: “What are we proving to the world? Mr Winston Churchill was right or Mr Clement Attlee was wrong or is it an attempt to obliterate the name of Mohammad Tughlak from the Indian historical annals?” Later, Randhawa told The Telegraph over the phone: “Dreams are not development. Between the dream and development, there is a process. The Prime Minister tends to skip that and the country suffers.” Randhawa added: “Look at demonetisation. One evening he announces it and from the very next day, new notifications are issued to deal with the problems that cropped up because the planning and preparation needed was not done in advance. Who suffered? The people and the economy. So also with the farm laws.” In his letter, Randhawa has urged the farmers and the government not to harm the barricades but preserve them. “It will be a great tourist attraction and shall also go a long way in educating the generation to come. They must know how indifferent and brutal could an elected government be to the electorate. May God bless us with sense of governance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Tax ache for social clubs||The retrospective tax bogey has surfaced again — and this time it is out to spook the country’s social clubs. The Narendra Modi government has introduced a clause in the central Goods and Services Tax Act (GST) that in effect overturns a Supreme Court order handed down in October 2019 that had gone in favour of Calcutta Club. The apex court ruling meant that clubs were not under any obligation to collect tax from their permanent members on the sale of food, refreshments and drinks or other services. Despite the ruling, sources said, several top clubs in Calcutta levied GST on the sale of food and refreshments to members. Liquor, however, does not come under the GST and is subject to state levies. The Centre’s decision effectively rips the cloak of immunity from tax that the doctrine of mutuality conferred on the clubs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Historians express concern over rule on webinar nod||The world’s largest association of professional historians has expressed concern over an Indian government decision that extends to online seminars and conferences on academic issues a rule that makes approval mandatory. The Union education ministry had last month issued guidelines stating that virtual conferences on subjects touching on India’s security and internal matters, including topics related to the borders, the Northeast or Jammu and Kashmir, could be conducted only with the government’s approval. The guidelines suggested the external affairs ministry’s approval would be required for webinars involving international participants. However, if the content is linked to the country’s internal affairs, no permission can be given. “This new requirement applies not only to online academic events that relate to the security of the Indian state but also to those that are clearly related to India’s internal matters — a guideline so sweeping that it encompasses most topics of interest to scholars of India,” the American Historical Association (AHA) said in a statement. Although approval was already mandatory for physical events involving foreigner participation so that visas could be issued, there was enough time to organise such documents because travel meant that plans were made in advance. The pandemic has brought in a sea change. Physical conferences have shrunk to a minimum, and virtual conferences at short notice are the norm now. “This new policy… is likely to affect a wide range of scholarly exchanges that are critical to the free international expression of ideas,” the AHA said. “By monitoring and potentially censoring or cancelling the virtual and online communications of scholars in India, the ministry of education threatens the very foundation of those exchanges. The policy puts Indian scholars at a disadvantage in ongoing discussions among scholars in all disciplines, including history. “It also deprives scholars in other countries (including members of the AHA) of the benefits of the knowledge and insights that Indian scholars bring to the table.” The AHA said that government agencies should not intervene in the content of scholarly exchange, and that such intervention would constitute arbitrary censorship. The association urged the government to reconsider the policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand calamity was a glacial lake outburst flood||The flash flood of water, mud and rocks that swept through the Rishiganga and Dhauliganga river valleys in Uttarakhand on Sunday was a glacial lake outburst flood (GLOF), probably triggered by a gigantic chunk of ice separating from a glacier, scientists said. The GLOF— an abrupt discharge from a natural reservoir of water that has formed along the side, in front, or on the surface of a glacier — occurred in the Alakananda basin, a region where scientists have identified over 20 glacial lakes. Scientists say that many of these glacial lakes that have grown in size in recent years represent a potential hazard to downstream regions and have proposed short-term and long-term strategies to minimise the risk of catastrophic floods. The question-answer section below is based on the results of scientific studies and an interview with Anil Kulkarni, a scientist at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, who has studied Himalayan glaciers for more than 20 years. Q: What caused the flash flood in Chamoli district? A: Local authorities have described it as a glacial burst. Scientists say this probably means that a gigantic chunk of ice broke away from a glacier and caused the water level in the associated glacial lake to abruptly rise and possibly trigger a “moraine breach event” — the breach of a natural dam made from rock and debris that has been holding the water back. Q: What mechanisms can lead to GLOFs? A: High-intensity rainfall can cause a glacial lake to overflow and trigger a moraine breach. This had happened in Kedarnath in 2013. But there was no rain in the Alakananda basin either on Saturday or Sunday, an Indian Meteorological Department official said. The immediate trigger for Sunday’s GLOF therefore remains to be determined. Kulkarni says a breakaway of glacial ice or an avalanche of ice are possibilities. Q: Was the event caused by climate change? A: Scientists know for sure that global warming is causing glaciers across the world, including those along the Himalayas, to retreat. Along with this glacial retreat, the sizes of the glacial lakes at many sites are increasing. Kulkarni and his colleagues have, for instance, calculated that another glacial lake in Uttarakhand, called the Safed Lake, has doubled in size over the past 50 years, from about 0.1sqkm to 0.23sqkm. As the number of glacial lakes and their sizes increase, so does the risk of potential catastrophic moraine breaches and flash floods. Q: Could such GLOFs happen again? A: A study by a group of Swiss researchers in 2013 had identified 251 glacial lakes in the Himalayan region of which they had labelled 104 as “potentially dangerous”. Another study by scientists from the Institute of Potsdam, Germany, had in 2019 identified the Central Himalayas as a “hotspot region” for GLOFs, compared with the Himalayan-Karakoram regions. But the Potsdam scientists had also calculated that the number of glacial events had remained fairly constant since the 1980s: an annual average frequency of 1.3, or about 13 GLOFs every 10 years. Q: Are there any possible mitigation strategies? A: Kulkarni had in a brief for policymakers around two years ago proposed short-term and long-term strategies to mitigate the risks. Among the short-term strategies are early warning systems and engineering interventions such as the siphoning of lake water and controlled widening of discharge channels. The long-term strategies include identifying the locations vulnerable to GLOFs, monitoring lake expansions, and maintaining safe water levels in the lakes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Ten dead, 143 missing after Nanda Devi glacier breaks up ||Around 143 people were missing after a portion of the Nanda Devi Glacier broke on Sunday morning, sending water, mud and rocks barrelling down the Joshimath mountain in Uttarakhand and sweeping away two hydropower projects and houses. A rise in river waters near Raini village, the disaster site in Chamoli district where the 10.45am flash flood reportedly washed away six homes, led to alerts being sounded over swathes of Uttarakhand. Many villages near Raini were evacuated and their residents taken to safer areas. Uttarakahnd DGP Ashok Kumar said, "a total of 153 people were missing from the two hydel projects at Raini and Tapovan out of which 10 bodies have been recovered while 143 are still missing," Raini resident Sanjay Singh Rana said a wall of dust, rock and water had roared down the mountains. “It came very fast, there was no time to alert anyone. I felt that even we would be swept away,” he told Reuters. The disaster comes nearly eight years after flash floods triggered by a cloudburst killed an estimated 6,000 people in Uttarakhand in the summer of 2013, mostly near the pilgrimage centres of Kedarnath and Badrinath. Sunday’s flash flood destroyed two under-construction dams, the Rishiganga Hydropower Project and the NTPC’s Tapovan Hydropower Project, both located 5km from Raini. Most of those missing are labourers of the Tapovan project. Sixteen men were rescued safely from a tunnel in the Tapovan project but about 125 were still missing, PTI reported late on Sunday night. Water levels in the Dhauliganga and the Alakananda, two tributaries of the Ganga that meet close to Raini, rose three metres above normal for a while before abating, Rawat said. “I request people to have patience. Please don’t create panic on social media,” Rawat said as Netizens began sharing videos showing rivers in spate, whose authenticity could not be determined. “An alert has been issued along the Ganga up to Haridwar (318km from Raini),” Rawat said, adding that water release from dams had been stopped. Neighbouring Uttar Pradesh too put riverside areas on high alert. “We believe the damage has already been done but the alert has still been issued to avoid any further damage in the lower areas through which the Ganga flows,” said S.N. Pradhan, director-general of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), which is helping rescue and relief efforts. Six army columns (about 600 personnel), three army choppers, three air force helicopters — two Mi-17s and one ALH — and 250 Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel too have been deployed along with the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). Killed, trapped ITBP spokesperson Vivek Pandey said the flash flood had swept away six graziers and their livestock and damaged two suspension bridges at Raini. Media reports quoted the Union home ministry as saying 12 labourers, besides the 16, had been rescued from another tunnel. “Thirty people were working on the Rishiganga (hydel) project and over 150 on the other project when the flash flood struck. Many people have been rescued but the toll is expected to rise,” chief minister Rawat said in the evening. Ridhim Aggarwal, DIG of the SDRF, said: “We are in touch with officials of the companies and they told us they were not able to contact the staff on the spot.” Green concern After the 2013 floods, environment groups had blamed unchecked construction for the human cost in a state prone to flash floods and landslides. It was not immediately clear what had set off Sunday’s flash flood, but it led to renewed calls for a halt to big hydel projects in the ecologically sensitive mountains. Former Union water resources minister and BJP leader Uma Bharati criticised the construction of hydropower projects in the area. “When I was a minister, I had requested that Himalaya is a very sensitive place, so power projects should not be built on Ganga and its main tributaries,” she tweeted. Ranjan Panda, a volunteer for the Combat Climate Change Network that works on water, environment and climate change issues, sought “a serious scrutiny of the hydropower dams building spree in this eco-sensitive region”. “The government should no longer ignore warnings from experts and (should) stop building hydropower projects and extensive highway networks in this fragile ecosystem,” he said. The Rishiganga project was commissioned in 2011 to the Rishiganga Power Corporation. Power generation was stopped in 2016 after a natural calamity damaged the dam. Eventually, the project was taken over by Kundan Group and re-commissioned in 2020. ‘Safe distance’ “The actual havoc would have happened within 200 to 500 metres of the area where the glacier fell,” Pandey, the ITBP spokesperson, said. “There were 500 to 600 people in the area but most were at a safer distance. Smaller hutments have been washed away. The situation will be clearer after a while. The rescue operations will continue for many days.” PTI reported that at least 180 sheep had been washed away and that connectivity with some border posts was “totally restricted” because of the bridge collapse near Raini. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “I am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation in Uttarakhand. India stands with Uttarakhand, prays for everyone’s safety.” He announced Rs 2 lakh for every bereaved family and Rs 50,000 for each of those seriously injured. Additional reporting by PTI and Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||World still watching and commenting: Susan Sarandon||Veteran Hollywood actress Susan Sarandon, who joined the growing overseas chorus of solidarity with India’s protesting farmers on Saturday, has linked the contentious farm laws to “corporate greed”. Tweeting an article on the clampdown on the protests, Sarandon said: “Corporate greed & exploitation knows no bounds, not only in the US but worldwide. While they work w/ corp media & politicians to silence the most vulnerable, we must let India’s leaders know the world is watching & we #StandWithFarmers! #FarmersProtests.” She tagged the PMO and agriculture minister N.S. Tomar. The Narendra Modi government’s attempts to stop such comments from overseas by calling the farmers’ protest an internal matter of India has not had the desired results yet. Since the external affairs ministry issued a statement on Wednesday telling foreigners to keep off the subject, even the leadership of the US Congressional India Caucus has spoken, taking the matter up with the Indian ambassador in Washington, Taranjit Singh Sandhu. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the farmers’ movement, said: “It is a shame that at the behest of the government, some people want to suppress this movement by calling it an ‘internal matter’ but it is necessary to understand that in a democracy, people are superior, not the government.” On Sunday, the Morcha moved to Bhiwani Dadri in Haryana for a kisan mahapanchayat where convener Darshan Pal said it was necessary to hit the NDA government where it hurt most by bringing down the coalition government in Haryana. The Morcha had early on in the movement issued a call to boycott the BJP and its ally JJP in Haryana, but it has begun targeting the RSS-BJP directly since January 26. It is convinced that the violence on the day in Delhi was orchestrated to discredit the agitation, which had been peaceful for 60 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Centre should not have taken “one-sided” decision on new farm laws: Shankaracharyas||Two Shankaracharyas on Sunday said the Centre should not have taken a “one-sided” decision on the new farm laws without discussions with the farmers, one of them adding that the NDA government’s habitual unilateralism was a “bad sign for democracy”. Shankaracharyas, heads of the four monasteries established by Adi Shankaracharya, are among the most venerated of Hindu monks and the two pontiffs’ remarks are particularly significant since they rarely comment on political subjects. “The government took a one-sided decision on every issue, including the (2016) demonetisation and the farm laws. It’s a bad sign for democracy,” Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati, pontiff of two of the four monasteries — Sharada Peeth in Dwarka, Gujarat, and Jyotir Peeth in Badrinath, Uttarakhand — told reporters in Allahabad. “The people of the country in general, and the farmers in particular, should have been taken into confidence before such a crucial decision (on enacting the new farm laws) was taken.” Swami Nishchalanand Saraswati of Govardhan Peeth, Puri, said: “The government shouldn’t have taken a one-sided decision on the farm laws. The farmers should have been taken into confidence.” The two pontiffs are in Allahabad to attend the annual Magh Mela at the confluence of the Ganga and the Yamuna. Nishchalanand, who was addressing a congregation at his ashram in the Mela area, also suggested that the farmers understand the new farm laws thoroughly before making them an issue. “We hope they will understand the laws. It’s not good to hold a dharna for so long without food and water,” he said. “However, the law should have been formulated while keeping in view cow protection, agriculture and the trades linked to it. Since all trade in our country is linked to agriculture one way or another, it would have been better to take the opinion of the stakeholders (farmers) while passing the law.” Nishchalanand didn’t explain the reference to cow protection. The Narendra Modi government had railroaded the farm laws through Parliament with little discussion, and the farmers say they were not adequately consulted. While the government says the three new laws would benefit farmers, agitating farmers say these laws will promote their exploitation by big companies. The country now has three Shankaracharyas, the third being Bharati Tirtha Mahaswami of the Sringeri Sharada Peeth in Karnataka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: Delhi police chase trail of toolkit document||Delhi police have said they would write to Google seeking the IP address or location from where a “toolkit” document containing tips on ways to support the farmers’ protest was created and uploaded on social media. The police have filed an FIR against the unnamed creators of the toolkit and want to identify them. The toolkit was created on Google Docs and uploaded on Twitter, and later shared by teenaged Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg who has tweeted in support of the farmers’ agitation. Officers have alleged the toolkit was designed to encourage disaffection and ill-will against the government as part of an international conspiracy to defame the country. They said a preliminary probe suggested the toolkit may have been created by a pro-Khalistani organisation, Poetic Justice Foundation.The toolkit offers advice to people who want to express solidarity with the agitating farmers, such as how to join the ground protests, how to express support on social media — with suggested hashtags — and how to sign petitions. Among the suggestions it makes are: tweeting support for the farmers with the hashtag StandWithFarmers, tagging the Prime Minister’s Office, organising protests near the closest Indian embassy on February 13 and 14, and extending solidarity through a digital campaign. Toolkit primer Retired security officials played down the idea of a conspiracy behind the toolkit. They said protest toolkits were publicly shared documents, used routinely to coordinate global solidarity protests. Protest toolkits had existed for several years but gained prominence in 2019 during the Hong Kong demonstrations against a change in extradition law that could have helped China target activists and protesters, they added. “It is absurd to even think that there is any criminal conspiracy involved. Protest toolkits are publicly shared documents on methods of protest. They are going viral these days because of social media,” a retired Intelligence Bureau official said. He said the Hong Kong protesters had used a toolkit for round-the-clock coordination through social media and hit the streets in full gear — black clothes, gas masks and helmets as protection against tear gas grenades. Another security official said a protest toolkit merely helped extend global solidarity to a cause by sharing protest methods and news articles. “Look, thousands of farmers assembled for a protest in Shamli, Uttar Pradesh. Did they have Greta’s toolkit?” he asked. ‘Cruel indifference’ Thunberg had first shared an old toolkit on Wednesday night but later deleted it and uploaded an updated toolkit on Thursday. The old document expressed support for the tractor rally on Republic Day and gave details of upcoming online and street protests. “India has a long history of human rights violations, violence and a cruel indifference for its most vulnerable citizens,” the updated toolkit says. “India’s farmers and other citizens need the global community to pay attention — the world needs to know that India is ignoring the voices of the marginalised communities. We need solidarity and support from across the world.” It adds: “Digital Strike with the hashtags #StandWithFarmers and #FarmersProtest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Haryana farmer found hanging from tree||A farmer from Jind in Haryana who was supporting the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws allegedly hanged himself from a tree, merely 2km from the Tikri border protest site on Sunday. The 52-year-old farmer left a suicide note, which is being verified, police said. “Karamveer Singh hailed from a village in Jind. He was found hanging from a tree in a park, which is around 2km away from the Tikri border,” Bahadurgarh city police station SHO Vijay Kumar said. According to the police, the note purportedly left behind by Singh said: “Dear farmer brethren, Modi government is giving date after date... No one knows when these black farm laws will be rolled back.” Over a fortnight ago, another farmer from Haryana had allegedly consumed a poisonous substance at the Tikri border. He died during treatment at a Delhi hospital later. In December, a lawyer from Punjab had allegedly killed himself by consuming poison, a few kilometres away from the protest site at the Tikri border. Earlier, a Sikh preacher, Sant Ram Singh, had also allegedly ended his life near the Singhu border protest site, claiming that he was “unable to bear the pain of the farmers”. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November 2020 at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||J&K police look for cyber volunteers to identify and report 'anti-national' posts||Jammu and Kashmir police are looking for cyber volunteers who will identify and report “anti-national” posts, raising fears of online vigilantes intruding on privacy and targeting people they bear grudges against. Many social media users described the development as the rise of a new “Ikhwan” — a dreaded, pro-government counter-insurgency militia that existed in the early years of the militancy and was accused of massive crimes in the Valley. A police statement on Wednesday asked people to register as “cyber crime volunteers” under the “framework of ministry of home affairs programme — Cyber Crime Volunteer Framework”. High court lawyer Altaf Khan said the scheme was being implemented across India but Jammu and Kashmir police seemed to have taken the lead in volunteer-hunting. “You will now be watched by fellow citizens,” he said, adding that the initiative was open to abuse by the cyber volunteers to settle personal scores. The police statement said citizens could register in any of three categories of cyber volunteers: cyber volunteer unlawful content flagger, cyber awareness promoter, or cyber expert. People will be “required to register as volunteer through a dedicated section, ‘Cyber Volunteers’, on (the) National Cybercrime Reporting Portal”, the statement said. The content flaggers will identify and report online content suspected to be illegal, such as those relating to “anti-national” activities, terrorism, radicalisation and crimes like child pornography or rape. Anybody can be a content flagger since “no prior verification (KYC) is required”. However, for the two other categories, the state or Union Territory concerned will carry out verification. The cyber awareness promoters will educate people – especially “vulnerable groups like women, children, and elderly and rural population” -- on cyber crimes. The cyber experts will deal with specific domains of cyber crime such as forensics, network forensics, malware analysis, memory analysis and cryptography. Kashmir’s cyber police chief, Tahir Ashraf, did not take calls from The Telegraph but later said in a text message that he had “not started any such recruitment”, appearing to imply the statement was not issued by his office. Ashraf did not respond to questions about the possible misuse of the programme by the volunteers. “It (the initiative) will increase intrusion in your privacy and you do not know what the mechanism to control it is,” Khan, the Jammu and Kashmir High Court lawyer, told this newspaper. “People may have personal grievances against each other, and they (the volunteers) can misuse it (the scheme). (Nobody knows) what the mechanism to find out the truth or falsity of such reports is.” Khan said the initiative was more dangerous than Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, which prescribed up to three-year jail terms for people posting “objectionable” material online and was struck down by the Supreme Court as unconstitutional in 2015. “(Under that law) any government agency had the power to report (the alleged crime) but here you are being watched by everybody,” Khan said. “If somebody does not like your comment, he will report it and you will be scared to write anything on your wall.” The people of Jammu and Kashmir have faced unprecedented cyber curbs since the abrogation of key Article 370 provisions in August 2019. The Internet had initially been suspended for months, and a ban on high-speed 4G Internet was lifted only last Friday evening. The cyber police have been summoning people for posts criticising the government or the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood and special status. Two Valley journalists were booked under the anti-terror law UAPA on the charge of posting “anti-national” content last year. Many accounts have been suspended by Twitter on the central government’s request. Two Valley-based news portals were booked in late January for alleged public mischief after the army complained about reports that accused it of forcing a private school in Shopian to hoist the Tricolour on Republic Day. According to the website of the Union home ministry’s National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal, the latest programme is open to individuals “willing to volunteer in any other area that can help in fighting cybercrime”. The applications will be received by the regional nodal offices in the states, and in Jammu and Kashmir by the crime branch inspector-general of police who will “contact the applicants on an as-needed basis”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
08-02-2021||India||Special Task Force jawan killed in Chhattisgarh blast ||A jawan of the Special Task Force  (STF) was on Sunday killed when a pressure improvised explosive device (IED), planted by Maoist, went off in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district, police said. The incident occurred around 4.30pm near Peddagellur village when a joint team of security forces was out on an anti-Maoist operation, inspector general of police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P. said. “When the patrolling team was on way back after the operation, constable Mohan Nag inadvertently stepped on the bomb, triggering the blast that left him critically injured,” he said. He died in hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
08-02-2021||India||Kerala Assembly elections: Parties set sights on veteran footballers||The names of veteran footballers I.M. Vijayan and U. Sharaf Ali are doing the rounds in connection with the Kerala Assembly elections later this year, marking a rare occurrence in a state where sportspersons have rarely played ball in the poll arena. Ali, a former India defender, has expressed his readiness to contest from the Ernad constituency in Malappuram district as an Independent candidate backed by the ruling Left Democratic Front. The seat is held by the Indian Union Muslim League, which is part of the Congress-led United Democratic Front. “It is a fact that I have expressed my willingness to contest from Ernad on an LDF platform. Now it’s up to them to take a call,” Ali told The Telegraph on Tuesday. The 57-year-old who retired from Kerala police in May 2020 as the commandant of its Rapid Response and Rescue Force, said the LDF was his “natural choice” and he was not inclined towards any other political option. The Kerala elections are due in a couple of months. “Although I was a KSU (Congress’s campus arm Kerala Students Union) sympathiser during my college days, I stayed away from politics after joining the police force. But since my retirement, I have been attracted by the secular platform of the LDF, which has provided good governance in Kerala, making it a natural choice for me,” Ali said. Ali was part of the formidable Kerala police soccer team that also had Vijayan, former India captain V.P. Sathyan and C.V. Pappachan. They were the pillars of the Kerala state team that won the Santosh Trophy in 1991 and 1992. E.N. Mohandas, the district secretary of the CPM in Malappuram, said the LDF was looking for “candidates from all walks of life”. “We have identified several names who fit the requirements of our party and political front. They will be finalised by the end of this month or early March,” Mohandas said, dodging questions on whether Ali was among the probables for the Ernad constituency. “We will first decide on seat sharing with our alliance partners and then finalise the candidates’ list,” he said. While Ali has put the ball in the LDF’s court, Vijayan said he had “for now” declined multiple offers from political parties as he wanted to be identified only with football. “I have been asked to contest by the LDF, UDF and the BJP. But I politely told the leaders who called me up that I would rather remain a footballer, at least for now,” Vijayan told this newspaper. An inspector with Kerala police, Vijayan is also the technical director and coach of the state police’s football team. “I have good relations with all political parties. But once I decide to take the plunge into politics, I will be bracketed as a person belonging to some party, for which I am not ready at the moment,” said the legendary forward and captain of the Indian side who had hugely successful stints in Calcutta giants East Bengal and Mohun Bagan. “Whether in Kerala or in Bengal, people still love me as a footballer. I have five more years of service left and want to dedicate my life to football that gave me everything,” said Vijayan, who emerged from very humble beginnings to become one of the most sought-after players in the country during his heyday. Asked if he was ruling out contesting in elections even in the future, Vijayan quipped: “Let’s see how things pan out when I get older and more mature to understand public life. For now, I can serve the people through football by coaching and mentoring children and youths.” Although sportspersons are not too common in Kerala’s political landscape, former India pacer S. Sreesanth had unsuccessfully contested on a BJP ticket from Thiruvananthapuram in the 2016 Assembly polls. Although the BJP had celebrated his candidature with much fanfare, the cricketer who had been facing suspension after being arrested in a spot-fixing case came third.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
08-02-2021||India||Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala releases Sabari draft ‘bill’||The Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala has released the draft of a bill that seeks to punish with a two-year jail term women aged between 10 and 50 years for entering the Sabarimala temple, raking up the contentious issue before the Assembly elections. The draft bill, which the Congress plans to sign into law if it comes to power, points out that since the presiding deity, Swami Ayyappan, is a “perpetual celibate”, women of childbearing age must not enter the hill shrine. The Left reacted cautiously over the emotive issue but accused the Congress of conning people with a “fake bill”. Congress MLA Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan released the bill, drafted by former director-general of police T. Asaf Ali, on Saturday. Radhakrishnan, a former minister, said the draft titled Sabarimala Ayyappa Devotees (Protection of religious rights, customs and usages) Bill, 2021, would be enacted once the UDF comes to power in the state polls this summer. “They (the Left Democratic Front) allowed women to enter the sanctum sanctorum. So how can we trust them?” Radhakrishnan said. There has never been a law banning women of childbearing age from entering the Sabarimala temple. However, convention has prevented women of this category from stepping into the shrine. As per the draft bill, the last word on the temple’s customs would be that of the chief priest. The Sabarimala issue has once again gained traction in the UDF with leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala embarking on an “Aishwarya Kerala Yatra” — a pre-poll march across the state to galvanise his party and mobilise support. There are indications that the UDF will use Sabarimala as a poll plank, and slogans in reverence of the deity have been raised at the march. Women’s entry was pitchforked into mainstream political debate and widespread protests were held when the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government decided to implement a September 2018 Supreme Court verdict that lifted all age barriers for women worshippers wanting to visit the temple. Although both the BJP and the Congress had initially welcomed the verdict, they made a quick turnaround, smelling a political opportunity since the 2019 Lok Sabha elections had been just months away. In keeping with its decision to implement the court order, the Left government deployed massive security at the temple. But allowing police escort for 31-year-old social activist Rehana Fathima to the temple led to massive outrage among traditionalists who wanted status quo. Eventually two women of childbearing age, Bindu Ammini and Kanakadurga — aged 42 and 44 — managed to enter the sanctum sanctorum escorted by the police in the cover of darkness on January 2, 2019, more than three months after the apex court’s order. In the ensuing Lok Sabha polls, the UDF registered a near clean sweep, winning 19 of the 20 seats and leaving just one to the LDF in what was widely interpreted as the result of the state government’s insistence on implementing the court order. Chennithala told reporters on Saturday that the Centre and the state had failed to live up to the expectations of Sabarimala devotees. “The Supreme Court verdict had hurt the sentiments of the believers. Yet, neither the Centre nor the state government tried to bring a legislation against the entry of women (of childbearing age),” the Congress leader said. Organising secretary of the All India Congress Committee, K.C. Venugopal, clarified that his party was not trying to whip up sentiments. “Sabarimala is already a major issue. We don’t have to deliberately make it into a big issue,” he told reporters, accusing the LDF of allowing non-believers into the temple. “This government had pushed non-believers into Sabarimala with the help of the police and hurt the religious sentiments of scores of believers,” Venugopal said. CPM politburo member S. Ramachandran told a news channel that his party’s position was that “the matter should be solved through discussions with all concerned”. After having burnt its fingers by implementing the court order, the LDF had since backed off from its earlier position. The state government had decided to put the implementation on hold until further clarity since review petitions have been referred to a larger bench of the apex court. LDF convener and state CPM acting secretary A. Vijayaraghavan slammed the UDF for “conning” the people with a “fake bill”. “This is a fake bill and the Congress is conning the people. The government can only act according to the court order,” he told reporters. “The CPM’s stand is very clear and we have already put it in black and white. We will go by whatever the court decides,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
08-02-2021||India||Congress supports Naveen Patnaik’s school policy||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s “Mo School Abhiyana” (My School Campaign) has drawn support from the Congress, one of the main rivals of ruling the Biju Janata Dal (BJD). Under the campaign people can adopt schools, including their own alma maters, to support them financially and bring about overall improvement in their functioning. The chief minister’s call for adoption of schools under the programme has drawn response from Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC) president, Niranjan Patnaik who has expressed his desire to take up the responsibility of improving schools where he studies in his formative years. On January 25, the chief minister had appealed to people from different walks of life including MLAs, ministers, IAS and IPS officers to adopt their alma maters. In his appeal, Naveen had said: “Contribution of school is immense, it has shaped you. It has provided us with the ability to create a unique identity for ourselves. It’s time to give back to the society.” Under the scheme, one can contribute money, in-kind resources or even volunteer time in any school of his choice. “If one contributes Rs 1 lakh for his school, the government will provide Rs 2 lakh as a matching grant. With this, the school will get Rs 3 lakh to develop its infrastructure,” said a senior official. One can adopt at most three schools. “It provides a philanthropic platform for alumni to contribute and catalyse a healthy, inclusive and creative environment to groom a new generation of dreamers, doers,  makers, growers, artists, writers, thinkers, designers, scientists, innovators, leaders, explorers and entrepreneurs,” said officials. The programme was launched in 2017. In a letter to the Project Director of Odisha School Education Programme Authority (OSEPA), Bhupender Singh Poonia, the PCC chief urged him to give him an opportunity to adopt seven schools and bring about improvement in their condition. The state Congress chief, Niranjan Patnaik, told The Telegraph, “I have asked the government to give me a chance to adopt the schools where I spent my childhood days.” He said that his party has always supported constructive decisions. “Earlier, we had welcomed the Naveen Patnaik government’s decision to keep the government’s stake in the management of Odisha Power Grid Corporation (OPGC). This time for the improvement of education, I have extended my cooperation.” The leader, however, said that Mo School Abhiyana of the government can never achieve expected success unless the politicians, including MLAs and ministers and bureaucrats, send their children to government run schools. “When you are adopting government-run and government-aided schools, where you had your early education, sending your children to high profile English medium schools will not send a wrong message and will not help strengthen the education system,” Niranjan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Soumen Mitra takes charge as new Calcutta police commissioner||Describing the Calcutta Police as one of the best forces in India, Soumen Mitra, after taking over as the city's new commissioner said on Monday that he was hopeful the law enforcers, with their "professionalism", will be able to ensure assembly polls are conducted smoothly. The 1988-batch IPS officer said that he will do "everything possible to ensure the city is safe and its citizens are able to exercise their franchise safely". "All elections are challenging... With the kind of professionalism the Calcutta Police has always shown, we will be able to conduct (the elections) well. "I have joined today, and will do everything to keep our city safe so that citizens are able to exercise their franchise without fear," Mitra told reporters at the Calcutta Police headquarters in Lalbazar. He was greeted by the outgoing commissioner Anuj Sharma, who has been shifted to the state CID as the new additional director-general of police. Incidentally, this is Mitra's second stint as the city's commissioner of police (CP). In 2016, he was appointed to the post by the Election Commission, replacing the then top cop Rajeev Kumar. Mitra, however, was removed from the post by the TMC government after the assembly elections, and Kumar was reinstated. "(We have) a team of very good officers. I am happy to be here again for the second time. The Calcutta Police is one of the best forces in the country," he said. Asked which areas are in need of immediate focus, Mitra said, "I will work to empower the force further through training. Better service will be provided to our citizens, to the elderly, to the weaker sections, to women, to children. Preserving the environment is also a priority. We will see to it that charge sheets are filed quickly." The top officer also stressed the need to pay attention to the "changing nature of the crime", and said unlawful activities on cyberspace are on the rise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Modi lists agenda of BJP’s first cabinet meeting in Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday listed the agenda of the BJP government’s first cabinet meeting in Bengal after the Assembly elections. “You (the people of Bengal) have decided to bring the BJP to power after these polls…. We will implement all farmer-related central projects in our first cabinet meeting,” Modi said. He said a resolution would be adopted to execute all central schemes that people of Bengal had been deprived of allegedly because of the Mamata Banerjee government’s unwillingness to implement them in the state. Sticking to the BJP narrative set by Union home minister Amit Shah that the saffron party would sweep Bengal polls with over 200 seats, Modi promised that the Centre would ensure arrears of the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, a minimum income support for farmers, were paid to the state’s farmers. This announcement holds political significance at a time the Centre is in a bind on how to end the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three contentious farm laws supported by the Opposition, including Trinamul. In a bid to turn the tables on Mamata, who pledged her support to the farmers’ movement, Modi tried to project her as anti-farmer. “Over 25 lakh farmers from Bengal have applied for the PM Kisan Nidhi. After declining to be part of the scheme for months, the government sent a letter informing its decision to be part of the project... But, the Bengal government has been able to identify only 6,000 farmers in so many years,” Modi said, accusing the state government of not cooperating with the Centre. “The Union government is not being able to pay even these 6,000 farmers either, as the state has not sent the bank details of the state agency. This is how they are delaying (the process),” he added. The Prime Minister also referred to the state government's unwillingness to be part of the Ayushman Bharat scheme, a Rs 5 lakh medical insurance scheme of the Centre. Multiple BJP sources said that the reference to the central insurance scheme was to try and to prevent the Mamata government from deriving brownie points from the state’s Swasthya Sathi health scheme that has created excitement in Bengal. Modi accused the state government of not implementing the Centre’s one nation, one ration card system. The state government has not implemented the seventh pay commission either, said Modi. After holding forth on how the Mamata government denied people their rightful entitlements, Modi launched a new angle of attack. “In Bengal, if you ask Didi about your rights she gets frustrated. She even gets angry if slogans of Bharat Mata ki Jai are raised. But she never gets angry with people who speak against the country and spew poison,” he said. “You must have seen the news of international conspiracies to defame India...The conspirators are so keen to defame India that they are even attacking India’s identity as a tea-producing country. This is a conspiracy to attack the hard work of tea workers. Yoga, which is an Indian tradition...given to the world by stalwarts like (Sri) Aurobindo and (Swami) Vivekananda, is also under attack...But have you ever heard Didi utter a sentence against these conspiracies and conspirators?” he added. The Bengal polls, likely to be held in multiple phases, are still around two months away as the Election Commission of India is yet to announce the poll schedule, and around 35 days are mandatory to allow political parties to campaign for the hustings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul says Modi is in the dark ||The Trinamul Congress returned fire on Sunday evening, responding sternly to Narendra Modi’s political attacks against Mamata Banerjee and her government, while the Left and the Congress asked him to produce proof to buttress his allegation that they had a secret understanding with the ruling party in Bengal. “First of all, Narendra Modi knows nothing, he is awgyo (uninformed). Second, he is calling Mamata nirmawm (cruel)? He is a nawradhawm (sub-human)…. Farmers have been peacefully agitating for over 70 days under the open sky in harsh winter conditions. He never even bothered to speak to them. Who is nirmawm here?” asked Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy. Roy called the Prime Minister out on the “lie” of Mamata supposedly losing her cool at “Bharat Mata Ki Jai (Victory to Mother India)” slogans.  In his speech, Modi tried to attack Mamata over her alleged anti-national leanings, launching into an abstruse conspiracy theory on the alleged mega international ploy to defame India. “Again, an outright lie. Mamata does not lose her temper at Bharat Mata slogans,” said Roy. “But if somebody raises a politico-religious slogan — “Jai Shri Ram” — at a central government event to honour Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose (at Victoria Memorial on January 23), her anger at that is justified.” “About that conspiracy theory… it is typical of communal forces. Whenever they feel cornered, they claim the entire nation is being conspired against, targeted…. There is no conspiracy at play,” he added. The Left and the Congress took umbrage at the “fixing” accusation. “They say that the Left is non-existent…. Then why is he worried about the Left,” said Left legislature party leader Sujan Chakraborty before adding that the “real fixing” was between the BJP and Trinamul. “I am challenging him.... He is the Prime MInister and is not expected to say what any common man sitting in a tea stall would say. I challenge him to produce proof of what he accused,” he said. Leader of the Opposition Abdul Mannan, a Congress veteran, said: “It is common knowledge that Trinamul was birthed and raised by the BJP.” “What the Prime Minister alleged only exposed the reality of the Congress-Left alliance becoming the real, credible alternative here,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal blamed for hurdle to Calcutta rally||Tribal community members from Purulia and Bankura districts on Sunday blocked roads in at least half a dozen locations to allege that the state transport department had not given them the required number of buses to reach a rally in Calcutta. Protesters slated to reach the rally to demand the codification of a tribal religion — Sari Dharam — for the 2021 census claimed that less than half the 795 buses they had requisitioned in advance for the event were given to them from Saturday night onwards. “State government sources claimed that most buses had to be sent for the Prime Minister’s Haldia rally, but we do not believe them. This was sheer negligence (on their part),” said one protester. Sunday’s rally was organised by the Sari Dharam Code Committee, a congregation of more than 17 tribal forums, and coincided with Modi’s visit to Haldia. “We started waiting for the buses from Saturday night, but after more than half a day of waiting and sleeping in the cold, only 350 buses came,” said Shib Shankar Soren, a member of the code committee. “There was major miscommunication on the part of the transport department, which did not inform us about their inability (to provide the required number of buses). Else, we would have arranged alternative transportation.” Protesters blocked roads across Bankura and Purulia, the largest ones being at Raipur and Raniband, till Sunday evening to protest this “neglect” and “harassment”. “It was sheer harassment for our supporters,” said Sangiri Hembram, a tribal leader from Bankura. State transport department officials, however, said they were not aware of “advance requisitions” claimed by tribal leaders. “We have no such record,” said a senior transport department official. An official looking into the booking of buses for the North Bengal State Transport Corporation denied having knowledge of any such communication. State education minister Partha Chatterjee, who attended the Calcutta rally, assured the attendees of “being with the tribal community”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Five Covid deaths in Bengal, one from Calcutta||Bengal on Sunday logged 289 Covid-19 recoveries, 193 new infections and five deaths, including one from Calcutta. With this, the state’s streak of falling total active cases stayed unbroken for the 104th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, 2020. From 37,190 active cases then, the number is 4,794 now, back almost to where it was on June 8 last year, 244 days ago. “Bengal now has 3.28 per cent of the national total of active cases. It was nearly 8 per cent even a couple of months ago,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 107 consecutive days to touch 97.37 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.17. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.01 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 79 days. On Sunday, the state reported 22,365 tests, taking the total past 81.5 lakh, at 90,564 tests per million people. Of Bengal’s total Covid toll of 10,207, the state attributed 8,572 deaths or 84 per cent to comorbidities. The state’s mortality rate stayed at 1.78 per cent while the national rate remained 1.43 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul expels union leader for dry port violence||Trinamul leaders of Darjeeling district on Sunday expelled Prasenjit Roy, the INTTUC leader accused of leading the vandalism at the dry port or the inland container depot (ICD) in New Jalpaiguri last week, from the party and its trade union. Speaking in the presence of state tourism minister Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul president, said: “It was an undesirable incident. The chief minister has taken serious exception to it and our party has decided to expel him. From now on, Prasenjit Roy won’t have any connection with Trinamul.” Arup Ratan Ghosh, the Darjeeling district INTTUC president, added that Roy — who was the INTTUC president of the New Jalpaiguri unit — was expelled. An eight-member committee has been formed to look into the affairs of the party’s trade union in the area, Ghosh added. “Senior district leaders will monitor the trade union’s activities in NJP. We always work for the interests of workers but there is no place for violence,” added minister Deb. The ICD is located in the Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly constituency of which Deb is the MLA. Last Thursday, a group of around 300 supporters of Trinamul’s trade union front INTTUC, led by Roy, had barged into the ICD — a one-of-its-kind facility in north Bengal — and indiscriminately ransacked the offices of a private company that runs the ICD, along with vehicles and equipment, and damaged an office of the customs department on the premises. INTTUC supporters were apparently angry that the Delhi firm running the ICD was not hiring local truck owners, drivers and workers. The vandalism occurred when chief minister Mamata Banerjee was in Siliguri. Many among the business community, including trade outfit members, pointed out that such incidents would discourage fresh investments in Bengal. Acting promptly, the state government instructed the police to take all necessary steps against perpetrators of the violence. So far, 13 persons have been arrested. Roy is still at large. A Trinamul leader said that the party has decided on a strict stand against troublemakers, including decisions like expulsion. “This is necessary as elections are ahead and there is always a chance that our political rivals will try to rake up the issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Modi seeks to avert split in anti-Trinamul votes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the Trinamul Congress had a secret understanding with the Left Front and the Congress and urged voters to be aware of their match-fixing. Modi raised the allegation at a public meeting in Haldia, his first rally in Bengal before the Assembly polls. “You will have to fight against Trinamul, but also will have to be aware of their secret friends…. People of Bengal enjoy football and so I am using a term often used in the game to make you understand the match fixing among Trinamul and the Left and the Congress,” said Modi, who attended a government programme later and inaugurated four projects in oil, gas and infrastructure sectors in Haldia. In an attempt to connect with the audience — BJP sources said more than two lakh people had turned up for the programme — he started his speech in Bengali and hailed the contribution of icons from Midnapore in the progress of the state and the country. Although he spoke about local heroes and the BJP’s respect for them in detail, the focus of the Prime Minister’s speech was political as he went on to explain that Trinamul, Left and Congress leaders were having meetings behind closed-doors in Delhi and added that their fight in Bengal was a fake one. “In Kerala, the Left and the Congress have a deal, wherein they allow each other to carry out loot for five years…. If you vote for them, remember that you’ll be falling for the trap they have laid,” said Modi in his 53-minute address that was clearly aimed at spinning the campaign narrative for the BJP. For the BJP, which got over 40 per cent votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, consolidation of the anti-Trinamul votes is a necessary condition to fulfil its objective of wresting the seat of power in Bengal. A poll strategist in the BJP said the mention of the secret understanding among the anti-BJP forces had become a need of the hour in view of the changing political landscape in the state because of the induction of several Trinamul leaders into the saffron camp. “A large section of people who had voted for us in the Lok Sabha polls were anti-Trinamul voters, especially from the Left… Now, with so many Trinamul leaders coming to our side, some of these votes may go back to the Left. We have to prevent that split in anti-Trinamul votes and that’s why the PM referred to their secret understanding,” he said. Aware that there were questions on why Trinamul turncoats were getting inducted into the BJP, Modi also created a narrative for state Bengal leaders. “A lot of people in Trinamul are fed up with the Bua-Bhatija-bad (regime of the aunt and nephew, meaning Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee) and coming to us… They are welcome because they want to work for the poor people of Bengal and ensure the progress of the state,” he said. Modi narrated Bengal’s political history since Independence and tried to explain how the Congress, then the Left and finally Trinamul were responsible for the state remaining “laggard”. “People voted Didi with the hope of a change, but what Bengal got was not change, but a reincarnation of the Left along with interest,” said Modi, who repeatedly stressed that Bengal couldn’t develop because of the “nature of politics” pursued by the three forces that ruled Bengal. “When people grab property under government patronage, when killings take place openly on roads, when government vacancies are filled by party cadres, how would the ordinary youths get their livelihood?” asked Modi. In his first appearance in campaign mode, the Prime Minister said a double engine — with BJP governments both in Delhi and Calcutta — would set the state again on the path of development. “Only the BJP can bring the real change in Bengal,” said Modi as he tried to project the differences between the saffron party and the other political forces in Bengal. In an attempt to sell the BJP’s development track record, Modi cited Tripura, where the party had come to power in 2018 unseating the Left Front. “Look at your neighbour Tripura to understand what parivartan truly means,” Modi said. The present state of Tripura has become a topic of discussion in the state after former Tripura chief minister Manik Sarkar asked people of Bengal to visit his state to see for themselves how the BJP had ruined the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Popular Haldibari-NJP train back, but fare higher||Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) has decided to resume the services of the passenger train between Haldibari and New Jalpaiguri (NJP) from Monday for the first time after the lockdown, evoking mixed response among thousands who commute daily between Siliguri and Jalpaiguri. From Monday, the railways have decided to charge a flat fare of Rs 35 for any destination on the 70km route. Earlier, the fare between Haldibari and NJP stations was Rs 15. The fare between Jalpaiguri and NJP was Rs 10. Reservation has been made mandatory for passengers, Earlier, the Haldibari-NJP passenger ran four times a day from both ends daily. Now, it will run twice from both ends (NJP and Haldibari) in a day as a special train. The railways had stopped the train in the wake of the  pandemic but the clamour for resumption of the service had grown louder in recent days. The railways agreed, but with new terms. Bikash Das, working president of Jalpaiguri District Chamber of Commerce, pointed out the difference in fares. “From Jalpaiguri to NJP, the old fare was Rs 10, and now it will be Rs  35 which we believe is an extra burden for many poor passengers. Also, reservation is now mandatory. Those who can’t get a confirmed reservation can’t board the train,” Das said. He added they wanted “the train to run like a local train”. “Why should a passenger have to pay flat and high fares? Also, it is illogical to make reservations mandatory for short trips. If the railway does not revoke the decision, we will be forced to launch a movement,” added Das. An official of NFR said the fare was hiked because of the reservation charge. “Reservation is compulsory because of the Covid-19 situation. Chair car coaches would be provided in the train,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||New clinic for post-Covid ailments in Siliguri||The patient welfare committee of Siliguri District Hospital has drawn up a plan to open a clinic at the hospital soon to provide services to those afflicted with post-Covid-19 complications. Rudranath Bhattacharya, the chairperson of the committee, said they decided at a meeting on Friday to open the clinic to provide “prompt services” to all those who contracted the infection and were now suffering from various post-Covid complications. “It will be an outdoor facility where patients can turn up and consult specialist doctors. The hospital superintendent has been asked to expedite the process of setting up the clinic,” Bhattacharya said. Over 18,000 residents of Darjeeling district have contracted Covid, most from Siliguri and its surroundings, since the onset of the pandemic. Post-Covid complications may include prolonged weakness, cardiopulmonary complications, loss of smell, among others. At the meeting, a number of other issues were discussed in detail, said sources. “At times, patients requiring tests for diagnosis, including biopsy and others, are asked to visit private labs particularly during emergencies. It was decided that this practice should stop as it is not a healthy sign in a government-run health establishment,” said a source. Some doctors at the hospital have said that the pathology department of North Bengal Medical College and Hospital did not receive samples sent after 2pm. “Authorities should look into it because at the time of surgery or other emergency, tests need to be done immediately. The hospital needs more technicians and at least one pathologist at the component separation unit of the blood bank,” a doctor said. Issues such as renovation of the superintendent’s office, postnatal ward and nursing hostel were also taken up at the committee meeting, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul courts Malda with stars and Didi||Trinamul has set its sights on Malda — north Bengal’s largest district in terms of the number of Assembly seats, 12 — and is desperate to recover from the debacle of past two major elections in five years. The state’s ruling party has started bringing in Bengali film and TV stars  in Malda and has drawn up a strategy to bring in party supremo Mamata Banerjee many times to campaign for the state polls. On Sunday, they brought in Ronita Das — known to television audiences as “Baha” (a character she had played) in a roadshow in Old Malda. On Saturday, BJP national president J.P. Nadda had held a roadshow in Malda town. Ronita, along with youth Trinamul leaders, participated in the roadshow held in the same area where Nadda had addressed his public meeting and joined in a community lunch with farmers. “We all are foot soldiers of Mamata Banerjee. I was here to tell people that they should refrain from backing a political party that has been buying leaders from other parties. I have been supporting Didi for the last 10 years and have recently joined the party,” said Ronita. Earlier, the party had organised a public meeting and a roadshow with actor Soham. Asked about these activities, a Trinamul leader said these were to counter the BJP that he said had managed to consolidate its vote bank in the district by playing the polarisation card. “Our performance, on the other hand, has remained low-key since 2016. We need to work hard to revive our support base. Our leaders in different tiers have been assigned with different responsibilities to drum up support,” he said. Both in the 2016 Assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul drew a blank in Malda. “Till date, Malda and Darjeeling are the two districts in north Bengal where Trinamul has never won a Lok Sabha seat. Also, the debacle it faced at the last Assembly elections, coupled with BJP’s emergence, seems to have made the party leaders desperate to put in every effort to grab maximum possible seats in Malda,” said a political observer. He said unlike other minority-dominated belts where Trinamul has consistently won in elections, victory eluded Mamata Banerjee’s party in Malda that has a minority population of around 55 per cent . Trinamul leaders are also busy in making arrangements for the upcoming visit of Mamata — the main crowd-puller for the party. “On February 10, our chief minister will address a public meeting in Malda town. We will prove our strength on that date as thousands of supporters will spontaneously participate in the event,” said a district Trinamul leader. “There are indications that she will pay some more visits in the district ahead of the elections,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Horse drives sweet seller’s trade and dream||A sweet seller who resides at an otherwise nondescript village near here and hawks around in different areas is equally known for his lip-smacking items as well as the “mode of transport”. Ranjit Pal, a sexagenarian from Maharajpur, reaches his customers while riding “Laltu,” his pet horse. “Since my childhood, I had longed for a horse and eventually, bought one. It might sound a little extraordinary for a person like me who runs his family on his daily earnings. But I went ahead and got it around six years back. I had to part with Rs 20,000. Since then, whenever I go out to sell the sweets and snacks which I make or even to marketplaces to make purchases, I ride my horse,” said Ranjit. His movement on the horseback draws many buyers, particularly children, as he rides through hamlets, offering a variety of sweets and dry snacks. “Many people love the food I sell but some come to see the horse. In earlier years, I used to walk around villages and would shout like other hawkers to draw customers. But ever since I started riding Laltu, I no longer need to shout as people come out hearing the trotting,” said Ranjit. Back home, Ranjit lives with his wife, son and daughter-in-law. He is the sole earner of the family and others help him make the sweets and snacks. Last year, as the Covid-19 pandemic hit the nation, the hawker’s earnings had depleted. On one hand, he could not go out because of the lockdown. On the other hand, even after the lockdown was eased, a major section of people did not turn up to buy sweets from him, fearing infection. Many neighbours had suggested then that he sell the horse. “They told us that we could make some money during distress. However, we decided not to part with it and somehow managed to arrange for fodder for it like the way we managed two square meals for us. He is like a family member for us,” Shilpi, Ranjit’s wife said. The horse, Ranjit said, also provides him with a “cheap mode of transport”. “It is not possible for me to buy a motorcycle. At this age, I cannot cover the area that I move around in on a bicycle. All Laltu needs is some fodder……. I want to continue riding with him as long as possible,” said Pal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Small tea sector outperforms tea estates||The annual tea production in the small tea sector surpassed the contribution of tea estates in the pandemic year 2020, recent data released by the Tea Board has revealed. The data, with comprehensive details of India’s tea production, auction prices and exports, also indicates the country’s brew belt in 2020 suffered a loss of around 135 million kilos in production vis-à-vis the annual production of 2019. In 2019, total production was 1390.08 million kilos. In 2020, 1255.60 million kilos were produced in the country. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista), an apex body of growers in the country, said that of the total tea production in the country in 2020, the small tea sector has produced 630.79 million kilos, edging ahead of tea estates that produced 624.81 million kilos. He said that for past few years, production in the small tea sector was higher than that of the tea estates in Bengal. “However,  even in 2019, at the national level, our (small tea growers) contribution was marginally less than the organised sector (tea estates). This year, however, our share is more than the estates and we hope the trend continues in the coming years. Many growers are first-generation rural entrepreneurs and it is indeed an achievement,” said Chakraborty. The tea board data says Bengal and Assam, the two major tea growing states of the country, have borne a loss of over 110 million kilos in production. The loss, stakeholders said, is because of the sudden closure of tea gardens during the pandemic-induced lockdown in 2020 and also inclement weather. “But on the other hand, there has been a steady surge in prices after many years. It is definitely a positive development for the industry,” said a tea planter in Siliguri. Small tea growers, who have underscored that they have been contributing more than 50 per cent of the total production, however, are unhappy with the BJP-led Centre and the ruling Trinamul in the state. The Centre, they pointed out, allocated Rs 1,000 crore on development of the workforce in the tea estates of Bengal and Assam, but did not make any announcement for the small tea sector. Small tea growers believe this announcement is motivated by electoral compulsions as both Bengal and Assam go to polls in a couple of months. “Thousands of workers are serving in our sector but nothing was there in the Union budget for them. This left us disappointed,” said a small tea grower in Islampur of North Dinajpur. The state government has also not announced any extension of the waiver of a cess that the industry needs to pay against each kilo of green tea leaves, Cista president Chakraborty said. “For each kilo, a cess of 12 paisa is chargeable for rural employment and education. In earlier budgets, the state waived this cess. This time, there is no extension. This means we can enjoy the waiver only till March 31, 2021. When the (state) government is focusing on the tea population and coming up with major schemes like the free housing project, it should also give a thought to this issue and extend the waiver,” he said. The only hope, small tea growers said, is the increase in annual allocation of the Tea Board for various schemes by the Centre. Unlike 2020-21, when the allocation was Rs 200 crore, it is now Rs 375 crore in the upcoming fiscal. “We hope the Board channelises a part of this fund for development of the small tea sector through schemes,” added Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
08-02-2021||North East||“Conspiracy” hatched to malign the image of Indian tea: Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday told a public rally in Assam that a “conspiracy” had been hatched to  malign the image of Indian tea but did not reveal the identity of the “vested” forces. He spoke about the alleged attack on Indian tea by vested forces abroad while dwelling on the contribution of the tea community,  the welfare activities underway to ease their hardship, besides eulogising Assam tea, at the massive rally held at Dhekiajuli in Sonitpur district in poll-bound Assam. “When I am talking about Assam’s tea workers today, I must also tell you about the ongoing conspiracy against our country, to defame our country. The conspirators are now not even sparing Indian tea. You must have heard in the news that they are trying to systematically tarnish the image of Indian tea, tarnish its image worldwide,” Modi said in one of Assam’s tea belts. “The documents which have come to light reveal that vested forces sitting abroad are planning to attack India’s identity linked to its tea. Do you accept this attack on Indian tea?  These conspirators who are planning to tarnish India tea... they will not be allowed to succeed and people will demand answers from these attackers and those who support them.  Our tea workers will win this fight, these attacks on Indian tea. The conspirators do not have the strength to face the hard work of our tea garden workers,” Modi said. He did not identify the conspirators but Modi seemed to have indirectly referred to  tweets  by foreign celebrities extending support to the ongoing farmers’ protest seeking the repeal of the three farm laws. The Prime Minister dedicated a significant part of his speech on the tea community, which has decisive say in about 42 of the 126 Assembly constituencies in the state. Addressing the rally at Dhekiajuli, which is known for its Quit India movement martyrs,   Modi noted the centrality of tea gardens in the growth of Assam. India produces 1,255 million kg, of tea of which Assam contributes around  618.35 million kg. “Crores of rupees were transferred to the accounts of 7.5 lakh workers of tea gardens under Dhan Puruskar Mela Scheme yesterday. Pregnant women are being helped by a special scheme. Special medical units are being sent to the gardens to take care of the workers’ health,” he said. The Prime Minister, however, skirted the community’s long pending demands for a minimum daily wage and  ST status. He also stayed away from contentious issues such as the citizenship (Amendment) Act, implementation of  the Assam accord and the NRC. Congress counter Senior Congress and tea community leader Paban Singh  Ghatowar told the Telegraph that the Prime Minister should take “appropriate” action against the conspirators if the image of Indian tea had actually been tarnished. Assam PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma said that Modi’s statement on attack on Indian tea appeared to be a “riddle”. “Who is attacking the tea industry? Tea is our pride. The Prime Minister should clear the air,” Sharma said. The Congress raised issues related to the tea community which were not touched by Modi. Ghatowar, the president of the Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha that is engaged in talks to fix the minimum daily wage for tea garden workers, said they were hoping that the Prime Minister would shed light on the demand for minimum daily wage and ST status. “It was the government proposal to hike the daily wage to Rs 351 but nothing has happened so far. The state government now says it will notify the revised wage in 10 days  We just hope it is done. The Prime Minister also did not say anything on the ST status.  If the government is sincere about the welfare of the tea community, they should finalise the minimum daily wage and ST status,” Ghatowar  said. The Congress held a news conference addressed by MP Gaurav Gogoi and MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi to punch holes in the claims made by Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-24
08-02-2021||North East||Narendra Modi lays stress on teaching in local language||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday shared a dream in poll-bound Assam: At least one medical and one technical college in every state should start imparting lessons in the local language. Addressing his second massive public rally at Dhekiajuli in Sonitpur district, his second visit to the BJP-led Assam since January 23, Modi said: “There is no dearth of talent in our villages and or poor households but they don’t get opportunities. I have a dream, in every state, there should be at least one medical college, at least one technical college which should impart lessons in mother tongue.” Without going into specifics about his dream’s implementation, Modi went on to add, “Can’t one become a good doctor by studying in Assamese medium? When the new government is formed after the elections, I promise on behalf of the people of Assam, that we will start a medical college and a technical college in local language. This will only increase slowly and steadily. “Nobody can stop it. This too will help in treatment of the ailing by reaching out to the masses in their mother tongue.” Assam goes to the polls in April-May. A significant part of his speech was devoted to the improvement the health sector has undergone under the BJP-led regime in the state since 2016. On Sunday too, he laid the foundation stone of two hospitals, one in Biswanath district and the other in Charaideo district, besides launching the Asom Mala, a programme for the development of state highways and major district roads at an estimated cost of Rs 8,210 crore. The two medical colleges are being set up at an estimated cost of Rs 1,122 crore and will have 100 seats each. However, not everybody was enthused with Modi’s push to impart medical and technical courses in mother tongues. Indian Medical Association’s Assam branch secretary Hemanga Baishya, a leading gynaecologist based in Guwahati, said the move will encounter practical problems. “It will take some doing to turn this dream into reality. First, we will have to get everything translated into Assamese which is easier said than done. Even now when we talk or address meetings in Assamese, we use English to explain medical terms. “Secondly, when the Centre is pushing for one nation, one test, how far will this move be practical? Will a medical student from Chennai or Punjab come to study in Assam? What will a student from Assam do if he wants to study outside or go abroad? It seems like a poll talk,” Baishya said. Similar apprehensions were raised by the Opposition Congress. “We all welcome the extensive use of Assamese or its promotion but there are practical problems, like what happens if a medical student from Assam wants to go abroad? Will those studying in these institutions will remain confined to the state? “The Prime Minister should clearly spell what he has in mind. We have seen students from Assamese medium schools are studying in medical colleges and have done well for themselves!” In his speech, Modi recalled the “poor state” of the medical infrastructure in the state in the past. He said Assam had only six medical colleges till 2016, whereas work on six new medical colleges has been initiated in the past five years. “Similarly, there are 725 medical seats in the state but this will go up to 1600 seats a year once these new medical colleges become operational. This will significantly improve medical facilities in far-flung areas of the state. The Prime Minister also informed that work on Guwahati AIIMS will be over in the next one-and-half-years. “The present government is working for the people of Assam with full dedication,” Modi said while highlighting the benefits extended to the people of the state under the Centre’s flagship health schemes. Modi, like his earlier visit to Sivasagar on January 23, did not touch upon contentious issues such as the Citizenship amendment Act, the implementation of 1985 Assam Accord, according ST status to six communities or the NRC, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-24
08-02-2021||Opinion||Cuts deep: Union Budget 2021-22||The Union budget is not merely a dossier of government income and expenditure. Its importance lies in it being a concrete representation of a government’s vision for the growth of the nation and the welfare of its citizens. This year’s budget has left a lot to be desired with regard to the latter. Education has been dealt a severe blow; even with the pandemic posing several hurdles in the path to formal education, budgetary allocation has been cut by Rs 6,088 crore. A closer look at the health sector paints a grim picture too. Paeans are being sung to the finance minister’s announcement of a 137 per cent increase in funds for health but data reveal that health services have been given a paltry share of 2.21 per cent of the total Central budget — less than their allocation last year. Given the government’s indifference to key parameters of social welfare, the budget’s curtailing of the monetary allocation — by over Rs 5,000 crore — for the Integrated Child Development Services, India’s flagship nutrition programme for children up till the age of six years and their mothers, does not come as a surprise. The National Family Health Survey 2019-20 showed a frightening increase in the number of Indian children below five suffering from stunting, wasting and chronic malnutrition. The ICDS’s role in combating malnutrition is crucial; for one, it runs the anganwadi programme which, in spite of several weaknesses in terms of infrastructure and expansion, has been known to be successful in reducing infant mortality rates and combating early malnutrition. In 2017, it provided regular food rations to almost 95 million young children and lactating and pregnant women. A well-considered strategy had been expected in the budget in light of the pandemic-induced disruptions in the delivery of meal programmes and other nutrition-related public services. But the funds allotted to the women and child development ministry, which houses the anganwadi programme, have shrunk to 0.7 per cent of the budget, bearing further evidence of the Centre’s growing indifference to the health and nutrition demands of those on the margins. It remains to be seen how the government intends to fulfil its promise of ‘improving’ the nutritional status of the country given its monumental apathy to programmes designed to battle malnourishment. A sustained public campaign is necessary to expose the Centre’s hypocrisy on poshan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
08-02-2021||Opinion||Powerful symbol: what about Greta Thunberg inspire confidence||Sir — A new study has found that those who know about the teenage climate activist, Greta Thunberg, are more likely to take affirmative climate action than others. What is it about this young Swedish schoolgirl that inspires such confidence? It could be argued that her lonely stand outside her country’s Parliament made people believe that everyone can make a difference, no matter where they are placed in life. Aditya Banerjee,Gurgaon Kind souls Sir — It was interesting to learn that the first ever museum for dacoits of our country is going to be inaugurated in Bhind, Madhya Pradesh (“Cops and robbers”, Feb 7). The editorial in The Telegraph instantly reminded me of the renowned dacoits of Bengal, who were often loved by the common people for their humanitarian activities. They were very different from the thuggee and did not torture innocent people. Among the most famous of these dacoits was Raghu Dakat. He always helped out the needy, the poverty stricken and the weak. Whenever he got news of zamindars, the British or Indigo planters torturing people, he would reach that place with his troops and teach the oppressors a lesson. In fact, he was much like Bengal’s own Robin Hood. This is perhaps the reason the general populace protected Raghu from the authorities. Many decades have passed since then, but Bengalis have not forgotten dacoits like Raghu Dakat. One hopes one day a museum would also be opened in Bengal which will be dedicated to those helpful Bengali dacoits of the past, without whom the history of Bengal is incomplete. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Memorable roles Sir — With the demise of Christopher Plummer, the world has lost a consummate actor (“Sound of Music’s Captain is dead”, Feb 6). In his more than 50 years in the film industry, Plummer enjoyed playing a variety of roles in movies and Broadway productions like The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo, Up and Inherit the Wind. In 2019, he starred as a mystery novelist in Rian Johnson’s Knives Out and in the TV suspense drama series, Departure. The Canadian actor had also played a host of major Shakespeare characters, including Hamlet, Iago, Othello, Prospero, Henry V and King Lear at Lincoln Center. He was fearless, energetic, courageous, knowledgeable, professional and a monument to what an actor can be. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — For those of us who grew up watching reruns of The Sound of Music — it is a videocassette that middle class Bengalis thought worth buying — Christopher Plummer’s demise is saddening. Interestingly, the actor himself hated the film, finding it gooey and corny and worked hard to inject some humour into it. His success in doing so adds depth to an otherwise flat plot. Barnali Sircar,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
08-02-2021||Opinion||New state: police verification||A drop in the pond causes widening ripples. What begins in one state is taken up by others, such as laws regarding interfaith marriage. Now the focus is on boxes to be ticked for police verification. This time it was not state legislators but the police of two Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled and led states who emerged as quasi-lawmakers at the Police Officers’ Conference in Dehradun. The director-general of police of Uttarakhand said that the police will form a database of social media activity to keep an eye on “anti-national” and “anti-social” posts that would become relevant when a person applied for a passport or arms licence. For passport applications so far, police verification had required details of first information reports against the applicant and of other legal proceedings, if any. But scrutiny of social media posts crosses over from official to social terrains, breaching the rights to freedom of expression and privacy. That the police feel free to make this change is a comment on the ominously changing nature of the Indian State. The Uttarakhand DGP said that only those who made “anti-national” posts threatening the country’s sovereignty and security would be affected. Apparently the police are allowed to appropriate the roles of judge and executioner; their subjective assessment will determine the lives of citizens who had thought they were living in a free, secular country. The Uttarakhand DGP said, in effect, that he was expanding the scope of vigilance implied by the demands of police verification regarding activities prejudicial to the nation’s security as they already exist, not taking a new step. This cannily forged grey area — the change is qualitative, not quantitative — had already been utilized the day before by the DGP of Bihar, who had decided to record participation in ‘unlawful’ protests, “law and order” situations, road blockages and so on for character verification not just for passports and arms licences but also for seven other services including government jobs. This decision was just a reiteration of practice, according to the Bihar police; it was not an infringement on the right to protest. It was merely being said that any protest against the government may prevent a citizen from going abroad or getting a government job, even a government project. The police will decide. Are Indians ready for this?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
08-02-2021||Opinion||Promises to keep: right to education||India, one of the largest democracies of the world, is trying to live up to its promise of delivering justice, liberty, equality and fraternity to its citizens. The Right to Education Act, 2009 completed its decadal anniversary in 2019. Rooted in the principle of equality and non-discrimination, the landmark RTE Act went on to make education a fundamental right by ensuring free and compulsory schooling for children from the age of six to 14. I recently conducted a survey among women-headed households and primary school teachers based out of rural Lucknow to understand the demand and supply of education. The findings are quite illustrative. Each of the 60 women-headed households that I studied was of the opinion that seeking education is important to bring about inter-generational shifts. The primary driving force was to make their children — especially daughters — independent so that they did not share the same ‘fate’ as them. Most of them tried to meet the educational requirements in spite of their minimal resources. However, their experience of government-run schools was not positive: they were quite vocal about the lack of a competitive environment, basic amenities and quality education. There were some participants who said that daughters should be married off early so that their future could be secured. These participants lack economic and socio-cultural capital. They were driven by the deep-rooted belief of controlling and protecting women and girls. Further enquiries revealed that the absence of the guarantee of a job immediately after the completion of school made education a less lucrative investment. Conversely, marriage was seen to hold greater prospects in terms of social security. While assessing the supply side of the education system, I looked at teachers and school principals in rural settings. What I found was that on account of their economic, social and political marginalization, the educators remained trapped in the struggle to balance the demands of their vocation and subsistence. Some participants stated that education is a privilege in their villages where the focus remains on earning a livelihood. These challenges have been shared in the public domain. Presumably, policymakers and governments are aware of them. Yet, the concerns remain unaddressed. The Annual Status of Education Report 2020 found that 5.5 per cent of rural children had not been enrolled for the 2020 school year. There was also a shift in enrolment from private schools to government schools. The unprecedented economic hardship brought about by the pandemic has had a domino effect on children’s education and health. It is apparent that India, which is aiming to become a five trillion dollar economy, is yet to build a robust education system. Inadequate investment and research and poor learning outcomes in schools are some of its manifestations. Apart from its gendered impact on differential access to resources, the pandemic has also increased the socio-economic burden on vulnerable groups. Therefore, the broadening of employment opportunities, capacity-building and new welfare schemes must be accompanied by the creation of an equitable education system. The renowned educationalist, Paulo Freire, had pointed out that education can be used for domination or liberation. Skewed resources have meant that in India, the privileged continue to dominate the populous underprivileged segment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
08-02-2021||Opinion||History recited as a poem||While Joe Biden was eager to offer a hopeful vision for a deeply divided America, there is little doubt that his inauguration was won by the 22-year-old poet, Amanda Gorman. In no time, she became the voice of a new era, calling for “unity and togetherness” through her five-minute poem which began with “When day comes, we ask ourselves where can we find light in this never-ending shade?” The young black poet perfectly symbolizes Biden’s bid to put the ‘united’ back in a divided United States of America. Gorman became America’s first national youth poet laureate in 2017; subsequently Jill Biden was impressed by her reading of a self-penned poem at a public event, which prompted the first lady to suggest Gorman’s name for the inauguration. Not every US presidential inauguration is graced by the presence of a poet — they were present on only six out of 59 such occasions in a 232-year history. Only four out of 46 US presidents so far — Kennedy, Clinton, Obama, and Biden — have had poets reading at their inaugurations. But this trend is gaining popularity: five out of the last eight presidential inaugurations featured some sort of poetic light. “Summoning artists to participate/ In the august occasions of the state/ Seems something artists ought to celebrate.” These were the initial lines of the undelivered inaugural poem “Dedication” by Robert Frost, which he wrote for John F. Kennedy’s inauguration in 1961. Interestingly, except Frost, less known poets have always been chosen, if at all, for a presidential inauguration. In 1993, the poet and civil rights activist, Maya Angelou, recited her poem “On the Pulse of Morning”, at the first inauguration of Bill Clinton. Incidentally, Gorman, who was born five years later, found a role model in Angelou, whose autobiography, I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, reminded her of her own life. Then, in 1997, poet and translator, Miller Williams, read his poem “Of History and Hope” at Clinton’s second inauguration. In 2009, Barack Obama’s inauguration was graced by Harlem-born poet, Elizabeth Alexander, a personal friend of Obama himself. However, the actual poem was criticised to be “too much like prose” and the delivery was “insufficiently dramatic”. The Minneapolis Star-Tribune remarked that “she should speak not for the people but to them.” Four years later, Richard Blanco — the first immigrant, first Latino, and first gay person to be an inaugural poet — read his poem, “One Today”, at the second inauguration of Obama: “One sun rose on us today, kindled over our shores”. At 43 years and 236 days on the day of his inauguration, Kennedy is  still the youngest to become president by election in America. When Kennedy invited the 86-year-old poet from New England, Kennedy’s home state, to become the first poet to read at a presidential inauguration, Frost replied: “If you can bear at your age the honor of being made president of the United States, I ought to be able at my age to bear the honor of taking some part in your inauguration. I may not be equal to it but I can accept it for my cause — the arts, poetry, now for the first time taken into the affairs of statesmen.” Because of the sun’s glare, reflecting off the snowy ground, Frost could not read his new poem, “Dedication”, and he, instead, reverted to his classic poem, “The Gift Outright”, which maybe a history of the United States in 16 lines of blank verse, published in 1942, which he knew by heart. By contrast, the 22-year-old Gorman is the youngest poet to grace the inauguration of the oldest American president to take oath yet. Through her fluid, emotional recital, Gorman celebrated the theme of unity through the message: “The new dawn blooms as we free it.” From Walt Whitman to Robert Frost to Amanda Gorman, poetic lights continue to pour out the nation’s heart throughout its history. It is well known that Kennedy adopted the final stanza of Robert Frost’s iconic poem “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening” to conclude his stump speech: “But I have promises to keep,/ And miles to go before I sleep.” This was written almost a century ago. However, it is no less relevant today. Just as relevant are the words Amanda Gorman recited at the Capitol Hill: “while democracy can be periodically delayed, it can never be permanently defeated.” In her inaugural poem, “The Hill We Climb”, the young poet portrayed a vision of a nation that “isn’t broken, but simply unfinished.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
08-02-2021||Opinion||Dream collaborators||The Indian National Movement had some unique aspects, which were driven by its leaders. One way of understanding the movement is through individualism — examining its leaders as individuals. However, this paradigm fails to capture some features that were crucial to the making of the movement. I would like to present a relationship, which fell outside the paradigm of individualism — the one between Rabindranath Tagore and M.K. Gandhi. This relationship could be best characterized as that of a teacher and a student. Tagore, a poet par excellence, became popularly known as ‘Gurudev’ or teacher. Let us explore the context of this designation bestowed on the great poet of modern India. The national movement saw a vacuum after the withdrawal of some of its prominent leaders such as Aurobindo Ghosh and Bal Gangadhar Tilak. While Ghosh withdrew from active politics after the Alipore bomb blast trials and took to spiritual practice, Tilak passed away not long after launching his rousing call for swaraj. This led to a gloomy and pessimistic time, a “dark period of confusion” and "frustration”, in the words of Kakasaheb Kalelkar. Therefore, it is important to remember that while Tagore chose Gandhi to lead the movement, he was also perhaps the only remaining choice to salvage what was looking like an almost lost cause. It is Tagore who used the title, ‘Mahatma’, for Gandhi. ‘Mahatma’, Tagore clarified, refers to an emancipated soul no longer confined within the individual self. It is a self that includes everyone. But when Tagore called Gandhi ‘Mahatma’, he was not yet a liberated soul. So ‘Mahatma’ was not a description of Gandhi as he was at that point, but more a projection of his capacities and potentialities. Quickly realizing the wide gap between what he was and what he was expected to be to live up to this designation, Gandhi seems to have sought the help of Tagore. He called Tagore ‘Gurudev’, apparently, suggesting to him that if he wanted Gandhi to be a ‘Mahatma’, he should be Gandhi’s ‘Guru’. The making of the Mahatma would thus be a joint effort involving both Gandhi and Tagore. Therefore, the inherent nature of this teacher-student relationship was relation-centredness rather than individual-centredness. Relationships were at the heart of the national movement, an integral part of its nature and functioning. Convergence and divergence of views, contesting existing ideas and contributing new ones, deletions and additions, together formed the rhizome-like structure of the movement. To train athletes to face tough competition, a sports coach exposes them to different adversaries. The training has to be more intense if the opponent is significantly more robust — as was the case with the indomitable British entrenched in India. Effective training sometimes demands that the teacher play the role of adversary. However, unlike in actual combat, this mock conflict or role-play has to be founded on mutual trust. If the teacher is hard on the student, it is only with the intention of training him/her. I will use this format to understand some of the disagreements between Tagore and Gandhi. One of the significant public differences between them was regarding Gandhi’s call for non-cooperation. Tagore termed it as a doctrine of negation and despair. Gandhi replied to this by distinguishing between negative and positive liberation. While conceding the notion of mukti to be positive, he reminded his teacher about another equally important idea of liberation in Buddhism — namely, nirvana — which alludes to the negative side of truth. This second kind of liberation, according to Gandhi, had escaped the attention of Tagore. Instead of treating Gandhi’s response as a challenge to his teacher, I take it as a gesture of acknowledgement to his mentor. The other difference between them was about Gandhi’s call to boycott foreign clothes. Tagore opposed this call too. Almost sounding like a politician, he asserted that burning foreign clothes is not a suitable form of protest in a country where millions did not have access to proper clothing. Gandhi responded rather poetically, saying, “In burning my foreign clothes I burn my shame.” Tagore also opposed spinning, which he felt was a move against technological advancement and would cause India to regress to primitive times. These differences, when seen outside the format of the teacher-student relationship, looked like acrimonious disputes between Tagore and Gandhi and created an uneasiness in Kalelkar, Jawaharlal Nehru and others. Nehru stated that “no two persons could probably differ so much” but, at the same time, they also had much in common. It is for this reason I have used the format of teacher and student to understand these differences. The underlying bond between Tagore and Gandhi is evident in the following incident. When Gandhi’s health condition deteriorated during the controversial fast unto death at Poona, Tagore rushed all the way from Santiniketan to meet him. When Gandhi broke the fast, his secretary, Mahadev Desai, requested  Tagore to recite a poem from Gitanjali, which was close to Gandhi’s heart. Tagore later reported that in Gandhi’s presence, he forgot the meter he had originally composed the poem in, but he sang it nonetheless. The underlying strain of love towards his student legitimizes their differences as part of Gandhi’s ‘training’. This highlights the seminal, irreplaceable contribution of Gurudev to the national movement. We cannot obtain a clear picture of Gandhi as the Mahatma without considering the contribution of others such as Gurudev Tagore. It is, therefore, necessary to set aside the liberal notion of enclosed individualism and study these leaders of the national movement within the format of relationships. Especially in the context of the Indian National Movement, most of the proper names of the leaders refer more to the relations with others rather than to the self. The dynamic nature of this relationship reveals the strength of the movement. So we will be able to understand the nature of the movement better through relations between individual leaders rather than as autonomous individuals, thus retrieving its unique nature. The author teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
08-02-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant-led govt has no intention to work for youth, tribals and women: Raghubar Das||Former chief minister of Jharkhand Raghubar Das termed Hemant Soren’s government ‘visionless’. He also questioned the logic and circumstances that made the present government take a U-turn on the 2016 state recruitment policy brought in by the previous BJP government. Significantly, Jharkhand High Court ruled against the policy highlighted by Das, while hearing a PIL last year. The Soren-led government had even challenged the order at the Apex Court. But the state-cabinet on February 3 resolved to scrap the policy, with the promise of introducing a fresh one. Addressing a press conference on Monday at the state BJP office, Das questioned the government’s move. “After defining the local residents’ policy, my government in 2016 came up with a holistic recruitment policy under which we had reserved jobs for grade III and IV categories for locals in 13 scheduled districts of Jharkhand. Later, on the basis of recommendations made by a high level committee, we extended the reservations to 11 non-scheduled districts to provide equal opportunities to state residents. However, Jharkhand High Court ruled against the policy following which the state government recently challenged it at the Supreme Court. But surprisingly, the government has completely struck down the policy.” He added, “We want to know - why did the government scrap it? If the policy was unconstitutional or had any flaws, then why did they challenge it in the Supreme Court?” Defending the recruitment policy devised by the previous, Das maintained that it was duly notified by Jharkhand governor Droupadi Murmu. “Under the fifth schedule of the Constitution, there is a provision to reserve certain jobs for locals and marginalised people in any place for a stipulated period of time. We had reserved it for 10 years only. Following all the constitutional norms, the policy was introduced to boost local employment. However, by scrapping the policy, the state government has made things uncertain for thousands of job aspirants who had applied for different jobs under the policy. Who is going to compensate the aspirants for the loss,” he said. “This government neither has any vision or the intention to work for the betterment of the youth, women and tribals of this state, which is contrary to the false promises made during the assembly elections. Today, everyone is feeling cheated by this government,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
08-02-2021||Jharkhand||ITI students protest delayed exams||More than 100 students of 2018-20 batch of different Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) of the district took out a foot march in Dhanbad and staged a demonstration at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district headquarters on Monday against the undue delay in holding of their final exams. The protestors who were holding posters, banners and placards, bearing slogans like “DGT Murdabad”, “ITI Exam me deri ke karan virodh pradarshan”, etc. later also handed over a memorandum to Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh demanding early exams. The agitators, who were shouting slogans against the Directorate General Training - the apex organization of ministry of skill for vocational training - for denying permission of holding final exams, also demanded resumption of their practical classes at the earliest which were lying suspended since March last year. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Sourav Sao, one of the protestors who is a Fitter trade student KK ITI Institute - Dhanbad, said, “While ITI examinations in other states have been conducted observing the Covid protocols on time, only in Jharkhand, the examinations are being delayed on the pretext of Covid pandemic which is adversely affecting our career,” and added they have recently missed several crucial opportunities like apprenticeship of Defence Research Development Organization recently due to lack of degree and non-completion of their course. “The upper age limit of applying for apprenticeship course of several organizations is 24 years and several of the present batch students may miss the opportunity due to delayed examination,” said Sao, a resident of Barakar. Echoing sentiments, Sonu Kumar, another student of Fitter trader of KK ITI who also took part in the demonstration on Monday said, “Our course should have been completed a year ago. Now it has been delayed for more than a year as the exams were not held and it is adversely affecting our career.” Raising the issue of non-holding of practical classes, Kumar said, “Though National Council of Vocational Training (NCVT) the vocational training regulator has given nod for conducting practical classes in workshops but the state government is also not giving permission for holding practical classes which are affecting our training and skill development.” “During our meeting with DC Uma Shankar Singh, we apprised him about our difficulties but he expressed his inability to do much into the issue as it is related to policy level at the state government but assured us to inform the government about our difficulties,” stated Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
08-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia residents continue to face acute drinking water crisis||More than five lakh Jharia residents, who are already compelled to live under the choking air pollution, are now grappling with the acute drinking water crisis. All this, as water supply in several localities is available once in a week while in the majority of other localities water supply is available on alternate days. Worst is the situation of several localities like Baniahir,  Fatehpur Lane, Rajmata Colony, Mishra Para, Hetlibandh, Dumariyatand, etc. where water is being supplied after four-five days by civic body Jharkhand Mineral Development Authority (JMADA). Expressing disgust over the situation, Ankush Kumar (15), a resident of Baniahir locality who is also a Class IX Student of DAV Centenary School, Baniahir, said, “I have to devote two extra hours for bringing water from the adjoining pond in the morning to complete the daily chores of my house like bathing, cloth washing and dishwashing as the water supply is negligible in our area. We have no option other than to depend on water bodies like a pond.” He also added that his online class sessions are sometimes affected due to the extra load on him of bringing water. Echoing sentiments, Mala Devi (45), a housemaker of Baniahir, wife of a daily wage earner, said, “After performing the household work we have to put in extra effort to bring water from a pond situated around 800 meters away from our home. We have never faced such a situation in our life like we are now facing for the last two years,” and added that the situation has worsened recently. Similar is the situation in Hetli Bandh locality. Dilip Keshri, a puja paraphernalia shop owner of the locality said, “We used to get water twice during a day till six months ago but now the situation has deteriorated to extent that we are getting partial water supply after every two-three days which is too insufficient to fulfil our requirement and many people in our locality are compelled to purchase water from the vendors.” Dhanbad MP, PN Singh on December 27 wrote a letter to the managing director of JMADA, Dilip Kumar, drawing his attention towards the problems faced by the residents, where water supply is being made available once in two-three days although the residents of the same locality were getting water twice in a day. Singh also demanded immediate steps to fix the crisis and a probe to resolve the irregular water supply problem. Over 100 Jharia residents led by the former councillor of ward Number 37 of Jharia, Anup Sao, burnt the effigy of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) and served an ultimatum of four days to JMADA managing director Dilip Kumar, at the prominent square of the town, Bata More Chowk on the same day. When contacted, executive engineer of JMADA, Indresh Shukla said, “Water supply is partially affected during the winter as hyacinth floating on the River Damodar enters the intake well pump and sometimes broken pieces of the hyacinth reaches the water treatment plant affecting the treatment process.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
08-02-2021||Jharkhand|| IMFL worth Rs 7 lakh seized at Burmamines||Acting on a tip off, a team of Jharkhand Excise officials raided a mini factory at Carriage Colony in Burmamines and seized Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth over Rs 7 lakh on Monday. During the raid, the Excise team arrested two persons who were engaged in filling cheap quality IMFL into the bottles having brands of higher prices for selling the rebottled liquor into the market of rural areas in Jharkhand, Odisha and even in Bihar. The two arrested persons were workers, but the main racketeer whose name the department did not reveal, managed to escape. Beside the racketeer, half-a-dozen other workers also managed to escape at the sight of the approaching raiding party. Revealing about the breakthrough, Excise sub-inspector J Kujur said that they seized a total of 144 cartons of IMFL from the place where the liquor was being rebottled into the brand of higher price. He pointed out they have seized the liquor of three brands, King's Gold, McDowell's No.1 and Imperial Blue. He said, “Of the total cartons of seized liquor, 122 are of King's Gold, 22 Imperial Blue and two cartons of McDowell's No 1.” "The cheap quality IMFL, King's Gold whiskey was being filled into the bottles of McDowell's No.1 and Imperial Blue, keeping a marginally higher price so as to befool the gullible customers in the rural areas of Jharkhand, Odisha and even Bihar. It was like a mini-factory. For the rebottling work, they had managed to arrange stickers, corks, empty bottles and sealing machines. The rebottling work was going on at a large scale," said Kujur while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said the work of rebottling was going on in a thatched house inside the Carriage Colony so that no one could suspect such illegal activity there. Kujur pointed out while the price of a 750 ml bottle of King's Gold in the market is Rs 370, the prices of McDowell's No 1 and Imperial Blue of the same quantity is Rs 760 and Rs 780 respectively. The Excise sub-inspector stated on being interrogated the two arrested persons, identified as Budheswar Nath and Budheswar Kalindi, revealed that the work of rebottling had started since the past one month and also the rebottled liquor were being despatched for sell in the rural areas in the state and two neighbouring state. He also said though the seized whiskey appeared to be original, but still they will get its sample examined in a lab at Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
08-02-2021||Jharkhand||Working on sketches, police nab Chandil rapists||Two youths were arrested on Monday for the rape of a woman in a forest less then a month ago after police undertook a rigorous search aided by posters of the culprits printed on the basis of sketches prepared after referring to over 100 photographs of suspects. Seraikela-Kharsawan SP Mohammed Arshi told the media that the two, who were arrested on Monday morning, had changed their hairstyle and shaved their beard after the posters were circulated. Arshi said the two _ Budhe Kalindi (26) and Dinesh Behera (25) _ were caught after local residents identified them from the bike they used to forcefully transport the 21-year-old woman before raping her on January 12. The SP said that both Kalindi and Behera confessed their crime which was committed at a forest stretch near Pindrabera village under Chandil thana. Arshi said the incident took place at 8pm when the woman, a resident of Pather Salem village in Kandra, was returning home on her scooter. Kalindi and Behera followed her on their bike and intercepted her at an isolated spot. They then forced her on to their bike and took her to the nearby forests where they took turns to rape her. "As there was no CCTV footage, there was no record of the bike’s registration number. It was a blind case for us and hence challenging. But we took the help of the woman while preparing sketches of the two, referring to over 100 photographs of suspects,” he said. Police, he said, circulated the posters of the sketches in and around the Kandra locality right down to the panchayat and village level. Finally, the duo was nabbed on Monday morning. Kalindi and Behera are residents of Supudera in Parsudih, about 20km from the spot where the crime was committed. Arshi said after the duo was caught they interrogated them at Kandra thana where they confessed to their crime. He two were then arrested and sent to Seraikela divisional jail after being presented before a judicial magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
08-02-2021||Jharkhand||15 workers from Jharkhand missing in Uttarakhand||As many as 15 labourers from Jharkhand are among the hundreds missing at Chamoli in Uttarakhand where a glacier-break on Sunday triggered an avalanche and flash floods, district officers said on Monday as the Hemant Soren government set up a control room with helpline numbers to make it easier for families to establish contact with the authorities. While nine of the missing workers are from Lohardaga, six are from Ramgarh. Lohardaga deputy commissioner Dilip Kumar Toppo said the nine are for Bethat village. "Their family members contacted us today (Monday) to say that they had gone to work in an NTPC plant at Chamoli. We are trying to establish contact with the Uttarakhand authorities," he said. Ramgarh deputy commissioner Sandip Singh said six residents of Gola block had gone to work at the same NPTC construction site in Chamoli. "They went there through a third-party contractor. Their family members informed us that they are missing. We are trying to gather more information,” he said. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who is in Maldives on a family vacation, used Twitter to announce the setting up of the control room with helplines. “Students, labourers or anyone else of the state who are stranded may contact Jharkhand government on these numbers. People may also send Whatsapp messages on the notified numbers. We request people not to panic. The state government will extend all possible help to the needy,” he tweeted. The helpline numbers are: 0651-490055/ 2490083/ 2490037/ 2490058/ 2490052/ 2490125. Numbers with Whatsapp are: 97401135291/  9431336427/ 9431336398/ 9431336472/ 9431336432.  Officials said the control room had been set up at the state labour department.  “All the numbers have been activated and are manned to answer both voice and Whatsapp messages. Our teams will be alert and work with alacrity _ just like the way officials coordinated help during the migrant crisis last year when the nationwide lockdown was announced in the wake of Covid-19,” said a senior officer. He said they handled over 8 lakh calls during the lockdown and over five lakh migrants were brought back to Jharkhand safely via air, rail and road. “We are also in touch with our counterparts in Uttarakhand to identify if anyone belonging to Jharkhand is stranded so that we can make the necessary arrangements,” he said. According to a PTI report from Dehradun, 18 bodies had been recovered and 202 were still missing, officials at Chamoli district said on Monday, as multiple agencies joined hands to rescue at least 30 workers trapped in a tunnel at a power project site. With more bodies being recovered, the death toll touched 18 and could go higher, officials in the state emergency operation centre said. The 202 still missing include those working at hydel power project sites as well as nearby villagers whose homes were washed away with the force of the raging waters, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
08-02-2021||Jharkhand||Now for some women’s T20 in Ranchi, pro kabaddi in Deoghar||Jharkhand State Cricket Association announced on Sunday to host a T20 league for women from February 14-24 at the JSCA International Stadium Complex in Ranchi on the lines of its maiden Karbonn Jharkhand T20 league held in September last year. Titled Karbonn Jharkhand Women’s T20 Trophy, it will have five teams _  Jamshedpur Jasmines, Dhanbad Daffodils, Dumka Daisies, Ranchi Roses and Bokaro Blossoms, comprising players only from the state, officials said. “There will be 21 matches in all and all of them will be streamed live on the FANCODE App. Similar live streaming was held during the men’s T20 as well. The finals will be played on February 25,” said JSCA secretary Sanjay Sahay. “This tournament will be the first such event for women cricketers since the outbreak of the pandemic. Since the tournament will being played without the presence of spectators, everyone can watch the match live by downloading the App,” he added. The tournament will be strictly for players registered in Jharkhand and the teams will be selected by JSCA appointed selectors. “There will be no franchisee/team owner, no mentor, no auction of players, no player fee or prize money involved,” he said, adding that JSCA would ensure necessary precautions and adherence to all Covid-19 guidelines. “Strict rules have been put in place for all players and officials to ensure their safety. All officials and players will reside within the premises of the JSCA stadium. Only players with a negative Covid-19 test report will be allowed to play. Players will have to undergo medical check-ups and thermal screening daily and a medical desk shall be operational round-the-clock,” he said. Kabaddi league In the temple town of Deoghar, the district sports authority is gearing up to host the first ever Deoghar Kabaddi League themed on the big-ticket Pro Kabaddi League as part of its efforts to revive the game in the state. The tournament is tentatively scheduled between April 6-21, said officials. CEO of Kabaddi Association of Jharkhand Gopal Thakur said, “The Deoghar league will have a minimum of eight teams and maximum of 16. Deoghar sports authority has mooted this initiative to revive sporting activities in the district and promote kabaddi.” On a possible Jharkhand Kabaddi League, he said, “We are working out plans to hold it among four select districts of Jharkhand, namely Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, and Dhanbad, dates of which will be announced soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
08-02-2021||Jharkhand||Over one lakh vaccinated in Jharkhand so far||The count of people inoculated against the Covid-19 virus crossed the 1 lakh mark in Jharkhand on Sunday as almost 10,000 beneficiaries were administered the Covishield jabs in the state on the day, figures with the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Jharkhand achieved 41 per cent of its vaccination target on Sunday by inoculating 9866 of the 24,203 healthcare workers and frontline workers registered to get be Covishield jabs on the day, a report released by the NHM stated. As many as 4369 of 9648 registered frontline workers were administered the vaccine shots on Sunday, while 5497 of 14555 healthcare workers were inoculated at the various vaccination centres across the 24 districts in Jharkhand, the NHM report highlighted. Dhanbad achieved 96 per cent of its vaccination target on the day by administering the Covishield jabs to at least 2029 people – the highest among districts in Jharkhand. As many as 616 people were inoculated in Ranchi, which was 49 per cent of the total 1256 registered beneficiaries here. As per NHM data, only 18 of 412 registered beneficiaries in Latehar were inoculated on the day. The district achieved only 4 per cent of its taget – the lowest among the 24 districts in the state. So far, as many as 1,06,221 people have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand since the launch of the nationwide immunization programme on January 16. However, the state has achieved only 32 per cent of its vaccination target. As many as 10,747 of the over 1 lakh people vaccinated in the state were residents of Ranchi, while 7786 were from Giridih. At least 6619 people have been administered the Covishield shots in East Singhbhum and 7433 people have been inoculated in Dhanbad. As many as 7629 residents of Dhanbad have been vaccinated so far. Meanwhile, one more Covid patient, a resident of Ranchi, died during treatment on Sunday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1078 and that in Ranchi to 238, a separate bulletin released by the NHM stated. As many as 38 people were found infected by the virus in Jharkhand on the day, while 34 patients recovered, the bulletin stated. At least 431 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand by the end of Sunday. At least 17 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of infection, while Ranchi accounted for 22 of the 38 cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
