09-02-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta ranked 44th in Financial Times Global MBA Ranking 2021||Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta has secured the 44th rank globally in the prestigious Financial Times (FT) Global MBA Ranking 2021 for its one-year full-time MBAEx Programme. The institute has secured the third position among the 5 Indian Business schools listed in the rankings which reflects the high quality of the programme and several other factors including salaries earned, employment opportunities post completion, research capabilities, an institute statement said on Tuesday. Commenting on the ranking, Director of IIM (C) Professor Anju Seth said, "I want to congratulate and thank the faculty, administration and students who have bestowed their trust in us and have collectively helped to create a conducive academic environment in one of the most challenging years we have ever experienced. "Global recognition such as this motivates us to continue working towards our vision of promoting an internationally diverse learning experience," Seth said. "The global education sector was shocked to the core in the wake of the pandemic in 2020. The physical education delivery model as we knew it came to a standstill and most countries like ours, are still struggling to get back on their feet and bring students back to physical classrooms safely. "However, we emerged strongly in adversity by introducing a blended model for learning continuity. Education in the new normal will be about resilience and non-stop learning", Seth added. Among the parameters that the ranking focussed on, IIM Calcutta performed significantly well vis a vis its Indian compatriots in categories including career progress, female student percentage and inclusion of international makeup of its faculty. Commenting on the recognition, Chairperson-MBAEx Programme, Professor Manju Jaiswal said the rankings highlight IIM Calcutta's leadership in delivering global management education. "The timely responses to the change in the mode of teaching this year to virtual, reflects our resilience and preparedness towards our students' safety and learning, and this effort has certainly paid off well," Jaiswal said. The other parameters that are considered for the rankings are value for money, aims achieved by alumni on taking the course, career services, employability among students within three months of completing the course, involvement of women in the institute's board, international student in-take, international mobility ranking, international course experience ranking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Soumen Mitra takes charge as Calcutta police commissioner||Soumen Mitra took charge as Calcutta police commissioner on Monday and said more emphasis should be laid on curbing cyber offences because their numbers were rising and the elderly were often their target. Mitra, a 1988-batch IPS officer, spoke minutes after taking charge as the 43rd police commissioner at the city police headquarters in Lalbazar on Monday. “The crime pattern has changed these days. Cyber crime has become predominant. A lot of elderly people are getting duped,” Mitra said. Metro has been reporting how an increasing number of Calcuttans — many of them elderly — are being duped into sharing their banking details and debit card details. They are also made to download mobile applications that compromise the safety of their phones. Mitra, who has served as the detective department chief and has overseen the traffic department as additional commissioner, said there was a need to enhance the city police’s professionalism in terms of “better investigation, traffic and higher rate of conviction for all crimes”. “Apart from the usual things that we do — crime, law and order, VIP security (arrangement), investigation — we will have to enhance the professionalism of the Calcutta police force. During investigation, we will not just focus on the arrest of an accused, but also ensure the culprit is convicted,” Mitra said. The top cop went around all buildings and departments at Lalbazar on Monday. He is likely to meet senior officers over the next few days. Mitra said there was a need to work for the betterment of the elderly, weaker sections, women and children and for the preservation of the city's environment. The 59-year-old officer served as the Calcutta police commissioner during the 2016 Assembly elections. He was removed after a 38-day-stint and sent to the training department of the Bengal police, where he was additional director general for five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Bike skids, 15-year-old boy falls off  and dies on Diamond Harbour Road||A 15-year-old boy riding pillion on his father‘s two-wheeler suffered fatal wounds after the vehicle skidded and both fell off it on Diamond Harbour Road in Behala on Monday afternoon. Both Dip Shankar Santra and son Dipesh were wearing helmets, police said. “The father and the son fell off the bike after it skid-ded. The boy suffered multi-ple injuries and fractured his ribs. Preliminary opin-ions by doctors suggest his lungs were punctured. He was taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital, where he died in the evening,” said an officer of the traffic department. The father suffered relatively minor injuries and was discharged after treatment. The Santras live in a rented apartment at Amtala in Bishnupur, South 24 Parganas. They are originally from Panchla in Howrah. Many of the officers said this was an unusual accident as neither the victim nor the vehicle had been hit by any other vehicle. “The boy might have survived had he not fallen the way he did,” said an officer. However, a section of the police feels that two-wheelers have higher chances of skidding on a congested or crowded road. Officers of the fatal squad of the traffic police said they were investigating the circumstances leading to the accident. In 2020, out of the 201 people who died in road accidents in the city, as many as 64 were two-wheeler riders or pillion riders. Of the 64 victims, 39 people died while driving two-wheelers and 25 suffered fatal wounds while riding pillion. 65-year-old falls to death A 65-year-old man died after falling from the terrace of a four-storey building in Bansdroni around 5.30am on Monday. Goutam Mukherjee, a resident of Harisabha Math, was taken to Baghajatin State General Hospital, where he was declared dead, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Two youths jumped into Hooghly from Vidyasagar Setu, one missing||Two city youths jumped into the Hooghly from Vidyasagar Setu on Sunday afternoon and the plunge was captured on video by some friends standing on the bridge, which police believe was an effort to become social media sensations. One of the youths who jumped is missing and the other was rescued by police. The youth who is missing is Mohammad Zakir Sarder, 21, and the one who has been rescued is Dastgir Alam, 23, the police said. “Sarder, a resident of Tiljala, had gone to Vidyasagar Setu with friends to jump into the river and get the act recorded for social media,” an officer of Hastings police station said. Sarder’s family members mentioned in a general diary they lodged with Hastings police station that the youth and his friend Alam had jumped into the river from the bridge. A purported video recovered by the police from one of the friends who was present on the bridge on Sunday showed at least three youths standing on the outer side of the railing of the bridge, chatting and contemplating jumping, police sources said. “Alam is first seen jumping into the river, followed by Sarder. Alam plunged into the water and resurfaced within a few seconds. Sardar cannot be seen after the plunge,” an officer said. A team from the disaster management group was deployed to rescue the two. Sarder was missing at least till late on Monday. Police sources said there was no hint of foul play. “The three friends who accompanied Alam and Sarder said they went to the bridge on motorcycles and parked the vehicles along the railing. All five had wanted to jump together holding hands. But only three could gather the courage to cross the railing and prepare to jump. Finally, two of them took the plunge,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||La Martiniere for Boys links pupils’ entry to Covid report||La Martiniere for Boys has said students from Classes IX to XII will be allowed on the campus to attend classes only if they test negative for Covid-19. The RT PCR test for Covid has to be performed three days before the resumption of in-person classes and the reports have to be sent to the school authorities by February 14. The announcement has led to anxiety among many parents. Public health experts say such a move is unlikely to be very effective at an institute where students are travelling every day. “A person testing negative can catch the virus the next day. Being in possession of a negative test report does not mean much,” a health expert said. “Please note students with a negative COVID 19-RTPCR report will only be permitted to attend these offline classes,” the consent form for offline/ contact classes of the school says. It asks parents to sign an undertaking that says: “We/I will ensure that my son/ward will undergo COVID-19 RTPCR test three days prior to the commencement of these offline classes. This report will be emailed to the Class Teacher latest by Sunday, 14th February, 2021.” The state government has allowed reopening of schools for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. A notice signed by John Rafi, the principal of La Martiniere for Boys, said: “This is to inform you that the School Administration, as per the Directives from the State Government, has decided to commence with offline/contact revision, doubt clearing and practical classes for pupils of classes 9 to 12 from Monday, 15th February, 2021.” Several other schools are also considering asking students to get tested but doctors warned it would only lead to unnecessary paranoia among students and their parents. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury said asking students to get a test done is more “an expression of paranoia than a decision based on science”. “There is no scientific basis behind asking students to come with a negative Covid report. A student may get Covid outside of school after the first day,” he said. “How many times will a student have to undergo the test? You cannot ask a student to undergo a test every day.” When asked about the school’s decision, Supriyo Dhar, the secretary of the La Martiniere schools in the city, said: “Initially, we are taking all precautions. If something develops subsequently, we will see and cross the bridge as it comes.” The school in the notice has said that the authorities had taken all precautions, and all protocols and SOPs for Covid-19, as specified by the government, will be followed. “Please understand that, in spite of all these procedures and measures, the school administration cannot guarantee that the students will not be exposed and/or infected by the Covid 19 Virus,” the notice signed by the principal says. The school has said the annual examinations for Classes IX and XI will be held online as scheduled. Rehearsal examinations for Classes X and XII have been deferred, the notice says. “These will be held onsite, and dates will be notified in due course of time.” The notice also mentions: “In case you find any Covid 19 symptoms in your ward, you are to immediately notify the School Administration and stop sending your ward for further classes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Victoria Memorial Hall makes amends to Bose exhibits||The Victoria Memorial Hall has conceded that pictures that it said were images of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose disguised as Md Ziauddin are “recreated images” based on an “artistic impression”. The clarification comes following allegations by Sugata Bose, the chairman of Netaji Research Bureau and grand-nephew of the freedom fighter, that some items on display at Nirbhik Subhas, an exhibition being held at the Memorial, were “fake”. Sugata Bose had in his letter to the Memorial authorities on February 6 said images of Md Ziauddin were fake since no photographs of Netaji were taken or allowed to be taken during his “mahanishkraman” or “Great Escape”. In response to Sugata Bose’s letter, Victoria Memorial secretary and curator Jayanta Sengupta has said: “This is obviously an artistic impression. However, a disclaimer to this effect has been added to the exhibition.” The source of these recreated images, Sengupta has written to Sugata Bose, were scans from the Abhyuday newspaper compiled in the form of a book, published in 1998. “Pages 54 and 67 of the compilation have sketches of Netaji in disguise.” Sugata Bose had also said that the display showing Netaji’s letter of resignation from the Indian Civil Service was fake because the handwriting was not the leader’s and there were errors in salutation and spelling, Sengupta has written: “Currently, the exhibition places a facsimile of the original letter along with an enlarged and recreated transcript for easier reading, because the original facsimile was thought to be possibly a little difficult to read for the ordinary visitor to the exhibition.” Asked about the Memorial’s response, Sugata Bose said he was “pleased that the handwritten fake has been taken down”. He feels the letter in Netaji’s handwriting is perfectly legible and should have been enlarged with an accompanying printed version, if needed. He is also pleased that a disclaimer has been added to the Ziauddin images. “VMH has listed 10 books, on nine of which NRB holds the copyright. I wish they had shown the courtesy of seeking permission in return of acknowledgement,” Sugata Bose said. Metro reported on Monday that the Memorial had corrected the spelling mistake and salutation error in a recreated transcript and acknowledged that the original letter was published in Netaji: A Pictorial Biography. Sengupta says in his letter that the agency that has executed the exhibition has sourced many photographs and facsimiles of letters and documents from books published by Netaji Research Bureau and other publishers. He lists 10 books including Netaji: A Pictorial Biography, His Majesty’s Opponent, The Essential Writings of Subhas Chandra Bose and others. The exhibition, the curator says, “was aimed at arousing curiosity among the youth about Netaji’s contribution to India’s nation-making…. We sincerely hope you will kindly appreciate the sincerity of the effort”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Pending work makes Jadavpur University call up all employees  ||Jadavpur University has asked all its employees to attend office on all working days from Monday because of the high volume of pending work, officials said. “All employees are asked to attend office as per normal routine, i.e, in all working days and as per duties allotted… on and from February 8. However classes and hostels will remain closed till further order,” stated a notice issued by JU registrar Snehamanju Basu on Sunday. Officials said the volume of work was increasing because each employee was so far attending office thrice a week. On December 28, the university had asked employees to start attending office thrice a week, ending their long absence since the start of the lockdown in March. “We have reintroduced the normal working schedule while maintaining the safety protocols. The workload is increasing in the absence of the normal working schedule. Besides, public transport is now adequate,” said an official. The university started distributing the hard copies of degree certificates to 4,700 recipients (undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD taken together) on Monday. It will continue till February 22. The university did not hold the convocation last year as a precaution against Covid-19. “The distribution of the degree certificates across all three faculties (science, arts and engineering) is a mammoth task. The testimonials that the recipients will pres-ent before collecting their certificates will have to be verified. We need adequate staff on all days to conduct the exercise and ensure that the recipients follow physical distancing norms,” said an official. An official in the examination section said that since the odd semester tests would have to be held online in March, they needed more staff to finalise the digital platforms that would be used to conduct the exercise. The higher education department had last week said examinations would have to be held on digital platforms because the pandemic situation had not improved enough for the campuses to reopen for students. “The government offices have resumed the normal work schedule. We need staff on all days as the workload is increasing,” JU registrar Basu said. In December, Calcutta University had issued a circular saying 70 per cent of the employees of each department would have to attend office daily from December 3. “CU is likely to ask all its employees to attend office on all working days from February 12,” said an official of the university.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Behala street art festival: A heap of shoes leaves behind a haunting footprint||A heap of chappals is mounted near a milestone on one corner of a bylane in Behala. The shoes represent the journey of lakhs of migrant workers during the course of the nationwide lockdown. Around 30 metres away, a series of ploughs stand on the ground. Mics at the spot are playing audio clips from farmers’ protests at the borders of Delhi. A just-concluded street art festival in a Behala neighbourhood was a collage of works that mirrored the “convulsive” times the country has been going through. The new citizenship thrust, the abrogation of the special status of Kashmir, the plight of migrant workers during the lockdown and the contentious farm laws provide context to many of the installations at the second edition of Behala Art Fest, organised by Nutan Sangha on Rai Bahadur Road, in association with The Telegraph. One of the installations shows a small slice of a street, barricaded with black and yellow police tapes. Slogans of resistance on the wall and a teapot, a pair of slippers and some newspapers that lay strewn on the ground inside. The recall — a “mini” Shaheen Bagh or Park Circus vigil that had to be vacated because of the pandemic, but where protesters left some of their belongings as a symbol of the continuity of protest. A few steps ahead, a small village kitchen has been set up with a pot sitting on an earthen oven. The caption on the walls, derived from an 18th century Bengali poem, anticipates a grim future where a mother is worried about the scarcity of food for her children. The threat — three markers on the floor, naming the three new farm laws. A series of paintings, mostly charcoal-on-paper, depict “screaming figures seem to be appealing perpetually to an invisible owner”. “Unfortunately, their demands fall on deaf ears,” says the accompanying note. The festival, a stone’s throw from the ever-busy Diamond Harbour Road, was also a collage of several mediums; paintings, sculpture and photographs alongside videos and performances. Over 20 artistes have come together for the festival. “India has been passing through a convulsive time for the past few years. The artistes cannot but respond to the urgencies around them. Contemporary art has to ask questions and build collective consciousness,” said Oindrilla Maity Surai, who has curated the festival. One audio-visual installation has a screen showing maps with continuously changing boundaries. A flying bird, oblivious to the changing boundaries, adds to the contrast. The accompanying sound is that of marching soldiers. The paintings of the facades of houses and walls are hard hitting. A wall depicts people walking with children, carrying their frugal belongings on their heads, depicting the long and arduous homeward journeys undertaken by lakhs of migrant workers during the lockdown. One façade shows a man hanging from the strings of four giant balloons, which together read “HOPE”. “The rulers of the country keep giving false hopes to its citizenry. From demonetisation to Rs 15 lakh in bank accounts to the promise of achhe din — the false hopes come one after another,” said Sanatan Dinda, the convener of the festival and the man behind the paintings. The festival started on Friday and concluded on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University funds for 22 visually impaired students||Jadavpur University has provided funds to 22 of its visually impaired students so they can stay at rented places that have good Internet connectivity and attend online classes. The students, mostly from remote areas, used to stay at JU hostels. Since the campus was shut down in March following the Covid-19 outbreak, they have been staying at home. Many are unable to attend online classes because of poor Net connectivity in their localities. These students cannot afford rented accommodations in the city because of financial reasons, said JU officials. JU had on January 30 provided Rs 5,000 to each of the 22 visually impaired students, following a demonstration by a forum for physically challenged students. “The financial help will initially be provided till March. We will think about continuing the help if the situation demands,” said Rajat Roy, the dean of students. “We have estimated monthly rent to be around Rs 2,000 per month and the rest Rs 1,000 is for food and other expenses.” The university has around 50 visually impaired students. “They will share the financial resources so that many students could be benefited,” said Jishu Debnath, a member of the forum, who is doing a PhD in Bengali at JU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Nod for Tallah pillar between railway tracks||The railways has allowed work on laying the foundation of only one of the four pillars of the Tallah bridge that will come up between railway tracks. The PWD, which is executing the Rs 340-crore bridge project, had sought permission for all four pillars and traffic block on the tracks to facilitate work. Railway officials have said that if work on all four pillars starts simultaneously, movement of all types of trains will have to be suspended for 30 days. “A traffic block for a prolonged period would mean disrupting movement of trains in different directions,” a railway official said. PWD officials said on Monday the decision of the railways to withhold permission for the other three pillars might affect the pace of work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
09-02-2021||Calcutta||IT leaders share thoughts on digital initiatives that enabled organisations to survive challenges ||A group of business leaders at the helm of information technology (IT) at their organisations looked back at an unprecedented year and discussed the challenges of the future during a virtual conference on Friday. The INFOCOM CIO Connect Roundtable Presented by NTT-Netmagic saw five chief information officers share their thoughts on the digital initiatives that enabled their organisations to survive unprecedented challenges in 2020, when Covid-19 emerged as the biggest disruptor globally, affecting individuals, enterprises and the economy. The theme of the session — CIO Bucket List 2021. Manik Paul, CIO, Century Plyboards; Jayanta Bhowmik, CIO, Kesoram Industries; Abhijit Chatterjee, CIO, Vikram Solar; Subhamoy Chakraborti, CIO, ABP Pvt. Ltd; and Seema Ambastha, senior executive VP — head India and global — sales and business development and solutions engineering, NTT-Netmagic, were the panellists at the nearly 90-minute session, moderated by Harish Agarwal, managing partner for Calcutta and Bangladesh, Ernst & Young LLP and COO of Ernst & Young India Consulting. “Enterprises are now exploring hybrid IT to optimise cost, to be flexible and to cater to the changing workforce. Cloud environments are being deployed rapidly…. With the ever-increasing sophistication of hacking and the rising criticality of data, cloud security and normal cyber security is something all enterprises need to focus on,” Agarwal said at the outset. “Management using a single pane of glass (a model based on a singular control point for managing all cloud applications) and making it easy by having innovation around it, a lot of focus on business resiliency and a unified security across the hybrid cloud system” are going to be on priority list of CIOs in the coming days, said Ambastha, who is based in Mumbai. Around 30 CIOs in and around Calcutta were part of the interactive session. The speakers took questions from some of the participants after the panel discussion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
09-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty snap 6-session winning run, end marginally lower||Snapping their six-session winning streak, equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally lower on Tuesday amid profit-booking in IT, FMCG and auto stocks. After rallying 487 points to touch its lifetime intra-day high of 51,835.86, the 30-share BSE Sensex pared all gains to end 19.69 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 51,329.08. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 6.50 points or 0.04 per cent to 15,109.30. It touched a record peak of 15,257.10 during the day. M&M was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, ITC, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finserv and TCS. On the other hand, Asian Paints, ONGC, Titan, L&T and Axis Bank were among the gainers. Domestic equities remained buoyant for most of the session with benchmark indices making fresh highs. However, high volatility was seen towards the end of the session and profit-booking was witnessed in a large number of stocks, experts said. The broad-based rally was not seen and only select large-cap counters supported market, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Midcap and smallcap indices underperformed sharply and barring financials most of the key sectoral indices were in red. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul closed lower. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.40 per cent higher at USD 60.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points to scale fresh lifetime high in early trade on Tuesday, led by gains in index heavyweights Infosys, Reliance Industries and HCL Tech amid positive global cues and unabated foreign fund inflows. The 30-share BSE index was trading 233.30 points or 0.45 per cent higher at its record intra-day peak of 51,582.07. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 70.10 points or 0.46 per cent to its lifetime high of 15,185.90. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 2 per cent, followed by Infosys, Titan, Asian Paints, ONGC, Reliance Industries and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, SBI, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, Axis Bank and IndusInd Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 617.14 points or 1.22 per cent higher at its record closing peak of 51,348.77, and Nifty surged 191.55 points or 1.28 per cent to its lifetime closing high of 15,115.80. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,876.60 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities continue to look good at the moment. "Union Budget has given an undisputed reason to investors to cheer, which helped the market to see a northward journey in this month." On the global front, US equities extended gains and recorded fresh highs led by a sharp rebound in energy stocks, strong corporate earnings and emerging prospects of higher fiscal stimulus. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.51 per cent higher at USD 61.01 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business|| IT hub plots adjacent to Eco Park in New Town can now be booked online||Plots located at the 200-acre IT hub in New Town adjacent to Eco Park can now be booked online, an official of the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) said. The online plot and land parcel booking system will start functioning within the next 30 days and the system has been configured in a way to eliminate the need of physical visits to Hidco offices, the official said. The area that has been named Bengal Silicon Valley covers over 200 acres and has 169 acre of allotable space. According to the official, in order to book a plot one has to log in to the Hidco website - www.wbhidcoltd.com. The details of each of the plot are listed and they range from 0.248 acres to 21.752 acre. All the plots can be taken on a 99-year lease and the price per acre has been set at Rs 4.70 crore per acre by Hidco, the official added. Debashis Sen, chairman and managing director of Hidco, said the system will not only help people to book the plots easily and save time but will also give effective protection in the ongoing Covid-19 scenario. According to Sen, this will be a pilot run of sorts and they wanted to emulate the same procedure of booking and allotment of plots across New Town. On Sunday, 20 organisations, including the Indian Statistical Institute, Webel, Panorama, Vikram Solar and Unified Info Tech, were handed allotment letters in Bengal Silicon Valley. Smita Pandey, managing director of Webel, said the company would build an IT hub as well a centre for excellence for start-ups in the region. "This is an area which has seen remarkable development and we are happy to have a place where we can build an IT hub where companies can rent out space at very affordable rates," said Pandey. Hidco had earlier organised a webinar that discussed the possibility of some big firms in China moving elsewhere. “India is already reaching out to over 300 industries in China, offering them to relocate to India and we want to attract them to move to New Town,” another Hidco official said. Sudip Chatterjee, company secretary of Vikram Solar which builds solar panels and solar powered applications, said that they had taken land at the Bengal Silicon Valley due to its location as well as the fact that it was a smooth process. "We want to set up a research as well as manufacturing centre here and are hoping to generate employment for at least 200 men and women," said Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||Bengal offers uniform terms for land allotment ||The Bengal government has ushered in a simplified procedure for the allotment of land in industrial parks and the issuance of trade licence to industries to enhance the ease of doing business in the state. The state will do away with separate identities of industrial clusters and streamline them under one banner with uniform rules and regulations to avoid confusion among prospective investors. “There will only be industrial parks and the lease conditions, transfer fee, product line change fee will be standardised. An industrialist can visit our website and find out about all the details of the land available,” WBIDC chairman Rajiva Sinha told a group of local entrepreneurs in a face-to-face discussion to weed out thorny issues affecting industry. There are about 4,000 acres available with the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation and two of its associate companies. Industries — large and small — can take up plots inside the parks according to their appetite. While terms and conditions are being standardised, lease rent will vary with locations. Sinha, along with WBIDC managing director and industry secretary Vandana Yadav and MSME secretary Rajesh Pandey, met industry representatives from five districts of south Bengal and various chambers of commerce under the platform of Bengal Business Conclave & Synergy. The industry was also told that the government would issue and renew trade licence online across the states. Institutional capabilities of gram panchayats are being strengthened to carry out this work. “Do not expect big policy decisions now. They take time and the state is going to enter a phase soon,” Sinha said, referring to the model code of conduct for the upcoming Assembly elections, which is expected to be notified soon. During the meeting at least one industry representative said the lease rent in the industry parks was too high while another representative pointed out that he was unable to agglomerate land for a private industrial park. Sinha agreed to look into the matter. “We can see how lack of mutual discussion creates problems. However, we do not work in that fashion in Bengal,” Sinha, known for plainspeak, said at the end of a 2-hour long meeting co-organised by Ficci, in an obvious reference to farmers’ strife in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||Amit Mitra forecasts 1.2% growth in Covid year||Bengal will buck the contraction in the economy and post a modest growth despite the Covid-19 induced deceleration witnessed across the globe, state finance minister Amit Mitra said on Monday. While India’s GDP is apprehended to contract 7.73 per cent in 2020-21, the state is likely to grow 1.2 per cent, he said. “(According to) the latest data on advance estimate.. which is with the government of India, Bengal will not only not shrink, but will grow by at least 1.2 per cent. It may even be higher than that,” Mitra told industry representatives whom he addressed virtually. Bengal has been outperforming the country in terms of growth in the last few years, in part because of the low base. While the national GDP grew 4.2 per cent, state GSDP went up 7.6 per cent in the last fiscal. While he did not offer an explanation on how this enviable feat would be achieved, Mitra appeared to be heavily banking on the micro, small and medium sector to do the heavy lifting for the state’s economy. An important trading hub for the East and the Northeast, the state has been witnessing growth in bank lending to the MSME sector. Mitra said the target for this year was to lend Rs 90,000 crore before the pandemic roiled the economy. “Banks sanctioned Rs 50,000 crore till December. I would not be surprised if the final figures go up to Rs 70,000 crore by the end of this fiscal,” Mitra said. Mitra informed that the state budget this year increased capital expenditure, which goes into creating assets (infrastructure), by 100 per cent.“Bengal will get the highest revenue deficit grant from the Fifteenth Finance Commission. The state will get Rs 40,000 crore in the next four years, including Rs 17,500 crore alone this year,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||Bharat Coking Coal Limited reduces price of coking coal by up to 23 per cent||Bharat Coking Coal Limited, a Coal India subsidiary based in Dhanbad, has reduced the price of coking coal by up to 23 per cent to attract new bulk customers. “BCCL has taken a historic decision to make the price of coking coal competitive to attract new power and non-power customers,” the company said in a statement on Monday. “The discount will be offered till the end of the current fiscal,” Samiran Dutta, director (finance), told The Telegraph, adding the offer was only for bulk customers who would carry the coal via railways. On whether the move was aimed to clear stocks, Dutta said, “Yes,  that’s also true and we are expecting to exhaust the present stock of about 3.5 million tonnes (mt) by the end of March.” “The dispatch stood at around 8 to 10 rakes per day now compared with 20 to 25 rakes per day earlier,” Dutta said when asked whether offloading in BCCL was less compared with the other CIL subsidiaries. Dutta said the reduced rates will be offered during the e-auction that will begin on February 10. Depending on the grade of coking coal, the discount would be in the range of 10-23 per cent of the current price. The price of W-IV grade coking coal that is sold at Rs 3,462 per tonne at present will be offered at Rs 2,675 per tonne during the e-auction, which is a discount of about 23 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||Tesla builds $1.5bn Bitcoin reserves||The electric-car maker Tesla is known for bucking convention. That apparently extends to using its own corporate cash to buy Bitcoin. The company disclosed in its annual report on Monday that it had purchased $1.5 billion worth of the cryptocurrency, as part of an initiative begun last month to invest in alternative assets such as digital currencies and gold bullion. It added that it expected to begin accepting Bitcoin as a form of payment “in the near future”. Tesla said it held $19.4 billion in cash and equivalents as of December 31. Other companies, including the payments processor Square and the business intelligence software provider MicroStrategy, have publicly said they were investing corporate cash in Bitcoin. Tesla is perhaps the most prominent company to do so. The carmaker’s chief executive, Elon Musk, is known for promoting cryptocurrencies on his widely followed Twitter feed. Most recently, he has cheered on Dogecoin, a digital token begun as a joke but whose price has soared after encouragement by Musk. Bitcoin reached a record after Tesla’s announcement, rising more than 10 per cent in Monday morning trading to above $44,000 per coin. Analysts said the announcements could help accelerate a move for bitcoin towards the mainstream that has seen both Paypal, also co-founded by Musk, and huge global money manager BlackRock move to accept the currency. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||S. K. Todi passes away||Shravan Todi, one of the few industrialists who made it big during the two-decade long tenure of Jyoti Basu as the chief minister of Bengal, breathed his last on Monday. He was 77. Like many of his ilk from the Marwari community who made this state their home and seat of business, Todi moved to Bengal during his childhood and studied here and in Dacca where he honed his skill in the family business of glass and enamel. When the war broke out in 1965, Todi left Bangladesh to permanently settle down in Calcutta. During this turbulent time, he came in contact with Basu, which led to a relation of mutual trust and fellowship which remained till the iconic Left leader died in 2010. Even though Todi started his business with Bengal Tools Ltd in the 70s, set up in Dumdum, and expanded the family’s hire purchase business — later sold to Magma — and an engineering company, he was most widely known for his involvement in real estate. Having had the knack of spotting land parcels and getting it converted for the purpose of housing despite the stifling rules and regulations during the Left rule, Todi co-promoted some of the most well known city developments such as South City and Urbana. At the behest of Basu, Todi also took over ailing Niramoy Polyclinic at Dhakuria and set up AMRI Hospital there. He had to spend over four months in custody when a fire killed over 70 patients at the hospital in 2011, angering chief minister Mamata Banerjee. He has left behind a Rs 1,000-crore Shrachi empire which is now looked after by his sons, Ravi and Rahul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||Future can proceed with deal with Reliance: Delhi High Court||A division bench of the Delhi high court on Monday stayed an earlier order of a single judge of the high court that directed Future Retail Ltd (FRL) and other authorities to maintain status quo on its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. The bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh passed the interim direction on FRL’s appeal challenging the February 2 order of the single judge. The division bench said  statutory authorities such as  the National Company Law Tribunal, CCI and Sebi cannot be restrained from proceeding  with the deal. The bench also declined Amazon’s request to keep its order in abeyance for a week so that it can explore appropriate remedies. However, the court said its order would not come in the way of the order of a single judge bench of the Delhi high court. It may be recalled that last week, Justice J.R. Midha of the Delhi high court had directed FRL to maintain status quo in relation to the transaction with Reliance Retail which was objected by Amazon.com Inc. “This Court is satisfied that immediate orders are necessary to protect the rights of the petitioner (Amazon) till the pronouncement of the reserved order. In view of the matter, the respondents are directed to maintain status quo as on today at 4:50pm till the pronouncement of the reserved order,” the judge had said in the February 2 order while reserving its order on the main petition. It also directed all other concerned authorities to maintain status quo in relation to the matters which are in violation of the emergency award and to file status report with regard to the present status within 10 days. During the hearing on Monday, senior advocate for FRL Harish Salve told the court that  Amazon’s claims to salvage the Indian company was “humbug”. Amazon, represented by senior advocates Gopal Subramanium and Rajiv Nayar, said FRL’s appeal against the single judge order of February 2 was not maintainable. They also argued that the October 25, 2020 Emergency Arbitrator (EA) order by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) was a valid award and enforceable. The EA order had restrained FRL from proceeding with the deal with Reliance Retail. Salve said that if Amazon wanted to salvage FRL, it could have easily invested Rs 25,000 crore which was “peanuts” for the US e-commerce giant. He said that Amazon keeps saying it wanted to and wants to help FRL, but it was all “humbug” as it did not take any steps to do so. He also argued that the EA order was not valid as an earlier single judge order of December last year had held that there was no arbitration agreement between FRL and Amazon. FRL had earlier told the high court that Amazon was opposing the deal with Reliance as the Mukesh Ambani firm was a competitor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||RBI announces Rs 20,000-crore open market operation to buy government securities||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday rushed to cool down bond yields by announcing a Rs 20,000-crore open market operation (OMO) to buy government securities. Yields had climbed above 6 per cent after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a higher than expected government borrowing programme of Rs 12 lakh crore even as the central bank failed to release the borrowing calender of the government in its monetary policy last week. At an auction on Friday, the central bank could sell only Rs 9,000 crore of bonds against Rs 31,000 crore on offer with the primary dealers or underwriters forced to pick up Rs 8,810 crore. The markets were demanding higher yields, which did not find favour with the RBI. It did lead to questions whether the RBI would be able to seamlessly manage the government's mammoth borrowing programme. However, some of the market’s apprehensions were put to rest on Monday as the central bank announced the Rs 20,000-crore OMO to support the government’s additional supply of bonds. The markets expect the apex bank to announce more such auctions. In OMO, the RBI buys government securities and injects liquidity into the markets “On a review of current liquidity and financial conditions, therefore, the Reserve Bank has decided to conduct purchase of Government securities under Open Market Operations (OMO) for an aggregate amount of Rs 20,000 crore on February 10,’’ the central bank said on Monday. The RBI will purchase 6.18 per cent Government Security 2024, 7.17 per cent 2028, 5.77 per cent 2030 and 6.19 per cent 2034 paper. The announcement led to yields on the benchmark 10 year paper cooling down to 6.03 per cent against the previous close of 6.07 per cent. Speaking to The Telegraph, Ashhish Vaidya, head of treasury at DBS Bank, said there was an appetite for government bonds but only at a particular price. He said even if the RBI was successful in keeping a lid on interest rates for some time, it could bounce back with a vengeance. He said there was a need for an alternative source of demand for government paper. The RBI has allowed retail purchase of government bonds but this should be accompanied by tax breaks as was done elsewhere, he said. Yields had shot up to 6.06 per cent after the budget forecast a 9.5 per cent fiscal deficit for 2021-22 and 6.5 per cent for the next year. On Friday the yields on 10-year paper shot up further to 6.14 per cent intra-day when the RBI announced the normalisation of CRR. The yields later fell to 6.07 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||BSE benchmark Sensex rallies 617.14 points, closes above 51000-mark||The BSE benchmark Sensex rallied 617.14 points, or 1.22 per cent, to close above the 51000-mark for the first time on Monday as the market capitalisation of BSE listed companies at around Rs 202 lakh crore exceeded the nominal GDP of Rs 194.82 lakh crore forecast for the fiscal by India’s National Statistical Office. The Sensex had closed above 50000 for the first time just four sessions ago on February 3. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 191.55 points, or 1.28 per cent, to its lifetime closing high of 15115.80. It touched an intra-day record of 15159.90. A persistently bullish trend in the global markets further bolstered risk appetite, traders said. After touching a lifetime high of 51523.38 during the day, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 617.14 points, or 1.22 per cent, higher at its record closing peak of 51348.77. Mahindra and Mahindra (M&M) was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring 7.23 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid, Infosys and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, HUL, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finance, ITC, Bajaj Auto and Sun Pharma closed in the red, dropping up to 1.43 per cent. “Strong global cues supported the domestic rally. PSU Banks, which were on a bull run, paused on Monday with some correction seen in FMCGs. “The overall market is maintaining its buoyancy with a rally in all sectors especially auto, IT and metals. Improved domestic outlook is encouraging sustained FPI inflows,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. Sector-wise, BSE auto, metals, industrials, telecom, utilities and tech indices rallied as much as 3.07 per cent, while the FMCG index closed with losses. In the broader markets, the BSE midcap and smallcap indices rose up to 1.53 per cent. Global shares marched to record highs on hopes that US President Joe Biden’s $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief package will be passed by lawmakers soon. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with significant gains, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude crossed the $60 per barrel mark after more than a year on improving demand prospects. The rupee dropped 4 paise to close at 72.97 against the US currency on Monday because of a strong dollar sentiment and dollar buying by importers. However, sustained foreign fund inflows and strong gains in equity markets restricted the rupee’s fall, traders said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
09-02-2021||India||India orders 10 million new doses of Covishield||The government has placed orders for one crore additional doses of Covishield from Serum Institute of India and 45 lakh more doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech, officials of the two vaccine makers said on Tuesday. The government had earlier placed a purchase order with Serum Institute of India (SII) for 1.1 crore doses of AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield. When asked, a Bharat Biotech spokesperson said, "The company has received a letter of comfort from the Government of India to supply another 4.5 million (or 45 lakh) doses''. The spokesperson also added that Bharat Biotech will also be exporting its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, to Brazil and the United Arab Emirates. The company is also likely to export the vaccine to the Philippines and other South Asian countries, the spokesperson said. India's Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 16||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||Home Minister Amit Shah addresses Parliament on Uttarakhand disaster||As many as 197 people are missing while 20 have died in Sunday's avalanche and flash floods in Uttarakhand, Union Home Minister Amit Shah told Parliament on Tuesday. He said the figures received from the state government may change and the situation is being monitored round-the-clock at the highest level by the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself. Five more bodies were recovered on Tuesday taking the death toll from the Uttarakhand glacier disaster to 31 as multiple agencies raced against time to reach about 30 workers trapped inside a tunnel in a power project site and 175 people remained missing. A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, triggering an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations and endangered lives of people living along the banks. Shah told the Rajya Sabha that the rising water levels washed away the functional Rishiganga small hydro project of 13.2 MW and also affected the under-construction 520 MW NTPC Hydro Power Project at Tapovan on the downstream of the Dhauli Ganga river. "As per information received from the Government of Uttarakhand, 20 people have died and six persons have been injured so far. As per information, a total of 197 people are reported missing which includes 139 of an under-construction project of NTPC, 46 of the functional Rishi Ganga Project and 12 villagers," he said. Twelve people working on the NTPC project and 15 on the Rishiganga one have been saved. In a tunnel of NTPC project, approximately 25-35 people are suspected to be trapped, Shah said. "Rescue operations to evacuate these people is going on a war footing and all-out efforts are being made for searching missing persons. "I assure the House that the Centre is extending all possible assistance to the state government for relief and rescue work. The central government is working in close coordination with the state and all necessary steps, which are considered appropriate, are being taken," he said. Since a bridge has been washed away due to the deluge, 13 villages around the place of the incident have been cut off. Necessary supplies and medical assistance are being provided to these villages through helicopters, the Union Home Minister said. The state government has reported that there is no danger of downstream flooding and the rise in water level has been contained, he said, adding, "The centre and the state governments are keeping a strict vigil on the situation." A meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) under the chairmanship of cabinet secretary was held on February 7, wherein all the agencies concerned were directed to work in close coordination and to extend all requisite assistance to the state administration. Shah said both the control rooms of the Ministry of Home Affairs are monitoring the situation and are providing all possible help to the state. The Indo-Tibetian Border Police has set up their control room and 450 personnel of the force with all necessary equipment are engaged in rescue and relief operation. Five Nation Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams have also reached the place of incident. Besides, eight teams of the Indian Army, including one Engineer Task Force (ETF), are carrying out rescue operation at the incident site. A diving team of the Indian Navy has also reached the site for the rescue operation. "Five helicopters of the Indian Air Force have also been engaged in the rescue operation. A control room has been established at Joshimath," Shah said. Despite adverse conditions at the site, search and rescue operation is being carried out continuously. The Army has cleared debris at the opening of the tunnel to rescue the people trapped in it. A team of the Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment/DRDO has reached the site for surveillance and reconnaissance, he said. At the ground and government level, the district administration, police and disaster management departments of the state government along with all central agencies have been working for rescue and relief work, Shah said. He also informed Lok Sabha about the situation in Uttarakhand and the response of the government. Essential food and medical supplies are being provided to affected villages through helicopters, Shah said. The state Public Works Department and the Border Roads Organisation have started repairing five damaged bridges. Central Water Commission personnel are on high alert and a DRDO team is keeping a vigil on avalanches, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India|| Red Fort chaos: Actor Deep Sidhu sent to 7-day police custody||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu who was "a prominent player" behind the violence at the Red Fort on Republic Day has been arrested by the Delhi Police, officials said on Tuesday.  Later in the day, a city court sent him to seven-day police custody after police alleged that Sidhu was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at the Red Fort on January 26.  The arrest was made by a team of the Delhi Police's Special Cell, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav.  Sidhu was arrested from the Karnal Bypass at 10.40 pm on Monday, Yadav told PTI, adding that he was wanted in connection with the case of instigating the crowd at the Red Fort on Republic Day.  "The Crime Branch will investigate his role in detail," the DCP said.  Asked where he was hiding after the January 26 violence, Yadav said the investigation at in an initial stage.  Taking to Twitter, the Special Cell claimed that Sidhu was "a prominent player" behind the Republic Day violence and he was instigating youngsters with his provocative speeches and stardom even when he was hiding from the law.  Police had announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to Sidhu's arrest.  After the January 26 violence, which had leftover 500 security personnel injured and one protestor dead, the 36-year-old actor-activist was posting videos on social media.  "Sidhu was in contact with a woman friend who lives in California. He used to make videos and send it to her, and she used to upload them on his Facebook account," a police source said.  Sidhu kept changing his locations to evade arrest, sources said, adding that several teams are working to arrest other persons who were involved in the violence.  Sidhu was sent to seven-day police custody by Metropolitan Magistrate Prigya Gupta.  However, Sidhu's counsel claimed that he had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time.  The violence took place when tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on January 26 during their tractor parade to highlight their demand for repealing the new agri laws.  However, their parade dissolved into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour.  Thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border clashed with police. Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where the religious flag was also hoisted. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protestor died.  At the Red Fort on January 26, several police personnel had fell or jumped tens of feet down a wall after being pushed to the edge by a marauding mob.  In the FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, police said two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protestors who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear.  "The mob later hoisted different flags there. They also started creating nuisance on the rampart. The unruly mob was asked to come downstairs. They went to Meena Bazar area to enter the into Red Fort. When the police tried to take them out of Lahore Gate, the mob became violent and attacked personnel. The mob thrashed the police personnel and threw them in the wells," police had said in the FIR.  "They damaged a bus, a government gypsy and other vehicles. The mob robbed the anti-riots gears -- cane stick, shields, body protectors, helmets etc from the police personnel," it had also said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||No new Covid deaths in seven states, UTs since three weeks, says Centre||Seven states and UTs have reported no new Covid-19 deaths in the last three weeks, while 15 have not registered any fatality in the past 24 hours, the Centre said on Tuesday, underlining that consistent gains are being made in terms of declining new cases and casualties. The Centre, however, noted that the last national serosurvey findings have shown that over 70 per cent of the population is still susceptible to the disease. The seven states and UTs -- Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mizoram, Nagaland and Lakshadweep -- have reported no new Covid-19 deaths in last three weeks, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Addressing a press briefing, he said India was the fastest country to reach 6 million vaccination doses of Covid-19 in 24 days. Bhushan said within the country also some states have performed well, while others need to improve their vaccination coverage. "There are 12 states and UTs that have vaccinated more than 65 per cent of the registered healthcare workers. These states are Bihar (78.1 per cent), Tripura (77.1 per cent), Madhya Pradesh (76 per cent), Uttarakhand (73.7 per cent), Odisha (72.4 per cent), Mizoram (69.9 per cent), Himachal Pradesh (68.7 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (68 per cent), Andaman and Nicobar Islands (67.9 per cent), Rajasthan (67.2 per cent), Kerala (66.9 per cent) and Lakshadweep (66.7 per cent)," he said. On the other hand, Bhushan said, there are 11 states and UTs that have vaccinated less than 40 per cent of healthcare workers. These are Puducherry (15.4 per cent), Manipur (21.3 per cent), Nagaland (21.5 per cent), Meghalaya (24.3 per cent), Chandigarh (28.7 per cent), Punjab (34.1 per cent), Dadra and Nagar Haveli (34. 5 per cent), Ladakh (35.8 per cent), Jammu and Kashmir (37.5 per cent) and Delhi (38 per cent). "These are the states we are in touch with and telling them to increase the coverage," he said. Bhushan said the Centre has advised states and UTs that all frontline workers must be scheduled for vaccination at least once by March 1, 2021. "We have further advised states and UTs that all frontline workers must be given the opportunity of mop-up rounds by March 6, 2021. Those frontline workers who do not get vaccinated in scheduled vaccination rounds or in mop-up rounds will have to be relegated to the age-specific vaccination rounds," he said. Bhushan said a meeting of the National AEFI Committee was held on February 5 where discussions were held on 8 AEFI cases following Covid-19 vaccinations. "Out of these 8 cases, causality assessment of 5 cases (2 deaths and 3 hospitalised) was conducted. Among hospitalised cases, all three were discharged. Two have been diagnosed as anaphylaxis; classified as vaccine-product related reactions (known and expected reactions following vaccinations) and one case diagnosed as syncope: classified as immunisation triggered stress response (anxiety reaction)," he said. Among death cases, Bhushan said it was found they were not related to vaccination. Bhushan said histopathology and chemical analysis report in three death cases are awaited from the state government. "We are making a standard template through which we will put information in the public domain," he said. There is no evidence of presence of the South African variant of SARs-CoV-2 in India so far, but we are keeping a watch, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||Kerala coaching centre sealed after 91 pupils test positive ||A private tuition centre, attended by as many as 91 students of a government school at Marancherryin Ponnani here, who had recently tested positive, is suspected to be a 'super-spreader' of COVID-19, authorities said. The tuition centre was sealed on Monday, Ramesh Kumar, district education officer, Tirur, told PTI. Even as more students, teachers and parents are being subjected to RT-PCR tests, following the unprecedented infection spike among students and teachers in two schools at nearby Ponnani, it has been found that the spread has come from a private tuition centre, where students used to go for coaching classes, he said. Apart from the Marancherry and Vanneri schools, a few more schools in the vicinity have been closed for the time-being to arrest the spread. At least 22 students of these schools, who had also attended classes at the tuition centre, have been isolated and they would undergo RT-PCR tests on Wednesday. Depending on their test results, it would be decided if higher secondary students in and around this area should also be subjected to COVID-19 tests. "We have broken a chain. Otherwise the situation would have been worse," the official said. As many as 148 students and 37 teachers of the Maranchery school and 42 students and 42 teachers of the Vanneri HSS have tested positive till now. "More students and teachers are being subjected to testing to trace positive cases," Ramesh Kumar said. District officials said they have no records of the total number of students, who used to attend classes at the tuition centre, which has not been functioning since the first student tested positive. Since this student and a teacher of another school were symptomatic, they were tested and found positive, the official said, adding that the rest of the students, teachers and staff of the two schools are asymptomatic. The two schools will become functional only after the students' sample turn negative and health authorities inspect and certify that the institutions are safe to be opened. The 'sectoral' magistrates will visit tuition centres in the area to find out if there is any violation of COVID protocol norms and seal immediately, if necessary, the sources said. Officials are also apprehensive that the safety protocol is not being followed at marriages and social gatherings. The "Turfs"-- where teenagers and adults go to play football for an hour on payment, in soccer-crazy Malappuram district, should be closed down, the sources said. A meeting of the department of health and education and Ponnani municipality, convened by district collector K Gopalakrishnan on Monday, had instructed health authorities to conduct COVID-19 tests in six more schools in the area. The district collector has instructed all officials concerned to scale up efforts on ensuring implementation of COVID-19 protocol and contain the spread.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||Rajiv Kapoor, son of Raj Kapoor, dies at the age of 58||Actor-director Rajiv Kapoor, son of celebrated filmmaker-actor Raj Kapoor, died on Tuesday due to heart attack. He was 58. Neetu Kapoor, wife of late actor Rishi Kapoor, was the first to confirm the news on Instagram. She wrote "RIP" alongside a picture of her brother-in-law. Brother Randhir Kapoor said Rajiv Kapoor died due to heart attack "He passed away about 1.30 pm due to heart attack," Randhir Kapoor told PTI. Rajiv Kapoor made his acting debut with 1983 film "Ek Jaan Hain Hum", but made first appearance as a leading man in blockbuster "Ram Teri Ganga Maili" (1985), which was Raj Kapoor's last directorial venture. He went on to feature in films like "Aasmaan", "Lover Boy", "Zabardast" and "Hum To Chale Pardes". Rajiv Kapoor's last film as a leading man was 1990's "Zimmedaar". A lesser-known face from the famous Kapoor film clan, he then made a switch to production and direction. His first production was "Henna" (1991), directed by his brother Randhir Kapoor. In 1996, Rajiv Kapoor made his feature directorial debut with "PremGranth", starring Rishi Kapoor and Madhuri Dixit. He also produced the Rishi Kapoor-directed 1999 romance drama "Aa Ab Laut Chalen". In 2001, the married architect Aarti Sabharwal, but the couple divorced later. Rajiv Kapoor was the youngest among three brothers and two sisters -- Randhir Kapoor, Rishi Kapoor, Ritu Nanda and Rima Jain. His eldest sister Ritu Nanda and brother Rishi Kapoor passed away in January and April last year. The actor was set to make a comeback to the screen with sports drama "Toolsidas Junior", starring Sanjay Dutt in the lead. Produced by filmmaker Ashutosh Gowariker and producer Bhushan Kumar and directed by Mridul, the movie was announced in December last year. Mourning Rajiv Kapoor's death, legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar said she is "deeply saddened". "I just got to know about the passing away of the talented actor Rajiv Kapoor, the youngest son of Raj Kapoor Sahab. I'm deeply saddened by the news. May his soul rest in peace," Mangeshkar tweeted. Director-producer Naved Jaffrey remembered Rajiv Kapoor as someone with "a pure heart and a very nice human being". "May his soul rest in peace, deepest condolences to the family," Jaffery wrote on Twitter. Actor-producer Tusshar Kapoor offered his deepest condolences to the Kapoor family. "Sad to hear of the passing away of Rajiv Kapoor! May his soul rest in peace," he tweeted. Cine & TV Artistes' Association (CINTAA), a trade union which looks after the rights and welfare of its members in the entertainment industry also expressed its deepest condolences on the demise of Rajiv Kapoor. The late actor was a CINTAA member since October 1983, the association said on Twitter. "Sad to hear of the passing away of #RajivKapoor (Chimpu) ji ! Deepest condolences to the family! RIP," producer Girish Johar tweeted. Actor Neil Nitin Mukesh said he was "devasted" with the news of Rajiv's demise. "Devastated! Another big loss to the family Folded hands one of my most favourite people in the world. Love him so so dearly. Don't remember a Happy Moment without him. Chimpu uncle we will miss you," he wrote on the micrblogging site. Senior Congress leader and former Union Minister Salman Khurshid remembered Rajiv Kapoor as "one of the most versatile" actors of his time. "My heartfelt condolences to the entire Kapoor family. #OmShanti," director Madhur Bhandarkar wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||PM assures India’s ‘full support’ to help develop war-ravaged Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday expressed concern over increasing violence in Afghanistan and called for a comprehensive ceasefire for ending the hostilities, while assuring India's full support in the development journey of the war-ravaged country. In a virtual meeting with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, Modi said as close neighbours and strong strategic partners, both India and Afghanistan want to see the region free of extremism and terrorism. The prime minister also said no "outside force" will be able to stop Afghanistan's journey towards development as well as its friendship with India. Referring to the Afghan peace process, he said unity within the country was important and hoped that a "united Afghanistan'' will be capable of dealing with any challenge facing it. "We are concerned over increasing violence in Afghanistan....we support a comprehensive ceasefire in the country," the prime minister said. The online meeting was held to finalise an agreement under which India will construct a dam in Kabul river basin to supply water to the Afghan capital city. In his remarks, Ghani said India's development assistance to Afghanistan is iconically marked on the country's landscape. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan and it has already invested USD two billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the war-ravaged country. In November last, India announced a new package of over 100 high impact community projects worth USD 80 million for Afghanistan at a global conference on Afghanistan. The Shahtoot Dam in Kabul is part of the new developmental package. The agreement was signed by foreign ministers of the two countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||PM breaks down while talking about his association with Ghulam Nabi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi broke down several times in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday while reminiscing about his close association with Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad whose term is coming to an end next week. The prime minister was participating in the farewell speech for Leader of Opposition Azad and three other members from Jammu and Kashmir -- Nazir Ahmad Laway, Shamsher Singh Manhas, Mir Mohammad Fayaz-- whose terms in the Upper House are coming to an end. Modi said it would be difficult for anyone to fill the shoes of Azad as he cared not only about his political affiliation but also about the country and the House. "I worry that after Azad whosoever will take over from him will have to fill very big boots because he cared not only about his party but about the country as well as the House. This is not a small thing, this a big thing," Modi said. He noted that Azad had called him to ask for an all-party meeting during COVID-19 period. "I liked that and also did it. This kind of connection is there because he has the experience of both being in power and in opposition. Twenty-eight years experience in all, it is a big thing," the prime minister said. Reminiscing about their long association, Modi said that as chief ministers of Jammu ad Kashmir and Gujarat, both of them kept in touch with each other. Sharing details of their communication during a terrorist attack on some Gujarati pilgrims in Jammu and Kashmir, Modi said Azad was the first one to call him about the incident. With tears rolling down his cheeks, Modi said that Azad cried on the call while informing him about the horrific attack. "Azad was the first person to call me. During that call he could not stop crying," Modi said with a choked voice as tears rolled down from his eyes. Azad later went to the airport when the bodies were sent back and kept in touch till the plane landed in Gujarat, Modi said. "Power comes and goes but (only a few know) how to digest it...therefore like a friend, I respect him on the basis of the things he has done over these years," Modi said while wiping his tears and saluting Azad. Modi said he believes that Azad's concern for his country won't let him sit and whatever responsibilities he takes in the future would be beneficial for the nation. "At a personal level, I would request him to not believe that he is not in the House. My door is always open for all of you. I will always expect and value your inputs," he said. "I will not let you become weak," the prime minister told Azad as he closed his comments. Earlier, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu described Azad as a voice of sanity in public life over few decades when he made valuable contributions while serving both in government and in opposition. Azad retires from Rajya Sabha on February 15 after being the leader of opposition for over six years since June 8, 2014. Naidu said Azad's retirement is particularly painful with the House having lost Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||Twitter seeks dialogue with IT Minister after order to block accounts||Twitter on Tuesday said it is seeking formal dialogue with the Information Technology Minister after the government ordered it to take down 1,178 accounts for allegedly spreading misinformation around farmers' protests. The microblogging platform also noted that safety of its employees is a top priority. "We continue to be engaged with the Government of India from a position of respect and have reached out to the Honourable Minister, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, for a formal dialogue," a Twitter spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that an acknowledgement to the receipt of the non-compliance notice has also been formally communicated. The government, on February 4, had ordered Twitter to block 1,178 accounts with links to Pakistan and Khalistan supporters that were spreading misinformation and provocative content on farmers' protest. Previously, too, the government had ordered Twitter to take down handles and hashtags that suggested a farmer genocide was being planned, saying such misinformation and inflammatory content will incite passion, and impact public order. It has also warned Twitter of penal action in case of failure to comply with its directive and had cited sections that provide for fine and jail for up to 7 years. Notably, Twitter's Public Policy Director for India and South Asia Mahima Kaul has quit, fuelling speculations about her departure amid the ongoing situation. However, the company has clarified that this was not the case. "At the start of this year, Mahima Kaul decided to step down from her role as Twitter Public Policy Director for India and South Asia to take a well-deserved break. It's a loss for all of us at Twitter, but after more than five years in the role we respect her desire to focus on the most important people and relationships in her personal life, Twitter Vice President Public Policy Monique Meche said. Meche added that Kaul will continue in her role till the end of March and will support the transition. In an emailed response, a Twitter spokesperson said the company reviews every report it receives from the government as expeditiously as possible. It will take appropriate action regarding such reports while making sure we hold firm to our fundamental values and commitment to protecting the public conversation. An update is shared through our established channels of communication with the Government, the spokesperson said. The spokesperson emphasised that the company strongly believes that the open and free exchange of information has a positive global impact, and that the tweets must continue to flow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||Indian-American comedians stand by Munawar Faruqui||A group of Indian-American stand-up comedians have come out in support of Munawar Faruqui, who was recently released from jail after 35 days in a case of allegedly hurting religious sentiments during one of his comedy shows. Faruqui and four others were arrested on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA's son that objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Home Minister Amit Shah were passed during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's Day. He was released from the Indore Central Jail late Saturday night after he was granted interim bail by the Supreme Court. In a brief video message after he was set free, the 32-year-old comedian said, "I don't want to comment (on the case against him) now. But, I have full faith in the judiciary and I am hopeful of getting justice." In their comments, the Indian-American stand-up comedians said the arrest of Faruqui was incredibly unjust and against the freedom of expression. "As a comedian, my entire life is built on the ability to express myself to make people laugh but to also call out contradictions and injustice: things that make us uncomfortable but are important to bring to light. Because of this I deeply value my freedom to develop my own thoughts and share them with people," comedian Pallavi Gunalan said. "That Munawar is being treated so cruelly simply for being a fellow comedian is incredibly unjust and we need to speak about it. That he didn't even get a chance to express himself before being jailed shows we have such a long way to go in terms of truly understanding what freedom and liberation mean for everybody, even people with whom you may disagree. "Any one of our lives could be taken away so quickly and it's not right. So, we have to fight for them. I support Munawar and his colleagues and I hope they will receive justice," Gunalan said in a statement issued by the Hindus for Human Rights. Gunalan and several other Indian American stand-up comedians recently participated in a virtual solidarity show for Faruqui organised by the Reclaiming India coalition. Nine young South Asian American comedians performed during the show last week. "It was very important for me as a fellow comedian to show solidarity with Munawar and others like him who had been wrongfully arrested for practicing the art form of stand-up comedy. To paraphrase Dave Chappelle, as a comedian I think it's necessary to fight anyone that tries to obstruct the practice of stand-up comedy, especially a state deliberately infringing on free speech rights, said Sai D. Rishi Mahesh said that he participated in this event because of his perspective that history is going to look favourably on those who promote freedom of expression, those who meet disagreement with argument and reasoning rather than violence. "Supporting Munawar is in support of mutual respect in the face of conflict," he said. Apoorva Gundeti said that she believes that art is inherently political and they have a responsibility to use art and platforms to share what they believe. Filmmaker, educator and performer Fatimah Asghar, the emcee for the show, said that Faruqui is not one individual, but a young outspoken Muslim comedian. "His case encapsulates so much of what is happening in India in recent years. We have seen rising discrimination and violence towards Muslims and other minorities, towards artists and members of the media, and towards any public figure who dares to dissent against the government. That is why we, as young South Asian Americans, are taking a stand in solidarity with Faruqui," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||SC stays arrest of Tharoor, Sardesai and others on R-Day violence tweets||In a major relief to Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six journalists including Rajdeep Sardesai, the Supreme Court Tuesday stayed their arrest in connection with the FIRs lodged against them for their allegedly "misleading" tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally here on the Republic Day.  The apex court, in the proceedings lasting five minutes, granted protection from any possible coercive action by police of states like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Karnataka to Tharoor as also Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Vinod K Jose and Anant Nath.  Issue notice returnable in two weeks. In the meantime, there shall be stay of arrest of the petitioners, the bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde noted in its order after senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the lawmaker from Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, expressed the looming danger of danger arrest.  When the bench said it was issuing notice in the matter, Sibal vehemently pleaded that an order with an effect that no coercive action be taken against them in the meantime be also passed.  Nothing is going to happen. Where is the danger, said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.  Sibal objected and said Solicitor General Tuhsar Mehta is appearing for Delhi Police and the cops of other states might knock at my doors and arrest me in the meantime .  "Kindly protect us in the meanwhile," Sibal said, prompting the bench to ask the law officer whether the police was planning to arrest Tharoor and others.  Mehta, seeking to argue the case on Wednesday, alleged: Horrendous tweets have been made, the law officer said, adding, I can show you what horrendous effect these tweets have with such lakhs of followers.  The bench asked Mehta, Are you going to arrest them?  The solicitor general said, I am before your lordships. Please hear it tomorrow.  The bench then asked Mehta whether he was appearing for all the concerned states.  I will appear for all, he said.  Sibal, while arguing that petitioners should be protected, said, What prejudice will it cause if this protection is given?  We will hear you after two weeks and stay the arrest in the meanwhile, the bench said.  Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for one of the journalists, said no religious sentiment has been hurt and it was a January 26 report on some person being allegedly shot and then it was corrected to something else.  The top court has issued notices to the Centre, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Karnataka governments on the pleas filed by Tharoor and others.  On January 30, Delhi Police had filed a case against Tharoor, Sardesai and others.  Earlier, Tharoor and the six journalists were booked by Noida Police for alleged sedition, among other charges, over the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi, officials had said.  Madhya Pradesh Police had also filed a case against Tharoor and the six journalists over their alleged ''misleading'' tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi.  Tharoor has moved the apex court, through advocate Sandeep Kapur, challenging the registration of multiple FIRs against him for his tweet on the January 26 violence in Delhi.  The petitioners have sought quashing of the FIRs and has invoked the petitioners' right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 and their freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.  FIRs have been lodged for offences such as sedition and creation of communal disharmony.  One of the FIRs, lodged at Noida, alleged the actions of the Tharoor and others on social media that a farmer had been shot dead by Delhi Police during the tractor rally led to the siege of the Red Fort and violence.  The FIR at Noida said the accused, through their "fake, misleading and wrong" tweets, tried to imply that the death of the farmer was caused by the violence committed by Delhi Police.  On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police in the national capital during the tractor rally called by the farmer unions demanding repeal of the three new farm laws passed by the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Death toll climbs to 31 in Uttarakhand disaster||The death toll from the Uttarakhand disaster rose to 31 with the recovery of five bodies on Tuesday, the State Emergency Operation Centre said, even as the operation to rescue around 30 workers feared trapped inside a tunnel at the Tapovan power project in Chamoli district continued. The State Emergency Operation Centre said 175 people are still missing after the Sunday's disaster, apparently caused by a glacier burst. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) earlier said its personnel recovered two bodies from debris in Raini village on Tuesday morning. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat visited Lata in Chamoli district on Tuesday to meet the residents of the avalanche-hit villages. Rawat, who reached Tapovan on Monday evening to review rescue efforts, undertook an aerial survey of the affected areas on Tuesday and also met 12 workers who were rescued from the tunnel on Sunday evening. Around half a dozen people were injured in the avalanche on Sunday. Thirteen border villages of Joshimath block were cut off following the avalanche in Rishi Ganga river on Sunday. The villages that lost road connectivity in the wake of the calamity are Raini Palli, Pang, Lata, Suraithota, Suki, Bhalgaon, Tolma, Fagrasu, Long Segdi, Gahar, Bhangyul, Juwagwad and Jugju. Nearly 100 ration kits have been supplied to the affected villages by helicopters to ensure they face no dearth of essentials. Talking to reporters, Rawat said the priority is to get to those trapped inside the tunnel and save as many lives as possible. Additional heavy machines could be pressed into service to expedite the process of clearing tonnes of debris inside the tunnel blocking the path of rescue personnel. A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier possibly burst through its banks in Chamoli district on Sunday.It appeared to have triggered an avalanche and a deluge that ripped through the Alaknanda river system in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. Experts, however, are still trying to determine the exact cause of the disaster in Joshimath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Less than 10,000 fresh Covid cases for the second time this month||The daily new COVID-19 cases fell below 10,000 for the second time this month taking India's tally of cases to 1,08,47,304, while fresh fatalities remained below 100 for the fourth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 9,110 new infections were reported in a span of 24 hours. The death toll increased to 1,55,158 with 78 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,05,48,521 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 97.25 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,43,625 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.32 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,25,87,752 samples have been tested up to February 8 with 6,87,138 samples being tested on Monday. The 78 new fatalities include 16 from Kerala, 15 from Maharashtra and 11 from Punjab. A total of 1,55,158 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,325 from Maharashtra followed by 12,387 from Tamil Nadu, 12,239 from Karnataka, 10,882 from Delhi, 10,209 from West Bengal, 8,691 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,160 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Deep Sidhu arrested in connection with R-Day violence||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu wanted in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day has been arrested by the Delhi Police, officials said on Tuesday. The arrest was made by a team of Delhi Police's Special Cell, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav. Official sources said that he was arrested from Zirakpur near Chandigarh. The police had announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to Sidhu's arrest. After the January 26 violence that had left over 500 security personnel injured and one protestor dead, Sidhu was posting videos on social media. "Sidhu was in contact with a woman friend who lives in California. He used to make videos and send it to her, and she used to upload them on his Facebook account," police sources said. Sidhu kept changing his locations to evade arrest, they said. On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border clashed with police. Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. In the FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, police said two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protestors who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear. "The mob later hoisted different flags there. They also started creating nuisance on the rampart. The unruly mob was asked to come downstairs. They went to Meena Bazar area to enter the into Red Fort. When the police tried to take them out of Lahore Gate, the mob became violent and attacked personnel. The mob thrashed the police personnel and threw them in the wells," police had said in the FIR. "They damaged a bus, a government gypsy and other vehicles. The mob robbed the anti-riots gears -- cane stick, shields, body protectors, helmets etc from the police personnel," it had also said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Modi profiles 'Andolan Jeevis', warns about 'Foreign Destructive Ideology'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi used the august House on Monday to profile a “new breed” of protesters as “Andolan Jeevi” and parasites and asked the country to be alert about “Foreign Destructive Ideology”, falling back on conspiracy theories and labels reminiscent of the Nazi era in Germany. On a day that stood out for contradictions, the Prime Minister also sought to claim legitimacy for the controversial farm laws by swallowing his pride and quoting his predecessor Manmohan Singh who had been repeatedly ridiculed and called names by Modi. It was also an indirect admission that his government’s laboured explanations to the farmers had proved ineffective even after 11 rounds of talks. Modi told the Rajya Sabha while replying to the motion of thanks on the President’s address: “We are aware about shramjeevi (workers), buddhijeevi (intellectuals). A new breed has taken birth. They are the Andolan Jeevi. You will find them at the protests of lawyers, students, workers and farmers. “Kabhi parde ke peechhe, kabhi parde ke aage. Yeh poori toli hai (Sometimes behind the curtain and sometimes in front of the curtain. This is a gang).” He later added: “Aise logon ko pehchan-ne ki zarurat hai. Sab Andolan Jeevi parjeevi hote hain (Such people need to be identified. They are all parasites).” The choice of words was an unfortunate throwback to the run-up to the atrocities Hitler committed in Germany, where he set the stage by relentlessly describing the Jews as parasites living off others or as harmful bacteria (“noxious bacillus”) . Prime Minister Modi is using similar terminology, branding some of the protesters “Andolan Jeevi” and publicly sounding a call to single them out close on the heels of an attempt to attack the protesting farmers near Delhi and pass it off as a spontaneous reaction from residents in the neighbourhood. The very same tactic was used in Nazi Germany to pit neighbour against neighbour and hound dissenters. Unwittingly or otherwise, Modi borrowed from other playbooks, too. He again referred to the Emergency and the terrible price it had exacted, but this did not prevent him from playing the “foreign hand” card once monopolised by Indira Gandhi. “The nation should stay away from these Andolan Jeevi. We are talking about FDI (foreign direct investment). Another FDI has come too. It is ‘Foreign Destructive Ideology’. We have to be aware of them to save the nation from this ideology,” Modi said. The Prime Minister’s warning suggests that the tweets by celebrities abroad have touched a raw nerve -– something the deaths of over 160 farmers could not achieve. Modi invoked three of his predecessors to defend the new farm laws. The farmers are demanding the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee for the payment of the minimum support price (MSP) while farm produce is bought from them. Modi referred to the views of the late Prime Minister and Bharatiya Lok Dal leader Chaudhary Charan Singh to underscore the plight of farmers. The Prime Minister quoted Manmohan as saying “there are other rigidities because of the whole marketing regime set up in the 1930s which prevent our farmers from selling their produce where they get the highest rate of return”. “You should feel proud that Modi is doing what Manmohan Singh said,” Modi said. He said that during the Green Revolution, there were similar protests against the reforms but the then Prime Minister, Lal Bahadur Shastri, went ahead with them. What Modi did not say was that the government has been unable to address the fears of the farmers who believe that the ham-handed manner in which the laws have been pushed proves that they are aimed at exploiting them and abetting crony capitalism. “We are asking the farmers to come to talks. This is the time to strengthen agriculture. We cannot take the country backward. Mandis should be made modern and efficient. The MSP was there, is there and will be there in future. But we have to take steps to reduce the load on farming. Affordable ration for the poor will continue,” Modi said. The farmers have asked the government to repeal the three laws and to draw up fresh laws in consultation with them to strengthen agriculture. Opposition parties also favour bringing in reforms in consultation with all stakeholders. Modi said certain forces wanted instability in India and were trying to mislead the Sikh “brothers”. “The country is proud of our Sikh brothers. The language spoken about them and the way they are being misled, it is not good for the nation,” Modi said, conveniently forgetting that the ecosystem associated with his regime had sought to malign the protesters. Nor did the Prime Minister explain the reason for his condescension – that is, what made him think that a proud community that had always been at the forefront of defending and feeding the nation could be so easily “misled”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Sasikala jitters for AIADMK||Released from jail recently and after a Covid recovery, V.K. Sasikala, who had been a close aide of former Tamil Nadu chief minister Jayalalithaa, drove down here from Bangalore on Monday to thousands of her supporters mobbing her car at various NH spots. The excitement and chaos was a slice of an earlier era of political exuberance, but came as cold comfort to the ruling AIADMK. Attired in a green saree and with her face mask on, Sasikala, 66, warmly greeting her supporters en route to Chennai, appeared less intimidating from her imperious days as Jayalalithaa’s former aide, but her speeding Innova car fluttering the AIADMK party flag on its bonnet spoke of her defiant spirit to recapture the party. Even as T.T.V. Dhinakaran, her nephew and general secretary of the breakaway AIADMK, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), and functionaries escorted ‘Chinnamma’, as Sasikala is referred to, in other vehicles, their spirit of open defiance visibly gave the jitters to the ruling AIADMK, which had already expelled both from the party’s primary membership. Disregarding a Tamil Nadu police notice not to use the AIADMK flag on her vehicle, Sasikala on entering the state border near Zuzuwadi in Krishnagiri district was told by the local officials to remove the flag. Sasikala then got down from the vehicle and got into another Innova that fluttered the AIADMK flag as she drove on. The car, as Dhinakaran said later, belonged to an AIADMK office-bearer, S.R. Sampangi from nearby Hosur, who had come to greet Chinnamma. “I will not bow to repressive tactics and will certainly be in active politics,” Sasikala told reporters, speaking briefly at one place in Krishnagiri district. Sasikala reached her new home in T. Nagar in the city later in the evening to rousing reception by AMMK functionaries and well wishers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Protesting farmers hand PM a lesson for his 'Andolan Jeevi' comment||The protesting farmers on Monday wore as a badge of honour Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s reference to some of them as “Andolan Jeevi” and handed him a lesson in history. Modi’s comment had come in the Rajya Sabha while he was replying to the motion of thanks to the President’s address. “Farmers would like to remind the PM that it is andolans that have liberated India from colonial rulers and that is why we are proud to be Andolan Jeevi,” said a statement from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the banner under which the movement is being conducted. “It is the BJP and its predecessors that had never done any andolan against the Britishers and they were always against the andolans. They are still scared of public movements.” The government’s “adamant attitude” is creating more “Andolan Jeevi”, the SKM said, adding that the agitating farmers would be more than happy to return home. But, as Rakesh Tikait has said, there could be no “ghar wapsi (return home)” without a “kanoon wapsi (law repeal)”. The farmer union leaders see not even a sliver of hope in the Prime Minister’s speech. They said he had again talked only about tweaking the contentious farm laws and not about repealing them, and seemed to be addressing only his own supporters and not the farmers. Gurnam Singh Chaduni of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) said Modi had declared several days ago that he was only a call away. “Farmers are sitting at Delhi's borders. Why doesn't he call the farmers if he wants to talk?”  Given the pace of mobilisation and the farmers’ anger at the enemy-like treatment being handed out to those protesting at Delhi’s borders, union leaders say it’s impossible to back down now as the Prime Minister is suggesting. “We cannot just pack up and leave on the basis of what he said in Parliament, which is just empty words,” a union leader said. Referring to Modi's assertion that “MSP (minimum support price) was there, MSP is there, MSP will remain in the future,” Tikait asked at a rally: “Why not then enact a law guaranteeing MSP?” While this has been a longstanding demand of the farmers, it has assumed urgency in the context of the three new farm laws. The fear is that private players will first offer attractive prices to wean farmers away from the government mandis, and once the mandi system is weakened the companies will determine the price, pushing it down. What the farmers, therefore, want is a legal guarantee that even corporate groups will buy their produce at the MSP. Reacting to Modi’s refrain on the MSP, Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan -- an SKM constituent -- said that if a farmer was denied the MSP tomorrow, what would he do with the Prime Minister’s speech or tweets? “Government officials function only on the basis of laws, not tweets and speeches,” Yadav said. The SKM described Modi's new formulation for “FDI” – “Foreign Destructive Ideology” -- as dangerous while reaffirming that all the charges levelled against the farmers’ movement by the government's supporters were baseless. It said it subscribed to constructive democratic processes that upheld the basic human rights anywhere in the world, and expected similar reciprocation from all like-minded people across the world because “injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere”. A message of support for the farmers’ protest was aired in the Fresno County of California during Sunday's Super Bowl -- one of the most watched sporting events in the US. Abhimanyu Kohar of the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh told The Telegraph that instead of maligning the entire movement, why did the government not act against those it thought were doing something wrong. “Why this name-calling all the time?” he asked. Kohar contended that Modi was reaching out to his core constituency in his speech. “The speech was not for the farmers, otherwise why would he mislead and say we have not explained why the farm laws are ‘black’?” he said. “All he has to do is read the minutes of the meetings between the farmer unions and the ministers and see the video recordings, which are available with the government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Avalanche triggered by snowfall likely cause of  flash flood: Geologist||An avalanche triggered by snowfall — and not glacial ice sundering — was the likely cause of Sunday’s devastation in Uttarakhand, scientists said on Monday using satellite imagery. Weather scientists, however, said heavy snow had been neither forecast nor observed in Chamoli district on Friday or Saturday. “A preliminary analysis suggests that heavy snowfall on Friday and Saturday led to an accumulation of a snow pile that caused an avalanche,” Santosh Kumar Rai, head of glacial studies at the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehra Dun, told The Telegraph. He said the institute had sent five scientists to the site to reconstruct the sequence of events that led to the flash flood. They are expected to complete the survey in two or three days. “We’ll have a report by the end of the week,” Rai said. A satellite imagery analysis by scientists at the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing, Dehra Dun, suggested the accumulated snow pile was missing on Sunday, Rai said. During the avalanche, the snow rolling down would have melt through friction. The gravel, mud and rocks it carried would have added momentum to the flood as it swept through the Niti valley in Chamoli. Some scientists had on Sunday, relying on official descriptions of the trigger as a glacial burst, speculated that a chunk of glacial ice may have separated and led to a glacial lake outburst flood (GLOF), an event typically caused by heavy rain or snowfall. But Rai said the terrain’s steep slope at the site makes the accumulation of water and the formation of a lake unlikely. Daily avalanche warning bulletins from the Defence Geoinformatics Research Establishment, issued on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, had each assessed the “danger level” as “1”, meaning “generally safe conditions” with any snow on the slopes considered “generally stable with isolated instability”. But scientists acknowledge that avalanches and landslides belong to a class of phenomena difficult to predict. India Meteorological Department scientists, however, said snowfall had been mild to moderate in Chamoli district. Observatories at Gairsain, Tharuli, Chamoli, Karnprayag and Joshimath – all sites within Chamoli district – had recorded rain or snow between 8.5mm and 12mm from 8.30am on Thursday to 8.30am on Friday, and none thereafter till Saturday, a senior IMD scientist said. “These are amounts that we would label mild or moderate – not heavy,” the scientist told this newspaper. “But these are the amounts at the specific locations of our observatories – in mountainous terrain, there could be variations in the readings at different areas.” Geoscientist Dan Shugar from the University of Calgary, Canada, had been among the earliest to suggest on the basis of satellite imagery on Sunday night that the flash flood in Chamoli had been caused by a large landslide onto a glacier. On Monday, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat too said after a meeting with state government scientists, who had on Sunday suggested a glacial burst, that what had occurred was an avalanche. “Scientists of the Indian Space Research Organisation told us there was a landslide at a point where snowfall had taken place two or three days ago. As a result, lakhs of tonnes of ice slipped and led to the calamity,” he said. “They showed me in two-to-three-day-old pictures that there was no glacier, and the top of the mountain was clean. Something (purported to be snow) was seen thereafter at certain points on top of the mountain, where a part of the mountain slid, and that was the reason the massive chunk of ice came down.” It seems the theory of a glacier break was advanced initially because there are a large number of glaciers in Uttarakhand, including Dronagiri, Badrinath, Santopath, Hiprawamak and Bhagirathi in Chamoli district alone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Modi mocked the farmers’ movement: Congress||The Congress on Monday said every citizen of the country would have been ashamed when Prime Minister Narendra Modi mocked the farmers’ movement instead of showing understanding of the gravity of the situation and making a serious attempt to resolve the crisis. Responding to the Prime Minister’s reply to the debate on motion of thanks to the President’s address in the Rajya Sabha on Monday, Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil said: “The entire country, even the world, looked up to the Prime Minister today to bring curtains on the 74-day-long movement. “But every citizen would feel ashamed at the disdainful manner in which he dealt with the issue. He showed no seriousness… mazakia andaz mein bole (made fun of the issue). Farmers are in such anguish; not a word on the death of so many farmers.” Gohil added: “This was betrayal of the faith the country reposed in him. He is not BJP’s Prime Minister. He is the country’s Prime Minister. He failed to demonstrate any seriousness. There was no mention of China. Our borders are not safe, 20 soldiers were killed. But no mention.” Another Congress Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda said: “The farmers got nothing except disappointment today. It is tragic that the Prime Minister failed to understand the gravity of the situation.” The Congress leadership was upset because Modi heaped scorn on the protesters, saying: “We are aware about shramjeevi (workers), buddhijeevi (intellectuals). A new breed has taken birth. They are the Andolan Jeevi.”. The Congress hit back hard, arguing that the party which had no contribution in the freedom struggle will never understand the importance of peaceful mass movements in democracy. His decision to mock the protesters instead of hauling up those who maligned the farmers by calling them terrorists shocked the entire Opposition.Senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge said at a media interaction: “We expected the Prime Minister to resolve the crisis today by withdrawing the three laws honouring the national sentiment. The Prime Minister dismissed everything in one sentence — that nobody knows anything about the laws. The farmers, the Opposition, the experts are all fools.” He was later threatened over phone for criticising the Prime Minister. Kharge lodged a police complaint. Kharge also contested the Modi’s boastful claims on Covid management, saying: “The government has replied to a question in the Rajya Sabha, admitting that their performance was the worst in Asia. The Prime Minister, as usual, misled the nation.”Party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala also criticised Modi for avoiding specific objections to the farm laws, saying: “Modi tried to escape accountability using bluff and bluster.” The Congress on Monday launched a month-long campaign to enrol five lakh social media warriors across the country who will be used to counter the BJP’s false propaganda. Rahul Gandhi in a message on the occasion said these warriors would protect the idea of India that had come under threat because of politics of hate and violence with harmony and affection. Party’s social media head Rohan Gupta released a phone number (1800120000044), a WhatsApp number (7574000525) and email (www.incsmw.in) for the volunteers who wish to join.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Maha govt to probe into synchronised tweets by Indian celebrities||The Maharashtra government will investigate how certain Indian celebrities suddenly posted “synchronised” tweets last week that were widely viewed as a pushback against foreign stars like Rihanna expressing support for the farmers’ movement. “It has been revealed that same (similar) posts (were tweeted) by (Indian) celebrities and at the same time. Our state Intelligence department will inquire if the tweets were sent in a synchronised manner,” Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Monday. “The timing of all the tweets, and the coordinated manner in which they were sent out, indicates a line of action and that this was planned.” The tweets by heavyweights such as Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli and Lata Mangeshkar have triggered speculation that they had acted under government pressure or encouragement. With several top cricketers — including Rohit Sharma and Ajinkya Rahane — involved, fingers have been pointed at BCCI secretary Jay Shah, son of Union home minister Amit Shah. Deshmukh was responding to a demand for a probe from the Congress, a partner in the coalition government that includes the Shiv Sena and the state home minister’s own party, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The Indian celebrities’ tweets had come with two hashtags — “IndiaTogether” and “IndiaAgainstPropaganda” — that the foreign ministry had started after Rihanna, climate activist Greta Thunberg and other global luminaries tweeted support for the protesting farmers. The Indians’ posts contained similar wording and sentiments, implying attempts to divide the country or undermine its sovereignty and suggesting Indians alone can decide on internal matters and find “amicable” solutions. The comments were seen as an endorsement of the government’s unsympathetic treatment of the farmers’ protest and earned the Indian stars unexpectedly severe censure on social media. While NCP veteran Sharad Pawar has advised the Indian celebrities to be cautious while speaking on subjects they were unfamiliar with, new state Congress chief Nana Patole has been more aggressive. “There was a time when some celebrities in Mumbai used to follow instructions from bhai log (Mumbai’s underworld). People are now asking, ‘Since when has the central government started bhaigiri?’” he said, implying government pressure behind the tweets. Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant dismissed the suggestion that his party might be demonstrating similar intolerance as the Narendra Modi government, which has described the tweets by foreign celebrities as an “international conspiracy”. Delhi police, who report to the Union home ministry, have registered an FIR. “Not at all, we are all for freedom of speech. Our initiative is to protect that freedom of speech. We want to know whether the synchronised tweets came under pressure or out of free will. We are not saying the central government pressured these people; we have only sought an investigation,” Sawant told The Telegraph. “This is a very serious situation. We are in for trouble if influential people in society are lending their voice to something they don’t believe in, (if) they are doing it under pressure or allurement. We live in difficult times — you know what the political climate is. Anybody can trigger a crisis in society by forcing celebrities to express certain views. We must ensure that this racket is busted, if there is any. If somebody is threatening, bribing or blackmailing celebrities to tweet in a certain way, the central government should provide them security.” Sawant said the timing and the content of the tweets had triggered genuine apprehension. “The tweets put out by actor Akshay Kumar and badminton player Saina Nehwal was exactly the same — word for word. How does that happen? Actor Suniel Shetty even tagged BJP leader Hitesh Jain. They all took care to attach the statement by the ministry of external affairs (asking global celebrities to ascertain facts ‘before rushing to comment on such matters’),” he said. “The line of argument was the same, the words used were similar, the hashtags used were the same. Shouldn’t we find out who is directing this coordinated play?” Supporters of the government and the BJP have lapped up the tweets from the Indian celebrities, who included Ajay Devgn, Karan Johar and Anil Kumble. But the posts have angered the protesting farmers, some of whom have questioned whether Tendulkar deserves the Bharat Ratna (awarded by the erstwhile UPA government). Congress leaders believe that a thorough investigation will end all speculation about the cricketers, who are worshipped by millions of fans across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
09-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: 20 bodies recovered, 197 people are still missing||Twenty bodies had been recovered by Monday evening while 197 people were still missing a day after the avalanche in Uttarakhand, amid indications that authorities’ decision to have labourers work on a Sunday at two hydropower projects had helped fuel the human tragedy. Nearly all those dead or missing were workers of the Rishiganga and Tapovan hydel projects — set 5km apart and between the villages of Raini and Tapovan in Chamoli district — that took the brunt of the avalanche and were swept away. Some 425 Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel, 124 army soldiers and over 100 National and State Disaster Response Force personnel were helping the rescue efforts, which were focused on 35 workers, managers and engineers trapped inside a tunnel at the Tapovan project site. Rescuers and some of the labourers said the avalanche spared the workers’ makeshift quarters, about 500 metres from the project site at both Tapovan and Raini, implying the casualties would have largely been averted had Sunday not been turned into a working day. A supervisor of the Tapovan project told reporters on the condition of anonymity that Sundays were supposed to be holidays and he didn’t know why an exception had been made this week. No clarifications could be obtained from officials of the NTPC, which runs the Tapovan project, or the Rishiganga Power Corporation. “I think some 150 labourers would have been buried where the mass of snow and water fell,” the Tapovansupervisor said. “Huge quantities of iron bars, cement and concrete slabs had been stored there. It won’t be possible to enter the muddy area anytime soon, but the earth and cement will soon mix and the spot will get frozen forever.” It appears that mostly those who had ventured out died or went missing. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced the deaths of “five local shepherds and their 180 sheep and goats”, and unconfirmed reports suggested the same fate for a few woodcutters. With six bridge collapses cutting off half-a-dozen local hamlets including Raini and Tapovan, and mobile services hit, it was unclear whether residents had suffered casualties or losses. Rescuers said that “from the distance”, the hamlets — with a collective population of about 500 —seemed largely unaffected. Speaking unofficially, an employee of one of the two hydel projects said the companies did not keep full records of all their workers, and the casualties could therefore be much higher than whatever the final official count is. “This (lack of records) is because the companies depend on petty contractors to bring in labourers, and shrug off any responsibility when casualties happen. So, we’ll never know the actual number,” he said. Survivor accounts too indicated a heavier toll, with one Tapovan labourer saying he saw “nothing left” at one particular site “where more than 300 were working”. Vimal Kumar, 21 — from Nighasan bock in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh to which at least 40 of the missing labourers belong — told father Dukhi Ram he was unhurt because he was working at a distance from the dam. He said most of the labourers were near the dam and apparently got buried under the mud and snow. “Vimal told me he saw a mass falling with a roar. He ran away with the others nearby. When he turned back from about 50 metres, there was nothing left where more than 300 were working,” Dukhi Ram said. “My son, who has been working there for six months, said there was hardly any possibility of survival because the mud, which formed instantly, was too deep. There was no time for anybody to escape.” Nathu Lal, whose son Dharmendra Verma is missing, said: “I don’t know why they were asked to work on a Sunday. They are paid only on the days they work. Still, they should be able to rest at least one day a week even if they have to go without pay for that day.” He added: “My son said he worked 12 hours a day and stayed in a makeshift structure about 500 metres from the project site below the Nanda Devi.., from where something fell on them. I hope he wasn’t there at the time.” Chief minister Rawat said the ITBP was trying to free 35 Tapovan project workers trapped inside a tunnel. “We have reached 80 metres of a 180-metre tunnel and hope to rescue the 35 soon. Debris (mud and rocks from the avalanche) has entered the tunnel and is blocking the way. We are clearing it gradually,” ITBP deputy inspector-general Aparna Kumar said in the afternoon. Those trapped in the tunnel, which is 3km long but trifurcates after 180 metres, include a general manager, an assistant general manager and several NTPC engineers, sources said. They said the tunnel was slightly curved, making it difficult to clear the slush, debris and silt blocking it. No voice contact had been made yet with anyone in the tunnel, an official said. Sniffer dogs and heavy equipment, including bulldozers and JCBs, had been flown in. State authorities said 27 people had earlier been rescued — 12 from a smaller tunnel at the Tapovan project site and 15 from one at the Rishiganga site. Himanshu Thakkar, co-ordinator of the South Asia Network of Dams, Rivers and People, said the tragedy had raised questions about the safety of the dams, Reuters reported. “The dams are supposed to withstand much greater force. This was not a monsoon flood, it was much smaller,” he said. Additional reporting by Reuters and PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
09-02-2021||India||India has crossed the LAC more often than China, says Modi's minister||If Narendra Modi seemed to imply that China had not intruded into Ladakh, one of his ministers who is a former army chief has gone further and suggested it’s India that is the habitual intruder. General V.K. Singh, junior road and highways minister, has asserted that India has crossed the Line of Actual Control more often than China but the government never announced it, prompting military veterans to dub the comment “shameful” and “shocking” coming from a former army chief. They asked whether Singh was making out a case for the government to accept the estimated 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory that China is accused of occupying. On Monday, the Chinese foreign ministry pounced on Singh’s remark, terming it “an unwitting confession” by the Indian side and accused Delhi of trespassing the border to encroach on China’s territory. Several veterans drew parallels with Prime Minister Modi’s no-intrusion remark on June 19, days after the Galwan Valley clash that killed 20 Indian soldiers, that too had played into China’s hands. “Neither has anyone intruded into our frontier there, neither is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else,” Modi had told an all-party meeting — a remark he never retracted. “With such ridiculous statements (as Singh’s) we are again playing into China’s hands after the no-intrusion claim by Modi,” a former army commander said. “It seems India has accepted the new status quo and given up its demand for the restoration of status quo ante as of April 2020 (before the latest Chinese intrusion in May last year).” Former army officer Pravin Sawhney tweeted: “3 things on former COAS Gen V.K. Singh: He is making a case for Gov to accept 1,000 sq km occupation of our territory by PLA. He has let down the army he commanded. He does not know warfare — his move will strengthen China’s case for occupation war by 2024!” Media reports say that during the military talks, the Chinese have indicated that India should “accept the new status quo”. Singh’s statement appeared to be driven by the sort of bravado that had prompted the Modi government to advertise its 2016 “surgical strikes on terror launch pads” across the Line of Control. Security establishment veterans had at the time said that such stealth strikes were not unprecedented but diplomatic and security considerations had ensured they were never advertised.A Chinese foreign ministry statement said: “This is an unwitting confession by the Indian side. For a long time, the Indian side has conducted frequent acts of trespass in the border area in an attempt to encroach on China’s territory and constantly created disputes and frictions, which is the root cause of the tensions at the China-India border.” Singh had in Madurai on Sunday said the border with China had never been demarcated and China had transgressed many times over the years with its own perception of the LAC. “Similarly, none of you come to know how many times we have transgressed as per our perception. Chinese media does not cover it. Let me assure you, if China has transgressed 10 times, we must have done it at least 50 times,” The Hindu quoted him as saying. A retired army commander told The Telegraph: “It’s shameful that a former army chief who is now a minister has this view on an issue concerning India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Does he think some sort of kabaddi match is going on along the LAC?” A former lieutenant general said: “This is a shocking and disturbing statement by a former army chief. Does it mean India is willing to accept the revised status quo in eastern Ladakh?” Indian and Chinese troops have since May 2020 been locked in a standoff at multiple points in Ladakh — the Depsang Plains, Pangong Lake and Hot Springs — with nine rounds of military talks failing to break the deadlock. India’s government and army statements, released after each round of talks, have in recent months dropped any reference to the demand for restoration of status quo ante. Singh said India had warned China with equal measures over the Ladakh transgression. “Today, China is under pressure since we are sitting at places (along the border) where it does not like,” Singh was quoted as saying. He said India had hit Beijing economically by banning its apps and boycotting its goods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
09-02-2021||India||Ruckus mars Bihar Legislative Assembly centenary celebrations||The centenary celebrations of the Bihar Legislative Assembly building on Sunday witnessed ruckus after a CPI-ML legislator objected to BJP flags at the venue and raised the issue of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three controversial farm laws. “This centenary celebration is a celebration of democracy. It was not necessary to hoist BJP flags on the occasion. This function is of the people of Bihar and not of the BJP,” CPI-ML legislator Mehboob Alam said at the ceremony held in the central hall of the Assembly. His words drew instant reaction from the BJP legislators and they started shouting to register their opposition to his remarks. Alam did not stop there and went on to speak about the ongoing farmers’ protest against the new farm laws. “The farmers’ protest is going on in the country and we express our support and sympathy for them,” Alam added. It added fuel to the fire as the BJP MLAs started shouting to drown out Alam’s voice. They asked him to stop speaking but he asserted that they would have to listen to him in a democracy despite being rattled, and completed his speech amid the pandemonium. The present Assembly building was inaugurated on February 7, 1921, to hold the session of what was then known as the Legislative Council. Chief minister Nitish Kumar inaugurated the centen ary celebrations presided over by Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha. Deputy chief ministers Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, and one or two MLAs from all political parties spoke on the occasion. Senior RJD leaders, including leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, his mother and former chief minister Rabri Devi and elder brother and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav did not attend the function. Sinha stressed the need for the MLAs to understand the nuances of various functions of the Assembly, as well as their rights and duties. “The people have elected the MLAs with much faith and hope. We hope their desired cooperation in making the lives of people better with discipline, behaviour and service. We will ask all MLAs to write outside their house that their families are free of addiction, crime, child labour, child marriage and dowry,” Sinha said. Senior RJD leader Awadh Bihari Chaudhary rued the alleged lack of respect shown by government officers to the MLAs, and called for ensuring that they (officers) follow protocol and proper etiquette while meeting the legislators. AIMIM legislator Akhtarul Iman Shaheen demanded that the monsoon and winter sessions of the Assembly should be held for a longer period instead of just two to four days to ensure that public issues could be taken up. He also demanded answers to questions raised by the Opposition legislators and hearing them during special debates. Nitish asserted that all MLAs, be they from the ruling parties or the Opposition, were part of the government and it was necessary to pay attention to the issues raised by them. “It is the duty of the MLAs to gather information about the issues pertaining to their area and raise them in the Assembly. We assure them that their relevant questions would be definitely resolved,” Nitish said. The chief minister also said that the centenary celebrations will continue for a year and the President and the Prime Minister will also participate in some of the programmes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
09-02-2021||India|| Nitish lays foundation stone for Rs 5,540-crore hospital redevelopment||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday laid the foundation stone for a Rs 5,540-crore redevelopment of the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), which will turn it into the country’s biggest and world’s second largest hospital. The PMCH is currently Bihar’s largest hospital with 1,750 beds, but after the redevelopment the capacity will increase to 5,462. The project is scheduled to be completed in three phases over seven years. However, Nitish has requested that the project be completed in five years, keeping in view the importance of the hospital for the state. At present, the Chang Gung Memorial Hospital with 10,000 beds at Taoyuan in Taiwan is the largest in the world in terms of capacity. The West China Medical Centre of Sichuan University at Chengdu in China with 4,300 beds is the second largest and the Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital with 3,400 beds in Johannesburg, South Africa, is the third largest in the world. The Ahmedabad Civil Hospital with 2,800 beds is considered the biggest in India. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, has 2,500 beds. Nitish said that he had been planning to convert the PMCH into a world-class medical facility for the last 13 to 14 years, but the progress on this front had been very slow. “Earlier, people from eastern Uttar Pradesh and Nepal used to come to PMCH for treatment. We want it to become even better than the important position it used to hold earlier. The project will be executed in three phases and we will ensure that the current medical operations are not hampered in any manner,” Nitish said. “The work is starting after a delay of 13 to 14 years. The target for the contractors is seven years, but I request them to complete it in five years. This is a different kind of work and we should not delay it. I assure them that they will not face any problem, nor there will be any dearth of government support,” he added. Nitish also said that the Bihar government has done a great job in tackling the coronavirus pandemic and the Covid-19 death rate was just 0.58 per cent. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, health minister Mangal Pandey, several legislators, government officials and doctors were present at the ceremony. Nitish also assured that the government would ensure that all resources, staff and money are made available to the PMCH to convert it into a world-class medical centre. The redeveloped hospital will have multiple approaches, residences and hostels for doctors, paramedics and other staff, helipad, dormitories and state-of-the-art facilities. The PMCH traces its origin to the Temple Medical School, which was set up in to 1874 and continued for almost five decades. Later, it came to be known as the Prince of Wales Medical College, which was formally inaugurated in 1925. It got its present name post-Independence. The PMCH has now become infamous for filth lying around, stray dogs, poor facilities, faulty gadgets, lack of hygiene inside the wards and emergency sections, middlemen moving around to lure patients to private hospitals, strikes by junior doctors and a disregard for better management practices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
09-02-2021||India||Puri Jagannath Temple draft bylaws withdrawn ||The Centre on Monday withdrew the controversial draft heritage draft bylaws of the National Monument Authority (NMA) for the 12th Century Puri Shree Jagannath Temple succumbing to public pressure. Political parties of Odisha, too, had opposed the bylaws. The decision to withdraw the bylaws came after a delegation of BJD MPs led by Bharturhari Mahatab and BJP MPs led by Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi met Union minister of culture Prahlad Singh Patel and lodged a protest. They demanded that the new proposed regulations be withdrawn immediately. Soon after meeting the BJD and BJP MPs, the Union culture minister tweeted, “Direction has been issued to withdraw the draft heritage laws. In future action with regard to Puri will be taken in consultation with mutual agreement.” Chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who visited the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple on Monday morning, said: “I thank the people of Puri who have sacrificed their land for development of Shree Mandir. Their sacrifice will not go waste. Nobody can stop the work of Lord Jagannath. Central government should withdraw the NMA bylaw notifications.” The draft heritage bylaws prohibit any construction work within a 100-metre periphery of the temple. Apart from the prohibited area, there will be no construction within another 200-metres of it without permission. The first 100 metres will be declared as prohibited zone and the other area will be known as regulated zone. Earlier, servitors of the temple on Sunday held a demonstration demanding immediate withdrawal of the draft heritage bylaws. Most of the servitor families reside within 300-metre periphery of the shrine. If the law had been implemented, the servitors would have been worst affected. Noticing the resentment of servitors, Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) backed by the Odisha government on Sunday wrote a letter to NMA urging it to consult the servitors who are stakeholders in the temple. In his letter to the member secretary, NMA, chief administrator of SJTA Dr Krishan Kumar pointed out that a large number of habitations (Sahis) around the shrine are inhabited by servitors and are more than a millennium old. He also underscored the importance of the services of these servitors to the Lord, which have been going on since time immemorial. “As they are (sevayats) are likely to be severely and adversely affected by any intervention of the authorities like this draft notification, they must be consulted before any process to restrict their rights is undertaken by the NMA. This is also important as any adverse impact of sevayats have a direct bearing on continuity of Niti-Kanti (rituals) of Lord Jagannath,” he said. Kumar has also pointed out that the Odisha government has recently acquired the land and properties for strengthening safety and security of the century-old shrine for the Shree Jagannath Heritage Corridor project.  The land has been taken within 75 metres periphery of the shrine. This project aims to provide drinking water, toilets, cloakrooms and Queue Management System to the pilgrims. “Any regulation which has the potential to restrict development of facilities and amenities on land voluntarily contributed to the Lord will hurt their sentiments,” Kumar said in his letter. “If the NMA is still of the view that any further regulatory framework of any nature is required to protect and further the cause of the Mula Peetha (original shrine) of the Lord, it should have a detailed consultation and discussion with members of the Shree Jagannath Temple Management Committee (SJTMC) before any such fresh attempt is made,” Kumar said. The servitors had threatened to move court to repeal the draft notification. The NMA released the draft laws on January 18 and had sought public opinion on this by February 18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata says she is like Royal Bengal Tiger, cannot be intimidated by BJP||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday likened herself to a Royal Bengal Tiger, saying that she is not a weak person who can be intimidated by the BJP. Addressing a rally in Murshidabad, the capital of Nawab Siraj-ud-Daullah's empire, she also compared those who left the TMC to join the saffron party to Mir Jafar, a commander of his army who betrayed him in the Battle of Plassey against the British in 1757. "There is no reason to think I am weak, I am not a person to be afraid of anything. I am a strong person and will keep my head high as long as I live and till then I will live like a Royal Bengal Tiger," Banerjee said. Accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of wrongly claiming at a BJP meeting in Haldia on Sunday that government employees in West Bengal do not get salaries properly, she alleged that it is the Centre which is selling off BSNL, SAIL and privatising the Railways and insurance companies. Banerjee also claimed that the Centre did not give any assistance to West Bengal for dealing with the devastation caused by cyclone Amphan last year, nor did it do anything to support the state to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. Raking up the outsider issue, the TMC supremo claimed that the BJP is a party of Gujarat and Delhi, which is bringing in National Register of Citizens (NRC) and National Population Register (NPR). The state chief minister asserted that she will not allow these in West Bengal. "People from Gujarat will not rule Bengal, the Trinamool Congress will rule Bengal," Banerjee said at the rally held ahead of the assembly elections in the state due in April-May. Claiming that corrupt people sell themselves off, she said that those who want to leave the TMC and join the BJP are free to go. Alleging that some people are joining the saffron party out of fear that they could be implicated in cases related to smuggling of cattle or coal, Banerjee said, "The BJP seems to be a washing machine, those having dirty hands emerge clean after joining it." She also attacked the Congress and the Left which will contest the assembly polls jointly in the state. "The Congress cannot fight the BJP and does not want to do it. The CPI(M) is the BJP's big friend," she said, claiming that it is only the TMC which can take on the might of the saffron party in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal farmers didn’t receive funds under PM-Kisan scheme, alleges Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday alleged that the BJP-led government at the Centre was not disbursing funds under the PM-Kisan scheme to peasants in the state despite the TMC administration having sent the verified names of farmers to it. Accusing the BJP of falsely claiming that she is denying funds to the farmers, she said that the Trinamul Congress government in the state is giving Rs 5,000 each to peasants and has also arranged for free crop insurance. The chief minister had on Monday informed the Assembly that out of 6 lakh applications of farmers sent by the Centre for verification for payment of monetary assistance under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, the state government has returned 2.5 lakh names following necessary work. The TMC supremo claimed at a public rally at Kalna in Purba Barddhaman district that peasants are facing atrocities during their agitation outside Delhi against the new farm laws. Accusing the BJP of resorting to lies about Hinduism, Banerjee said that her party does not preach division among people on the basis of religion. "The BJP has turned the country into a crematorium, but we will not allow the same to happen in Bengal," she said, asserting that the TMC will win the assembly elections for the third consecutive term. Humayun Kabir, an IPS officer who resigned from his job a few days back, joined the TMC at the rally in the presence of the party supremo. Elections to the 294-member assembly are due in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal records unroken 105-day drop in active Covid cases||Bengal on Monday logged 279 Covid-19 recoveries, 119 infections and two deaths, with none from Calcutta. The numbers helped the state achieve an unroken 105-day drop in its total active cases since Vijaya Dashami. The state has 4,632 total active cases — 3.26 per cent of India’s total — down from 37,190 on Dashami (October 26). The state's over 5.71 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first infection was reported on March 17 last year, includes over 5.56 lakh recoveries and 10,209 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 108 consecutive days to touch 97.4 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.21. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78 and the national rate 1.43 per cent. Of the total death toll, 8,574 (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 80 days. On Monday, the state reported 17,113 tests, taking the total past 81.67 lakh, at 90,754 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||5 Bengal migrant workers missing in Chamoli avalanche||Five migrant workers, three from East Midnapore and two from Purulia, are missing in the aftermath of Sunday’s avalanche in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. East Midnapore’s Lalu Jana, 30 and Bulu Jana, 28, from Lokkha village, and Sudip Guria, 27, from Dariberia in Mahisadal, were contract workers at a dam construction site on Rishi Ganga river. His colleagues, many from Mahisadal, on Monday said Sudip had been at the site of the tragedy on Sunday, his elder brother Baidyanath said. Missing Purulia residents Ashwini Tantubai, 26, and his cousin Subhankar Tantubai, 19, had left home four months ago to work at the hydropower project in Uttarakhand’s Tapovan as contract workers. Their relatives said that Chamoli officials told them on Monday that the cousins were missing along with 150 others. “My son Ashwini spoke to me and his wife on Saturday morning and said he would return home in four days, he was waiting for a confirmed train ticket. Now he is missing,” wept Chaitanya Tantubai, a marginal farmer. Officials from both the districts said that they were in touch with the families of the missing young men and authorities at Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||NJP train fare hike sparks protests||Hundreds of daily commuters protested in at least two stations of Jalpaiguri district on Monday as the popular Haldibari-New Jalpaiguri (NJP) passenger train resumed services after the pandemic-induced lockdown with higher fares and a mandatory reservation fiat. Protests and sloganeering were witnessed at Jalpaiguri Town and Belakoba stations. The decision of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) to introduce a flat rate of Rs 35 between any two stations along the NJP-Haldibari route and mandatory booking created trouble for many daily passengers, including office-goers, domestic helps and farmers. Nitai Das, a government employee and daily commuter on the Siliguri-Jalpaiguri route, said many could not board the train on Tuesday as they could not buy tickets in advance. “Some stood at the counter at Jalpaiguri Town station with booking slips but none could board the train. Railway authorities clarified that tickets had to be bought at least four hours before the train’s departure as once the reservation chart is ready no more tickets would be issued,” Das said. Vegetable vendors were among many who found it tough to fill up reservation forms. A daily commuter said it was surprising that even for an hour-long journey, reservation was mandatory. “Local train services have also started in Calcutta and Mumbai but as far as we know there is no such reservation system in metro cities. Why here? This is discrimination. Here, fares have also been hiked in the name of reservation charge. We want the railways to run this train like before,” he said. As the train from Haldibari chugged into Jalpaiguri station, passengers who had not been able to buy tickets started a demonstration in front of the ticket counter and the entrance. Some even confined a couple of railway employees and shouted slogans. Later, similar protests were witnessed in Belakoba, a station between NJP and Jalpaiguri, said sources. Salil Acharya, the Jalpaiguri district CPM secretary, said the train between NJP and Haldibari was the principal mode of transport for hundreds of farmers of Haldibari, a prominent agricultural belt of north Bengal. “During the past 10 months or so, they had to hire smaller vehicles to ferry their produce at extra cost. The announcement that this train service would resume had brought them some relief. But the new decisions imposed by the railways have only added to their problems. We doubt how many of them can book tickets in advance. It is high time that the railways revoke the decision,” said Acharya. A railway official in Jalpaiguri sounded helpless. “We can’t do anything unless there is a specific instruction from our seniors,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata accuses Modi of lying about beneficiary numbers sent by state||Mamata Banerjee on Monday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of lying when he said on Sunday that her government had sent names of only 6,000 farmers, that too without their bank account details, for the Centre’s PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. “Narendra Modi has picked up a habit of telling lies…We have already verified 2.5 lakh farmers of 6 lakh farmers (applications) sent to us for verification. The Centre should send money to these 2.5 lakh farmers immediately,” said the chief minister while replying to budget discussions that she had tabled in the Assembly last Friday. Sources in the administration said that the chief minister decided to react as the Prime Minister had alleged during his political rally in Haldia on Sunday that Bengal had sent names of 6,000 farmers when 25 lakh farmers had applied for benefits under the central scheme. Modi had also said that the Centre could not send money to even the 6,000 farmers, whose names the state had forwarded, as the state government did not send their bank account details. The Centre’s minimum income support scheme that ensures an annual aid of Rs 6,000 to each eligible farmer is a thorn in New Delhi-Nabanna relations. Initially, the state government had declined to be part of the project. More recently, the Mamata Banerjee administration changed its decision and informed the Centre that it wanted to be a part of the scheme, for which it had to validate the farmer applications. Sources in the know said that Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar  had requested the Bengal state government to verify 22 lakh applicants under the Centre’s scheme last November. Mamata, who earlier rejected the scheme saying the state has a much better farmer scheme (Krishak Bandhu), agreed to verify applicants after Opposition parties, especially the BJP, started mounting pressure on the state government to join the scheme. “The chief minister realised that Bengal’s farmers were willing to get the benefits of the central scheme after 22 lakh farmers applied for the scheme through a portal launched by the Centre. The chief minister wrote a letter to Tomar making it clear that the state was ready to verify the farmers as she does not want to deprive any of the farmers,” said an official. In December, the Centre asked the state to depute a nodal officer who would be given details of applicants to verify the farmers who applied for the central scheme. “The agriculture department had held a meeting in December to finalise how the verification process would be carried out and it was decided that the state would match the farmers’ details with its database of Krishak Bandhu where 50,000 farmers have already registered,” said an official, and added that the verification could be hastened by matching the details with the Krishak Bandhu database. “But it seems that the issue is being politicised ahead of the polls,” the official added. Sources said a meeting would be held this week to expedite the verification process. “We have to find out a way on how the details of an applicant, whose name is not registered with Krishak Bandhu, can be verified. It would require physical verification of the applicant’s details by sending officials to his or her address. It would be a tough ask ahead of elections,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata hands out dole worth Rs 83cr to clubs||Mamata Banerjee on Monday distributed financial aid to the tune of Rs 83 crore to 8,000-odd clubs in the poll-bound state at an event to felicitate sports personalities, the move prompting Opposition parties to accuse the ruling Trinamul of trying to buy votes using state coffers. “We have given assistance to 26,000 clubs in the past few years. Some people often raise questions on why the clubs would get these funds...We think clubs play an important role in society as members of clubs stand by people throughout the year...I must say they played a crucial role during Amphan,” said the chief minister at the event at the Netaji Indoor Stadium. Since the Trinamul-led government came to power in 2011, the state government started giving financial assistance to clubs for the purpose of developing infrastructure required for sporting events. Though Opposition parties attacked the government on this largesse and the matter reached courtrooms, the state continued to support clubs. A senior government official said it couldn’t be denied that the clubs played an important role in the ruling party’s success in 2014 Lok Sabha polls and 2016 Assembly polls. “But at the same time, it is also widely accepted in administrative circles that the aid to clubs improved sporting infrastructure in the districts,” he said, adding that it helped many young players to come up from remote parts. “From Birbhum, two players were included in Bengal Under-19 cricket team last year. This happened only because infrastructure of the clubs improved,” he pointed out. At Monday’s event, Mamata also announced a monthly pension of Rs 1,000 for sports personalities above 60 years of age. “The sum is meagre...But this is to respect the players who have given so much to society,” she said, adding that some 2,000 veterans would get the pension. She also inaugurated and proposed 72 industrial parks or hubs across the state with the promise that these would create jobs for youths. “There is a possibility of drawing investment of Rs 72,200 crore in these parks and a total of 3.29 lakh employment opportunities will be created,” Mamata said. Opposition parties, however, questioned if the state had investment proposals in these parks that include the industrial township in Purulia’s Raghunathpur, the industrial park at Budge Budge and the hosiery park in Howrah’s Jagadishpur. “The state should make it clear how many investment proposals it received. Without a concrete proposal, how can the state say there is a possibility of investment worth Rs 72,200 crore when many industrial parks have vacant plots owing to disinterest from investors,” said Shamik Bhattacharya, a former BJP MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Boarder poser for hill schools as classes set to resume||Hill institutions with mostly day scholars have decided to start classes in a staggered way from this month for the first time since the pandemic, though many with boarding facilities are still indecisive. The state government has allowed classes for Class IX and above to start from February 12. A source said heads of ICSE and ISC schools in Kalimpong district held a meeting on Friday and decided to start classes from February 15 onwards. ICSE and ISC schools in Darjeeling and Kurseong subdivisions have decided to reopen schools between February 18 and 22. “We will start with half days of classes for a week and then plan and make decisions depending on how things shape up,” said an ICSE school principal from Kalimpong. Many hill schools with boarding facilities are, however, yet to take any decision. “The government directive is not very clear on whether boarders can be kept in school. We will hold a meeting (among boarding schools and probably with the district administration) this week before deciding on starting classes,” a head of an institution with both boarders and day scholars said. Students come to hill boarding schools not only from different states but also abroad. Many boarding school heads fear that if anything went wrong the institution might come under scanner. Some schools with boarding facilities that have decided to start classes are weighing options. “To start with, we have to look into the number of boarders who turn up,” a school head said. Depending on the number, some schools are planning to host students in paying guest facilities so that all children do not stay in the same premises. However, the head of a school with boarders and day scholars said they were confident of handling the situation. “Our boarder strength is 260 but the number of boarders above Class IX would not be more than 60, and we think social distance can be maintained in hostels,” the school head said. However, schools with day scholars are also clear that they would first take written consent from guardians. “We will not force any guardian to send his or her ward to school. Even though we will follow all laid down protocols, we are thinking of getting a written consent from parents about sending their wards to school,” said a school head. There are over 50 ICSE schools in Darjeeling hills of which nearly 15 have boarding facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul turncoats hint at ghar-wapsi||Two MLAs who had left the Trinamul Congress and joined the BJP caused ripples in Bengal’s power corridors on Monday as word on their meeting with Mamata Banerjee got out, fuelling speculation about the possibility of their ghar-wapsi (homecoming) and later claims by the BJP that the duo were firmly in the party. Noapara MLA Sunil Singh and Bongaon North legislator Biswajit Das met the chief minister twice on Monday. Several political observers said the development indicated that the infamous Aaya Ram Gaya Ram phenomenon had arrived in Bengal with the BJP’s desperation to grow inorganically in the state. “It is true Trinamul started the trend of getting legislators from other parties since it came to power in Bengal in 2011. But there is little doubt that with the BJP’s aggressive poaching strategy, the phenomenon that was alien to Bengal politics is now very much part of it,” said an observer. On Monday, the final day of the 16th Assembly of poll-bound Bengal, Singh and Das met Mamata, first in the corridors of the Assembly. While Singh greeted her, Das touched her feet. Mamata was overheard asking Das: “Ki rey, decision nili (Hello there, were you able to decide yet)?” About a half-an-hour later, the two MLAs entered the chief minister’s chamber in the Assembly, where a 20-minute closed-door meeting took place in the presence of senior ministers Firhad Hakim and Jyotipriya Mullick, and Naihati MLA Partha Bhowmick. While Hakim was placed in charge of engineering a slew of ghar-wapsis in North 24-Parganas since the second half of 2019, Mullick has been the district chief of the party for years. Bhowmick is one of the co-coordinator of Trinamul in the district. Since the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, the ruling party has been working hard to regain ground lost to the BJP in North 24-Parganas, which has 33 Assembly seats, the highest in Bengal. In the Assembly elections of 2016, Trinamul had won 27 of them, and the BJP had won none. But in the general election, the BJP secured leads in 21 of those Assembly segments and since then, it engineered a slew of defections in the district. After the meeting, Trinamul kept mum on the developments. But a source close to the chief minister said “very interesting” events were to be expected in North 24-Parganas over the next few days. MLAs Singh and Das faced a volley of questions from journalists in the Assembly. The Noapara MLA declined comment, flashed the victory sign with his fingers and left. The Bongaon North MLA said he had spoken to Mamata regarding some stalled development activities and the local area development fund he was entitled to as a lawmaker. He insisted that his touching her feet was not out of the ordinary, as she is a senior leader. Asked about Mamata’s question regarding his “decision”, Das said: “I never heard that.” Shortly after, Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh, the Noapara MLA’s brother-in-law, said he couldn’t explain the reason for the meeting and if Sunil Singh returned to Trinamul, their current party would take “appropriate action”. Sources in the BJP said alarm bells started ringing in the saffron camp after the two turncoats had met the chief minister. “We have plans to engineer more defections from Trinamul.If some people return to Trinamul, that would surely be a blow to us,” said a source. Shankudeb Panda, another Trinamul turncoat who is now a vice-president of the BJP’s state youth wing, called up the duo and urged them to visit the party office. Panda made the intervention at the behest of BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya. Das met Mukul Roy, yet another Trinamul turncoat from North 24-Parganas who is now a national vice-president of the BJP, in the party’s Hastings office. Noapara MLA Singh also arrived later. Visibly upset, when journalists tried to speak to him, Singh declined comment. Both the MLAs were asked to join a felicitation ceremony for Rajib Banerjee, a former member of Mamata’s cabinet now in the BJP. The duo were also felicitated. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh claimed both the MLAs had informed the party ahead of meeting Mamata and there was nothing wrong in the meeting. Later, Vijayvargiya spoke to the duo separately amid murmurs that Das had been unhappy with the “upper hand” his new party had given to Bongaon MP Santanu Thakur. The factors responsible for the Noapara MLA’s purported discontent remained unclear. “One thing is for certain. Das and Singh wanted word on the meeting with the chief minister to get out in order to extract some leverage in the BJP. That reached the BJP bosses who addressed their concerns. The two MLAs are part of the BJP,” said an insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Police divert BJP Parivartan Yatra||The ongoing Parivartan Yatra by the BJP ran into a hurdle on Monday morning when police in Murshidabad’s Beldanga did not allow a 500-strong crowd to proceed to Behrampore via Hariharpara, a 60km route. The incident prompted a three-hour-long blockade on the Beldanga-Amtala road by those taking part in the rally and prompted the police to provide an escort along the highway at noon, after which the rally eventually reached Behrampore. The yatra had been flagged off by BJP national president J.P. Nadda in Nabadwip on Saturday. Beldanga police stopped the troupe when it left their night-halt, the local Bharat Seva Ashram, around 9.30am and insisted they take the shorter route along NH12. “The rally crossed into Murshidabad from Nadia’s Palashi on Sunday night and proceeded to Beldanga via Rejinagar,” said a BJP leader, referring to the float-parade aimed at sending “a message of change” throughout poll-bound Bengal. Sources said the rally was being handled on a district-wise basis by the local party leadership. On Monday morning, when the police stopped the yatra from taking its desired route, BJP district president (south) Gouri Shankar Ghosh led a blockade on the Beldanga-Amtala road, chanting slogans. Refusing to heed the advice of the police to take the NH12 to reach Berhampore to avoid a “law and order problem”, Ghosh said they would only take the Hariharpara route and nothing else. “For three days, we have been in touch with the BJP district leadership saying they must not take the longer Hariharpara route. In any case, it is not possible to provide police escort on such a long route,” said district superintendent of police, K. Sabari Rajkumar. After three hours of persuasion, the BJP leaders finally agreed to take the road proposed by the police and the rally moved on. “We eventually got to Behrampore afternoon with the police’s help, but we were greatly delayed even though we had informed Rejinagar station in advance,” said Ghosh who oversaw preparations for a BJP meeting at the Dashamundu Kalibari grounds in Behrampore after reaching there. Police sources denied Ghosh’s claim of prior intimation. Nadda will flag off a similar Parivartan rally from Birbhum’s Tarapith Tuesday. The yatra will travel through several parts of Birbhum and will culminate in Purulia. The BJP national president will later in the day travel to Jhargram to flag off another rally that will move through a few districts to reach Belur in Howrah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP levels extortion charge at TMC||The BJP leadership on Monday dubbed the decision made by Trinamul to expel Prasenjit Roy, a leader of the party and INTTUC, an “eyewash to cover up illegal activities like extortion”. On Sunday, Trinamul leaders of Darjeeling district expelled Roy, accused of leading a group of INTTUC supporters to vandalised the dry port in New Jalpaiguri last Thursday. Roy went into hiding while 13 of his aides were arrested. Joydip Nandi, a vice-president of the Siliguri district committee of BJP, who was earlier with Trinamul, alleged that INTTUC supporters ransacked the dry port as they didn’t get extortion money from the authorities. Ranjan Sarkar, Darjeeling district Trinamul (plains) chief, called these charges baseless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Buxa Tiger Reserve villagers protest ‘assault’ by forester||Residents of many forest villages of the Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) resorted to protests and locked up at least six range offices of the forest department on Monday after a villager was allegedly assaulted by some foresters. Demonstrators, many with Trinamul flags, demanded stringent steps against foresters who had on Saturday afternoon allegedly beaten up the villager after accusing him of “illegal activities”. Sources said Dhiren Rava, a 55-year-old resident of Gadadhar forest village, along with others had gone to the Cheko stream for fishing. Foresters patrolling the area intercepted Dhiren, a former Trinamul member of Rajabhatkhawa village panchayat, and allegedly beat him up. Others with him did not dare stop the armed foresters, sources said. Later, foresters left Dhiren at his home, but he had to be taken to a private nursing home in Alipurduar. He is still admitted there. As the news spread, hundreds of villagers, many with Trinamul flags, on Monday marched to forest range offices of Jainti, Santalabari, Damanpur east and west, Gadadhar and Rajabhatkhawa, and locked them up. Banikanta Marak, chairman of the panchayat level committee of Trinamul in Rajabhatkhawa, said villagers were routinely harassed and assaulted by some forest staff without concrete reasons. “We fail to see what wrong a villager has done by fishing in a local stream. Those who beat up Dhiren should face legal steps,” he said, adding that the range offices would stay shut till senior forest officials sat with them for talks. Asked about the protests under the banner of the ruling party of the state,  BTR field director Subhankar Sengupta said: “We do not have any such information.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
09-02-2021||North East||‘Seditious’ post warning for govt staff in Nagaland||Government servants in Nagaland will face stern penal and disciplinary action if they post “seditious or subversive” content on social media, according to a communiqué from governor R.N. Ravi’s office. T. Mhabemo Yanthan, commissioner and secretary to the governor, had in an official communiqué to chief secretary Jan-e-Alam on January 16, informed about “some” government servants “indulging in seditious and subversive writings challenging the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country” and posting them on social media platforms. The communiqué also refers to one such alleged writing by “some” H. Inato Jimomi Naga of the animal husbandry and veterinary department doing the rounds on social media. It also mentions that Yanthan has been “directed” to request the state government to take “serious” cognisance of such misconduct and “initiate appropriate” legal and disciplinary action against “delinquent” government servants. All department heads may be sensitised on the issue, he stated. Such acts by a government servant constitutes a serious offence under the penal law and gross misconduct under service conduct rules inviting criminal prosecution and disciplinary action including dismissal from service, the communiqué said. A copy of the letter was also marked to Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, suggesting Ravi has kept the central government in the loop or he may have been directed by the Centre to act against government employees posting alleged seditious content. An official said the governor’s directive is only a reiteration of what is already a part of conduct rules of government servants. Another official hoped that efforts are also made by all stakeholders to find an amicable and honourable solution to the Naga political problem because a settlement will automatically curb such behaviour. Ravi is also the interlocutor of the talks between the Centre and the NSCN (I-M). Reacting to the directive, Opposition NPF legislator C. Sazo said that as governor, Ravi may be right, but as the ‘interlocutor’ of the Government of India for the Naga peace talks he seemed to have become one-sided and taking extreme steps. “Nagas want an honourable solution, but not under suppressions. Lastly, a government employee should remain within the bounds of the service code of conduct,” Sazo said. This is the second letter from Ravi’s office to the chief secretary after February 14, 2020, when it had asked the official to create “a database of state government employees’ family members and relatives in underground organisations” by April 2. Details of the police department personnel were to be furnished separately. The directive to disclose the underground links of employees came to light in July last year with the Neiphiu Rio-led government clarifying that it had asked them (employees) to declare if any of their relatives was associated with any underground outfit under the direction of Ravi. The peace process to resolve the Naga political problem has got stuck after ties between Ravi and NSCN (I-M) soured last year. The outfit has been in ceasefire since 1997 and had signed a framework agreement to resolve the problem in 2015. The relations between the outfit, which remains firm on a separate Naga flag and constitution as part of the final deal, and Ravi started souring after a letter was written by the interlocutor to chief minister Rio on June 16, 2020, criticising the law and order situation with “armed gangs” allegedly “challenging the legitimacy of the state government”. Rio responded by asserting that Ravi’s assessment of the law and order situation was not factual.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-23
09-02-2021||Opinion||Steady fall: India slips further down on Democracy Index||The slip is showing. India has slipped further to rank 53 out of 167 nations in the Democracy Index 2020, earning itself, once again, the stripes of a ‘flawed democracy’. Curiously, India’s slide has coincided with the political ascendancy of Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party: the nation’s score has fallen from a peak of 7.92 in 2014 — the year democratic India gave Mr Modi his first term in power — to an alarming 6.61 in 2020. The prime minister and his legion of admirers may scoff at these findings: after all, Mr Modi has claimed that there is an international conspiracy — a ‘Foreign Destructive Ideology’ — at work to defame the nation. But the inferences cited by the Democracy Index as causal factors for India’s precipitous decline cannot be dismissed easily. Civil liberties, one of the hallmarks of democracy, are facing an unprecedented crackdown from the authorities, pulling India down the ranking. Significantly, this deterioration intersected with the pandemic that gave some governments the opportunity to turn even more authoritarian. There are other concerns. The sustained assault on dissent, the introduction of a religious test for citizenship, the emergence of a pliant media and, allegedly, a passive judiciary, the Centre’s discernible apathy towards parliamentary deliberations and collective consent — the passage of the controversial farm laws are one example — prolonged periods of internet shutdown and so on may have all contributed to what the Index says is ‘democratic backsliding’ in the Indian context. Global concerns with India’s warts are growing, and it would be unwise to be condescending towards these reservations in the light of the contours of the foreign policy unveiled by the president of the United States of America. Joseph Biden stated that defending core democratic values as well as a pushback against the excesses of authoritarian regimes would be at the core of the US’s vision under his stewardship. India’s otherwise smooth ties with the US could encounter hurdles if Mr Biden decides to put word to action. Two reasons — one ethical, the other pragmatic — must compel New Delhi to contemplate. First, consistent deterioration on the markers of assessment of democracy does not sit well with India’s claim of being a robust democracy. Second, given the churn in geo-strategic imperatives, India cannot afford to suffer unexpected hiccups in its ties with the US with a marauding China at its door.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
09-02-2021||Opinion||False hope: Union Budget 2021-22||Sir — The article, “Winning hearts” (Feb 4), by Swapan Dasgupta essentially hails the bluffs by the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, in the Union budget for 2021-22 as revolutionary. At the same time, he is critical of all economists who do not blindly support the policies of the Narendra Modi government. This is not expected of a learned man. The claim that there is a 137 per cent increase in the health budget this year is untrue. While Sitharaman announced a total outlay of Rs 2,23,846 crore in the health budget — it was only Rs 67,112 crore last year — this was a result of clubbing several allocations together. This outlay includes Rs 35,000 crore for the Covid-19 vaccine drive, Rs 60,030 crore for drinking water and sanitation, and an allocation of Rs 2,970 crore for the Ayush ministry, among others. The finance minister also introduced a new scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, and announced that Rs 64,180 crore will be spent over the next six years. This means that only Rs 10,696 crore will be spent on the implementation of the scheme per year. When it comes down to numbers, there has been little increase in the amount being allocated to the health ministry. It is unfortunate that India continues to rank abysmally low — the country ranked 145th out of 180 countries in the Global Burden of Disease Study 2016 — when it comes to public health expenditure. Dasgupta has praised the government for keeping the post-Covid economic situation under control. But the last few months have been devastating for the common people. The economy was already in tatters pre-Covid as a result of demonetization and other ill-thought-out economic policies. While Dasgupta is upbeat in his observations about the budget and its potential to bring relief to the people of the country, the reality could not be further from the truth. Somak Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — The year 2020 was undoubtedly one of the most difficult for millions of people around the world. As the Covid-19 pandemic brought everything to a halt, many lost their jobs and struggled to make ends meet. The Indian government stepped in at a crucial juncture and dealt with the pandemic well. To boost the economy, the government had to be bold and come up with an efficient and generous budget.Its plans of raising Rs 1.75 lakh crore from disinvestment in public sector companies is going to be closely monitored, especially the disinvestment in the Life Insurance Corporation, the largest financial institution in the country. It is hoped that this move will financially benefit the nation both in the short as well as the long term. It seems to be the best budget presented by Nirmala Sitharaman so far. Now hopefully proper execution will follow suit. Rahul Chouhan,Ujjain Sir — Swapan Dasgupta’s blanket adoration of the Union budget for 2021-22 is unfortunate. The budget leaves much to be desired. Moreover, if economists also gloss over the inadequacies of the budget, there will be no hope for any improvement. Sounita Ghosh,Siliguri Inspirational figure Sir — It was wonderful to read about Pabitra Sarkar, the 43-year-old athlete representing India in international meets for veterans. Sarkar, who was a footballer in his youth, had to give up sports to meet the financial needs of his family. He worked for years in a Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages factory in Siliguri before he got the opportunity to relive his dreams. Since then, he has received many accolades. Sarkar’s pursuance of a career in sports later in life proves that it is never too late to achieve your dreams. Ronit Sinha, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
09-02-2021||Opinion||Hands off: interfaith marriage law||Some images endure, like that of Pontius Pilate washing his hands of guilt before the trial of Jesus Christ. Nothing so world-changing was taking place in the Lok Sabha, however, when the minister of state for home, G. Kishan Reddy, informed the Opposition that the Union government was not planning a Central law against religious conversion for interfaith marriages. So members of the Central government were not seen washing their hands with regard to such laws targeted against interfaith marriages that some Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states have passed. The government had been asked whether it believed that interfaith marriages were leading to forced conversions, if it had evidence of this, and whether it planned a law against it. Exactly a year ago, the government had told Parliament that ‘love jihad’, the conversion of Hindu women ‘lured’ or ‘deceived’ into marriage by men of India’s largest minority community, was not defined by law and no Central agency had found evidence of it. This was much after the BJP, its Hindutva-propagating siblings and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh had drummed up the love jihad myth and interfaith couples were being harassed and punished. So the genie had already been let out of the bottle: this year’s questions came in the context of the ordinance and law against conversion and interfaith marriage recently promulgated in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh respectively — Himachal Pradesh has one too — which are being applied with a distinct bias. Mr Reddy reiterated the Centre’s declared position, as though legislations violating basic rights of freedom of religion and privacy, together with women’s autonomy, were not being formulated in state after state in spite of absence of evidence. Instead — and here comes the hand-washing — he pointed out that ‘public order’ and ‘police’ were state subjects, hence ‘offences’ related to religious conversion were the business of states and would be addressed by their existent laws. The smooth answer evaded the fact that in the context of UP’s new anti-conversion ordinance, the Allahabad High Court had provided shelter to 125 interfaith couples and said that no one can interfere in the decision of two adults. By appearing faultless in this situation, the Centre is recreating federalism in a new image, in which other BJP-ruled states such as Assam and Haryana can go ahead with anti-interfaith marriage laws too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
09-02-2021||Opinion||Workers in a war of vaccination||India is witnessing one of the largest public vaccination initiatives, that of the two drugs against Covid-19. The responsibility to make sure that nobody is left behind will be borne by the bureaucracy and local health workers. The government has also relied on them for Covid-19 containment: their tasks ranged from contact tracing and assisting patients to monitoring the contagion’s spread. Yet not much is known about the experiences and the costs that have been borne by them. As per government estimates, over 1.6 crore panchayat functionaries, community workers and other volunteers have been involved in various pandemic-related duties. Since April 2020, the Accountability Initiative at the Centre for Policy Research has been documenting pandemic response in five states — Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. It has also focused on the roles of Anganwadi Workers, Accredited Social Health Activists and Auxiliary Nurse Midwives. Even before the pandemic, AWWs, ASHAs and ANMs had assisted in a number of public campaigns to combat diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis. Collectively, their responsibilities have spanned nutrition-counselling, first-aid disposal, awareness generation and the provision of community-level care. There are reports that these community workers are now feeling stretched while carrying out their regular duties assigned under the government’s health and nutrition schemes as well as pandemic-related tasks. ASHAs and AWWS, for example, have been delivering rations to beneficiaries since the centres were closed. The resultant disruptions in nutrition and health-related services provided by anganwadis can lead to “several maternal and child deaths”, cautions a policy note on the pandemic’s impact on nutrition published by the Accountability Initiative. Reaching out to the most vulnerable as the local bureaucracy is doing through the home delivery of rations may prove to be a step in the right direction. This repivoting of administrative tactics is vastly different from the public perception of an unresponsive bureaucracy. There are other challenges. ASHAs and AWWs are considered to be volunteers or honorary workers and are not classified as government employees. This means that they are ineligible for decent wage rates and other social security benefits. The average monthly monetary incentive that ASHAs receive is around Rs 3,000-4,000; the figure is similar to the honorariums given to AWWs. An insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh per person had been extended during the pandemic. The lack of incentives and the humongous workload have often led to strikes; in August 2020, over six lakh workers took to the streets to demand better work conditions. ASHAs and AWWs also experienced difficulties within their homes and at work. The supply of protective gear, such as sanitizers, masks and gloves, was slow in the initial months. Community workers were thus scared of getting infected and infecting their families. Their job was made difficult by the stigma attached to the contagion. As the first point of contact for the majority of the population, they were also subjected to discrimination and public ire. Many community workers also complained of the lack of cooperation, saying people hid information from them. Strikingly, Covid-19 has not merely been a part of their job; it has also become a part of their identity. An ANM in Bihar talked about being called ‘Coronadidi’ in her community. In spite of the difficult working conditions and other challenges, these workers have repeatedly expressed their pride in being able to serve the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
09-02-2021||Opinion||Lessons from Champaran||Mahatma Gandhi’s first satyagraha in India was launched in Champaran in 1917 to save farmers from the exploitation of British indigo planters — the corporates of that era engaged in contract farming. The protest bears close resemblance to the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws that were framed without consulting farmers or other stakeholders and passed by dispensing with parliamentary scrutiny. Sensing that the laws would cause incalculable harm to them, the protesting farmers marched to Delhi. But they were prevented from entering Delhi. The British, too, had prevented Gandhi from investigating the plight of farmers in Champaran.  He was asked to leave, subjected to coercive measures, even arrested for violating the law. Gandhi willingly submitted himself to the penalty for disobedience to resist injustice truthfully. The farmers have also submitted themselves to sufferings for the sake of their peaceful agitation. Gandhi’s admission before Champaran’s magistrate that he violated the law because he was tuned in to the higher law of conscience disarmed the British. He was allowed to identify the causes of the sufferings of farmers. After holding consultations with farmers, British planters, the colonial bureaucracy and the police, Gandhi submitted a report portraying farmers’ exploitation. The British authorities instituted a committee — Gandhi was a member — to address their grievances. The British regime responded by framing the Champaran Agrarian Bill, 1918 and referred it to the Select Committee of the Bihar-Odisha assembly for scrutiny. Even Gandhi was requested to examine it. The committee established by the British recommended the framing of a law to put an end to farmers’ sufferings. The Supreme Court, too, has appointed a committee to be a mediator between the farmers and the government. Gandhi’s presence as a committee member had made the farmers of Champaran confident that their representative would safeguard their interests. However, the members of the committee instituted by the Supreme Court are known advocates of the farm laws. The farmers have, therefore, refused to depose before it. One member recused himself from the committee and declared his support for the agitating farmers. Unlike the British government, the Government of India refused to refer the controversial legislations to a Select Committee in spite of several members of the House moving motions to do so. The demand for the division of votes was not granted by the Chair. Gandhi’s first satyagraha for the cause of farmers stands in sharp contrast to the passage of the three farm laws today. Pushing through legislative bills without factoring in the opinion of stakeholders as well as refusals to submit them to scrutiny on account of brute executive dominance in Parliament has become the new normal. Gandhi had told the peasant leader, N.G. Ranga — presciently — on October 29, 1944, “If the legislature proves itself to be incapable of safeguarding kisans’ interests they will of course always have the sovereign remedy of civil disobedience and non-co-operation.” The farmers’ agitation captures the vision of Gandhi as well as the spirit of his satyagraha in Champaran. What Gandhi did in 1917 for the cause of farmers, Indian farmers are now doing for themselves. The author served as OSD to President K.R. Narayanan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
09-02-2021||Opinion||Rising chorus||In June 1975, I was on my first trip to the West with my parents when we got the news that Indira Gandhi had declared an Emergency and put several Opposition leaders in jail. Our holiday still had a few weeks to go, but from then on the trip was darkened by news of the events unfolding back home. My father, a well-known Gujarati writer and columnist, was constantly in touch with other politically engaged friends in the United States of America by phone; my parents and I hungrily monitored whatever news was coming in, although there didn’t seem to be that much — a crackdown in distant India wasn’t about to dent the headlines generated by the recent fall of Saigon to the North Vietnamese and other events of real concern to the American public. Whatever we did see in the Western media, however, made it clear that Indira’s move was being perceived as shockingly anti-democratic by commentators as well as by most world leaders, save for the Russians. The words, ‘draconian’ and ‘dictatorship’, were being frequently used to describe what was happening back home. When I got back to India, I landed in a different reality. Except for the few people who listened to BBC Radio, no one was aware of what the world was saying about the Emergency; it seemed as though we were on a sealed-off planet. Things seemed to be normal in big city Calcutta, as they did when I shortly rejoined my school in small town Ajmer. Among schoolmates, I was among the minority who were interested in politics and world news but I was hardly an extreme exception. When I suggested to fellow students that what was happening in the country was extraordinary and very wrong, I was met with some derision — ‘Arrey yeh sab kuch nahi hai. Some anti-national elements have to be brought under control. Also, all these workers can’t just strike whenever they want to, selfishly holding the country hostage, you know? We need a strong leader like Indira!’ If I was dismayed or angry, that was due to naiveté. Most of the students in my ‘elite’ school came from some sector of the ruling class or the other: business, corporate, higher army or higher civil service, local royalty, NRI — before the term had been invented. For most of them and their parents, Indira was bringing order to a chaotic country, chaos that was interfering with their legitimate exercise of power and privilege; the continued exercise of that power was, obviously, in the best interests of the country; quaint notions of democracy, equality of citizenship, human rights, workers’ rights, the right to peaceful protest, freedom of speech, a free press and so on were best consigned to the garbage bin if the nation — meaning they themselves — were to progress. One great contradiction was that it was this very class that had the greatest interface with the rest of the world. In their understanding and in actual fact, they were the Indians who had access to ‘abroad’, ‘foreigners’, international economy and politics, all of which were distant to the vast majority of Indians. They were the ones who wanted to be accepted as equals on the world stage, who wanted India to be far more like the much-admired developed countries such as the US, Germany and Japan. Unsurprisingly, this was the class most sensitive to the opinions and attitudes that developed countries had towards India; an adverse editorial in The New York Times could bring misery; a pat on the back from The Daily Telegraph say, with India being compared favourably to Pakistan, would bring smugly self-satisfied smirks; Indira speaking in eloquent English or fluent French to a TV interviewer was a triumph. And yet, there was no question of our country or society putting in any of the hard yards covered by these admired nations. There was no acknowledgement among the wider Indian elite of the workers’ movements that had won such important rights for the labour unions in America and Europe; there was no recognition of the need on a ‘war-footing’ (a favourite phrase of the desi crème de la crème) to bring decent public healthcare or education to the vast population; any whisker of a suggestion that all this might need some sacrifice from the wealthy and powerful was instantly labelled ‘communism’. Across the time I was growing up, the educated, wealthier Indian classes craved for India to be more like the great foreign countries, but they wanted to get there via painless shortcuts, on a magic carpet that overflew and bypassed any requirements of self-denial on their part. Across the 80s, 90s and the 2000s, several things changed. For one, the spread of TV networks and then the internet meant that very few places in the world now remain off the global radar. India, certainly, can no longer hide behind convenient topical bushes of obscurity — it doesn’t matter if, currently, Hong Kong is exploding or a US presidency is imploding; if some notable outrage or upheaval unfolds in India the world has the bandwidth to see it and pay attention. The second crucial thing that has changed is that India is now very much a part of the global market; not only that, our oligarchical class is now obsessed about playing in that market; so how the international community sees us and acts towards us matter in a way that was unimaginable when Indira clamped down on the country for a year and a half. Also, in a hyper-connected world, changes elsewhere have a direct and immediate impact on us over here. So critical Twitter comments from a West Indian-American pop star, a young Swedish activist, a Hollywood actor or a young American lawyer may have had one magnitude of effect, say, halfway through Donald Trump’s disastrous, solipsistic presidency; today it matters hugely what Rihanna, Greta Thunberg, Susan Sarandon or Meena Harris tweet about the farmers’ protests. In a hyper-connected world, it also shows up our ‘culture’ when a huge number of Hindutva males respond to these women with the same barrage of grotesque and violently misogynistic threats and epithets they habitually throw at Indian women whose politics they don’t like. That the MEA — now dubbed the Ministry of Embarrassing Arguments — allies itself with these trolls, albeit in a more polite language, is a matter of both humiliation and shame for us as a nation. Back in 1975-76, Indira Gandhi had one thuggish toady of a media enforcer by the name of Yashpal Kapoor, but this national disgrace in human form only operated domestically. The regime in Delhi has set loose thousands of Yashpal Kapoors upon the world. The bill for that, when it finally comes, will be proportionately higher than the one Indira Gandhi had to pay in 1977.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||Bring law on MSP if you’re really serious, JMM tells Modi||The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come up with a law on minimum support price (MSP) if he was really serious about it. Reacting to Modi’s statement made in the Rajya Sabha on Monday, the tribal outfit snubbed him for defaming protesting farmers by calling them Andolanjivi. Talking to the media at the party office, JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “Yesterday (Monday), the PM said ‘MSP tha, MSP hai aur MSP rahega’ (MSP was there, is in force and will be there). We welcome it. So, if the PM is serious on his words, we demand his government to bring a law on MSP in the ongoing Budget Session. The entire protest by farmers in the country against the farm laws is to demand for a dedicated law on MSP. Let’s bring it and prove your good intentions.” The party said that by invoking former PM Manmohan Singh’s name and dubbing protesters as Andolanjivi, the PM has again exhibited that they are trying to run away from addressing the real concerns and mislead people. “Modi-ji said that he did what the UPA government under Manmohan Singh wanted to do. Manmohan Singh-ji never brought such controversial laws, you did. Even then if you say that BJP government did what UPA regime wanted to do, then why not BJP rechristens its name as BJP-Congress party,” he mocked, “If all protestors (farmers) are Andolanjivi, BJP must never stage any protest anywhere,” he said, adding that rather than trying to solve the impasse, the entire government machinery is focused on discrediting a public movement against the anti-farmer and anti-people policies of the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||Seven tourists from Jamtara missing from Dehradun||The state labour department has said that seven tourists from Jamtara are missing in Uttarakhand where a glacier break on Sunday triggered an avalanche leading to massive flooding that has destroyed two hydel projects in addition to hundreds of homes. Officials manning the helpline set up by the state labour department said that on Tuesday, they received fresh information of eight missing persons, taking the total number of missing to 21. The missing tourists are from Jamtara’s Mihijam block. “They had gone for vacation and are reported missing from Dehradun,” said an official quoting data prepared by officials manning the state helplines. Ramgarh deputy commissioner Sandip Singh clarified to the media that four, not six, persons of the district were missing. “Initially, we got information of six persosn from Gola block missing in Chamoli. But today (Tuesday), four missing persons are confirmed. Attempts are on to trace them,” he said. Nine missing workers from Lohardaga district still remain untraced. One worker is missing from Bokaro. He has been identified as Amrit Kumar, a resident of Mugsarla in Petarwar block. He was working at Ritvik Projects, a private company. “He was in Vishnugarh in Tapovan in Chamoli,” said the official. Ten residents of Latehar are stranded in Chamoli. “All are residents of Jagir village in Bariatu block in Latehar. They are labourers too,” he added. Meanwhile, with the recovery of five more bodies, the death toll rose to 31 in Chamoli and at least over 100 are reported missing even as various agencies were working round-the-clock. On Monday, chief minister Hemant Soren used Twitter to announce the setting up of a dozen helpline numbers in an effort to establish contact with those from the state who had been stranded in Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||‘We’ve lost our ID cards and have no cash… where do we go?’||At least 10 labourers from Jharkhand’s Latehar, who were working in a National Thermal Power Project (NTPC) site at avalanche-ravaged Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, are stranded in the area with no cash in hand and no document to prove their identity. “All our government identity cards got washed away in the avalanche. We don’t even have Rs10 in our pocket. God only knows when and how we will manage to return home,” Rooplal Singh, one of the stranded labourers, originally from Bariatu village in Latehar, about 110km north west of capital Ranchi, told The Telegraph Online. Santosh Singh, another stranded labourer staying with Rooplal in a temporary accommodation arranged by NTPC after Sunday’s disaster, said the company was providing food to the labourers, but they desperately wanted to return home and see their families after such a close encounter with death. “There is no work left for us here, and we desperately need to return home. We do not have any document to prove our identity as all our valid identity cards got washed away in the incident,” said Santosh, also a resident of Bariatu village, from where several labourers move to other parts of the country to work as daily wagers every year. On Tuesday, the number of missing Jharkhand labourers in Uttarakhand rose to 21 from Monday’s 15. Callers from Chamoli shared names of at least seven labourers from Jamtara and one from Bokaro, who were missing after the avalanche that triggered massive flooding alongside the Alaknanda and Dhauliganga rivers on Sunday morning. As per data gathered by the state helpline, as many as nine people were missing from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh, seven from Jamtara and one from Bokaro, while 10 labourers from Latehar were stranded in Chamoli. Santosh and Rooplal fear that the loss of IDs may pose as a hurdle for them to avail of any relief from the government. Both of them, along with eight other residents of their village in Latehar, went to Uttarakhand on January 23. However, they have not gone to work since the incident and have not earned their daily wage. “We want to return home and start afresh. Our families are entirely dependent on the daily wage we earn. We cannot afford to sit idle here with no income and wait for the government’s help, but there is no other option as we do not have enough cash to travel,” Rooplal said over phone from Chamoli.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||Group of 20 youths joins ‘bird walk’ in coal town ||A group of 20 youths, led by ornithologist AK Sahay, went on a walk at Jagjivan Nagar locality of Dhanbad on Tuesday morning, with an aim to study the habitat, behavior and food habits of a wide variety of birds. Organised by coal town-based outfit Dhanbad Birders, the walk that began at 8 am from Bartand, was aimed at generating curiosity and sensitivity among the common masses about birds, as well as the environment and ecosystem in general. “The event was planned in a bid to generate social sensitivity about issues like the environment, wildlife, ecosystem and food chain, which are of paramount importance, especially for the youth and children who are major stakeholders of the next generation,” President of Dhanbad Birders  Amit Vishwakarma said. Similar events would be organised regularly, he added. The participants also took photos of around 60 types of birds found in the Children’s park of Jagjivan Nagar, while answering various queries of passers by. Talking about the event, Hemant Kumar Prasad (18) said, “The experience was really great. We spotted many birds including spotted dove, Alexandrine parakeet, rose-ringed parakeet, prinia and oriole.” Prasad, who joined the community in September last year, added that the site at Jagjivan Nagar is home to 50 different species of birds and is among the top five bird hotspots in Dhanbad. Jodeep Gorai, a class XII student said, “Although I am a late joinee, I can identify 50 species of birds now.” Gorai joined the group last November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
09-02-2021||Jharkhand|| Body of missing civic worker found in Subernarekha river||The body of Sanjay Chutel, the missing supervisor of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), was found floating in the Subernarekha river near Domuhani along the Sonari Police Station area on Tuesday. Sagar Chutel, Sanjay’s brother, had to identify the body from tattoos inscribed on the hand, as he was beyond recognition. Confirming the incident, Kadma Police Station OC Manoj Thakur said that the unidentified body was initially moved to the MGM Medical College mortuary for post-mortem. “Suspecting it to be that of the missing JNAC supervisor, we summoned the family members concerned.  The body was identified as that of Sanjay Chutel by his younger brother Sagar on the basis of two tattoos on his left hand at the mortuary,” Thakur told The Telegraph Online. Locals had stopped the floating body at the Subernarekha River, and informed the Sonari Police Station. Officials of Sonari and Kadma police later recovered the decomposed body. Father of a five-year-old, Sanjay was untraceable since Thursday morning after he left a suicide note and left home. The note, however, was discovered much later, following which a missing person complaint was lodged by Sanjay’s father. On the same night, the deceased's wife accused a senior official of JNAC of harassing Sanjay, leading him to take such a drastic step. Based on the complaint, police had interrogated the accused Saurabh Kumar. Having found nothing substantial in the allegation against the JNAC officer, the police had derived call details record (CDR) of Sanjay's mobile phone and also tried to trace his movement through the CCTV footage. The police had also talked to Sajany's relatives and close friends so as to get a clue to his sudden act of disappearance having dropped a suicidal note.  But they did not get any clue to the reason that led Sanjay to leave his house.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||Don’t want Covid-19 vaccine? Sign declaration||Healthcare workers who refuse to get vaccinated against the coronavirus in Ranchi will have to submit a declaration stating that they have voluntarily opted out of the immunisation programme, officials from the district administration said on Tuesday, claiming that many healthcare workers had not taken Covishield vaccine jabs without specifying a reason for their apprehension. “Health workers who are called for vaccination but refuse to get inoculated will have to submit a declaration stating clearly that backing out from the immunisation programme was their voluntary decision,” said Ranchi deputy commissioner Chavi Ranjan. As per data collected by the National Health Mission (NHM), more than 75 per cent healthcare and frontline workers registered for free vaccination either did not turn up at the jab sites or backed out from taking the vaccine in Ranchi district. NHM data highlights that of the 51,831 people registered for vaccination in the district, only 12,158 were inoculated. As a result, Ranchi has achieved only 23 per cent of its vaccination target – the lowest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi has also reported the highest number of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) in Jharkhand. Of the 247 AEFI cases reported in the state so far, at least 169 were reported in Ranchi alone, highlights government data. Last week, a 52-year-old healthcare worker from a private hospital died 33 hours after vaccination here, triggering panic among beneficiaries registered to get free vaccine in the district, sources said. The matter is under investigation. An official from the district administration said that declarations from those who do not want to get the vaccine had been sought for maintaining records related to the immunization programme in the district. No person will be forced to take vaccine shots against his/her wish, he added. A healthcare worker, employed at a private hospital in Ranchi, said that rumours circulated on social media and news about people facing health complications following vaccination were instilling fear among healthcare workers. “I have already taken the first dose of the vaccine, and I did not face any side effect. But some of my colleagues are afraid that they might suffer from severe side effects and are thereby apprehensive about taking the vaccine,” he said, requesting anonymity. Vaccination against Covid-19 virus is not compulsory for every healthcare worker in India. Beneficiaries have the freedom to opt out of the process. However, doctors have requested all healthcare workers to get vaccinated without any fear of adverse effects of the jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI students will get chance to evaluate B-school’s positive impact||XLRI is set to participate in a Positive Impact Rating ( PIR) -2021, thereby giving its students a chance to evaluate the institution on how it is solving societal and sustainable challenges and assessing the positive impact of B-schools. The Positive Impact Rating (PIR) is a rating by students and for students. It addresses the larger role of business schools; the positive impact of business schools going beyond their contribution to business and the economy. XLRI will be participating in the rating for the second consecutive year. XLRI along with IIM Bangalore, had featured in the top 30 Global Business Schools of the first edition of  Positive Impact Rating -2020. The overall PIR score of the business school is used to position the school on one of five levels. The premier B-school  was categorised under the 'Progressing schools' category in the first edition of Positive Impact Rating- 2020, rating it among the top 30 global business schools. This year, XLRI aims to achieve in the ranks of the  'Transforming schools' category. The characterisations of the different levels refer to the developmental stage of the business school. The results of the 2021 edition of the Positive Impact Rating will be announced at the World Economic Forum in Lucerne-Burgenstock, Switzerland in May this year. The collection of data  is organised by SIGMA-oikos, which will  conduct a survey across campus through email campaigns and social media. The results can be used as a tool to drive student-led sustainable development . Prof. Tata Raghuram, convenor, Father Arrupe Centre for Ecology and Sustainability ( FACES), said, “Individual and collective actions are essential to create a greater common good. At Xlri, students, faculty, staff, and alumni strive together to realise this vision. We set out our commitments to make a positive contribution to creating a positive impact on society. Positive Impact Rating guides business schools from being the best in the world to being the best for the world. The PIR rating inspires us to work more diligently towards attaining our vision and mission.” Sunil Varughese, chief brand and sustainability officer at XLRI said, “Once again, business management students across the world are joining hands to assess their business schools on how they perceive their institutional positive impact in the community and society at large. This marks a paradigm shift towards fostering a collaborative ecosystem and making the process of management education more meaningful and purpose-oriented, especially in a world that is still suffering as a consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||Steel City students win Study Australia Video Competition||Ashish Sam and Sayon Ghosh, students of class X of the Carmel Junior College, Jamshedpur, have won the Study Australia Video Competition aimed to find out more about higher studies in the countries, among other things. The competition was organised for school students of classes IX to XII from India, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh by The Australian Trade and Investment Commission. As participating teams had to choose a university theme and make a film on the same, students of Carmel Junior College chose the theme of The University of Western Australia. The University was among the five partner universities for the competition and based their three-minute film on 'Building Circular Cities'. The duo showcased how circular cities can avoid generating waste by reusing and recycling. Apart from knowing more about higher studies in Australia, the objective of the video was to test their English proficiency skills, demonstrate creativity and explore the potential of a global career. Ashish and Sayon worked under the guidance of the principal of Carmel Junior College- Sister M. Natasha and their teacher Prabha Prakash. The applications started in December 2020. "Students came up with a lot of ideas but couldn't implement them due to the pandemic. They thus sent a recorded video for the competition. Unfortunately, they missed the Australia tour but winning the theme among so many students was indeed a success," said Prakash. Each winning team received a prize of three Apple iPad Mini, awarded by the partner Australian university. A total of 348 teams participated in the competition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||State achieves 51 per cent of its vaccination target, 1,23,754 vaccinated so far||Jharkhand on Monday achieved 51 per cent of its vaccination target after achieving less around 40 per cent of the daily target for immunization during the past one week, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. However, Jharkhand has achieved only 38 per cent of its vaccination target since the launch of the nationwide immunization programme against Covid-19 on January 16. As many as 16,756 healthcare workers and frontline workers were inoculated on the day across Jharkhand, taking the total count of people vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus in the state to 1,23,754, a report released by the NHM stated. The report further highlighted that at least 8008 of the people vaccinated on Monday were frontline workers, while the remaining 8748 were healthcare workers. As per government data, at least 19,655 healthcare workers and 13,081 frontline workers were registered to get the Covishield jabs at vaccination centres across Jharkhand on the day. However, only 45 per cent of the registered healthcare workers and 61 per cent of the registered frontline workers were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus from 10am to 5pm on Monday. Bokaro achieved 90 per cent of its vaccination target, the highest among all the districts in the state, on Monday by inoculating at least 1500 of the 1664 registered beneficiaries. Dhanbad, on the other hand, inoculated 2320 of 3171 registered beneficiaries, thereby achieving 73 per cent of its target. As many as 1350 people were administered the Covishield shots in Ranchi, which achieved only 47 of its target on the day. Only 892 of the 2111 registered beneficiaries, about 42 per cent, were administered the vaccine jabs in East Singhbhum on Monday. Meanwhile, as many as 38 people, including 12 from Ranchi alone, were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on the day, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. However, the state reported only 31 Covid recoveries, causing a slight rise in the number of active cases to 438, the bulletin added. While East Singhbhum reported 16 cases on the day, the highest among districts in Jharkhand, as many as 15 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on the day, the NHM bulletin stated. East Singhbhum, as well as Ranchi, reported nine recoveries, and the number of active cases witnessed a rise in both the districts. No Covid casualties occurred in any part of Jharkhand on Monday, figures with the NHM highlighted. The growth rate of Covid cases in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.08 per cent. As per government data, it would take more than 2202 days for the number of Covid cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was more than 864 days. As many as 119055 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered, highlights government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
