10-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta school woes in run-up to reopening||How wide will be the circle of quarantine if a student or a staff member tests positive for Covid-19? What if a family member of a student or a teacher gets infected? These are some of the questions schools are grappling with as they plan to reopen their campuses for senior students. The state government has allowed reopening of schools, closed since March last year as a precaution against Covid, for students of Classes IX to XII. The apprehensions being voiced at staff meetings being held at schools in the run-up to the reopening are not far fetched, the heads of two schools said. “They might be real and could lead to tricky situations,” a school head said. Parents are concerned, too, because they have to give consent if their children go to school. While some schools are deliberating suspending classes if a student or a staff member tests positive, most have no definite answers or solutions. “We cannot anticipate every situation. Once something comes up, we will have to make an informed decision based on medical advice,” said Ian Myers, the principal of Frank Anthony Public School, which has decided to call students in shifts. “We have to keep safe and emphasise on the positives rather than the negatives.” Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School, described the situation as tricky. “It becomes a real issue (if someone tests positive) because the classroom gets disrupted in such a situation. We will have to be very alert and the vigil has to be strong at the gate only,” he said. Several schools feel monitoring would not be a problem because fewer students would turn up for now. Father Bikash Mondal, the principal of Don Bosco Park Circus, said if a student tested positive, they might have to bar the boys who came in contact with him from attending classes for a few days. Some schools are reopening on Friday, others after a few more days. Many schools are eager to reopen because they wanted to bring in students for practicals and rehearsal tests before the board examinations. “There are things we have no control over…. We take precautions to ensure that nobody falls sick and if anyone has symptoms, they will be expected to stay at home,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. At many schools, teachers, especially those who have elderly people or children at home, have expressed fears about their safety. “We are doing our best but nobody can guarantee. The dip in numbers is giving everyone the confidence and the situation demands a greater degree of awareness and responsibility from everybody to avoid any serious setback,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||Govt hikes Swasthya Sathi rates by 15 to 20 per cent||The state government has increased the rates of 105 treatment packages under the Swasthya Sathi scheme by 15 to 20 per cent after private hospitals said the costs were unviable. At a meeting with representatives of private hospitals on Tuesday, the state government said the rates of 60 per cent of the packages had been increased. The private hospitals said the rate revision was below their expectations but they accepted it. The hospitals, however, requested the government to reconsider the rates of medical management of patients in general as well as critical care units. “The private hospitals have agreed to most of the rates and these will be implemented immediately. We’ll hold another meeting with the hospitals to decide about the rates of medical management of general wards and critical care units,” a state government official said on Tuesday. The treatment packages for which rates have been revised include cardiac bypass surgery, cholecystectomy (a surgical procedure to remove the gallbladder), hernia repair, appendectomy (a surgical procedure to remove the vermiform appendix) and Cesarean section surgery for child delivery. The Swastha Sathi scheme provides basic treatment cost coverage for primary and tertiary care up to Rs 5 lakh per family per year. According to sources, in the presentation by the state government, it was shown that the rates for an open-heart surgery without the support of a heart-and-lung machine was increased from Rs 80,000 to Rs 1 lakh. The rate for the same surgery but with the support of a heart-and-lung machine has been increased from Rs 1.3 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh. The rate for coronary angiography, an investigative procedure to detect blocks in coronary arteries, has been revised from Rs 10,000 to Rs 11,500, said the sources. “We had requested the government on a number of occasions and had a series of meetings with them, where we presented our case regarding the unviability of the existing rates of treatment under the Swasthya Sathi universal health care scheme,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals, and president, Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. “During the course of today’s meeting, the senior officials agreed to revise the rates of 105 packages by 15 to 20 per cent. Although the percentage of increase is less than our expectations, we appreciate the state government’s positive approach towards providing quality health care to the residents of Bengal.” Barua said the private hospitals felt the 20 per cent revision in rates for medical management may not be enough and they pointed out that providing critical care treatment even at the increased rate of Rs 3,300 a day would be unviable. “Critical care treatment is dynamic, with the average minimum cost coming to Rs 30,000 to Rs 35,000 a day,” he said. Officials of several private hospitals said they had requested the government to fix the bed charges for medical management of a patient in general and critical care wards, but keep other costs like doctors' fees, investigations, consumables and medicines separate. They pointed out that a patient who did not need surgery might undergo investigations like CT scan, MRI and USG. Each test can cost a few thousands of rupees on an average at a corporate hospital. “We have expressed our concerns on the rates for medical management, which still remain extremely unviable. However, the assuran-ces given by state govern-ment officials on adoption of a consensual approach towards revision of rates on this front is comforting and we are hopeful and we eagerly look forward to the same,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health. Some private hospitals had earlier requested the state government to fix the num-ber of beds for treating patients with Swasthya Sathi cards. However, the government has not agreed to the proposal. “More than two crore families have already been covered by the scheme and the number is growing every day. If the number of beds is fixed, the hospitals will be refusing many patients,” said a state government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||1.86 lakh people benefit from Swasthya Sathi scheme in run-up to elections||A total of 1.86 lakh people have benefited from the state government’s Swasthya Sathi scheme since December 1 last year, when the Duare Sarkar programme was launched to reach out to people left out of government schemes. Such a large number of beneficiaries of the health assurance scheme holds significance ahead of the Assembly elections because the BJP has been claiming that the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme would have been more beneficial. “Before December 1, a total of 14.34 lakh people had availed themselves of the benefits of Swasthya Sathi cards. After December 1, a total of 1.86 lakh people got benefits of the scheme. So far, more than 2.17 crore families have been issued the Swasthya Sathi cards,” Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said on Tuesday. The cashless assurance  scheme offers a health coverage of Rs 5 lakh per annum per family. Sources at Nabanna said the government’s primary target was to bring 2.3 crore families under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. As the target has been achieved, the government’s focus is on providing proper services to the people to make the scheme popular. “This is already reflected in the figures. Previously, 2,100 people were getting benefits of the scheme daily. Now, the figure stands at 3,700. This has become possible because more than 425 private hospitals have been brought within the ambit of the scheme since December 1. A total of 1,537 private hospitals now accept the Swastha Sathi cards,” an official said. Making the scheme po-pular holds significance for the ruling party of the state ahead of the polls because it would make one weapon of the BJP — non-implemen-tation of Ayushman Bharat — blunt, Trinamul insiders said. “The more people benefit from the scheme, the more we will penetrate into the areas where we put up a poor show in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. That is the reason the BJP is attacking the scheme at all meetings,” said a minister. The state government has also decided to ensure that hospitals get prompt payment for providing treatment to the Swasthya Sathi beneficiaries. “Every day, a sum of Rs 7 crore is being spent from the state exchequer to pay the treatment bills under the scheme…. We are trying to ensure that the hospitals get the money on time,” said a source. The annual outgo on the scheme has been pegged at Rs 3,000 crore, prompting a section of officials to raise the question whether the cash-strapped Trinamul government would be able to carry on with it. “Initially, the state might not face any problem because it is set to get a sum of Rs 40,000 crore from the Centre as revenue deficit grant over the next four years. But after that, the state has to think about enhancing its own revenues to run the scheme,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||Students and employees of South Point School to submit health declaration form everyday ||Students and employees of South Point High School will have to submit a health declaration form online by the evening if they are required to attend school the next day. The form will include questions on whether they have been in contact with a Covid patient in the last 14 days and other health related issues, such as whether they are running a temperature. “A health declaration form will mandatorily be required to be filled in online by parents of all students and staff who are required to attend school on any given day…. Emails will be automatically sent to the respondents based on their replies, as to whether they are allowed to attend school the following day or not,” the school said in a statement issued on Tuesday. South Point High School is reopening on February 12 with students of Class XII. Not all students are expected to turn up every day. The state government has allowed schools to reopen from February 12 for students of Classes IX to XII. “It is a combined effort of everyone to ensure the safety of all others…. One will think twice before giving any false declaration,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of South Point. The form will be available online till night and individual acknowledgements will be sent by the school. Officials of the school said the system would ensure smoother functioning and avoid situations where the management might have to turn away someone from the gate for running a temperature. The authorities said they were taking the necessary steps for the safety of everyone at the school. “We have to ensure that all occupants of the building are safe and hope that will reassure the parents who are afraid to send their children to school,” Damani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||Belur Math reopens gates with appeal to visitors to adhere to the norms of physical distancing ||Senior monks at Belur Math have appealed to visitors to strictly adhere to the norms of physical distancing and avoid huddles on the campus of the headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission. Devotees and others will be allowed to visit Belur Math, which has remained close for nearly six months, from Wednesday. According to the new timings, the Math will remain open from 8.30am to 11am and again from 3.30pm to 5.15pm. Between October and March, the Math usually remains open from 8.30am to 11.30am and from 3.30pm to 5.30pm. Initially, only four temples on the Math premises will be open to visitors — the temples of Sri Ramakrishna, Holy Mother, Swami Brahmananda and Swami Vivekananda. Bhog will not be distributed for now. “We will appeal to everyone visiting the Math to abide by the norms of social distancing and use hand sanitisers and masks,” said Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of Ramakrishna Math and Mission. “Within 45 days of opening the gates of the Math in June, several monks had tested positive for Covid. The gates had to be closed again on August 2. We don't want a repeat of that.” Monks said arrangements had been made across the compound to ensure adequate supply of hand sanitisers, right from the main entrance. A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) has been drawn up on how to regulate visitors’ movement. The body temperature of every visitor will be checked with hand-held thermal scanners. Around 300 monks stay on the Math premises and close to 250 others work there. “We would like to wait and see how things play out. If there is no fresh case of coronavirus infection this time, we will gradually relax the timings,” Swami Suvirananda said. Monks and brahmacharies have been asked to ensure there is no crowding at any of the four temples where visitors will be allowed and at the Pally Mangal stall, which will be accessible to visitors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||Metro Rail from China yet to start commercial runs||A train made in China had arrived in Calcutta in March 2019 to boost the ageing north-south Metro Railway fleet. The train has yet to start commercial runs. A train made by the same Chinese company reached Nagpur in January 2019.  Eleven such rakes are running in the Nagpur Metro corridor every day. The delay in the commissioning of the Chinese rake is a pointer to the problems plaguing the transport lifeline of Calcutta, the only city where Metro is run by the railways. Railway officials attributed the delay to pending clearances and said their focus was now on indigenous, not foreign rakes. “The Chinese rake is a prototype and needs extensive trials. In comparison, the Medha (the new lot of trains built at the Integral Coach Factory in Perambur, near Chennai) rakes are already running. We want to focus on home-made rakes,” said a railway official. The Railway Board had first contracted CNR Dalian Locomotive & Rolling Stock Co to build 14 rakes for Calcutta Metro in May 2015. The rakes were supposed to have been delivered by October 2018. But a design approval from the central Research Designs and Standards Organisation (RDSO) delayed the process, said sources in the railways. “The contract was then extended till June 2020. The board has started the process of another extension till February 2022, but in terms of importance, the Chinese rake is in the backseat now,” said a railway official. The first of the 14 rakes arrived at the Calcutta port on March 3, 2019, breaking the monopoly of the Integral Coach Factory, the sole supplier to Calcutta Metro. The Chinese rakes were then billed as the best bet to replace the snag-prone old rakes and reduce the burden on the existing air-conditioned rakes. Metro engineers had earlier said they were enthused by the “impressive performances” of the Dalian rakes in tests. The last such test was in January 2020. Its result has yet to come from the RDSO. “An oscillation test had been carried out in January 2020 by the RDSO. The report is pending. After getting the RDSO clearance, we need another clearance from the commissioner of railway safety and final nod from the Railway Board to start commercial runs,” said Manoj Joshi, the Metro Railway general manager. In the contract with the railway board for Calcutta Metro, the maximum speed agreed upon was 80kmph, but the old tracks between Noapara and New Garia are old and unfit for the train to achieve that speed, said a Dalian representative. “Our rake produced a much better show than the Indian rakes in the January 2019 oscillation test. But still, the clearance is pending,” a Dalian representative said. Unlike in Calcutta, the Metro networks in other cities are run by corporations — joint ventures between the respective state governments and the Centre and they function independently. Nagpur handled its Chinese rakes quite differently. The first Metro rake from Dalian arrived in Nagpur in January 2019. and the trains started commercial services on March 8, 2019. “At present, we have 19 Dalian rakes, 11 of which run regularly. The trains’ performance is very impressive,” said an official of Nagpur Metro. Unlike the eight-coach trains made for Calcutta, the company has made three-coach trains for Nagpur. The contract is for 23 trains and the remaining trains would also have reached but for the global pandemic, said officials in Nagpur. In contrast, 13 rakes for Calcutta Metro are lying idle at the production facility in Dalian. Most officials in the city Metro spoke to refused to comment on the Chinese rakes. “Please spare me. These are policy issues, under the control of the railway ministry,” said one of them. Metro officials pointed out that the tracks at Nagpur are brand new, unlike those in Calcutta where Metro started in 1984. But many of them conceded that being completely under the railway ministry has robbed Calcutta Metro of operational autonomy. “They have the freedom to take decisions related to safety and other matters, such as buying rakes, fixing fares and outsourcing maintenance. In comparison, Calcutta Metro has no say in the type of rakes it will operate or the fares it will charge,” said a railway official. The expanded network of Metro will need an increased fleet size. The Noapara-Baranagar-Dakshineswar line is scheduled to be commissioned by the end of this month and the Noapara-Airport line in the near future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||IIT veteran fights polarisation trap of religion||A retired professor from IIT Delhi has been organising meetings in and around the city and addressing webinars to urge people to not fall for the polarisation trap of religion and ask political leaders to focus on real issues. Vipin Kumar Tripathi, 73, arrived in the city a couple of days ago and has spoken at impromptu street corner meetings at Beckbagan, Rishra and Baruipur, among other places. “A particular political party is trying to divide the country based on religion and this will not work. Remember this divide-and-rule policy was started by the British, who wanted to rule Indians with an iron hand and keep them oppressed. People like Mahatma Gandhi and other freedom fighters managed to steer the nation through that time and now the onus is on us,” Tripathi said at a webinar organised on Tuesday. He described the ongoing farmers' protests at Delhi’s borders as the single largest peaceful movement against a government since Mahatma Gandhi organised such farmers’ protests in places like Champaran in Bihar. “I was with the farmers on Republic Day and it was largely peaceful. While the larger group adhered to the routes fixed by the Delhi Police, a smaller group moved towards Red Fort. There, too, they were not involved in any sort of violence and had only hoisted a flag on an empty flagpole,” said Tripathi. The entire exercise was played up by the Centre in order to cover up its mistakes, Tripathi added. He urged residents of Bengal, ahead of the Assembly polls, to ask those seeking votes on the basis of religion whether they would get jobs, whether health-care facilities and educational institutions would improve and whether their lives would change for the better. “Whenever somebody knocks on your door for votes, ask them about jobs, about whether they can make sure that you will be able to afford your next meal,” said Tripathi. Shah Alam, who runs an NGO, said that if Tripathi could stand up and say that things were wrong, the young, too, should step forward. The son of Gandhian freedom fighter and wrestler Hardas Sharma, Tripathi was brought up in Lalitpur, Uttar Pradesh. He studied in Jhansi and Agra before joining IIT Delhi as a lecturer. He also taught at the University of Maryland in the US for six years before leaving in 1982, saddened by America’s support for the Israeli invasion of Lebanon. He returned to IIT Delhi, where he also held “special lectures” outside classrooms to talk about how “imperialism is still alive and sectarianism is its instrument”. Pradip Basu, the dean of humanities and social sciences at Presidency University, who attended the seminar, said it was time people voiced their dissent against the central government, which has crippled the economy through demonetisation and is trying to polarise people on the basis of religion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||Dhakuria water reservoir to be unveiled||A semi-underground water reservoir of 13 lakh litre capacity and a booster pumping station will be unveiled at Dhakuria’s Babubagan on Wednesday. The reservoir will reduce the dependence of a large number of people on underground water. An engineer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said residents of the area were supplied a mix of underground and potable water for years. The reservoir-cum-booster pumping station, built where Babubagan Sarbojonin Durga Puja is held every year, will help supply potable water to those residents from now. Madhuchanda Deb, the coordinator of Ward 92, said the reservoir would mostly benefit residents of Dhakuria Station Road, Dhakuria Station Lane, Maharaja Tagore Road and Babubagan Lane. A CMC engineer said that once the reservoir was commissioned, three deep tube wells that supplied water to the area would be decommissioned. “We will commission the semi-underground reservoir-cum-booster pumping station after inauguration on Wednesday. The reservoir can store up to 13 lakh litres of water,” said a senior CMC engineer. “The areas that will be served by the new booster pumping station had two problems — they received a mix of underground water and potable water and the pressure of water was low. We hope the new booster pumping station and reservoir will put an end to the problems,” he said. The potable water that will be supplied to the reservoir will come from the Garden Reach water treatment plant of the CMC. “The water will be stored in the reservoir. The booster pumping station will push the water into the distribution network with a greater thrust so that the pressure of water in the network increases and the water reaches the homes where it did not reach so far or where the pressure was very low,” said an engineer. Underground water, drawn through deep tube wells, has a large amount of dissolved salts. Besides, there is always the risk of arsenic contamination. The Rs 2.5-crore project was started in 2018 but got stuck after opposition from members of Babubagan Club, who feared there would be no space left to play or organise the Puja, said ward coordinator Deb. “CMC officials met the club members repeatedly and convinced them that neither the space for Durga Puja nor the playground would be taken away,” Deb said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||Two youths killed as car swerves and rams into lorry||Two young men — one of them driving a car and the other sitting next to him — died after the vehicle hit a lorry coming from the opposite direction on Circular Garden Reach Road early on Tuesday, police said. Three others, who were on the rear seat, suffered critical injuries and were admitted to hospital. The incident happened when the group of friends was returning home after a get-together on Monday night. The police said Ajay Giri, 23, who was at the wheel, was a driver by profession. Abhishek Gupta, 24, who was sitting next to him, looked after his father’s grocery store near their Rabindranagar home. The white Tata Indigo has a commercial number plate and Giri would drive it. Sources said that according to the CCTV footage obtained by the police, the lorry was moving along the left side of the road following traffic rules. “The car suddenly steered to its right and rammed into the mudguard of the lorry around 2am,” said an officer of West Port police station, in whose area is the accident spot. “The spot, Dhobitala crossing, was deserted when the accident happened,” an officer said. Giri, Gupta and the three others in the car — Ravi Ram, Rudrapratap Singh and Sumit Sau — were taken to SSKM Hospital. Giri and Gupta were declared dead and the rest were admitted in a critical condition. Family members of Singh and Sau later shifted them to another hospital. The police suspect neither Giri nor Gupta was wearing a seat belt. The lorry had just emptied its consignment near Metiabruz and was heading towards Garden Reach when the car allegedly crashed into it. The lorry driver has been arrested and booked under charges related to causing death due to negligence, rash and negligent driving. Officers of the fatal squad of the traffic police, who are investigating the accident, said the bodies had been sent for post-mortem. “We will know whether the youth at the wheel was intoxicated or not after the post-mortem report comes,” an officer of the squad said. The incident happened barely two days after two city youths jumped off the Vidyasagar Setu into the Hooghly with some of their friends capturing their “stunt” in a mobile video apparently meant for circulation in the social media. One of them failed to resurface on the water till Tuesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||Park Street rape convict out of jail||Nishat Alam, one of the convicts in the Park Street gang rape case, completed his jail term and was released from the Jalpaiguri Correctional Home on Monday. Convicted for 10 years, Alam, alias Ruman, got a remission of 382 days for his “good conduct inside jail”, his work as a “Covid warrior” in the last few months and for his service as the nightwatchman over a period of time, sources in the jail department said. Now 35, Alam was arres-ted with his friends Sumit Bajaj and Naser Khan in connection with the case in 2012. The victim, a 37-year-old mother of two, was raped inside a moving Honda City on Park Street and left on the road in February 2012. Both Naser and Sumit completed their jail terms and were released last year. Two other accused in the case — Kadir Khan and Ali — are in jail. Alam, who returned home to Calcutta on Tuesday, told Metro that he wanted to start his “new life” by donating half his “earnings” inside jail to a charitable trust that takes care of the old and needy. “I have come out with Rs 42,000, which I saved from my earnings working inside (the jail) over the past nine years. I wish to donate Rs 20,000 to a trust and hand over the rest to my parents,” he said. The eldest of three siblings, Alam had got married in 2017, when he was out on parole for a few days. His wife works in Mumbai. Of the 382-day remission, 30 days were for his work as a “Covid warrior”, jail sources said. “He was one of the very few inmates who had volunteered to handle the inmates who tested Covid-19 positive after all of them were sub-jected to antigen tests. The patients were segregated from the other inmates before they were carried to an ambulance, which would take them to hospital. Alam had volunteered when very few were ready to even touch Covid patients,” said an official of the correctional ser-vices. His remission tenure also included 24 days of grace because of his duty as nightwatchman between midnight and 2am to keep an eye on inmates to prevent cases of suicide inside jail, an official said. Alam also worked in the office of the jail superintendent in Jalpaiguri. “I am thankful to our jail superintendent Soumik Sarkar, who took care of all the inmates during the coronavirus crisis and carried out our tests twice,” Alam said. Alam is his parents’ only son. His sisters are married.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
10-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally lower after choppy trade||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally lower after a choppy session on Wednesday amid profit-taking in recent gainers, despite a largely positive trend in global markets. After swinging 666.64 points, the 30-share BSE Sensex settled 19.69 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 51,309.39. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 2.80 points or 0.02 per cent to 15,106.50. HDFC Bank, Bharti Airtel, Axis Bank, Nestle India, ONGC, L&T and SBI and were among the laggards in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, M&M, Bajaj Finance, Titan and TCS were among the gainers. According to traders, investors used the higher levels as an opportunity to book profits through the day, keeping the benchmarks volatile. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.23 per cent higher at USD 61.36 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
10-02-2021||Business||SBI research predicts Indian economy to contract by 7 per cent in Financial Year 2021||Pencilling in a GDP growth in third and fourth quarters, SBI Research on Wednesday revised its contraction forecast for the current fiscal year to 7 per cent. The agency had earlier forecast a 7.4 per cent contraction in 2020-21 GDP numbers. In April-September, the economy contracted 15.7 per cent but the second half may see a surprise 2.8 per cent growth, if the SBI analysis turns out to be correct. Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser at State Bank of India (SBI) said of the 41 high frequency leading indicators, 51 per cent are showing acceleration which should help the economy turn around to the green from the third quarter with a 0.3 percentage point growth which is likely to surprise positively when the final numbers are out. In April-June, the Indian economy contracted by a record 23.9 per cent, but dramatically improved to -7.5 per cent in the second quarter. In 2019-20, the economy had grown 4 per cent and in the current fiscal year, it is on course to tank by 7 per cent. The consensus is -7.5-8 per cent with the NSO pegging it at -7 per cent and RBI at -7.5 per cent. "We now expect GDP decline for the full year to be around -7 per cent compared to our earlier prediction of 7.4 per cent. Also, Q4 growth will also be in positive territory at around 2.5 per cent, Ghosh said, adding promptly that the projections are conditional to the absence of any rise in infections. "We retain our GDP forecast for FY22 at 11 per cent (RBI has pegged it at 10.5 per cent and the economy survey at 11.5 per cent and the budget did not offer a GDP estimate), but with the caveat that 11 per cent will be the floor below which it cannot fall," he said. Corporate results so far also reinstate the fact that third quarter would be much better than the previous one. The corporate GVA of 1,129 companies has expanded by 14.7 per cent in October-December compared to 8.6 per cent in second quarter (of 3,758 companies ex- telecom) On the fiscal gaps, it said 9.5 per cent may be on the higher side. Excluding off-balance sheet liabilities, fiscal deficit will be 8.7 per cent gross tax collection estimate based on revised 2020-21 numbers and collections till December show tax collections will have a degrowth of 8.9 per cent in March quarter on a sequential basis. But in 2021-22 collection may top the budget estimate of Rs 22.17 lakh crore, or 9.9 per cent of GDP. Meanwhile, cash balances of the Centre has declined from the peak Rs 3.4 lakh crore to around Rs 2.3 lakh crore as on February 8. Given that 85-90 per cent of such cash balances belonged to states that was invested with the Centre, it is possible that states before the closing of accounts of 2020-21 want to spend the cash rather than preserving.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
10-02-2021||Business||Calcutta, Haldia among 12 major ports to get more autonomy ||The Parliament on Wednesday passed a bill that seeks to provide greater autonomy in decision-making to 12 major ports in the country and professionalise their governance by setting up boards. The Major Ports Authority Bill, 2020 was passed through ballot votes with 84 in favour and 44 against it in the Rajya Sabha. The Lok Sabha had on September 23, 2020 passed the bill. Allaying fears of members, Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Mansukh Mandaviya categorically said it was not intended towards privatisation of major ports and rather aimed at boosting their decision-making powers in order to compete with private ports. The bill aims to provide for regulation, operation and planning of major ports in India and to vest the administration, control and management of such ports upon the boards of major port authorities and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto, be taken into consideration. Taking a strong objection to some members remarks that it would result in ruining of the ports, the Minister said rather it would turn them into world-class ports and enable the board to take a decision on their own. In terms of volume, 70 per cent of cargo movement is through ports while 90 per cent in value terms. India has 12 major ports -- Deendayal (erstwhile Kandla), Mumbai, JNPT, Marmugao, New Mangalore, Cochin, Chennai, Kamarajar (earlier Ennore), V O Chidambarnar, Visakhapatnam, Paradip and Kolkata (including Haldia). These together had handled 705 million tonnes (MT) of cargo in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
10-02-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points in early trade on Wednesday tracking gains in index-heavyweight stocks like Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance and TCS, amid largely positive trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund inflow. After opening on a choppy note, the 30-share BSE index was trading 108.91 points or 0.21 per cent higher at 51,437.99. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 39.45 points or 0.26 per cent to 15,148.75. UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finance, HCL Tech and Reliance Industries were among the gainers in the Sensex pack, rising up to 2 per cent. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Axis Bank, L&T, HDFC Bank and Infosys were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 19.69 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 51,329.08, and Nifty slipped 6.50 points or 0.04 per cent to 15,109.30. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,300.65 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be good at the moment. A sharp recovery of FPIs flow post the announcement of Union Budget augured well for the markets. On the global front, US equities finished mostly lower after six consecutive sessions of gain. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.28 per cent lower at USD 61.05 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
10-02-2021||Business||Government plans to introduce bill on cryptocurrencies soon||The government plans to come out with a bill to deal with cryptocurrencies as regulatory bodies Reserve Bank of India and Securities and Exchange Board of India do not have the legal framework to deal with them. Minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur informed the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday that the bill on cryptocurrencies is being finalised and will be sent to the cabinet soon. Cryptocurrencies are digital or virtual currencies in which encryption techniques are used to regulate the generation of their units and verify the transfer of funds, operating independently of a central bank. The cryptocurrencies are not currencies, or securities or commodities. The current laws are inadequate to deal with them. Regulators Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and Sebi do not have the framework to regulate cryptocurrencies,” he said. Globally, there are different definitions of cryptocurrencies, which have been adopted by international bodies, he said.” “The RBI also took initiative and banned cryptocurrencies. Based on all this, reports were submitted and the government has prepared a bill, which will be tabled in Parliament soon,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||Future group files caveat petition in Supreme Court against any Amazon move||The Future group on Tuesday filed a caveat petition before the Supreme Court requesting it be heard if any plea is filed by Amazon. A caveat is filed by a litigant to ensure no adverse order is passed against the party without it being heard. Sources close to the Future group confirmed this development. On Monday, a division bench of the Delhi high court stayed an earlier order of a single judge asking Future Retail Ltd (FRL) and other statutory authorities to maintain status-quo with regard to the Rs 24,713- crore deal between the Future group and Reliance Retail. Following the order, the possibility of Amazon challenging the judgment in the apex court has not been ruled out. The bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh had passed the interim direction on FRL’s appeal challenging the February 2 order of a single judge. It added that statutory authorities, like the National Company Law Tribunal, CCI and Sebi cannot be restrained from proceeding in accordance with the law on the deal. The bench also declined Amazon’s request to keep its order in abeyance for a week so that it can explore appropriate remedies. Shares of FRL on Tuesday settled nearly 10 per cent higher at Rs 80.50 on the BSE. The Future Enterprises scrip was locked in the upper circuit filter at Rs 11.78 while Future Consumer closed 9.63 per cent higher at Rs 8.65. Last month, Amazon had filed a petition in the Delhi High Court seeking enforcement of the interim order of the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) that had restrained FRL from going ahead with the deal with Reliance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||InterGlobe Aviation settles corporate governance case with Sebi||InterGlobe Aviation, the parent of budget carrier IndiGo, has settled a case with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), which alleged that the company violated corporate governance norms. InterGlobe Aviation paid Rs 2.10 crore without admission or denial of guilt. This came after the company filed a consent application with the market regulator. Rakesh Gangwal, co-founder and director of Interglobe Aviation, had written to Sebi alleging violation of corporate governance norms and related party transactions between the company and IGE Group — comprising co-founder Rahul Bhatia and his affiliates — which holds 38 per cent in IndiGo. Gangwal had also alleged misrepresentation by the company in its red herring prospectus of October 16, 2015. Based on its investigation, Sebi issued a showcasue notice on November 10, 2020. Pending adjudicating proceedings, the company proposed to settle the matter without admitting or denying the findings of fact and conclusions of law through a settlement order and filed a settlement application with Sebi on December 23, 2020. The settlement terms were placed before a panel on January 25, which considered the facts of the case, the settlement terms offered by the applicant and other material made available by Sebi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||Government to issue regulations on OTT and digital content: Prakash Javadekar||The government will soon issue guidelines for regulation of OTT (over the top) platforms that will address issues such as sensitive content, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Replying to a Zero Hour mention, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said a lot of suggestions and complaints on the regulation of OTT platforms have been received. “Guidelines and direction are almost ready. It will be soon implemented,” he said in his brief submission. Earlier, raising the issue through a Zero Hour mention, Mahesh Poddar of the BJP said the content and language on OTT platforms was discriminatory and offensive. Controversial content on OTT platforms includes sexual discrimination and abusive language, he said adding that the government should, without delay, implement the internet regulations. There are at least 40 OTT platforms, including global ones such as Netflix, Amazon Prime and HotStar (Disney Plus), and hundreds of news content websites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||iPhone maker Wistron to restart operations at Karnataka plant||Shut since December following violence owing to labour unrest at its Karnataka facility, Wistron, Taiwanese contract manufacturer for Apple Inc, said on Tuesday its operations here will start soon as the state government asserted it was ready to extend all co-operation. “We are looking forward to restarting our operations and welcoming back team members,” David Shen, CEO Wistron Smart Devices, said in a statement. He said since the violent incident at their Narasapura facility in Kolar district in December last year, the company has been working hard on improving across the board to raise standards and fix the issues. “All employees have been promptly and fully paid, and we implemented new hiring and payroll systems to ensure everyone is paid correctly and provided the correct documentation going forward,” Shen added. The company official said Wistron will be delivering enhanced training programmes to all workers. According to him, the management has put in a place a new system for workers to get information and raise any concerns they may have, anonymously. While thanking the employees for their patience and support, Shen said the firm has worked through corrective actions. Karnataka labour minister A. Shivaram Hebbar told PTI company officials were willing to start their operations from February 15. “There may be delay of a day or two in resuming their operations but they are serious about it,” Hebbar said. He assured the company that the Karnataka government was ready to extend all co-operation to ensure that the manufacturing facility starts. “It is not just about Wistron but our support is to everyone who is willing to set up an industry in Karnataka,” Hebbar added. Over 4,000 employees on contract went on a rampage over non-payment of their wages. The company had sacked its vice president overseeing its business in India, as it admitted that some workers were not paid correctly or on time, and offered an apology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||Finance minister says markets keep up positive pace for a whole week||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said markets for the first time had kept up the positive pace for a whole week. “Earlier markets being positive and going up for a few hours or a day would itself be a good message. All aspects of the market have seen the budget with positivity and kept the spirit up for a whole week. It’s not just a 1 or 2 per cent increase in performance. I understand there is an 11 per cent increase,” she said. She was speaking at a session organised by Indian Chamber of Commerce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||Govt lowers the period of reopening an assessment case||The government has lowered the period of reopening an assessment case to ensure greater compliance and build an environment of trust with the tax men, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Tuesday. Finance ministry  officials said the budget decision to reduce the reopening of an old assessment case to three years from six despite hesitancy from authorities had been made possible by advances in technology as more information gets collected from third parties. For serious cases of evasion where there is evidence of concealment of Rs 50 lakh or more in a year, the assessment can be reopened after 10 years and that too with the approval of the principal chief commissioner of income tax. Speaking at a session organised by Indian Chamber of Commerce on Tuesday, the finance minister said that the intent of the government has been to simplify the compliance for the tax payers and build trust between the tax authority and assessees. “A step which I must say in the presence of the finance secretary..a step which entire CBDT and CBIC would normally hesitantly say yes to, they have readily said yes to collapse the time for keeping the option open for opening up an assessess’s account. The intent is not to bother the regular taxpayer,” said Sitharaman. According to the finance ministry, due to the advancement of technology, the income tax department is now collecting all relevant information related to transactions of taxpayers from third parties under section 285BA of Income Tax Act. Information is also received from other law enforcement agencies. The department uses this information to verify declaration of tax payers and detect non filers . Sitharaman said the budget had shown the direction in which the government wants to spend. It has also adopted a policy driven approach to stay away from the areas where it does not want to be in the first place. This information driven assessment has brought about the opportunity to rationalise various provisions of the Income Tax Act and make it more friendly for the taxpayers. Sitharaman said the budget had shown the direction in which the government wants to spend. It hs also adopted a policy driven approach to stay away from the areas where it does not want to be in the first place. Members attending the event sought government intervention towards the rising steel prices and employment intensive tourism sector that has been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||Investors find time ripe to book profits  ||Benchmark indices on Tuesday took a break after a six session rally as profit booking saw the Sensex and the Nifty ending marginally lower in the day. Profit booking took place in mutual funds also as the segment witnessed outflows for the seventh month running in January. Mutual fund investors withdrew over Rs 9,253 crore last month compared with Rs 10,147 crore in the previous month, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) showed on Tuesday. “January 2021 saw measured maturity-driven redemptions led by smart, goal-based investing and the desire to book profits with equity indices reaching all-time high,’’N S Venkatesh, chief executive, Amfi said. He, however, added that inflows continued through the SIP route as reflected from the rising number of new registrations coupled with robust monthly SIP contribution. The total number of SIP accounts stood at 3,55,90,736 a rise of 8,78,314 over the previous month. In addition, investors pulled out Rs 33,409 crore from debt mutual funds in January after investing Rs 13,863 crore in December 2020. Overall, the mutual fund industry witnessed a net outflow of Rs 35,586 crore across all segments during the period under review, against inflows of Rs 2,968 crore seen in December on investment from hybrid and other schemes. At the bourses, the 30-share Sensex again touched a record intra-day high of 51835.86. However, profit booking saw the index surrendering all its gains to close 19.69 points lower at 51329.08. At the NSE, the broader NSE Nifty dropped 6.50 points or 0.04 per cent to 15109.30. It touched a record peak of 15257.10 during the day. Experts said  with key events like the Union Budget and the monetary policy out of the way, equities could see volatility amid concerns of expensive valuations. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, falling 3.62 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, ITC, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finserv and TCS. Asian Paints, ONGC, Titan, L&T, Axis Bank and UltraTech Cement gained, by climbing up to 3.70 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||Tata Steel reports 4.3 times jump in profit after tax||Tata Steel reported a 4.3 times jump in profit after tax and earned its highest ever consolidated EBIDTA in the third quarter on the back of an unprecedented price of the alloy in the domestic market, overshadowing a sustained weak performance of the European business. Taking full advantage of the upside from captive iron ore mines and a strong bounceback in demand after the pandemic-led disruption, the company’s Indian operation performed brilliantly, helping it to reduce net debt by Rs 10,325 crore in the the third quarter alone, topping up on Rs 8,258 crore in the first six months. It has guided to reduce gross debt by Rs 12,000 crore further in the fourth quarter. Profit after tax of the India operation, which includes key subsidiaries Tata Steel BSL and Tata Steel Long Products, was Rs 4,832 crore  compared with Rs 1,194 crore in the same period last fiscal. On a sequential basis, the profit jumped 2.4 per cent from Rs 2,606 crore reported in the second quarter. On a consolidated basis, which includes installed capacity of 10 million tonne in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, profit stood at Rs 3,989 crore compared with a loss of Rs 1,166 crore in the same period last fiscal and profit of Rs 1,635 crore in the second quarter of this fiscal. Turnover of the company, however, went up by 18.3 per cent to Rs 25,211 crore in Q3 compared with Rs 21,299 crore in the same period last year. On a consolidated basis, the turnover went up by 11.4 per cent to Rs 39,594 crore from Rs 35,520 crore a year ago. Deliveries from the India business fell marginally to 4.65 million tonne (mt) from 4.85mt a year ago because of lower inventory at the beginning of the quarter. It stood at 7.2mt compared with 6.99mt in Q3 of 2019-20 on a consolidated basis. The EBIDTA in the third quarter, reflecting the underlying business performance, stood at Rs 8,811 crore, enabling Rs 18,931 EBIDTA per tonne for the India business. The robust performance allowed the company to restart key capital expenditure in Kalinganagar, Odisha. “Given the strong market  conditions and our success with deleveraging, we have restarted work on the pellet plant and the cold rolling mill complex at Kalinganagar which will help in reducing costs and improving revenues,” said T.V. Narendran, managing director and CEO of Tata Steel. The company said it was looking to explore a ‘strategic solution’ after talks with SSAB for sale of the Netherlands business fell through last month. Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and CFO of Tata Steel, said the company’s credit matrix has improved significantly, surpassing the annual deleveraging target of $1 billion. “We continued to aggressively reduce our net debt by Rs 10,325 crore and gross debt by Rs 5,640 crore during the quarter, taking the nine month reduction in net debt by Rs 18,609 crore ($2.55billion) and gross debt by Rs 7,649 crore.” Adani Ports Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) on Tuesday reported a 16.22 per cent increase in its consolidated profit to Rs 1,576.53 crore for the December quarter of 2020. The company had clocked a consolidated profit of Rs 1,356.43 crore a year ago, the company said in a regulatory filing to the BSE. Its total consolidated income increased to Rs 4,274.79 crore in the third quarter from Rs 3,830.43 crore in the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||Retro tax rush blunts court verdicts||The fine print of the budget shows the government resorting to retrospective provisions to overturn judicial pronouncements in the areas of slump sale, goodwill and the income adjustment of charitable trusts. Finance Bill 2021 has widened the scope of slump sale to include all transfers thereby making them taxable even as an appeal is pending in the Supreme Court.  Slump sale is defined as “the transfer of one or more undertakings as a result of sale for lump sum consideration without value being assigned to individual assets and liabilities”. Madras High Court relying on an earlier decision of Bombay High Court had recently held the transfer of an undertaking for a non-monetary consideration is not ‘‘slump sale’’ and not chargeable to tax. If there is no monetary consideration involved in the transaction, the court said, the transaction may be regarded as an ‘‘exchange’’ and not ‘‘sale’’. Accordingly, it would be not possible for the tax department to bring such transactions under the ambit of ‘‘slump sale’’. The Centre believes in several cases ‘‘sale’’ may be disguised as a ‘‘transfer’’ and may be covered under the existing definition of slump sale. As a result, it has widened the definition of transfers covered by the term slump sale to include all transfers from April 1, 2021. “It is proposed to amend the scope of the definition of the term ‘slump sale’ by amending the provision of clause (42c) of section 2 of the Act so that all types of ‘transfer’ as defined in clause (47) of section 2 of the Act are included within its scope,” the memorandum explaining the finance bill said. Goodwill The budget has stopped companies from claiming depreciation on goodwill. Overturning the effect of a Supreme Court judgment, the government has “decided to propose goodwill of a business or profession will not be considered as  depreciable asset and there would not be any depreciation on goodwill of a business or profession in any situation”. This has big implications for mergers and acquisitions where a business is acquired for a sum greater than the value of assets of the business with the excess sum being treated as goodwill. Deepak Joshi, taxation expert, said “there used to be a controversy regarding whether this acquired goodwill is a depreciable asset for tax purposes. This controversy was resolved in favour of taxpayers by the Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs Smifs Securities Ltd. wherein it was held that ‘Goodwill’ is an asset on which the benefit of depreciation can be claimed. “ “With a view to overrule this decision, Budget 2021 now proposes to amend section 32. Hence, goodwill shall no longer be a depreciable asset.” “The amendment seeks to overcome judgements of multiple courts, including the Supreme Court …..impacts not just internal group restructurings but also business acquisitions,” Hitesh Gajaria, senior partner at KPMG India said. Trusts The bill proposes to overturn a Supreme Court verdict which had allowed income by charitable trusts to be carried forward and adjusted against income of the subsequent year. The new explanation proviso in the budget said “clarify in both clause (23C) of section 10 and section 11 that for the computation of income required to be applied or accumulated during the previous year, no set off or deduction or allowance of any excess application, of any of the year preceding the previous year, shall be allowed”. “Supreme Court in the case of CIT(E) vs Subros Educational Society case held that any excess expenditure incurred by the concerned charitable trust in an earlier assessment year could be allowed to be set off against income earned in subsequent years,” Mayank Mohanka, founder director TaxAaram India said. The amendments appear to undermine former finance Arun Jaitley’s assertion in 2014 that the NDA  “would not bring about any change retrospectively which creates a fresh liability”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||India||UPSC civil services Prelims 2021 on June 27||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) will conduct the Civil Services preliminary examination for 2021 on June 27. The commission confirmed the date of the preliminary exam in a notification issued on Wednesday and said that the detailed notification will be released in due course. "CS(P)E-2021 (including IFoS(P)E-2021) shall be conducted as per already declared schedule on 27.06.2021. Detailed Notifications for CSE-2021 and IFoSE-2021 shall be published in due course," read the notification. The UPSC Civil Services (Preliminary) examination is the first stage of the exam that applicants need to clear to qualify for the main examination. It is an objective type test consisting of two papers. However, the marks obtained in the examination are not included for determining the final merit list. The preliminary test consists of paper-I and II. In the objective type, multiple choice questions are asked that carry a total of 400 marks. In the general studies paper – II, a candidate has to qualify with a minimum of 33 per cent marks. Negative marking for every question is one-third of the marks assigned to that question. The questions in paper-I come from seven different test areas like 1) Science and technology, 2) history and culture, 3) geography, 4) Indian Polity, 5) Indian economy, 6) environment and ecology and 7) current events of national and international importance. Once the detailed notification is out, candidates will be able to register for the examination by visiting the UPSC application website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
10-02-2021||India||Farmer unions to stage 4-hour nationwide 'rail roko' on Feb 18||Protesting farmers Wednesday announced a four-hour nationwide rail blockade on February 18 as they renewed their strategy to intensify their agitation, which also included a candle march on February 14 in the memory of those killed in the 2019 Pulwama terrorist attack. In a statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the protest, also said toll collection will not be allowed in Rajasthan from February 12 as part of their week-long protest strategy. The SKM said in the statement that in a meeting on Wednesday farmer unions decided to escalate their agitation. "There will be a 'rail roko' programme across the country from 12 pm to 4 pm on February 18," the SKM said. Earlier this month, the protesting farmers had observed a three-hour road blockade to press their demand of repealing the three laws. SKM leader Darshan Pal said candle marches, Mashaal Juloos' (torch marches) and other programmes will be held across the country on February 14 in respect of the sacrifices of the 40 CRPF personnel who were killed in a terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama on February 14, 2019. He said the farmers also will hold events in a show of solidarity on the birth anniversary of Sir Chhotu Ram -- who was one of the most prominent pre-partition farmer leaders -- on February 16. The announcements by the protesting unions comes on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the government and Parliament have great respect for farmers who are voicing their views on the three farm laws. The prime minister made it clear that those who want to continue with the old agriculture marketing system can continue doing so. Replying in Lok Sabha to the discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President's address to the joint sitting of Parliament, Modi staunchly defended the three contentious farms laws and attacked the opposition for "misleading" farmers, saying those who are disrupting the House are doing so as per a "well-planned strategy" as they are unable to digest that people can see the truth. "Through their games, the trust of the people can never be won," he said, amidst protests by the opposition members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
10-02-2021||India||Farmers aiming to solve issues, not to bring about political change, says Tikait||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday asserted that the agitating farmers were not aiming at any change in power at the Centre but a solution to their problems as he said many of their leaders will tour different parts of the country to spread the movement. Tikait, who had earlier said that police should have shot those who unfurled flags at Red Fort during the tractor rally on Republic Day, defended the act saying it was not treason and youths were being framed. Addressing the protesting farmers at Singhu border, he said that the agitation against the farm laws will stretch till the Centre addresses their issues. "We do not aim for change in power (at the Centre). The government should do its work. We want it to repeal the farm laws and ensure law on MSP," he said. Tikait said that the agitation will be long drawn and continue till the government starts talks with farmer leaders. "The government should hold the talks. Our committee is ready to talk. Solutions will be found through dialogue and the matter will be resolved." Citing the Red Fort incident, Tikait said that the youths were being framed for unfurling religious flags. "What sections are imposed for unfurling flags at a non-permissible place? Impose those sections, lodge the case. Kaun sa deshdroh ka kaam kar diya? (it was not an act of treason)," said the farmer leader. He alleged the Red Fort incident was a "conspiracy" by the government to distract the agitation and lower the farmers' morale. Tikait also asserted that the unity of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting against the contentious farm laws, was intact and warned the government not to be in any illusion. "Who says Samyukt Kisan Morcha will split? Neither our joint stage will divide nor the Morcha will split. Our stage will be here at Singhu and its leaders will be our heads," he said. The agitation will expand with holding of big meetings across the country and associating 40 lakh tractors with it, he said, adding the farmer leaders will tour different states to spread the movement. "Do not worry, we will win. The farmers in the country are watching you and the 300 km area around Delhi. We will visit each village in the country, hold big meetings and associate 40 lakh tractors with the agitation," he said. Tikait said that the farmers' agitation was for ensuring that foodgrain reaches the needy and not locked up in the coffers of the corporates. The farm laws will not only destroy the peasantry and farming, it will also wipe out small traders and common man in the country, he claimed. He reiterated that the agitation was completely "non political" and will not give space to any politician to advance his or her vested interests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
10-02-2021||India||Covid: Calcutta study explains rapid spread in Europe, North America  ||A protein deficiency found commonly in large swathes of the populations in Europe and North America could explain why these regions have been worse hit by Covid-19 than people in Asia, researchers at a Calcutta-based national institute have established. The protein, Alpha-1-antitrypsin (AAT), prevents lung tissue damage and its deficiency reduces the body’s ability to fight off the D614G mutant of the Coronavirus (Sars-CoV-2) which is now the dominant strain globally. This finding which could have major implications for understanding Covid-19 and how it has spread globally has emerged in a study conducted by the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBG) in Calcutta. “We have been looking for explanations for the rapid spread. Also, we noted it was spreading better in Europe and North American than parts of Asia,” says Partha Mazumder, founder and distinguished professor, NIBG. NIBG’s ground-breaking work throws a new light on the reasons for the different rates in the spread of Covid-19 globally. The research also “opens up possibility for considerations of AAT supplements in prevention of the 614G subtype virus,” says the study published in the Infection, Genetics and Evolution journal. The first strain of Coronavirus was the D614D but that was rapidly superseded by the D614G variant which spread like wildfire in Europe and North America.   The protein, Alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT), is one of the major serum proteins that fights inflammation and helps prevent lung tissue damage. Crucially, the researchers found in the study that covers the first report of the virus from China in late December 2109 up to July 2020 that AAT deficiency is “highly prevalent” in European and North-American populations, but “much less so” in East Asia (the report uses the term East Asia but this also includes South Asia).    “This allowed the faster spread in Europe and North America,” Majumder said. “This AAT deficiency enhanced the ability of the virus to infect human cells and spread in Europe and North America,” he added. In addition, clinical studies from England and the US reported a three-fold increase in viral load for individuals infected with the 614G variant than the 614D subtype. Studies suggest that higher viral loads are associated with worse disease severity. There has been widespread speculation about why the virus has spread at different rates across the world with some experts attributing smaller caseloads in Asia to such factors as higher temperatures. Also, Indians are thought to have higher immunity levels because we have to face illnesses like malaria and dengue. But Majumder said his team was convinced that the reason for the “explosive spread among individuals of European and North American ancestry” and the “slower spread” among those of Asian ancestry was related to biological factors.   “This is the first time we have got an insight into the mechanics” of how this mutant type of the coronavirus (DG614G variant) spread, said Majumder.   In January 2020, the viral landscape globally was overwhelmingly dominated by 614D. But by March, 614G subtype had become the dominant subtype in Europe and in North America. However, in Asia. the spread of the 614D variant was much slower. To reach 50 per cent of cases, the 614G subtype took two months in Europe and nearly three months in North America compared to East Asia where the time lag was five-and-a-half months.   According to the paper, AAT deficiency is highest in Portugal at 75.9 individuals per 1,000. Spain has the second-highest deficiency of the AAT protein at 67.3 individuals per 1,000.  Barcelona was hit very badly by the pandemic with overflowing hospital wards at the peak.     In France, the AAT deficiency stands at 51.9 per 1,000 individuals. Poland has the lowest rate of AAT deficiency at 18.7 per 1,000. Canada has 32.1 per 1,000 individuals with AAT deficiency while the US has 29 per 1,000 individuals. In Asia, the AAT deficiency rate was two per 1,000 individuals in the Philippines; 2.5 in Singapore; nearly five-and-a-half in South Korea. The study gave no AAT deficiency figures for India but Majumder said the researchers’ conclusions could be applied to this country. The Indian study’s findings are backed up by research published in The Lancet which suggests people with AAT deficiency face increased risk of catching Covid and development of severe symptoms. “Identifying populations who are risk of severe complications is crucial” in order to develop Covid prevention and treatment strategies,” the paper says. It notes that patients with AAT deficiency also have a higher prevalence of hypertension, kidney problems, respiratory illnesses and diabetes -- diseases already associated with higher Covid infection chances and poor prognoses.  “Identifying populations who are risk of severe complications is crucial” in order to develop Covid prevention and treatment strategies, the paper says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
10-02-2021||India||Indian, Chinese troops start disengagement process in Ladakh||The frontline troops of China and India at the south and north banks of the Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh started synchronised and organised disengagement from Wednesday, the Chinese defence ministry announced here. There was no comment from the Indian side on the statement made by the spokesperson for the Chinese Ministry of National Defence, Senior Colonel Wu Qian, and carried by China's official media. "The Chinese and Indian frontline troops at the southern and northern bank of the Pangong Tso Lake start synchronised and organised disengagement from February 10," Wu said in a brief statement. "This move is in accordance with the consensus reached by both sides at the 9th round of China-India Corps Commander Level Meeting," the statement added. The militaries of China and India have been engaged in a tense standoff in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. The two countries have held several rounds of military and diplomatic-level talks to resolve the face-off. On January 24, the 9th round of China-India Corps Commander-level meeting was held on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Govt, Parliament have great respect for farmers, says Modi in LS||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the central government and the Parliament have great respect for the farmers who are voicing their views on the three farm bills and that is why top most ministers have been talking to them. Replying in Lok Sabha to the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President's address to the joint sitting of Parliament, Modi again allayed apprehensions on the farm laws, saying neither any agriculture 'mandi' (market) has shut down after the three laws were enacted nor has the MSP stopped, rather the MSP has only increased which no one can deny. "This House, our government and we all respect farmers who are voicing their views on the farm bills. This is the reason why topmost ministers of the government are constantly talking to them. There is great respect for farmers. "After the laws relating to agriculture were passed by Parliament, no 'mandi' has shut. Likewise, MSP has remained. Procurement on MSP has remained. These facts can't be ignored," he said. The prime minister said those who are disrupting the House are doing so as per a well-planned strategy as they are unable to digest that people can see the truth. "Through their games, the trust of the people can never be won," he said, amidst protests by the opposition members. The Congress walked out of Lok Sabha as PM Modi explained the government's stand on the three farm laws. Modi said the Congress has taken different stands in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. "A divided and confused party like this can do no good to the country," he added. Modi said India has managed the Covid-19 pandemic successfully despite adverse predictions and the country has now become a ray of hope for the world. He said the world post-Covid-19 is turning out to be very different and in such times remaining isolated from the global trends will be counter-productive. "That is why India is working towards building an 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India), which seeks to further global good. "Predictions were made that India cannot survive as a nation, but people of our country proved them wrong and we are now a ray of hope for the world," he said. Complimenting health care and frontline workers for their relentless work during the pandemic, the prime minister said the way India has managed the coronavirus crisis is a turning point and the world has seen its success. The address of the President has showcased India's 'Sankalp Shakti' and his words have boosted the spirit of confidence among the people of India, infused new confidence and inspired every heart "During the discussion on the President's speech, a large number of women MPs took part. This is a great sign. I want to congratulate the women MPs who enriched the House proceedings with their thoughts," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Congress will repeal farm laws if voted to power, says Priyanka||Attacking the Centre over the new farm laws, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra told a rally in western Uttar Pradesh that if voted to power her party would scrap them. At a kisan panchayat organised by the party in Saharanpur, the Congress general secretary accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders of insulting farmers who are protesting against the laws. "The three laws are demonic. If voted to power, the Congress will scrap these laws," he said. She said the party's fight will continue till the laws are scrapped. The rally is the first in a series of such farmers' meetings planned the party in western Uttar Pradesh, a year before the assembly elections in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||HC monitoring CBI probe in Hathras case as per SC order||The Centre informed Parliament on Wednesday that the Allahabad High Court is monitoring the CBI probe into the rape-and-murder case of a 19-year-old woman in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh as directed by the Supreme Court. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the apex court had observed that since the Uttar Pradesh police were divested of the probe and the central agency is carrying out the investigation, there would be no room for apprehensions at this stage. He said the investigation into the Hathras rape-and-murder case has been transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on the recommendation of the state government through a gazette notification of October 10, 2020. Reddy said according to the available information, the Supreme Court, in its order on October 27, 2020, had observed that the petitioners had prayed that the Union of India and the authorities concerned be ordered to conduct a fair probe and if the need arises, by transferring the case to the CBI, or a special investigation team (SIT) be formed to investigate the matter and that it was also prayed that a sitting or retired Supreme Court or high court judge be appointed to look into the matter. Reddy said the Supreme Court observed that it would be appropriate for the high court to proceed to monitor the probe in the manner in which it would desire and that the CBI shall report to the high court in the manner as would be directed by the high court through its orders from time to time. "Further, they also expressed the view that it would be appropriate for the investigating agency to complete the investigation and in any event since the local police have been divested of the investigation and the CBI is carrying out the investigation, there would be no room for apprehensions at this stage," he said. The 19-year-old woman was allegedly raped and seriously injured by four men at Hathras in September last year and she died at a Delhi hospital two weeks later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||No evidence against Arnab in TRP scam, claims Republic TV||ARG Outlier Media, the company that runs all Republic TV channels, has told the Bombay High Court that the Mumbai police's charge sheet in the fake TRP scam did not disclose any evidence against Republic TV and its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, who is an accused in the case. In a rejoinder affidavit filed on Tuesday in the high court to counter the police's charge sheet, the company said the police had "falsely implicated" its employees in the case. It said the entire case against its channels and employees arose out of an "unparalleled political vendetta" and a "deeply malicious witch hunt". The company also said its employees had been targeted for the "fearless news reporting" done by the Republic TV on the Maharashtra police's investigation into the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death and Palghar lynching incident of last year. Rajput was found hanging at his home in Mumbai's Bandra area in June last year. The ARG Outlier Media in its affidavit said Hansa Research Group, the original complainant in the case, had not named the Republic TV or its employees in its complaints. The company further said the Mumbai police's crime branch too had not found any evidence against its channels or employees, and yet, the police named its channels and their employees, including their top management, as accused and suspects in its charge sheet. "The charge sheet though voluminous in weight is negligible in evidence against petitioners," the affidavit said, adding "there is not a single shred of evidence of wrongdoing in the charge sheet". The company has also alleged in the affidavit that the police harassed and physically tortured some of its employees, including Assistant Vice President Ghanshyam Singh. It said Singh, CEO Vikas Khanchandani, and some others were pressurised to implicate the Republic TV and other accused persons in the case. "It is a matter of public record that Mr Singh was physically and medically tortured in custody to falsely self incriminate, and to falsely incriminate his organisation," the affidavit said. The company also said the purported WhatsApp chats between Arnab Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, the former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), were selectively leaked by the police to "create prejudice". It also said in the affidavit that no actual stakeholders, be it advertisers, or media houses, which were supposedly affected by the alleged fake TRP scam, had come forward as complainants in the case. The Mumbai police last month filed two affidavits in the case through city Commissioner of Police Parambir Singh, and ACP Shashank Sandbhor of the crime branch, saying the police had not targeted the Republic TV or its employees. The police said their probe was not a result of any political vendetta. A bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale is presiding over a bunch of pleas filed by the ARG Outlier Media, seeking, among other things, that no coercive action be taken against its employees and the probe be transferred from the Mumbai police to the CBI or any other independent agency. The fake Television Rating Points (TRP) scam came to light last year when the ratings agency BARC filed a complaint through the Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Dismantling of INS Viraat put on hold by SC||The Supreme Court Wednesday ordered status quo on the dismantling of India's decommissioned aircraft carrier 'Viraat' which was in service with the Indian Navy for nearly three decades. The Supreme Court's order comes on a petition by a firm that offered to buy the decommissioned carrier for Rs 100 crore and convert it into a museum. Envitech Marine Consultants Pvt Ltd has been looking to acquire the warship and convert INS Viraat into a maritime museum, parked off the coast of Goa in collaboration with the government of small coastal state. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notice to the Centre and others seeking their responses on a plea filed by the firm. The centaur-class aircraft carrier, INS Viraat, was in service with the Indian Navy for 29 years before being decommissioned in March 2017. The Centre had in July 2019 informed the Parliament that decision to scrap Viraat was taken after due consultation with the Indian Navy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Twitter blocks some accounts, spares hashtags of media, activists, politicians||Twitter on Wednesday said it has withheld some of the accounts flagged by the Indian government for blocking "within India only", but has not blocked handles of civil society activists, politicians and media as "it would violate their fundamental right to free expression" guaranteed under Indian law. Twitter emphasised that it will continue to advocate for the right of free expression of its users and that it is actively exploring options under Indian law both for Twitter and for the accounts that have been impacted. The microblogging platform had been asked by the government to take down multiple accounts that were allegedly sharing misinformation and provocative content around the ongoing farmers' agitation. It had also been warned of penal action for non-compliance. Seeking to clarify its stance, Twitter - in a blog post - said it had taken steps to reduce the visibility of the hashtags containing harmful content that included prohibiting them from trending on Twitter and appearing as recommended Search terms. Twitter has also informed the Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) of its enforcement action. The government, however, termed as “unusual” Twitter's move to publish the blogpost before a slated talks with the IT secretary on the issue. “Upon the request of Twitter seeking a meeting with the government, the Secretary IT was to engage with senior management of Twitter. In this light, a blog post published prior to this engagement is unusual,” the IT ministry said in its response on Koo, a homegrown social networking platform. Twitter noted that it has taken a range of enforcement actions against more than 500 accounts escalated across all MeitY orders - including permanent suspension in certain cases for violation of Twitter rules. "...Today, we have withheld a portion of the accounts identified in the blocking orders under our Country Withheld Content policy within India only. These accounts continue to be available outside of India," Twitter said. It, however, did not provide details of the handles against whom action had been taken. Twitter argued that it has not taken any action on accounts that consist of news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians as it does not believe that the actions “we have been directed to take are consistent with Indian law, and, in keeping with our principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression”. It contended that doing so would violate the fundamental right to free expression under Indian law. "We remain committed to safeguarding the health of the conversation occurring on Twitter, and strongly believe that the Tweets should flow," it said. Emphasising that it believes transparency to be the foundation to promoting healthy public conversation on the platform and to earn trust, Twitter said it is critical that people understand its approach to content moderation and how it engages with governments globally. "The values that underpin the Open Internet and free expression are increasingly under threat around the world... Twitter exists to empower voices to be heard, and we continue to make improvements to our service so that everyone - no matter their views or perspective - feels safe participating in the public conversation," Twitter said. Twitter said, following the reports of violence in New Delhi in recent weeks, it wanted to share a granular update on its proactive efforts to enforce its rules and defend its principles in India. Starting January 26, Twitter said its global team took enforcement action judiciously and impartially on content, Trends, Tweets, and accounts that were in violation of its rules and took action on hundreds of accounts that violated its policy framework. Those removed were found to be indulging in inciting violence, abuse, wishes of harm, and threats that could trigger the risk of offline harm, it added. Other actions included preventing certain terms from appearing in the Trends section and suspension of more than 500 accounts that were engaging in clear examples of platform manipulation and spam. Twitter said it tackled misinformation based on the highest potential for real-world harm, and prioritised labelling of Tweets that were in violation of its synthetic and manipulated media policy. Separate to its enforcement under the Twitter Rules, the US-based company said it had been served with several separate blocking orders by MeitY under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act. Out of these, two were emergency blocking orders that we temporarily complied with, but subsequently restored access to the content in a manner that we believe was consistent with Indian law, it said. Twitter further pointed out that after this was communicated to MeitY, it was served with a non-compliance notice. The government, on February 4, had ordered Twitter to block 1,178 accounts with links to Pakistan and Khalistan supporters that were spreading misinformation and provocative content on farmers' protest. Previously, too, Twitter had been ordered to take down handles and hashtags that suggested a farmer genocide was being planned, saying such misinformation and inflammatory content will incite passion, and impact public order. The government had also warned Twitter of penal action in case of failure to comply with its directive and had cited sections that provide for fine and jail for up to 7 years. Twitter on Tuesday had said it is seeking formal dialogue with the Information Technology Minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Rescue operation continues to save people trapped inside tunnel in Tapovan||Rescuers from multiple agencies like the ITBP, NDRF and Army continued their operation on Wednesday to penetrate deeper through tonnes of silt to reach out to workers trapped inside the Tapovan tunnel as the toll in the Uttarakhand flash floods has mounted to 32 with over 170 missing. The centre of operations, post the Sunday disaster in the border district of Chamoli, remains the large tunnel where an estimated 30-35 workers are believed to have been trapped after the Alaknanda river hurtled down in spate as a result of a possible glacier burst or avalanche in the Himalayas. The rescuers are "hoping against hope" to find the workers of the Tapovan power project who have gone missing for over three days now. With every minute passing by, the concern about the safety of these men is mounting. Officials on the ground and those monitoring the rescue from Delhi told PTI that continuous accumulation of slush and silt inside the tunnel is the biggest hurdle for the rescuers. "Heavy machines have removed more slush from the tunnel the whole night. A joint team of ITBP, NDRF, SDRF and sister agencies entered into the tunnel this morning. "The tunnel is approachable till about 120 meters but more slush and water coming from inside the tunnel is making the way ahead difficult," Indo-Tibetan Border Police force spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said in Delhi. Measures like drilling to take oxygen to those trapped inside the tunnel are being contemplated, project consultant A K Shrivastava said at the site in Tapovan. The over 1,500-metre tunnel has become the focal point of rescue operations even as family members of those trapped spend hours outside with abated breath to hear some good news about their kin. The multi-agency group of rescuers also flew a camera-equipped drone inside the tunnel on Tuesday but due to darkness, it could not pinpoint the location of survivors or the way forward, a senior National Disaster Response Force officer said. "We are still hopeful. The teams will continue making attempts, clearing the slush to enter deeper into the tunnel and locate the trapped," he said. The ITBP has deployed a team of about 450 personnel apart from those from the NDRF, state disaster response force and the Army. When contacted, Uttarakhand Director General of Police Ashok Kumar said all possible efforts will be made to save the lives of those trapped inside the tunnel. As per the latest updates provided by the State Emergency Operation Centre here, 32 bodies have been recovered from different places in the disaster-hit areas while 174 are still missing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Over 11,000 fresh Covid cases, 94 casualties in a day||India's tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 1,08,58,371 with 11,067 new infections, while fresh fatalities remained below 100 for the fifth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,55,252 with 94 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,05,61,608 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 97.27 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total COVID-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,41,511 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.30 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,33,24,655 samples have been tested up to February 9 with 7,36,903 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 94 new fatalities include 35 from Maharashtra, 19 from Kerala, 8 from Punjab and 6 from West Bengal. A total of 1,55,252 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,360 from Maharashtra followed by 12,391 from Tamil Nadu, 12,241 from Karnataka, 10,882 from Delhi, 10,215 from West Bengal, 8,691 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,160 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Hike in fuel prices: Congress calls Odisha bandh on February 15||Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC) on Tuesday called for Odisha bandh on February 15 protesting against the steep rise in petrol and diesel prices. It will also protest against the state’s failure to protect the interest of Odisha in different areas. OPCC president Niranjan Patnaik said: “Bandh will be effective from 7am-1pm. All the business establishments will remain shut and the vehicles will remain off the roads. However, instruction will be given to keep the emergency services going.” The train services are likely to be disrupted on that day as Congress workers will sit on dharna in different railway stations. Patnaik said: “Though common people will be hit by the bandh our main aim is to generate awareness on various issues like that steep rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and domestic gas.” On Tuesday, petrol price went up by 36 paise in Bhubaneswar and now its being sold at Rs 87.97 and  the diesel price has increased by 38 paise and it is  now selling Rs 84.40. Patnaik said: “Through bandh, we will also educate people on how Odisha has failed to protect its interest and the Andhra government has intruded into our area and is going to organise rural elections in 21 villages of Kutia Panchayat on the border of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.” Meanwhile, Odisha plans to move the Supreme Court on the border dispute with Andhra and stall  the election in the Kutia panchayat in Koraput district. Even chief minister Naveen Patnaik had announced to visit the Kutia panchayat soon. Besides Odisha Pradesh Congress will raise the issue of how Odisha has failed to protect its interest on Mahanadi river water sharing with Chhattisgarh. “People have always supported the bandh call given by the Congress and this time we are hopeful of getting full cooperation from the people of the state,” said Patnaik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Nitish Kumar expands cabinet; Shahnawaz Hussain, Sushant kin among those sworn in||The much awaited expansion of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s cabinet finally happened with almost a three-month delay on Tuesday, as Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan administered the oath to office and secrecy to 17 ministers — nine from the BJP and eight from the Janata Dal United (JDU). With this the total number of ministers, including Nitish, went up to 31. Bihar can have 36 ministers or 15 per cent of the size of its 243-member legislative Assembly. Former Union minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, deceased movie actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s cousin Niraj Kumar Singh ‘Bablu’, Samrat Chaudhary, Janak Ram, Subash Singh, Narayan Prasad, Nitish Navin, Alok Ranjan Jha and Pramod Kumar were among the BJP leaders who got the ministerial berths in the expansion. Shrawan Kumar, Sanjay Jha, Madan Sahni, Lesi Singh, Jayant Raj, former IPS officer Sunil Kumar, Jama Khan, and independent MLA Sumit Singh were sworn-in as ministers from the JDU side. The expansion came ahead of the budget session scheduled to commence from February 19. It had become more necessary because each of the existing 14 ministers were groaning under the weight of several departments. The ministers have to participate in the discussions on their respective department’s budget during the session. It also put a full stop on the ongoing tussle between the two main ruling partners — JDU with 44 seats and BJP with 74 — over the number of ministers in the cabinet. The two parties have now 13 and 16, ministers respectively. One minister each is from the former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) and Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP). Though the JDU failed to have ministers equal in number to the BJP, despite blaming the latter for its debacle in the Assembly polls, the difference between the two parties is not much. If the number of ministerial departments with the two parties is considered, the JDU has 20 and the BJP has 21. Soon after the expansion, Nitish extended congratulations to the newcomers in the cabinet allocated the departments to them. “Whenever a cabinet is formed we keep in mind everything. Focus is given on the representation of every region and section of the society in it. The strength of the cabinet is limited, still we try to provide representation of people of every area in a broader manner,” Nitish said while reacting to questions by media persons. The induction of the 52-year-old Shahnawaz, arguably the most recognised among the few minority faces of the BJP, indicates a tectonic shift. It indicates that the saffron party is trying to project a benign, secular and inclusive face in the state. It had attracted sharp criticism for not fielding any Muslim candidate during the Assembly polls held in October–November last year. Shahnawaz was weaned away from the central politics and made an MLC last month. Among the nine new ministers from the BJP, only one (Pramod Kumar), has been a member of the cabinet previously. This shows that the party is now completely in the mode to overhaul itself in the state, without even bothering about having an optimal mix of experienced and inexperienced ministers from its side in the cabinet. At present, only three out of its total 16 cabinet members have previously been ministers. On the other hand, the JDU has relied more on seasoned leaders with experience in the expansion, but has brought in new and younger faces also, indicating that it is seeing to the days after Nitish quits active politics. The JDU lured lone Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA Jama Khan to its fold and made him a minister to compensate for not having even a single member in the Assembly or in the cabinet. It had given tickets to 11 Muslim leaders in the state polls, but none of them won. Its move reveals that it is still eyeing the minority votes in Bihar despite being with the BJP. It could also mean that it is preparing for an eventuality when it is no longer a member of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Though Nitish talked about representation to different regions and sections of the society in the cabinet expansion, the focus has been more on the Gopalganj, Kosi and Mithila regions as both JDU and BJP have competed with each other to induct more ministers from these areas at the expense of others. As far as social equations are concerned, both the parties have focused on giving representations to various groups, but the attention has been more on the backward castes, extremely backward castes and the scheduled castes. Meanwhile, several leaders from the BJP expressed anger on the way the party picked its ministers. “The party has ignored experienced, educated leaders while choosing ministers. At least 12 MLAs have contacted me and expressed displeasure with the party. We will now sit together and think about the future course of action,” senior BJP MLA Gyanendra Singh Gyanu told reporters. Gyanu, Nitish Mishra and a few others were among the cabinet hopefuls and figured in the list of leaders that could be made ministers. However, sources in the BJP and the JDU had revealed that Nitish was against them being inducted into the cabinet. They had previously been in the JDU, but had rebelled a few years ago and switched sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
10-02-2021||India||Fossil fuel kills 9 million annually: Scientists||A study carried out by scientists of Harvard University and other institutions has found that air pollution from fossil fuel use is responsible for nearly 9 million global deaths, “significantly higher than what previous research had suggested”, with China and India topping the list. In India, Bengal had the third highest number of fossil fuel pollution-driven annual deaths in 2018, at 2.8 lakh, after Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Overall, India has just under 2.5 million annual deaths, which is 30.7 per cent of the total deaths in the country. The study — “Global mortality from outdoor fine particle pollution generated by fossil fuel combustion: Results from GEOS-Chem”, published on Tuesday in the journal Environmental Research — has found that almost one in every five global deaths can be attributed to fossil fuel pollution. The University of Birmingham, the University of Leicester and University College London have collaborated with Harvard in the research, which has pegged the fatality number “significantly higher than previous research suggested (as) the study greatly increases estimates of the numbers killed by air pollution”. “We have considered only 2018 data from the 14-plus age group as they are mostly exposed to outdoor pollution,” Karn Vohra, one of the authors, told The Telegraph over phone from the UK. “The most recent Global Burden of Disease Study, the largest and most comprehensive study on the causes of global mortality, put the total number of global deaths from all outdoor airborne particulate matter — including dust and smoke from wildfires and agricultural burns — at 4.2 million,” Vohra said. The Harvard study has pegged the number at 8.7 million. According to the GEOS-Chem researchers, previous researches have relied on satellite and surface observations to estimate the levels of PM2.5, the ultra-fine and most toxic pollutant. However, those studies could not differentiate between particles from fossil fuel emission and those from dust, wildfire smoke and other sources, and also gave generalised data based on averages. In contrast the latest study turned to GEOS-Chem, a global 3D model, to estimate the health impact of particulate matter. The results have been validated against surface, aircraft and space-based observations around the world. “GEOS-Chem has high spatial resolution, meaning the researchers could divide the globe into a grid with boxes as small as 50km x 60km and look at pollution levels in each box individually,” explained Loretta J. Mickley, senior research fellow at Harvard and co-author of the study. Vohra said: “Rather than rely on averages spread across large regions, we wanted to map where the pollution is and where people live, so we could know more exactly what people are breathing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
10-02-2021||India||Republic Day Violence: Deep Sidhu arrested||Delhi police on Tuesday arrested actor turned activist Deep Sidhu, accused of inciting farmers to deviate from the assigned route of a tractor rally and create chaos at the Red Fort on Republic Day. A Delhi court remanded him in police custody for seven days. Metropolitan magistrate Prigya Gupta sent Sidhu to custody after the police alleged that he was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at the Red Fort. Sidhu’s counsel claimed he had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time, PTI reported. “He was arrested from Haryana, about 100km from Delhi. He had been changing his location to evade arrest,” said a police officer. Farmer leaders have accused Sidhu of being a “government agent” responsible for the Republic Day violence aimed at defaming their protest against the new farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
10-02-2021||India||Covid vaccine focus to shift to elderly and ill||India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign will turn to the two priority population groups among the general public after the deadline of March 6 for frontline workers, health officials signalled on Tuesday. The officials did not specify a start date for vaccinations for the two groups — people aged above 50 years and those below 50 with chronic health disorders — but urged all healthcare and frontline workers to get themselves vaccinated by the two deadlines. “We’re speeding towards vaccinating the main third (priority) group — we are preparing for this. In the coming days, we’ll explain our preparations and processes,” Vinod Paul, the chair of the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccination strategy, said. The health ministry has not yet specified how potential recipients need to register for the vaccinations and is yet to announce the criteria that would determine who among those below 50 with health disorders are eligible for the vaccines. The deadlines imply that health authorities would need to vaccinate more than three times as many recipients over the next 25 days as they have over the past 25 days since the start of the vaccination campaign on January 16. The campaign had till Tuesday vaccinated around 5.6 million of an estimated 9.6 million healthcare workers and under a million of the estimated 20 million frontline workers. Twelve states, including Delhi, Punjab and Tamil Nadu, have vaccinated less than 40 per cent of their healthcare workers. The health ministry had on Saturday asked all states to accelerate the pace of vaccinations to complete the first dose for healthcare workers by February 20 and frontline workers by March 6. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said states had been asked to conduct “mop-up” rounds to vaccinate recipients who missed their scheduled dates with February 24 as the deadline for healthcare workers and March 6 for frontline workers. Beyond those deadlines, Bhushan said, healthcare and frontline workers who miss the vaccinations would be relegated to the age-specific priority groups. That would imply that healthcare and frontline workers below 50 without chronic health disorders would miss the opportunity to be vaccinated through the government campaign. Falling fatality rates India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate has dropped below 1 per cent for two weeks and 15 states, including Bengal, have less than 5,000 active coronavirus patients, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday, releasing fresh data on the shrinking epidemic. The average number of daily Covid-19 deaths across the country has declined by 55 per cent over the past five weeks from 211 in the week ending January 12 to 96 in the week ending February 9. India recorded 78 deaths on Tuesday. The case fatality rate — the proportion of the deaths among lab-diagnosed patients — declined to 0.82 per cent over the past week from 0.92 per cent the previous week and 1.07 per cent in the earlier week, according to the data. Kerala accounts for the largest proportion (45 per cent) of the country’s 143,000 Covid-19 patients, followed by Maharashtra (25 per cent), Karnataka (4 per cent) and Bengal (3 per cent). But Assam, Bengal, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh are among 33 states with fewer than 5,000 patients. Fifteen states had no deaths over the last 24 hours and among the others, only Kerala, Maharashtra and Punjab had deaths in doubled digits on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
10-02-2021||India||Sedition case: Supreme Court stays arrest of six journalists, Tharoor||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted protection from arrest to journalists Mrinal Pande, Vinod Jose, Anant Nath, Rajdeep Sardesai, Zafar Agha and Paresh Nath and Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, against whom sedition charges were brought over tweets and reports relating to the death of a farmer during the Republic Day tractor rally in Delhi. Multiple FIRs were registered under sedition and other laws in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh against the petitioners, accusing them of causing disaffection by suggesting the farmer was shot. Police say the farmer died after his tractor overturned. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, while issuing notices to the states concerned and complainants in the FIRs, posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks. “Issue notice returnable in two weeks. In the meantime, there shall be stay of arrest of the petitioners,” the bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said in a written order. The petitioners have termed the FIRs frivolous and sought their cancellation. Sedition plea The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a petition seeking declaration of Section 124A (sedition) of the IPC as unconstitutional and a violation of citizens’ fundamental right to free speech and life and liberty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
10-02-2021||India||Kerala Muslim Youth League president urges people to raise voice for Siddique Kappan's release||The Kerala president of the Muslim Youth League, Panakkad Sayyid Munavvar Ali Shihab Thangal, on Tuesday urged the people of the state to raise their collective voice for the release of journalist Siddique Kappan who is in judicial custody in Uttar Pradesh for four months. Thangal was speaking in the presence of the journalist’s family members at a protest organised by the Siddique Kappan Solidarity Forum outside the collectorate in Malappuram. “Everyone must work together for his release. Journalism is essential for the survival of a democratic society,” said Thangal, who heads the youth wing of the Indian Union Muslim League. He also urged the state government to do its bit to get Kappan released from Mathura jail. “The chief minister should take immediate measures,” he said. All political parties barring the BJP have already expressed solidarity with Kappan. The journalist was arrested on October 5, 2020, with three others while on the way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh where a Dalit girl had been brutally raped and murdered. A Delhi-based retainer for the Malayalam news portal azhimukam.com, Kappan is secretary of the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
10-02-2021||India||Congress seeks army of social media volunteers to save democracy||The Congress has launched a social media campaign to invite people from across the country to join the fight to save democracy, arguing that an effective counter to lies and the politics of hate was the only way to save India. While the Congress declared an ambitious plan on Monday to create a network of around five lakh “social media warriors”, senior leaders on Tuesday linked the project with India’s future, insisting that the threat to democracy was built on an edifice of lies that needs to be demolished. Hundreds of videos were posted on different social media platforms, laying emphasis on the moral responsibility of every citizen to save India’s soul that lies in its pluralist character and an inclusive society. The Congress intends to create a network of volunteers to bolster its social media presence by taking help from civil society as its modest team of 50,000 office-bearers cannot take on the gigantic social media machine built by the RSS-BJP. The Congress does not have the resources to hire a paid team, and is relying on the people’s commitment to the idea of India that evolved during the freedom struggle. The party has invited people of all political persuasions who believe India’s future is safe in the constitutional principles of secularism, equality of caste and religion and individual freedom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
10-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Trek to tunnel where workers are trapped||Over 1,000 members of different rescue teams have not yet managed to reach a tunnel at Tapovan village in Uttarakhand where 25 to 35 workers are feared trapped following Sunday’s avalanche, as the toll climbed to 31 on Tuesday. Personnel from the Indian Army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police and the national and state disaster forces are involved in the search and rescue operation. The emergency control room opened at chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s secretariat said on Tuesday that besides the 31 people whose bodies had been recovered, 175 people are missing. They include those feared trapped in the tunnel, whose numbers have been estimated based on information from companies contracted for the work. Of the 31 found dead, two are yet to be identified. The dead include two police constables on duty at the Niti Valley in Chamoli district. Divya Dutt, a loader operator involved in the construction of tunnels of the Rishi Ganga and Tapovan hydel power projects who is now assisting the rescue teams, told reporters on Tuesday evening: “There is one main tunnel, two smaller linear tunnels and one semi-circular tunnel. We have begun entering the matrix from the tunnel that begins on the banks of the Rishi Ganga river. “We have been able to clear debris from a stretch of about 90 metres into the tunnel. We need to clear debris strewn over another 90 metres or so before reaching the area where the tunnel branches out into other tunnels. The workers could be trapped somewhere inside the nebulous structures.” “The operation is scary. The condition of the tunnel is horrible. All we are thinking at this moment is whether we would be able to rescue some of the people who may be trapped somewhere inside the tunnels,” he added. It had been initially thought that a glacial outburst on the Nanda Devi mountain had brought down with it water, mud, gravel and rocks. However, the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing, a wing of the Indian Space Research Organisation in Dehradun, said on Monday evening that a landslide at an altitude of 5,600 metres had triggered a snow avalanche in an area of 14sqkm and caused a flash flood in the downstream of the Rishi Ganga. Villagers of Raini and Tapovan, the worst-affected villages, are yet to recover from the shock of Sunday’s calamity. Amrita Devi, 72, who had been working in an agricultural field at Raini near the Tapovan dam that was destroyed, was washed away and is yet to be traced. “I was a little distance away when a mass of ice and also water came hurtling down the Nanda Devi. Within a few seconds, the water level in the Dhauli Ganga river rose and everything was washed away in front of my eyes, including my grandmother. Everything happened within a few seconds,” said Amrita’s grandson Gaurav Singh. Devendra Singh of the same village told reporters that he and his younger brother Sanjay Singh were on the banks of the Rishi Ganga with their goats when the avalanche struck. “As the level of the river suddenly rose, I managed to run to safety but my brother couldn’t. He and all the houses and towers were swept away in no time,” Devendra said. Bhawan Singh, the panchayat chief of Raini, said: “Yashpal Singh, a resident of my village, had gone near the river with his 22 goats. Madhi Devi and Ranjeet Singh were also there to collect fodder for cattle. They are all missing, as are Kuldeep Singh and his son Ashutosh.” “The rescue teams have confirmed that constable Balbeer Singh and Manoj Chaudhary, who were on duty, are dead and their bodies have been recovered from the riverbed,” said the village chief, adding that some people from Tapovan, Jaunsar Bawar, Dadoli, Sahiya, Fateu and Jagju villages who were near the Rishi Ganga river were also missing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
10-02-2021||India||Biden underscores “desire to defend democratic norms” in his post inauguration talk with Modi||If the chronology is not revealing enough, the drafter’s skill is. 11.03pm IST, Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweets: “Spoke to… (US President) Joe Biden and conveyed my best wishes for his success. We discussed regional issues and our shared priorities. We also agreed to further our co-operation against climate change. “President Joe Biden and I are committed to a rules-based international order. We look forward to consolidating our strategic partnership to further peace and security in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond.” 1.18am IST, Tuesday, White House issues readout: “The President underscored his desire to defend democratic institutions and norms around the world and noted that a shared commitment to democratic values is the bedrock for the US-India relationship.” 2.11am IST, Tuesday, India issues readout: “They noted that the India-US partnership is firmly anchored in a shared commitment to democratic values and common strategic interests.” Neither Prime Minister Modi’s tweets nor the readout issued by the external affairs ministry made any mention of Biden underscoring his desire to defend democratic institutions and norms around the world. It was a near-repeat of the statement India issued after the first conversation between the two leaders following the November election victory of Biden. Then, too, Biden had talked about strengthening democracy at home and abroad. If it was an Indian oversight then, there was an opportunity to make amends on Monday when Biden and Modi spoke to each other for the first time since the US President assumed office on January 20. Much water has flowed down the Potomac and the Yamuna since then. The ripples of the farmers’ movement have raced past the Indian borders, and several American celebrities and influencers, including US Vice-President Kamala Harris’s niece Meena Harris, have expressed concern at the crackdown. Evidently, now is not an opportune time for India to grandstand on “democratic norms around the world”. Although the Prime Minister tweeted first about the conversation on Monday, the White House readout was more detailed and clearly specified that Biden had talked about defending democratic institutions the world over. The two leaders, according to the White House, also discussed the situation in Myanmar following the coup. “They further resolved that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld in Burma.” The Indian readout after 2am on Tuesday also mentioned that the two leaders discussed regional developments and the wider geo-political context. “They reiterated the importance of working with like-minded countries to ensure a rules-based international order and a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. “Prime Minister and President Biden affirmed the importance of addressing the challenge of global climate change. Prime Minister welcomed President Biden’s decision to re-commit to the Paris Agreement and highlighted the ambitious targets India has set for itself in the area of renewable energy. Prime Minister welcomed President Biden’s initiative to organise the Climate Leaders Summit in April this year and looked forward to participating in the same.” The White House said they committed to working closely to win the fight against the pandemic, rebuild the global economy in a way that benefits the people of both countries and stand together against the scourge of global terrorism. “The leaders agreed to continuing close cooperation to promote a free and open Indo-Pacific including support for freedom of navigation, territorial integrity, and a stronger regional architecture through the Quad,” the White House said, referring to the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, an informal strategic forum among the US, India, Japan and Australia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
10-02-2021||India||Salary payment at universities delayed due to stifled cash flow from government to UGC||A teacher at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University will have to borrow to pay his EMI on time on Wednesday as he is yet to receive his salary nine days into February. Similar is the plight of teachers and other staff of the Mumbai-based Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS). Salary payment at several University Grants Commission-funded deemed universities and central universities has been delayed over the past few months because of stifled cash flow from the government to the UGC. The faculty member of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University said he was worried about the meagre amount in his bank account and the EMI due date looming on Wednesday. “The January salary is yet to be paid although it is February 9,” the teacher said, adding that salary had been delayed every month since last August. The Sanskrit varsity was made a central university last year. The teacher said: “Every month, the salary is credited to our account almost a week after the usual date. We have spoken to the administration. They say funds are awaited from the UGC.” Another faculty member said the situation was better when the institution was a deemed university. “Salary always used to be paid on time,” he recalled. Last year a bill was passed in Parliament to upgrade the UGC-funded deemed university to a central university to help it attract international students. A UGC official said funds release from the commission to some deemed universities and central universities had been erratic for the past few months. “Funds are being released to institutions as per availability,” the official said. Teachers and staff at TISS said they were supposed to get their salary on January 29, the last working day of the month, but were still waiting for it. “For past three months our salary has been delayed. It is difficult to make do without salary for so many days. Many people pay EMIs on home loans and other loans on the 5th or 10th of every month. Imagine how difficult it is for them to pay EMI,” said Prof. Bal Rakshase, the president of the TISS Teachers’ Association. He said the teachers had taken up the issue with the university, which has blamed the UGC. The UGC has also delayed the payment to scholars pursuing research under the Junior Research Fellowship and Senior Research Fellowship schemes. An email this newspaper sent to the education ministry asking about the delay in salary payment elicited no response.  Correction An earlier version of this report had erroneously mentioned that the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) had to take a bank loan to pay the salaries for December 2020. The shortfall was met out of internal resources of the institute, TISS had said. The Telegraph withdraws the claim about the bank loan and apologises for the mistake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
10-02-2021||India||Enforcement Directorate raid on portal facing Adani suit||The Enforcement Directorate has launched searches at NewsClick, a news portal that has been slapped with a Rs 100-crore defamation suit by the Adani group, and premises associated with its management since Tuesday morning. The portal is known for its coverage of the peasants’ movement and investigative reports on big companies, notably the Adani group which filed the defamation suit last year for two articles. The Opposition as well as the protesting farmers suspect that the Adanis would be among the biggest beneficiaries of the three controversial farm laws. There is nothing to suggest that the ED raids, which stretched past 11pm, are linked to the defamation suit. The ED, which usually probes money laundering allegations, has not formally disclosed any details of the investigations that led the central agency to the doors of NewsClick in south Delhi’s Said-ul-Ajaib. The homes of NewsClick’s editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha and editor Pranjal Pandey in Saket as well as HR head Amit Chakraborty and technology columnist Bappaditya Sinha in Chittaranjan Park were searched. Purkayastha, Pandey and Sinha are associated with the CPM. Purkayastha heads the Free Software Movement of India and was a founding member of the Delhi Science Forum, a CPM-backed society to popularise science and a think tank of science policy. He was jailed as an SFI activist during the Emergency and is a member of Delhi University’s Court, the apex review body of the varsity. Sinha was the party’s representative at the Election Commission of India’s “EVM Challenge” in 2017. CPM politburo member Subhashini Ali tweeted: “The ED’s raid on Newsclick’s office and Prabir Purkayastha’s house is a result of fearless journalism. The popularity of Newsclick has increased greatly as a result of the tremendous coverage of the peasant movement.” The raids began at 10am and since then, NewsClick sources told The Telegraph, none of those searched or those who live with them could receive calls. In the afternoon, Pandey and Chakraborty were taken by ED officials to the website’s office. Around 2.30pm, Pandey was allowed to give a short statement to journalists waiting outside. However, no cameras were permitted to be used by the officials. Pandey said: “There has been an ongoing raid since morning. We were shown a notice. Right now, our documents are being checked. We are cooperating and will continue to cooperate.” Later in the evening, the NewsClick website carried a statement: “Truth shall prevail. We have full faith in the legal system.” ED officials have ordered dinner at the NewsClick office, and Pandey was allowed to call a friend to deliver medicine to him. Purkayastha and Sinha were brought by the ED to the Said-ul-Ajaib office late at night. The CPIML-Liberation, the Congress and several activists condemned the raids. Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Subjugate, Suppress & Stifle is the only mantra of Modi Govt as proved by ED raids on @newsclickin today. Modi Govt wants to tell the media, particularly @abhisar_sharma & Pranjal: ‘Bol ke lab kyun azad hain tere!’” The verse is a pun on Faiz Ahmed Faiz’s poem Bol ke lab azad hain tere (Speak, that your lips are free.) Sharma is an anchor of the website’s videos. Several global news outlets and the rights group, the Committee to Protect Journalists, have spoken out against the raids. The news portal was one of the founders of the Digipub News India Foundation, an association of online news outlets, last year. The foundation called the raids “a clear attempt to suppress journalism critical of the government and its allies. Such use of state agencies to intimidate journalists and suppress adversarial journalism is detrimental to not only the freedom of the press, but also the very idea of democratic accountability.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata flags Centre’s paddy bias||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday came down heavily on the Narendra Modi government for procuring a paltry quantum of paddy from Bengal compared to other states. Mamata also explained how the three farm laws introduced by the Centre would hurt the farmers in East Burdwan, a district known as Bengal’s rice bowl. “You know Bengal is the highest paddy producing state with an annual production of 2.5 crore tonnes. The government of India procured 71 lakh tonnes of paddy from Uttar Pradesh, 64 lakh tonnes from Haryana, 82 lakh tonnes from Andhra Pradesh, 111 lakh tonnes from Telangana and 162 lakh tonnes from Punjab. Despite our farmers producing 2.5 crore tonnes paddy, the Centre procured less than one lakh tonne,” said Mamata in Burdwan town’s Mati Utsab. Bengal has over 70 lakh farmers. Sources in Nabanna said Mamata hit the nail on the head, with state farmers deprived of minimum support price of paddy for years as the Centre’s procurement target from Bengal is among the lowest. “The figures provided by the chief minister might be incorrect in some cases, but the issue does not get diluted. For example, the state produces 165 lakh tonnes of paddy annually but only about 80,000 tonnes of paddy are procured by the central agencies,” said a senior government official. Raising the issue of procurement in farm-dependent East Burdwan holds significance as farmers in Bengal face trouble in selling their produce at government-determined minimum support price. “The state procures 43 lakh tonnes of paddy on an average every year to run the Khadya Sathi scheme. This means only about 25 per cent of produce is procured at minimum support price and most farmers are forced to sell off their produce at a much lower rate in the open market,” said an official. Though the BJP is stung by the farmer protests against the three farm laws near Delhi borders, its leaders have been trying to turn the tables on Mamata by referring to Bengal’s delay in joining the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, a minimum income support scheme for farmers. It was apparent that Mamata tried to counter the BJP’s campaign by saying the saffron party had been giving a raw deal to farmers for years. “BJP will come before the polls and ask farmers to vote for them…Why will farmers vote for them?” she said at another rally at Kalna in the same district. Mamata said the state government procured 49 lakh tonnes of paddy last year. “You don’t have to worry at all as we are procuring paddy from you. We will continue it in future also,” she said. She said the three farm laws would create trouble for farmers. “The central government has passed three farm laws to help the corporate companies, who will forcibly take away all of your produce. You will have no freedom to keep your produce for the livelihood of your family. The farmers of Haryana and other states have understood this and are protesting. So, be united to stop the party in Bengal,” she said in Kalna. “See what Modibabu is doing against farmers protesting against the laws in Delhi. They are putting up nails on the road to stop farmers,” she said. Mamata spoke of steps by her government such as free crop insurance and issuance of Kisan Credit cards to nearly 80 per cent of the farmers. Former IPS officer Humayun Kabir joined Trinamul during Mamata’s rally in Kalna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Burglars wear PPE to up their game||Burglars wearing PPE, the protective kit worn by healthcare workers during the pandemic, struck a shop in Jalpaiguri town on Tuesday. Town resident Kanan Sarkar, who owns a fertiliser shop in Gomostapara area, found on Tuesday morning that his shop was burgled. His CCTV camera footage showed two men wearing PPE had broken in around 2am. “The thieves knew I have CCTV cameras installed in my shop and wore PPE to prevent their identification,” a bemused Sarkar, who discovered Rs 70,000 in cash and costly fertiliser bottles missing, said. Arghya Sarkar, the inspector-in-charge of Kotwali police station, under which the area of the shop falls, confirmed this was a new strategy adopted by criminals. “We have come across cases when criminals have covered their faces with gamchas, monkey caps and even balaclavas. But this seems to be the first incident when they have used PPE kits to prevent identification,” the police officer said. According to police sources, thefts were reported from three other shops of Pandapara, another locality of the town, on Monday night. The police are trying to ascertain if the same “PPE duo” or some other gang is involved in these other crimes. A police source said that many people, apart from healthcare workers, bought PPE kits from pharmacies at the peak of the pandemic. “This makes tracing the criminals more difficult, but investigations are on,” the policeman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
10-02-2021||West Bengal||PM comes to Bengal with projects: Nadda||BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Tuesday said Narendra Modi would make several trips to Bengal to bring development projects to the state and criticised chief minister Mamata Banerjee for objecting to the Prime Minister’s visits. “Mamata Banerjee always objects to the visits of the Prime Minister and the home minister. But why will the Prime Minister not come here? The Prime Minister came on February 7 and inaugurated a refinery worth Rs 4,700 crore. He never comes with empty hands. He brings projects to Bengal. It will not be a one-time affair, but our Prime Minister will visit Bengal several times with development projects for the state,” said Nadda before flagging off its second Parivartan Yatra from Tarapith in Birbhum. Sources said Nadda speaking about the Prime Minister making frequent visits to the state showed that in the absence of a credible local leader in the BJP, Modi would be the party’s bet to counter Mamata. “Nadda proved the BJP has no face in Bengal to counter our chief minister. So, they are depending on Modi,” said Anubrata Mondal, Trinamul’s Birbhum president. Although Nadda made a pitched cry for change and coined a new slogan — “Onek hoyechhe Mamata (di), parivartan chaichche janata (It has been enough, Mamata, people want change)”, the not-so-impressive gathering at Tarapith will surely have reason for the BJP leader to be worried about the outcome of the 2021 polls. Nadda had to leave a meeting with representatives of tribal cultural activists in Jhargram as the attendance was very low. Sources said he had reached Jhargram around 5.30pm to attend the programme but he found only a few persons were sitting and most of the chairs were empty. “Naddaji went to local party office and waited for half an our for the cultural representatives. But they were stuck in traffic jam and could not reach in time. As Naddaji had a busy schedule he could not wait more,” said Raju Banerjee, a BJP state vice-president.. Trinamul leaders, however, said the low attendance was a result of how people were rejecting BJP. “People understood what is BJP. People did not attend the programme to send them a message that they will not allow them more in our area," Dulal Murmu, Trinamul president in Jhargram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata mum on Congress and Left||Mamata Banerjee, in a conspicuous departure from her campaign speeches this season, on Tuesday was silent on Congress spearhead Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury while delivering an address in his backyard Behrampore, and relatively muted on the Left. Sources in Trinamul attributed this to her growing understanding that the better the Congress-Left alliance performs in the state polls the worse it will be for the BJP. Sources said she had also been receiving “back channel communication” that support from the Congress might be readily available, should the results yield a hung House. The chief minister, in her 35-minute address at Murshidabad’s Behrampore Stadium grounds, did not pull punches in her attack on the BJP before the audience of over a lakh. “The Congress and the CPM cannot act against (cannot defeat) the BJP any longer,” said Mamata towards the beginning without elaboration. Arriving by chopper around 2.30pm, Mamata focused on Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP’s catch of the season, referring obliquely to him as a modern Mir Jafar, a sobriquet commonly used to describe a traitor in Bengal. She also slammed AIMIM’s Asaduddin Owaisi, without naming him, for allegedly being a BJP paid agent to erode her minority support base. But a bulk of her speech was directed against Narendra Modi, his government at the Centre, and his party. “Have you ever heard of a Prime Minister who speaks lies? He alleged our state does not pay its employees their salaries. Modiji, please tell me whom you were referring to. Rather, it is you who is selling off everything the Centre owns,” she said, stirring a supportive crowd of largely migrant workers who returned home in the pandemic. The 22-seat district of Murshidabad is important to Mamata as there is scope for her party to grow there. In the 2016 state polls, Trinamul won four seats in the district with over 67 per cent minority voters. The Congress, under Chowdhury, won 14, and the Left four. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul gained decisive leads in 16 Assembly segments, while the Congress was reduced to five. The BJP had a lead in the Murshidabad Assembly segment. This time, Mamata will reach out to migrant workers with the Modi government’s “lockdown mega blunder”, a Trinamul MP said. Last year, at the peak of the pandemic, the plight of migrant workers took centrestage, with questions on why Modi announced a nationwide lockdown with a four-hour notice minus steps to cushion the vulnerable. “Four-hour notice to pack up and move our lives,” scoffed Arabinda Mondal, who used to work in Kerala and has since returned, at the rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 276 cured, six more die in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday logged 276 Covid-19 recoveries, 146 infections and six deaths, including two in Calcutta, as a drop in total active cases continued for the 106th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has improved to 4,496, back almost where it was on June 7 last year, 247 days ago. “In 106 days, we have undone over eight months of damage. Ours has been a near-miraculous success story,” said a Bengal minister. The state now has 3.22 per cent of total active cases in the country, less than half of its share even two months ago. The recovery rate rose for 109 consecutive days to touch 97.43 per cent. The national rate now is 97.24. The state’s positive confirmation rate fell to less than 7 per cent, to 6.98 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 81 days. Of the total death toll of 10,215, 8,580 (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate remained 1.43 per cent. On Tuesday, the state reported 20,456 tests, taking the total past 81.88 lakh, at 90,981 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Raju Bista plays up central aid to Bengal||Darjeeling MP Raju Bista and Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur have underscored central assistance to Bengal during the Covid-19 lockdown period, indicating that the BJP is trying to play the dole card in the poll-bound state. In his statement, Bista revealed Union minister Thakur's response to the MP’s question on the quantum of central financial aid to Bengal under direct benefit transfer schemes (DBT). “Rs. 14,971.87 crores in cash and another Rs. 8,117.63 crores in kind have been disbursed to West Bengal under various DBT schemes in FY (2020-21) till 01.02.2021,” Thakur had replied to Bista. Direct benefit transfer schemes would include 100-day work, housing schemes and various subsides in which money is directly transferred to beneficiary accounts. In a written release issued by Bista, the BJP MP has also quoted from Thakur’s reply: “…For the year 2020-21, all states have been allowed borrowings up to 2% of GSDP over and above normal borrowing limit of 3% of GSDP. Borrowings of 1% of GSDP amounting to Rs. 13,574 crores have already been issued to West Bengal. This will provide another Rs. 27,149 crores to the State of West Bengal.” The Centre has also claimed that Bengal has been allocated Rs 630 crore out of which Rs 315 crore “has been released to the state,” under the scheme of special assistance to states for capital expenditure. The intent of Bista’s decision to release the figures seem evident. “The response by the Finance Ministry debunks the repeated attempts being made by the TMC Government to project that the Central Government has not helped West Bengal during the COVID-19 pandemic situation,” went Bista’s written statement. Addressing his hill constituency directly, Bista stated: “Responding to my query, Hon’ble MoS Finance Anurag Thakur ji has responded that a total of Rs 267.98 crores have been disbursed through Direct Benefit Transfer to the people from Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts in the past 10 months.” Many observers feel Bista’s decision to make public the finance figures is to counter chief minister and Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee’s spate of dole announcements, including pension for all over 60 years of age and widows over 18 years of age, financial aid to clubs, among others. Mamata had on Tuesday alleged that the BJP-led government at the Centre was not disbursing funds under the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme to Bengal peasants despite the state having sent verified names of farmers to it. She had informed the Assembly that out of 6 lakh applications of farmers sent by the Centre for verification for payment of monetary assistance under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, the state government sent 2.5 lakh names following necessary verification. Accusing the BJP of falsely claiming that she was denying funds to farmers, she said her government was paying Rs 5,000 each to peasants and had arranged free crop insurance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Malda AIMIM leaders join Trinamul Congress||The “principal organiser” of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in Malda and about 200 supporters joined the Trinamul Congress on Tuesday, a day ahead of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s visit to the district where Muslims constitute around 55 per cent of the population. The AIMIM, however, termed the induction as a “fake show”. Sabir Ahmed and the supporters joined Bengal’s ruling party at a programme attended by Malda district Trinamul president Mausam Benazir Noor and senior leader Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury. “Sabir Ahmed, who is the AIMIM’s key functionary in Malda, and one associate each from 10 blocks in the district joined Trinamul,” said Noor. The Hyderabad-based AIMIM headed by Asaduddin Owaisi had already declared that the party would contest the coming Assembly elections and field candidates in districts dominated by the minority community. Ahmed said he didn’t have any “official designation” in the AIMIM. “I and my associates were, however, the principal organisers of the AIMIM in Malda and worked for months to develop our party. Around 200 followers of us also switched to Trinamul today,” he said. Imran Solanki, a spokesperson for the AIMIM, said Ahmed and the associates had no connection with the party. “Trinamul is trying to deceive people. We suspect Trinamul is bringing in some of its less known workers into public and presenting them as AIMIM leaders.” “Such tactics to win support of the minority community will not work,” Solanki said over the phone. It was only 24 hours back that Trinamul inducted Bechu Sarkar who, the party claimed, was the district president of the BJP’s minority wing. BJP district vice-president Ajay Ganguly, however, said Sarkar was a leader of the Minority Morcha in 1996 and had been inactive for years. “We have a new committee of the Minority Morcha with a different person as the district president,” said Ganguly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Honey-trap duo held from highway near Ranaghat||Two dacoits, posing as female sex workers for three months to “honey-trap” night motorists on the NH12 near Nadia’s Ranaghat, were arrested early on Tuesday. The police found two firearms, live ammunition, wigs and women’s clothing from Ranajit Patra and Dulal Sarkar, who cops said were part of a larger gang of dacoits. Ranajit is a resident of Amdanga in North 24-Parganas, and Dulal of Kalyani in Nadia. The duo were produced before a court in Ranaghat that remanded them in six days of police custody. Sources said the team from Ranaghat police sprang into action late on Monday after a fresh case of dacoity was reported at Ghatigacha area, and spotted the culprits near a wooded area off the highway. Dulal and Ranajit were nabbed and some others fled. A police said that as part of the gang’s modus operandi one member dressed up as a woman to stop truck drivers and chat, and then the gang attacked and looted the victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal|| Cracks at homes after ONGC blasts in North 24Parganas’s Badurai ||Cracks appeared at over 100 houses, a school and a mosque and in an agricultural field on Monday night at Bagjola-Roypur village in North 24-Parganas’s Badurai where the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation has been carrying out explorations for crude oil for the past two months. Villagers have alleged that the cracks developed at their houses following a spate of blasts that the ONGC undertook in search of crude oil and gas in the area on Monday night. Baduria block development officer Suparna Biswas, who led the team of district administration and ONGC officials to the area on Tuesday, said: “I visited the area today and saw cracks at several houses. I also visited a school building that suffered damage. It appears the cracks have developed because of the blasts carried out by the ONGC. The matter, however, needs further investigation. I have asked the ONGC authorities to suspend work in public interest till further order.” The villagers demonstrated in front of the ONGC site on Tuesday. They alleged they had not been alerted by the ONGC before the blasts. “The repeated underground blasts unleashed panic among villagers and cracks emerged at nearly 100 houses. We have asked the district administration and ONGC authorities to compensate for the damage,” said a villager. “I have apprised the higher authorities of the incident and told owners of damaged houses to submit applications to the local panchayat so that their demand for compensation could be considered,” Biswas said. In December last year, the ONGC had begun commercial production of crude oil at Ashok Nagar and the Centre decided to conduct further explorations for crude oil and gas in the area. Local sources said an ONGC team had begun fresh explorations in the area last month but the villagers claimed they had not been cautioned about the blasts. “Last year, an ONGC team had undertaken search for oil, but it was far away from the residential area. But they began drilling last night to carry out the underground blasts within 50100 metres of residential blocks,” said villager Sahanur Rahaman. “We heard around 200 deafening sounds of underground blasts on Monday night,” Rahaman added. Elderly homemaker Mira Biwi said: “We are poor and had built houses using our hardearned money. But the blasts shattered our lives.” “Roofs and walls have suffered serious cracks. One of my rooms has been seriously damaged. We hope the Centre will help repair the damage.” Biman Pal, an ONGC supervisor who checked the damaged houses, said: “We saw several houses with cracks and villagers alleged that it happened because of the exploration. I have apprised my higher authorities of the incident.” District magistrate of North 24Parganas Sumit Gupta told The Telegraph that the matter would be taken up with the ONGC soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Tea protest with Trinamul flag in Alipurduar||Around 300 jobless workers of the closed Madhu tea estate in Alipurduar district on Tuesday blocked the Kalchini-Hasimara road demanding immediate reopening of the garden. Carrying Trinamul flags, protesters were led by Mrinalini Oraon, a Trinamul member of the Kalchini panchayat samiti from the garden. In all, the garden has around 1,000 workers. “The tea garden is closed for seven years now and \no proper initiative has been taken by the state so that it reopens. Workers are sitting jobless, some of them have migrated to other places. Being elected representatives of the ruling party, we have to face their questions time and again. That is why we thought of organising the road blockade so that the administration finally makes a move,” said Oraon. Around 10am, the workers and their family members blocked the road that brought traffic on the route that connects to Phuentsholing of Bhutan to a screeching halt. Demonstrators started shouting slogans and waved placards in support of their demand, prompting the police and Kalchini block administration officials to the spot. BDO Prashanta Burman spoke to protesters who demanded an immediate meeting with the district administration. Finally, around 1pm, Burman told protesters that within the next three days, the district magistrate would hold a meeting with a delegation of tea workers on the issue. The workers agreed to clear the road. Around 1.15pm, traffic resumed along the route as agitators headed home. “We want to make it clear that if nothing positive comes out of the meeting, we will resume our movement,” Oraon said. The blockade with the party’s flag has not gone down well with district Trinamul leaders. Mohan Sharma, chairman, Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, called it “irresponsible”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Three Haldibari-NJP stops withdrawn: Northeast Frontier Railway||The Northeast Frontier Railway on Tuesday withdrew three stops along the route of the Haldibari-New Jalpaiguri (NJP) passenger train. The NFR had earned passenger ire on Monday — when the train started after the lockdown — for introducing reservations and a higher fare. On Tuesday, the NFR went a step ahead and withdrew stops from three of the 10 stations that lack the facility to sell reserved tickets. The train did not stop at Kadobari, Kashiabari and Mohitnagar. The Congress and Trinamul are gearing up for protests. “From Wednesday, we will launch an agitation. Railway authorities have to revoke these decisions....” said Saikat Chatterjee, Jalpaiguri district youth Trinamul chief. The Congress will host events on this issue, said Pinaki Sengupta, district party chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||North East||Assembly elections: Congress launches ‘Save Assam’ campaign||The Opposition Congress on Tuesday launched a video contest on social media called “Assam Bachao (Save Assam)” to connect with the masses and prepare a “people’s manifesto” based on their feedback for the upcoming Assembly elections in the state. The objective of the campaign is to provide the people with both “vision and voice” by urging them to make a two-minute video on the state’s “biggest” issues and problems and upload them with the hashtag AssamBachao on any social media platform and then submit its link through www.AssamBachao.in. The best entries will receive anything from an Iphone to cash prizes. Gaurav Gogoi, Congress MP and head of the state unit’s manifesto committee, launched the 10-day campaign on Tuesday at the party headquarters here in the presence of PCC chief Ripun Bora, who said the “innovative” campaign will help people “vent their ire” against the “misrule” of the BJP-led government. “The BJP’s attempts to muzzle the voice of the people won’t last till polling day. The #AssamBachao campaign will reflect how desperate Assam is for change,” Bora said. Gaurav said the first step to resolve a problem is to acknowledge and understand it. “The social media campaign is that first step. The feedback from the campaign will tell us about the most important issues/problems to be flagged in our party’s manifesto which will also offer solutions to these issues/problems,” he said. Gaurav, son of former chief minister late Tarun Gogoi and a two-term MP, appealed to the youth to take charge of their own future and save Assam from the BJP’s “evil” designs. He then listed out some of the pressing and unprecedented issues confronting the state such as “skyrocketing” prices of essential items and the BJP’s plans to “impose” the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act. “The campaign is a call to the people to highlight and discuss issues facing the state because the ruling BJP doesn’t want them to discuss them. Participants can present the issues they want to highlight by singing, dancing, acting or recording a speech. The more unique the presentation, the more impact it will have. Our manifesto will be a people’s manifesto,” Gaurav said. Soon after the campaign launch, Gogoi interacted with mediapersons at Guwahati Press Club and with members of the lawyers’ association, Guwahati Municipal Corporation’s market association and businessmen in Fancy Bazar. The Congress on Tuesday also launched its social media warrior identification and engagement drive in the state in the presence of Bora, Gaurav and Pranav Vachharajanj, the party’s social media in-charge of the Northeast, a move through which it wants to create an “army of social media warriors” that will help save the country from the narrative of “hate and intolerance spread by the BJP, their IT cell and Godi Media”. “We recognise that it is time to come together and defend the idea of India. In Assam specifically, we have seen our identity, culture and language come under attack through the dangerous CAA introduced by the BJP. Our secular fabric has been ripped apart by divisive forces. As a society, we must fight for our democratic, secular and just republic of India. We invite people from all over to come join us in the initiative to save the country from an autocratic government,” said Bobbeeta Sharma, PCC’s media department chairperson. State BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami told The Telegraph that the people know whom to save Assam from. “What were they (Congress) doing when they were in power? People of Assam have become politically more conscious today. They know which party is good for them. I would like to know how will the Congress save Assam from AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal and the Miya brigade,” he said. The AIUDF is part of a six-party pre-poll alliance headed by the Congress. The BJP sees the AIUDF as a party allegedly espousing the cause of illegal migrants (referred to as miyas) from Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-23
10-02-2021||Opinion||Stand still: policy rates unchanged||The latest bimonthly policy announcement by the Reserve Bank of India has kept all policy rates unchanged for the fourth consecutive time since May 2020. The repo rate stays at 4 per cent and the reverse repo at 3.35 per cent. The cash reserve ratio will be normalized from March 2021. Hence, the monetary policy stance continues to remain accommodative, supporting economic growth. This represents a cautious approach by the central bank. It has not cut rates further in apprehension of inflation going beyond the tolerance limit of 6 per cent. It has not raised rates in fear of restricting the demand for credit. According to the finance ministry as well as the RBI, the growth prospects for 2021-22 appear to be positive in the given circumstances. The RBI has estimated the growth rate to be 10.5 per cent, a little lower than the government estimate of 11 per cent for 2021-22. According to the central bank, the CPI inflation is expected to be 5.2 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2020-21. The targeted long-term repo operation has been extended to non-banking financial companies. This is supposed to provide more liquidity to the economy. This will allow NBFCs to access three-year credit from the RBI to buy investment grade corporate bonds. The RBI is also getting ready for the massive borrowing programme of the Government of India to finance huge fiscal deficits during 2020-21 as well as in 2021-22. It has decided to allow retail investments in government bonds that are usually bought by banks and corporates. Extending the sales to reach retail investors will help channel a chunk of household savings directly to the government as well as broaden the bond market. However, as the supply of government bonds mount, market interests rates will go up confronting private borrowers with a higher cost of credit. This is the classic case of government borrowing ‘crowding out’ private investments. In the current situation, it is absolutely necessary to stimulate aggregate demand, output and employment in the economy. The RBI’s standstill policy and the government’s aggressive spending programme appear to be the right combination. A major worry though is what happens when the Supreme Court comes out with its final verdict about what needs to be done with the non-performing assets that will emerge from under the carpet of the forbearance moratorium extended by the RBI. The RBI has to manage the inevitable spike in NPAs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
10-02-2021||Opinion||Noxious: denigrating protesters ||The history of many a nation is a testament to the transformative power of protest. India is not an exception. Some of the monumental changes experienced by India were the result of sustained public mobilizations. The national movement that delivered India its independence from the yoke of colonialism is but one example. It must take a peculiar — regressive — understanding of the organic relationship between protest and democracy for the Indian prime minister to denigrate protesters as a breed of ‘parasites’ — the noxious bacillus that had, years ago, also unnerved Nazi Germany’s totemic leader. Denigrating protesters — not just the thousands of farmers protesting against three contentious legislations for months but also, presumably, lawyers, students, workers and other such constituencies critical of this regime — as “Andolan Jeevi”, Narendra Modi has asked the nation to be wary of the species. The call by a prime minister to identify those opposed to the policies of his government lowers the dignity of this august office. That is, however, the lesser problem. This kind of wilful demonization by a democratically-elected leader can seriously impair the architecture of the ‘mother of democracy’ itself. Targeted smear campaigns, unfortunately, are no longer novel in New India. Earlier, during the nationwide protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the prime minister stated that the protesters could be identified by their clothes. Mr Modi’s government has responded unfailingly to his cues. Minorities have been discriminated against, activists and dissenters sent to rot in jail, first information reports piled against journalists, internet services disrupted — all of which have contributed to India’s precipitous slide on the Democracy Index. There is a method to the madness though. Sustained vilification of protest — the kernel of democracy — would fragment public opinion, or so Mr Modi hopes. But the growing protests against a myriad policies and their international exposure could end up having the opposite effect. It could energize a dispirited Opposition. More worryingly for Mr Modi, it could reconfirm the prime minister’s deficits as a democratic leader to India and the world. Principal among these limitations is Mr Modi’s inability — indeed averseness — to engage in meaningful dialogue with opponents. The government’s failure to resolve the farmers’ agitation after several rounds of deliberation along with the prime minister’s canards could only mean that India should prepare itself for a long summer of protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
10-02-2021||Opinion||Search for a sense of stability||I have deliberately not used the accurate but clichéd word “unprecedented”, to describe the school year that will end in March. My intention in choosing to write about the past year, aptly labelled annus horribilis, is not to serve up memories of misery and isolation but to reflect on some of the lessons we may have learned from our experiences. Indeed, the year has shown that most adults and children have the character, drive and ability to adapt to drastically changed circumstances. There has been considerable discussion about the way schools learned and developed technological skills in order to continue the teaching-learning process efficiently. Irrespective of the level of competence achieved, the tremendous effort that was expended to remain relevant and useful was impressive. Moreover, the way in which technology itself was enhanced to facilitate teaching and learning was quite phenomenal. But all this has been said many times over so I will focus on other matters. We certainly learned the tremendous importance of mental stability to be able to function in an alien environment. It was easy to feel lost in a world where nothing was certain or predictable. As one child exclaimed, “Earlier we went to adults for answers but now nobody is sure about anything!” Parents, teachers and counsellors found it difficult to keep the children in their care worry-free and happy. While attempting to keep them cheerful, adults had to be careful about “toxic positivity” as the repeated prescription to look at the “bright side of things” didn’t impress children one bit. They merely wished to be told exactly when they would be able to go back to school, meet their friends or visit their grandparents. One of my colleagues helped her students to form a peer support group — a forum run by young people through which their peers could express their feelings and thoughts freely. Working with senior students on various projects was always stimulating as young minds are refreshing to engage with. But the most mood-elevating experience was spending time with little children who went about living life without a care in the world. At all other times, we battled with anxieties over illness, death or financial troubles.  Empathetic feelings for other people’s distress were painfully accentuated and many learned to share and give. Nature in all its beauty and glory uplifted the spirit. The ordinary bright blue unpolluted sky seemed breathtakingly beautiful while the celestial spectacles of the Pink Supermoon and the Great Conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn left us spellbound. But then we had also seen the fury of Amphan at close quarters. The devastation brought home Michio Kaku’s proclamation, “It’s almost a law of physics that one day Mother Nature will destroy Earth.” For good reason, we found ourselves taking a sudden and deep interest in the pronouncements of futurists and virologists and we concluded that a philosophical bent of mind was needed, just to stay sane. Life had been upended for most of us. We teachers were working round the clock and I noticed that emails and messages were coming in at odd times of the night. Night was the time when the mind became vulnerable. When we compared notes, we discovered that most of our sleep-cycles had been disrupted. When sleep eluded us and the demons of our minds had to be kept at bay, books and music along with Kindle, Netflix and YouTube came to the rescue. Breathing techniques, meditation, listening to recorded talks of monks and spiritual gurus were resorted to, as were tranquilizers and sedatives. But most of us agreed that work was the best therapy. Even virtual meetings acted like a magical potion to drive away the blues. While we were immersed in our schoolwork, it seemed as if nothing had changed though we worked in the shadowy virtual world. Time passed by in a flash while we discussed syllabuses, online assessment, on-screen programmes and webinars — life felt deceptively yet comfortingly normal. Someone observed that it was the little-known Zoom which had become the place “where life was happening” surpassing the twin giants Google and Microsoft. People met on Zoom to gossip, party or just get together. Personally, I derived great joy from my friends. One, shared his splendidly written essays and reviews of books which motivated me to acquire and read them. A musician friend sent me his compositions and recital pieces. Once on my request, he sent me a Tagore song which he had brilliantly arranged for the piano. A gifted young friend’s delightful YouTube videos, titled “The English Nut” made me instantly happy, besides educating me. Writing, including for this paper, kept me happily occupied for long periods while jigsaw and crossword puzzles, adult colouring books, sewing and cooking were therapeutic for many. Meanwhile, the American presidential elections provided an all-consuming diversion. Many of us found genuine pleasure in the creative work of our students and colleagues. But it was not only creativity and resourcefulness that was in demand, it was the ability to reinvent oneself that was needed. According to Yuval Harari, people will have to do this on a regular basis in the future on account of the radical changes that will keep happening in the world at frequent intervals. To prepare for this likely scenario, we must encourage children to think differently. They should not be just expected to solve problems of which answers are already there. Young people must learn to contemplate deeply and think metaphysically. Perhaps they should be asked more open-ended questions at all levels. It is disturbingly clear that future generations will have to live amidst accelerated change and uncertainty, hence there will be a stronger need for the old and familiar. One of the reasons why age-old landmarks and tangible remnants of history must be preserved is because they provide humans a sense of stability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
10-02-2021||Opinion||The real patriots||It is difficult to say when in history but a piece of cloth came to be seen as the most important insignia of the honour of people. The Homo sapiens have been in existence for millions of years and have been using clothes made of leaves or animal skin. They fought wars and used colourful objects as war totems during prehistoric times. The ancient Indian word, ‘dhwaj’, and the Old Norse, ‘flaka’ (meaning to flicker or to flutter), have been in circulation for long. The Danish ‘Dannebrog’ is fabled to have fallen from the skies and has been in use for the last eight centuries. Yet, the national flag as a semiotic signature of a people is decidedly related to the idea of ‘a community of nations’, within which each nation is represented by a proudly fluttering piece of cloth — its national flag. Over the last two centuries, as nation after modern nation took birth, it was immediately draped in a national flag symbolizing its being. The Indian tricolour evolved during the freedom struggle and was formally adopted by the Constituent Assembly on July 22, 1947. One of the versions of the Indian tricolour had the charkha in the middle. That was the time when charkha and khadi were the main weapons of our freedom struggle. In fidelity to this historic origin of the tricolour, the official flags continue to be made of khadi. The Indian Bureau of Standards continues to regulate its precise dimensions, weave and the folding and stitching for its borders. Most Indians may not know this, but all of these are produced in north Karnataka. The khadi spun on thousands of hand-run charkhas at Tulasigeri village in Bagalkot is used by the Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangha in Hubballi for making India’s flag. This flag production centre supplies flags in various specified sizes, ranging from the largest — 21 x 14 feet — to the smallest — 6 x 4 inches. The one that we see fluttering proudly at the Red Fort is made at Hubballi. The flag-making centre is a microcosm of the spirit of free India in many ways. Its founder, Venkatesh Magadi, was born on January 26, 1903, 47 years before India became a republic. The oldest among the workers at the centre, Nooranna, was born in 1947. He is one of the few men who work there. The workforce there is almost entirely made up of women, the real makers of India. All of us who are proud of India for its composite social weave will be happy to know that the women come from all communities: Muslims, Jains, Christians, Dalits, adivasis, Lingayats, Buddhist and Hindus. A Muslim, Noorjahan, working with a scheduled caste, Nayana, and a Christian, Janet, working with a Lingayat, Akkamma, mark the ethnography of the makers of India’s flag. The idea of India as envisioned by the makers of India can be seen nowhere else in such graphic reality as at this centre. As I conversed with these women, the famous line from a W.B. Yeats poem came to my mind: “How can you tell the dancer from the dance?” Speaking to them I said, “We all salute the national flag, the salute is also for you.” But, as I was saying this, I must confess, I could not hold my head high, for the plight of the flag-makers is worse than that of the most afflicted, most deprived of India. As they spoke about their life, many just could not hold back the tears in their eyes.  They told me that when they work for eight to ten hours a day, they manage to earn about one hundred and fifty rupees. After producing flags for the country for decades, their monthly earnings have stayed the same — in most cases, a little under three thousand a month. They get neither the annual increments in wages nor have the possibility of pension. Paid maternity leave and LTA are words foreign to them. The centre normally produces flags worth three to four crore rupees in a year. Covid-19 has brought down the sales to 30 per cent. The result is that the women have less work and their earnings have sunk. No pandemic-special relief has reached them. The coordinator of the centre told me that the government has not yet settled the payments it owes to the centre. The amount is in a mind-boggling multiple crores. I asked the women workers why they do not find another occupation? Their response would have left anyone humbled. “We love India. It is our service to the nation. And Gandhi had used khadi as a weapon against oppression. We are keeping it alive. Besides, Sir, tell us where are the jobs for us?” The flag that went up high in the sky on January 26 this year was made by them — the Noorjahans, the Janets and the Akkammas of our land, working together for weeks at paltry wages a day. Some of them had their brothers and sons participating in a tractor march in Dharwad on that day in support of the farmers protesting outside Delhi. On the evening of January 26, so many television channels were busy informing the nation on how the national flag was dishonoured at the Red Fort. The veracity of those TV-tales is another matter. But, indeed, none of them had a thought to spare for the real makers of the flag. The shrill public proclamation of nationalism sounds so hollow when one notices how completely neglected the labourers that make India a nation are. The brand of nationalism that is currently on the block needs to know that a nation is primarily its people, its composite society, its vast population capable of love and sacrifice and not just a few mighty or super-rich individuals. The tricolour is our most sacred symbol. Every time I salute it, pride for India wells up in my heart. Yet, is that pride enough to conceal the pathos, suffering, agony, hunger and pain of those who toil in order to keep symbolism for the rest of India alive? In less than a week after January 26 came the national budget. It brought neither relief nor hope for the long-forgotten working hands. Long live India, the Mother India, whose fingers never tire of sewing, whose sight never fails while working at the bobbins and whose hands are not yet fatigued by folding and ironing the flags they make. Let us salute them, for the flag is theirs even if the budget is not. The author is a literary scholar and cultural activist ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police, security forces engage in hour-long encounter, no casualty||Police and security forces had an hour-long faceoff with CPI-Maoist rebels at the Rolahatu jungle, in the Seraikela-Kharsawan district on Wednesday morning, but no casualty was reported from either side. Confirming the incident, Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi said that the encounter took place between the naxal squad of Pratiram Majhi alias Anal and the paramilitary forces 209 CoBRA battalion. "As the police and paramilitary forces were carrying out a special operation against the rebels in the Roladih jungle, the rebels had started raining shots at the forces at about 11.30 am. The paramilitary forces had also retaliated by firing shots. The encounter lasted for over an hour, causing the naxals to give a retreat as the  paramilitary forces had overpowered them," Arshi told The Telegraph Online. The Seraikela-Kharsawan SP, who was leading the paramilitary forces in the special operation, said that they have started a combing operation after the encounter came to an end at about 12.45 pm. “There is no casualty on the side of the paramilitary forces, but whether the naxals had any casualty or not is yet to be ascertained,” he said. "The Rolahatu jungle where the encounter took place on Wednesday is located under Kuchai Police Station area at the border of West Singhbhum district. It is the same stretch of forest cover where there was an encounter on Sunday morning. However, the spot was about 20 kms away and was coming under the jurisdiction of West Singhbhum district's Toklo Police Station area," said the senior police officer. In the encounter with naxals on Sunday, a CoBRA jawan was injured and is getting treated at RIMS. Rebel leaders Anal and Mahraj Pramanik, are active in West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts.  While Anal carries a bounty of Rs 1 crore on his head, Pramanik carries a reward of Rs 15 lakh According to police sources, as the two encounters took place in the same stretch of forest cover within 72 hours, the paramilitary forces are being reinforced at the border of West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan area for a decisive operation against naxals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad civic body partners with chamber of commerce to collect tax||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, in a bid to mop up revenue through increasing realisation of taxes, has joined hands with Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce. The camps, scheduled to be held from February 12 to February 23, will be processing taxes including trade licence, holding tax and water user charges. The first camp will be organised at Purana Bazar of Commerce on February 12. This will be followed by similar camps at Saraidhela on February 13, Jharia on February 14, Jamadoba on February 15, Kendua on February 16, Rangatand on February 17, Park Market on February 19, Bank More on February 20, Hirapur Hatia on February 21, Phusbunglow on February 22, and City Centre of February 23. DMC city manager Rupesh Kumar, who looks after tax collection, told The Telegraph Online that the camps will be operational from 11 am to 5 pm. Employees of the local units of the chamber of commerce will be present during the time, while the DMC tax offices will also be open during the period. “The team at the camps will be equipped with trade license certificates, holding tax certificates, water user charges receipt and all other necessary items. DMC officials will also keep tab on progress of the tax collection drive at each camp by making rounds at sites,” Kumar said. Srikant Agarwal, Secretary of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce said, “We are fully prepared for the programme and have carried out awareness drives apprising our members about its utility and other details.” He further said that the drive will prove beneficial for people since they will not have to make rounds at the Corporation office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||Covid test drive held across steel city||Civic authorities organised Covid-19 tests across several areas of the steel city on Wednesday, the RT-PCR test drive carrying on for a full three hours from 11am. Officials of the East Singhbhum district health department with the help of police and workers of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) carried out the special drive at Sakchi market, Bistupur-based P&M Hi-Tech City Centre Mall and Golmuri Chowk, in addition to Sitaramdera Bus Terminus, Sonari, Khudiram Bose Chowk and Sankosai (both in Mango), Jugsalai, Baridih, Station Road and Pardih Chowk on NH-33. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon R.N.Jha said , "Each of our teams was  given a target of collecting 200 samples for RT-PCR tests. The test reports will arrive in the next 72-hours." Jha went on to add that the special drive was carried out following a directive from the state health department. "Wednesday’s drive was meant for urban areas. It covered men, women and children. A similar drive was carried out in different rural areas of East Singhbhum district on February 8," he said. Ravi Bharti, an official of JNAC who was deployed at the Sitaramdera Bus Terminus for conducting RT- PCR tests on passengers and bus staff, said, "We completed the target of conducting RT-PCR test on 200 passengers, bus staff and other visitors to the bus terminus. We were targeting those without face masks."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||Decision soon on reopening cinemas, coaching centres||Cinema halls, swimming pools and parks are likely to reopen in Jharkhand after February 19, the day a high-level meeting of decision-makers is scheduled, officials of the state disaster management department said on Wednesday. State minister for disaster management Banna Gupta said that a meeting to decide over the resumption of closed services and institutions was scheduled on February 5 but had to be postponed due to some “unavoidable circumstances”. “The chief minister and I will chair a meeting of the disaster management department on February 19. Many important decisions for the benefit of business groups and students are likely to be taken during the meeting,” said  Gupta, adding that the state will keep safety of residents in mind before taking any decision. Sources said that several closed institutions were likely to get the government’s nod to resume services with immediate effect after the February 19 meeting. Cinema halls, swimming pools and amusement parks were closed in Jharkhand for an indefinite period during the nationwide lockdown enforced in March last year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. While the state government gradually decided to reopen malls, restaurants, bars, gyms and educational institutions, cinema hall owners have been waiting for the longest period to resume their services. Coaching institutes in the state have also remained closed since March last year, forcing students to attend online classes for engineering and medical entrance examinations. A decision on reopening of coaching institutes is also likely on February 19. Jharkhand is among the few states in India where the government is yet to allow cinema halls to open their doors despite the Centre allowing 100 per cent occupancy in movie theaters from February 1. “The Centre has allowed cinema halls to operate, but the final decision has to be taken by the state government. You will be updated about the decisions after the meeting,” said state disaster management secretary Amitabh Kaushal. Cinema hall owners in Jharkhand are hopeful that the government would finally allow them to resume their business. Some said that it may take months to make up for the loss incurred during the 11 months of lockdown, but it will be easier if they start early. “We have been requesting the government to allow cinema halls to resume services, but the government has not taken any decision yet. We were hopeful of getting a decision in our favour in the first week of February itself,” said Sameer Kumar, manager at Fun Cinemas in Ranchi. “The FJCCI (Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries) has also requested the government to reopen cinema halls,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||Rain forecast next week, nights to get warmer||Several parts of Jharkhand are expected to experience rain and thunderstorm on February 16, the Ranchi Met office has forecast, citing Wednesday’s satellite pictures and wind chart analysis. Weathermen pointed to a western disturbance over Pakistan and Jammu and Kashmir extending 3.1km and 5.8km above the mean sea level as the primary reason. "The western disturbance is expected to trigger a cyclonic circulation which would result in rainfall over various parts of Jharkhand around January 16 and 17, " said a duty officer at the Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Met office also hinted at a gradual rise in minimum temperatures from Thursday. "We are expecting a rise in minimum temperature by three to four degree Celsius during the next 72 hours," said the Met official. Both IMD’s Ranchi and Patna Met centres predicted dry weather with mainly clear sky for the next five days. Weathermen also ruled out possibility of fog and mist during the next five days. The Met department's statistics of the past 24 hours suggested that cold wave conditions still prevailed in southern Jharkhand, particularly in Kolhan region. On Wednesday, Chaibasa, the district headquarters of West Singhbhum, recorded a minimum temperature of 9.6 degree Celsius, around six notches below normal. Capital Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 10.6 degree Celsius, two points below normal, while Steel City Jamshedpur recorded a minimum temperature of 11.7 degree Celsius, which was four notches below normal. Sub-10 chill prevailed in several places, including Daltonganj, Kanke on the outskirts of Ranchi, Khunti and Ramgarh. As per Met data, all these places recorded minimum temperatures of around 9 degree Celsius. But minimum temperatures in Pakur, Sahebganj and several other districts in Santhal Pargana region witnessed a rising trend.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||Power woes mount in Sindri, courtesy its stakeholders||Power cuts have become a prevalent phenomenon in Sindri, which used to remain illuminated at all times earlier during the heydays of Fertilizer Corporation of India. The town that faced a power failure caused by a cable puncture on Monday morning got the electricity back on Tuesday night, after 36 hours of outage. On Wednesday morning, residents faced a similar situation before the power was restored at around noon. The problem has its roots in the lack of coordination between stakeholders, including the Fertilizer Corporation of India (FCI), Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) and Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL). The problem is much deeper than what meets the eye and requires a comprehensive solution involving all the stakeholders. The crisis has thrown life completely out of gear in Sindri,” Deepak Kumar Dipu, President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce, told The Telegraph Online. He added that the town faces cable punctures and resultant power cuts almost everyday. Sewa Singh, former Public Relation Officer of FCI Sindri, said that they had a meeting with the officials of the companies in January, after which HURL had laid some new cables. But more steps needed to be taken in order to solve the issue, he said. “The feeder installed inside the HURL Campus requires to be shifted outside for ensuring its regular maintenance by JBVNL officials. The JBVNL also needs to pump in more manpower and funds to improve the power supply scenario in Sindri ,” Singh added. “The load on the old infrastructure increased manifolds due to installation of ACs, geysers, heaters and other appliances in almost all the houses. The breakers installed in almost every colony of Sindri used to prevent simultaneous power failure of the entire township. Over time, all of them have stopped functioning, resulting in power cuts at the hole town during a cable puncture in any part,” he said The president of FCI VSS Employees Association further said that they will soon meet the concerned officials of HURL to seek their support.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||Table tennis: Huge squad to represent Jharkhand in national meets||A huge team from Jharkhand will represent the state in three separate national table tennis championships, two of which will be held later this month. The team announced on Tuesday  will compete in senior national meet (at Panchkula, Haryana from February 15 to 23), cadet and sub-junior nationals (at Indore, Madhya Pradesh from February 25 to March 6) and junior and youth nationals (schedule yet to be announced). Archita, Aadhya and Anjali, along with Janvi Prasad of East Singhbhum, have also been selected in the girl’s sub-junior side. Pratik Agarwal (Hazaribag), Nitish Kumar Mehta, Anil Kumar Mehta (both from Garhwa) and Soumil from East Singhbhum have got the nod in the boy’s side. The state girls’ junior squad comprises Saniya Banerjee, Samriddhi Shraddha, Khushi Kumari (all from East Singhbhum) and Suhani Sharma (Ranchi). Karan Raj (East Singhbhum), Dinesh Selvam, Satrunjay Chakravarty (both from Ranchi) and Aman Kumar Pal (Garhwa) are among the boys who have been picked. Khushi Kumari, Saniya Banerjee (both from East Singhbhum), Suhani Sharma (Ranchi) have also been included in the state youth team for girls, besides Dhanbad’s Hemlata Sinku. The boys in the youth side comprise Mrinmaya Pradhan, Sudhanshu Ranjan, PL Teja (all from East Singhbhum) and Hazaribag’s Kumar Shresth. Shivaji Roy (West Singhbhum) and Ranchi paddlers Somir Chakraborty, Biswajit Kumar, Devesh Kumar and Sonath Chakraborty have been drafted into the state senior squad for the national meet. Chandni Kumari, Shruti Mahanand (both from East Singhbhum), Snehlata Sinku (Dhanbad) and Manisha Mukherjee have won slots in the women’s side. Jharkhand State Table Tennis Association (JSTTA) general secretary Jay Kumar Sinha said they have tried to pick a balanced side which is expected to perform well in the national meets. “The team was picked after a three-day selection trials held at JSCA International Stadium in Ranchi in December last year,” he said. East Singhbhum District Table Tennis Association (ESDTTA) secretary Ujjal Chatterjee expressed satisfaction at the team selection. “Fifteen paddlers from our district have got the nod. We expect an impressive performance from them,” Chatterjee said. The district association is trying to popularise table tennis in city schools.The Jamshedpur paddlers train at a cradle run by Tata Steel sports wing at JRD Tata Sports Complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||40% of the vaccination target achieved as over 15,000 get inoculated in a day ||More than 15000 healthcare workers and frontline workers were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the state’s vaccination rate to 40 per cent of the target, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Of the 15188 people who were administered the Covishield shots on Tuesday, at least 1885 were from Ranchi, 1752 from Dhanbad and 1630 from Bokaro, the NHM stated in a report released on Tuesday evening. Meanwhile, Bokaro achieved 127 per cent of its target on the day by inoculating 1630 people while only 1282 people were registered for the vaccination, the NHM report revealed. Palamu administered the Covishield jabs to 1065 of the 1330 registered beneficiaries, achieving 80 per cent of its target. Ranchi, which has the lowest rate of vaccination among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, achieved 57 per cent of its vaccination target on Tuesday. However, the district has achieved only 26 per cent of its target so far, the lowest in Jharkhand. As per government records, so far, as many as 1,40,114 people have been vaccinated in the state. At least 3,49,819 people were registered for vaccination in Jharkhand since the beginning of the immunization programme on January 16. The state has so far reported 251 cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) and at least 170 of them were reported in Ranchi. Dhanbad has reported 11 AEFI cases, while Koderma has reported 18 such cases so far. As many as 19 such cases occurred in Palamu and 10 in Jamtara, reveals government data. Meanwhile, Ranchi reported 45 of the 61 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection that surfaced in Jharkhand on Tuesday. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the state reported only 35 recoveries against the 61 cases, which caused a rise in the number of active cases. By the end of Tuesday, at least 464 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand. While 15 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on the day, at least eight districts reported a single-digit-spike. As per government data, Ranchi was the only district in Jharkhand with more than 200 active cases. As per government data, as many as 1,19,116 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of cases in the state was 0.03 per cent while the doubling rate was 2084.05 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
