11-02-2021||Calcutta||Schools opaque about safety steps, complain parents||Some private schools are sending letters to parents seeking their consent for their child’s return to the campus but allegedly without spelling out the possible alternatives if they decide against in-person attendance. Scores of parents across the city complained that schools were expecting them to allow children to attend in-person classes but have been opaque about steps they were taking to get students back on the campus. The consent is being sought for writing exams and attending classes on campus, but a section of parents is peeved at what they called a “Hobson’s choice”. There are a few exceptions. At least two schools — South Point High School and The Heritage School — have sent a detailed note to parents stating that the number of pupils will be limited to one third of the original strength and a maximum of two to three students will be allowed in the toilet at a time. Parents have specific questions that some schools do not seem to have an answer to: • Use of toilets: How often will the toilets be cleaned and how many children will be allowed at a time? • Mask etiquette: Children are expected to wear masks but is it practical to wear a mask for almost six hours at a stretch? • Break time: Who will monitor students during breaks? • Distancing in laboratories: Will students have to share equipment in labs? • In between periods: Who will look after the children between two periods, when there is no teacher in the room? • Sanitisation routine: How often will door knobs, classrooms, lifts and railings will be sanitised? The lack of clarity on the part of schools is making many parents worried or indecisive about sending their children to the campus. Many said they had given consent because their children would other-wise be marked “absent” in an examination. The principal of a south Calcutta school said: “No punitive action will be taken and we are not compelling parents to send children to school. But if they cannot appear in an examination, we will have to mark them absent.” What is baffling parents is that some of the decisions taken by schools are not entirely based on science. A school has asked students to turn up only if they test negative for Covid-19 and several others are considering issuing such a directive. Another school has asked parents to sign a health declaration form daily. Public health experts have said a negative Covid test did not mean a student would not contract Covid later. “A declaration is a bureaucratic exercise. One could come in contact with an asymptomatic Covid patient and not know about it. It is not possible for anyone to give a declaration,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a public health expert associated with the Beleghata ID hospital. The schools in their rush to reopen are ignoring questions and apprehensions that parents have in sending their children to the campus. Some schools have also received emails from parents saying they had protected their children for 10 months and are wary of exposing them to the risk of catching the virus. Parents have said that it is “their right” to know what precautions schools are taking and it is not enough for schools to just say they are “following Covid protocols”. “Schools have to be much more transparent in their communication with parents. They will have to inform the parents how many times they are cleaning the toilets, how many times they are sanitising the building and what protocols they are following. It has to be a regular communication,” said public health expert Bandyopadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||Govt schools split classes into groups||Teachers of government schools are splitting classes into smaller groups to ensure physical distancing in the rooms. Unlike many private schools, government schools will hold all four classes — IX to XII — once campuses reopen on Friday or within days of the reopening. The state government has allowed reopening of schools for Classes IX to XII from February 12. Jadavpur Vidyapith has asked students of Classes IX, X and XII to turn up for in-person instruction from Friday. The students of Class X who will write Madhyamik in June will be called after Saraswati Puja, which falls on February 16, to appear in a mock test. (Class X has two batches — one that has been promoted from Class IX and the other that will write Madhyamik this year). The students of Class XI will be called on Saturday. Parimal Bhattacharya, the headmaster of the school, said they had drawn up a routine for the first two days. The routine for the subsequent days will be prepared based on the initial experience. “We have split Class IX into three groups — ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’. While students of section ‘A’ will attend classes into two rooms, the students of section ‘B’ and ‘C’ will attend classes online after the in-person classes end. The students of Class X, too, have been split into sections. This will help us avoid crowding,” Bhattacharya said. An assistant teacher said the sections would take turns in attending in-person and online classes. The students of Class XII, who will come to the campus to attend practicals, have been split into sections B and C. This will enable them to attend classes in smaller groups. “The students of Class XI will be split into 10 sections and each section will be assigned a room,” said Bhattacharya. As the classes from V and VIII are not being held, there will not be any problem resulting from splitting the senior classes into smaller sections. At Uttarpara Government School, the students of all classes are being called on the first day. A teacher said they would think about splitting the classes into smaller sections based on the actual turnout. “If only a few students of Classes IX and X turn up, we may not have to split them into sections. If the turnout is normal, we may have to do so. Allocating extra rooms won’t be a problem because classes between V and VIII are not being held,” said Saugata Basu, an assistant teacher of the school. Kazi Masum Akhtar, the headmaster of Katjunagar Swarnamayee Vidyapith in Jadavpur, said they, too, would call students of Classes IX to XII. “We will affix the roll number of every student on each bench. If a student on the first bench sits on the right, the student of the next bench will sit on the left,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||Book for jabs at CMC clinics raise queries||Some Calcutta Municipal Corporation clinics have kept a book where people above 50 can “register” their names for receiving Covid-19 vaccine doses, though there is no clarity whether such “registration” will be considered valid when inoculation of the general population starts. Also, there is no clarity yet when vaccination of the general population against Covid-19 will begin. Currently, health and frontline workers are being administered doses. An official of the state health department said they had not asked the CMC to register the names of citizens who are neither healthcare workers nor frontline workers. “There is no guideline yet from the Centre about preparing the list of prospective recipients who do not belong to either category. The CMC is doing it on its own,” said the official. There has been no public campaign by the civic body to inform people that such a registration is under way. In some places, councillors have sent WhatsApp messages to select people, many of whom have queued up and enrolled their names hoping that it would make them eligible for a Covid vaccine. The ones who have registered their names have not been given any receipt. Nor have they got any text message from the civic body confirming the registration. The exercise, purportedly to help people, has triggered confusion among many, especially the elderly. Many elderly, who had rarely stepped out since the pandemic started, have visited clinics and stood in queues to enrol their names so that they do not miss out on vaccination. It also shows how desperate a section of the population is to get vaccinated against Covid. CMC sources said they knew of two wards where the registration was being done actively — Ward 82 in Chetla, where outgoing mayor Firhad Hakim is the ward coordinator, and Ward 68 in Ballygunge. In Hakim’s ward, more than 1,300 people have registered their names, a CMC official said. Long queues are forming in front of the ward health clinic on most days for registration. Hakim told The Telegraph the CMC was keeping the names to ensure there was no delay when inoculation of the general population against Covid starts. “If the state government tells us they are going to start the inoculation of the general public, we can start with these names. People are voluntarily registering their names. It can be expected that they will not shy away from taking vaccines and we will not lose any day in vaccinating common people,” said Hakim. He added there was no guarantee that the people who had enrolled their names at civic clinics would be given priority over others. “Others too can come and get doses when we will start administering vaccines to the general public. It is not that those who are registering their names now will be given priority,” Hakim said. Sudarshana Mukherjee, the coordinator of Ward 68, said she had started registering names as she had been flooded with enquiries from senior citizens about the likely inoculation schedule of the general public. “I am keeping the names of senior citizens ready. I do not know if these names will be considered when the general public will be vaccinated. If each ward is asked to send names of people above 50, I can send these names,” Mukherjee said. The Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines, issued by the Centre, mentions that “the latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and Legislative Assembly election will be used to identify population aged 50 years or more”. The guidelines also state that the administration of Covid-19 vaccines will be prioritised among three groups. Health-care workers and frontline workers comprise the first two groups and their vaccination is under way. People above 50 and those below 50 but suffering from comorbidities form the third group. The age as on January 1, 2021, will be considered. The vaccination of people over 50 will begin after March 6, the Centre signalled on Tuesday. A resident of Ballygunge said he received a WhatsApp message from a neighbour mentioning that persons registering their names must provide their PAN or Aadhaar number. “My wife went to the CMC health clinic and registered her name,” said the resident. Among the Calcuttans who have received similar WhatsApp messages, many are averse to taking the risk of standing in a queue during the pandemic to get their names registered. They wondered why CMC officials are not visiting houses and registering names. “The government has all details about citizens. There is a voters’ list, people have Aadhaar cards and PAN cards. It will not be difficult for the government to find out who are the people above 50,” said a man who has crossed 60. CMC doctors said they had not received any order from the civic authorities or the state health department about registration of names. They said they were not sure how the registration being done at CMC clinics would be of any help when inoculation of the general public would begin. “We have only been told by our seniors that the chairperson of the board of admi-nistrators of the CMC (Firhad Hakim) has instructed that ward health clinics start registering names of people above 50,” said an official of CMC’s health department, which runs the ward health clinics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||Nature lovers and cyclist set up pre-poll test||A section of Calcuttans has demanded that political parties include in their manifestos steps ahead of the Assembly polls they would take to tackle air pollution and create infrastructure so that cyclists could be out in more numbers. A number of cyclists raised the demand at a gathering outside Elliot Park on Wednesday, which was also attended by tram and nature lovers. The cyclists said a large number of Calcuttans commute between 5km and 6km daily. They called on the government to create dedicated cycle bays so the distance could be covered by bicycles, which would result in lower carbon emission. If separate lanes can be set up, bicycles won't interfere with the average speed of vehicles, the cyclists argued. “We are asking parties to commit in their manifestos that cycles would be at the centre of their urban mobility plans,” said Vinay Jaju, the founder of Bengal Clean Air Network. “We are also demanding more use of trams and electric vehicles. Let all parties include urban green cover and waste management and waste segregation in their manifestos.” Several cyclists referred to the Comprehensive Mobility Planning, a report prepared by the state urban development department in 2008, and said commuting less than three kilometres comprised around 60 per cent of daily commuting in Calcutta. “So, given the average length of commute, Calcutta is a very cycleable city. We are not saying that things will have to change overnight, but at least certain small steps can be taken to reduce pollution levels,” said Satanjib Gupta, the “bicycle mayor” of Calcutta, an honorary position given by the Amsterdam-based BYCS, an organisation that promotes cycling across the globe. “Let there be some route plans which cyclists can be encouraged to take. We are possibly moving the opposite way of global mobility planning for cities.” Cyclists hit the roads in Calcutta in large numbers during the early days of the Covid pandemic. On the fringes, including stretches of VIP Road and Jessore Road, and even in the city proper, many people had begun cycling to their workplaces to avoid public transport. In December, after suburban train services resumed and accidents involving cyclists started going up, police had launched a drive urging cyclists to stay away from the thoroughfares. A section of cycle enthusiasts had then written to the commissioner of Calcutta police with an appeal to allow bicycles to ply on all roads. “The urban development department has started a survey on whether cycling can be allowed on some of the roads and we have given our inputs with specific reasons,” said a senior police officer at Lalbazar. “In a city with just about six per cent road space, it is a tall order to have dedicated cycling bays.” But environment lovers who came together on Wednesday argued that Calcutta lacked any clear plan for creating infrastructure that would help reduce air pollution. They said several cities such as Pune, Nagpur and Warangal had started building cycle bays during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||Couple and son found hanging at their Joka residence||A couple and their son were found hanging from two iron hooks on the ceiling of their home in Joka on Wednesday morning. Police suspect all three committed suicide. “The exact cause of the deaths will be known after the post-mortem report comes,” an officer said. Findings of a preliminary inquiry suggest a financial crisis could be the reason for the three taking their lives, police sources said. The man of the house, 50-year-old Chandrabrata Mandal, was a Group D employee at a government office; his wife Mayarani, 45, had started a sari business. Their son Supriyo, 23, used to trade in birds, the police said. Residents of the locality ‑ Patropara ‑ said Supriyo had sold all his birds three days ago. “It appears the family had sought financial help from some relatives to repay a bank loan. Some relatives said they were suffering from financial distress,” said a senior officer of the south-west police division of Calcutta police. A number of suicides were reported over the past few months that were directly or indirectly related to the lockdown, which resulted in many people losing their livelihood or suffering financial losses. The police said they were probing the reason behind the Thakurpukur incident. Mandal was in a habit of going out for walks in the morning. Wednesday was an exception. Around 7.45am on Wednesday, a few neighbours and relatives of the Mandals (some of the relatives live in the same locality) knocked on the door to enquire why Chandrabrata had not gone for his daily walk. As no one responded, one of the relatives accessed the terrace of the two-storey building and entered the house through the rooftop door. On entering the house, the neighbours and relatives found the couple and the son hanging from two iron hooks on the ceiling in the same room, the eyewitnesses told the police. The hooks are used to hang fans. The Mandals were taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital in Behala, where all three were declared dead. There were no apparent signs of foul play, the police said. No suicide note was found||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||Holistic learning in focus||Apeejay School, Park Street Apeejay School, Park Street, recently celebrated the 124th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose virtually. The significance of the day was emphasised through different events organised by the kids from Lower Kindergarten to Class V. The children of Lower and Upper Kindergarten dressed for a fancy dress programme, where some dressed as national heroes and some as frontline warriors for Covid-19 to pay homage to their untiring contribution during the pandemic. Students of classes I and II presented patriotic songs in different languages to pay respect to the diverse culture of the nation. An event to make collage of Indian national symbols was organised for the children of Class III, while the students of Class IV wrote Jai Hind in various languages. Class V students presented a throwback on the national heroes. Quiz and poem recitation were also included in the event. Parents and teachers also took part. A processed painting session, Splash, was organised for both parents and students to be in tangent with each other. “At a time when we all are struggling in our own ways, who would be better to remember than Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, India’s greatest son. He continues to inspire millions even today. While the seniors reflected upon the various national symbols, the blooming buds presented a few songs that gave goosebumps,” said principal Paromita Guha Ray. Akshar School Akshar School celebrated multilingualism with a variety of vernacular language activities for students of classes UKG to V. It was a part of theme-teaching. Children did prayers, recited poems in various Indian languages such as Gujarati, Odia, Coorgi and Bengali and performed Tamil wedding songs on the theme, India Travelled and Unravelled. Students of Class I dressed up in traditional attire and spoke about how to take care of them. The children of classes UKG, I and V recited poems in their mother tongues eloquently and confidently. “We are making the children aware of the cultural diversity and encouraging them to learn from each other through these activities. Being a school that has students from different regions, children can delve into every language,” said principal Kavneet Khullar. Future Hope School Future Hope School recently organised their annual inter-house Katie Baddley Drama Competition on a digital platform. The theme of this year’s festival was Dickens with a Twist. The four Houses — Panther, Cobra, Elephant and Tiger — chose Oliver Twist, A Tale of Two Cities, David Copperfield and Pickwick Papers. The participants had practised over Cisco Webex under the guidance of thespian Amlan Chaudhuri for nearly a month before putting up their plays on YouTube. New South Wales-British Council director Rebecca Gould, Dance Theatre UK director Nelson Fernandez and thespian Vivek Mansukhani judged the plays online. “The scripts were executed well and appropriate twists were given to the main plot,” said Gould. Mansukhani felt a revival of memories seeing the plays. Elephant House clinched the Katie Baddley trophy and the Best Script award. The Best Actor award went to Sujan Hussain of Cobra House, while Sweta Gupta of Panther House was adjudged the Best Actress Fun-Learn Day Boarding School Fun-Learn Day Boarding School recently organised its seventh annual sports meet on a digital platform. The indomitable spirit of the students, teachers and parents prevailed when school founder Udita Chakraborty declared this year’s annual sports open with a short film clip showing the flight of the pigeons. Like the free-spirited birds, the Fun-Learn children — from Play Group to senior classes — rose to the occasion. With Queen’s We will Rock You and Radio Ga Ga belting in the background, the children of the four houses — Kalam, Keller, Tagore and Derozio — marched confidently in front of their devices, albeit from their respective homes. The school performed a synchronised drill and yoga as a part of their school sports. “We have not let this pandemic overwhelm our lives. Physical exercises and yoga periods are included in our daily online timetable. Staying physically fit is the need of the hour to keep us mentally strong  in these trying times. And this daily practice showed as our children performed the drill and yoga on the sports day. I must thank our yoga teacher Meenakshi Yadav for this,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||Thermal checks, physical distancing and sanitisers – the new normal at Belur Math||Thermal scanning for body temperature, markings to ensure physical distancing and counters to dispense sanitisers ‑ Belur Math took a series of precautions against Covid-19 as visitors walked in for the first time on Wednesday after nearly six months. The gates of the Math were open for visitors from 8.30am till 11am and again from 3.30pm till 5.15pm. Police were deployed on the campus, along with monks and brahmacharies, to ensure no one was without a mask and there were no huddles. “The footfall will gradually go up. We will keep a strict watch on all movements so that no one violates the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) that has been drawn up,” said a senior monk at the Math, the global headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission on the banks of the Hooghly. “It is comforting to see devotees visit the Math again.” In keeping with the SOP, devotees and other visitors were allowed entry into four temples in the Math compound — the temples of Sri Ramakrishna, Holy Mother, Swami Vivekananda and Swami Brahmananda. The Pally Mangal stall and the book stall, too, were accessible to visitors. No one was allowed to meet Swami Smaranananda, the 16th president of the order, and other senior monks. Distribution of bhog has been suspended, too. Outside the main entrance of the Math hangs a board that has all instructions for visitors written on it. The instructions are related to hand hygiene, physical distancing and other safety measures. The names of the four temples which devotees are allowed to visit are written in bold letters on board. The Math timings, too, are prominently displayed. Moveable guard rails were placed in the middle of the main entrance to demarcate ways to enter and exit. Visitors were barred from stepping on the green lawns around the temple of Sri Ramakrishna. Men and women volunteers were deployed to carry out thermal checks and distribute sanitisers. By 5.15pm, rows of men and women were seen walking out of the main gate, some with their hands folded. “Over a period of time, devotees will get used to the new order inside the Math. We just hope that none of our monks or employees contract Covid-19,” said another senior monk, who was overseeing the arrangements at the Math. Belur Math had shut its gates to visitors on March 15 last year as a precaution against Covid-19. The gates were reopened on June 15, and visitors could enter the Math following all health protocols, but had to be closed again on August 2 as a number of monks and employees tested positive for Covid. Around 300 monks stay on the Math premises and close to 250 others work there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||Royal Bengal tiger sneaks out of forest||A Royal Bengal tiger triggered panic among tourists and villagers in the Sunderbans’ Samshernagar area early on Wednesday when it escaped through a breach in the Jhinga Khali jungle’s wire fencing and tried to swim across the Kukrekhali river to enter human habitation. Villagers armed with bamboo and iron rods succeeded in scaring the animal away when it was trying to cross a narrow stretch of the river to enter the locality where the forest department’s guest house Banabibi is located. The river cuts across the Jhinga Khali forest range in Hingalganj, in North 24-Parganas. Though the big cat could not cross the river and enter the village, residents and forest guards are unsure whether the tiger is inside the fenced jungle or hiding in the bushy embankment of the river. Around 6.15am, residents and tourists were awestruck spotting the striped beast coming out of the forest and plunging into the muddy river. The euphoria, however, soon changed into panic . Villager Ajoy Pal, one of the scores of people who spotted the tiger, said: “It was trying to cross the river when we raised the alarm. There were a good number of tourists at the Banabibi guest house. We asked them to stay indoors and mobilised villagers, who gathered in large numbers with bamboo sticks and iron rods, to scare the tiger away.” Pal said some villagers had started pelting the tiger with stones, which irritated it and caused it to roar. “But it eventually turned back and ran towards the forest,” he said. Pal, however, said the tiger tried to get inside the fenced forest but couldn’t. “It ran along the bank of the river and went out of sight.” A tourist said the tiger sighting was thrilling. “Frankly, we panicked when it tried to cross the river. At the same time we were lucky to see the tiger up close.” A team of forest officials later visited the area and deputed forest guards to track the tiger’s movement. A senior forest official in Calcutta said the tiger came out by breaking the wire fencing along the forest buffer zone. “We are trying to identify the damaged part so that it can be repaired immediately,” he said. Sunderbans villagers, however, said poor maintenance of the fence made the area vulnerable to tiger attacks. “The tiger may come again. The fence needs maintenance to avert man-animal conflict,” a villager said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||NIT Durgapur to hold on-campus lab classes||The National Institute of Technology Durgapur is planning to bring final-year BTech students of the eighth semester to the campus so that they can do lab sessions to make up for the classes lost since March last year. The students will graduate in June. “We are planning to hold the lab sessions for two months. During this period, students can attend theory classes on digital platforms while staying in the hostels in strict adherence to safety protocols. But if students graduate without attending the labs, they won’t learn a substantial part of their curriculum. They must complete the laboratory components physically,” NIT director Anupam Basu told Metro. The final-year batch has 650 students. If students don’t attend labs, they could face problems while being interviewed by potential employers or when they go for higher studies, a teacher said. “Attending classes in the departmental labs is a must. Or their studies will remain incomplete,” he said. Another teacher said students would find it difficult to write some of the final semester papers if they didn’t attend lab classes. The institute started bringing the 75 MTech final-year students to campus this month for lab-dependent hardware projects. “We are looking forward to staggered physical reopening across all the years, starting with fourth-year students being brought to the campus from mid-March. Engineering studies cannot happen by merely attending theory classes online,” Basu said. Classes for the graduating batch have been disrupted since they were in the sixth semester. They were promoted to the final year in July last year, after which they have not attended labs. Once the fourth-year students are through with the lab and theory classes, the institute wants to hold the eighth semester exams on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||City hospital successfully conducts four robot-assisted surgeries||A robot controlled by a surgeon has done four cancer surgeries at a hospital near the city over the past week. The use of the “fourth-generation” robot is among the latest advancements in cancer treatment, doctors of the Narayana Superspeciality Hospital, Howrah, said on Wednesday. “This is among the safest modes of minimally invasive or key-hole surgery. The surgeon controls everything sitting on the console and with the help of robotic arms and stereoscopic 3D vision, gets access to any possible target organ. The removal of a cancerous organ with utmost precision causing little collateral damage is possible with this technology,” said Kaustav Basu, consultant gynaeoncological surgeon at the hospital. The doctors said precision and flexibility are the two main advantages of the robotic port, making it effective in complex surgeries to treat urological, gastro-intestinal and head-and-neck cancer. “In case of prostate cancer, we often have to do a surgery to remove the prostate or a part of it. While removing it, there is a risk of damaging a neurovascular bundle outside the prostate which can trigger a lot of blood loss. The damage to the nerves can cause sexual dysfunctions. The robot can remove what is needed without damaging anything,” said Suman Mallik, clinical director and radiation oncologist at the hospital. The robot is being used more for cancer-related surgeries but it can be helpful in complex surgeries to remove benign tumours as well, the doctors said. Surgeries involving the robot would need smaller incisions which would also mean minimal blood loss and pain and lower chance of infection. The patient would be discharged soon, said doctors. “Post-operative recovery is much faster compared with other conventional methods and the patient can resume normal activities much earlier,” said Basu. The imported robot costs around Rs 12 crore, an official of the hospital said. The price of a robotic cancer surgery at the hospital would cost around Rs 3 lakh, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
11-02-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 222 points to fresh closing high||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 222 points to end at its new closing record on Thursday, propelled by gains in index major Reliance Industries amid positive global cues. After trading on a choppy note, the 30-share BSE index settled 222.13 points or 0.43 per cent higher at 51,531.52. In similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 66.80 points or 0.44 per cent to its all-time high of 15,173.30. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, PowerGrid, Bajaj Finance, Nestle India and HCL Tech. On the other hand, Titan, L&T, ONGC, HDFC Bank and ITC were among the laggards. Domestic equities traded in a range bound manner, while benchmark indices managed to record modest gains towards the end of the session mainly supported by sharp up-move in Reliance Industries, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Market looks to be fatigued at current levels after seeing sharp rally post the announcement of union budget," he noted. Most sectoral indices traded sideways and a pullback was seen in PSU Banks. Notably, volatility index softened sharply. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also largely trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.67 per cent lower at USD 61.06 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
11-02-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points in opening trade on Thursday largely tracking gains in index-heavyweight Reliance Industries and a positive trend in global markets. After opening on a negative note, the 30-share BSE index reversed all losses to trade 133.94 points or 0.26 per cent higher at 51,175.45. In a similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 41.55 points or 0.28 per cent to 15,148.05. Bharti Airtel, Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance and SBI were among the top gainers in the Sensex pack, rising up to 2 per cent. On the other hand, Titan, HDFC, Infosys, ONGC, ITC, Maruti and ICICI Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 19.69 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 51,309.39, and Nifty slipped 2.80 points or 0.02 per cent to 15,106.50. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,786.97 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. On the global front, US equities ended mixed with Dow Jones scaling at new highs. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.63 per cent lower at USD 61.08 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
11-02-2021||Business||Utsav Parekh joins Eveready Industries Ltd board ||Prominent stock broker and businessman Utsav Parekh has joined the board of Eveready Industries Ltd (EIL) even as the largest shareholder of the company, the Burman family of Dabur, remains outside. Parekh, who holds around 4.08 per cent stake in battery maker EIL, joined the board as a non-executive and non-independent director, along with Sourav Bhagat, a partner with solicitor firm Fox & Mandal, who came in as an independent director. Sources said Parekh was approached by the EIL promoters, the Khaitan family, to join the board. “It is a long association I have with them (Khaitans). I was on the board of McLeod Russel and McNally Bharat earlier,” Parekh said this evening. The board level changes took place at a time promoter holding in the company has slid below 5 per cent on the back of persistent sale of pledged shares. In contrast, the Burman family has around 20 per cent stake in the company but no board representation yet. The Khaitans had borrowed heavily to save engineering firm McNally Bharat by keeping the EIL shares as collateral. When they defaulted in payment and the stock price tumbled, financiers sold the shares to cover their losses. The board rejig also comes at a time Eveready is likely to record the highest profit in a year on the back of a strong demand for alkaline batteries, lower Chinese imports and benign raw material prices. The company’s net profit stood at Rs 50.43 crore in the third quarter compared with Rs 90.60 crore a year ago, which included exceptional gain from the sale of Chennai land for Rs 89.55 crore. Amritanshu Khaitan, managing director of the company, noted that it has so far been the best nine months in the company’s history. “Our operating EBIDTA is at 20.1 per cent compared with 11.3 per cent during Q3 of last fiscal,” he said. While the lighting business turned profitable this quarter, the appliances division halved losses. The solid operational performance along with the presence of the Burman family as the largest shareholder rubbed on the stock of EIL, which touched a 52-week high of Rs 245 on Wednesday before closing at Rs 240.30 on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
11-02-2021||Business||State Bank of India achieves milestone of Rs 5 lakh crore in home loan segment||State Bank of India (SBI) is eyeing an ambitious growth in its home loan book after having achieved the milestone of Rs 5 lakh crore of such loans. The country’s largest lender is looking to double this number to Rs 10 lakh crore in five years. While the bank had entered the home loan segment in 2004, its real estate and housing business unit (REHBU) had clocked Rs 89,000 crore in assets under management (AUM) in 2011. Since then, the unit has grown five times in the last 10 years to now touch Rs 5 lakh crore. SBI became the market leader in the home loan segment in 2013-14. Despite a massive setback to the real estate sector triggered by the pandemic-induced lockdown, the home loan vertical registered strong growth even in December 2020 with the highest sourcing, sanctions, disbursements and growth. The bank is now targeting a home loan AUM of Rs 7 lakh crore by 2023-24. Bank of India Transmission of policy rates has hit the net interest income of Bank of India which shrunk 9.23 per cent during the October-December quarter of 2020-21 to Rs 3,739 crore from Rs 4,119 crore in the year-ago period. However, lower provisioning for bad loans helped the bank’s bottomline to jump five-fold to Rs 526 crore against Rs 106 crore a year ago. “We passed on about 60 basis points as policy rate transmission, while we passed on only 38 basis points in weighted deposit rates. Because deposit repricing takes longer, that affected the net interest income,” said A.K. Das, MD and CEO of Bank of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
11-02-2021||Business||Ambuja Neotia to develop two projects in Batanagar township||Ambuja Neotia Group has taken up a 20 acre- land inside the Batanagar township to develop two projects spread over 4 million square feet, signalling further consolidation in the city’s real estate space. Ambuja will act as the development management partner for the twin projects, one of which will be on the banks of the river Hooghly and the other will be facing a golf course. The land for the project belongs to Highland Group which purchased the 262-acre plot from Bata India Ltd in 2006. In the last one-and-a-half decade, it has been able to build 6 million square feet of residential properties so far. According to the broad contours of the agreement, Ambuja will build and sell the project under its brand name while Highland Group will earn a share of the revenue. Along the golf course, Ambuja will develop 12 residential towers (G+13) comprising 2,000 units in 2 & 3 BHK configurations. Harshavardhan Neotia, chairman of Ambuja Neotia Group, said: “This association will give us an excellent opportunity to do another sizable project in the fast-growing affordable housing segment.’’ The transaction also marked the second such deal for Anarock Property Consultants. “With the flyover operational and the Majherhat bridge ready, connectivity with Calcutta has improved significantly,” Nandu Kishinchand Belani, director of Highland, added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
11-02-2021||Business||Exporters raise concerns on certain budget proposals||Exporters on Wednesday raised concerns on certain budget proposals which they called as “harsh and draconian” as they gave the authorities the power to seize goods. A sub-section is proposed to be inserted in Section 113 of the Customs Act, which states that goods would be liable for confiscation if there is a ‘‘wrongful claim’’ of refund of any duty or tax in contravention of the provisions of the Customs Act. ‘‘The word ‘wrongful claim’ is subject to various interpretations and will put exporters at the mercy of field formations,” said S. K. Saraf, president of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations. Saraf also said the Finance Bill has withdrawn the facility of payment of Integrated GST for exporters which would affect their working capital. Engineering goods The country’s engineering exports have increased 18.69 per cent in January and demand for such products is expected to be steady in the remaining two months of the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
11-02-2021||Business||Hindalco Industries net profit jumps 77% in Q3||Hindalco Industries on Wednesday reported a 76.74 per cent growth in consolidated profit after tax (PAT) at Rs 1,877 crore during the quarter ended December 2020 compared with Rs 1,062 crore a year ago. The strong third quarter is due to a robust performance by Novelis and the domestic aluminium business, which was supported by higher volumes and a better product mix, Hindalco Industries managing director Satish Pai told reporters. GAIL net up 19% State-owned gas utility GAIL (India) Ltd has reported a 19 per cent rise in December quarter net profit after an uptick in petrochemical margin more than neutralised the losses in gas marketing. The net profit stood at Rs 1,487.33 crore in the October-December quarter against Rs 1,250.65 crore a year back. The petrochemical business swung into black with a pre-tax profit of Rs 434.08 crore even as natural gas marketing went into the red with a loss of Rs 73.70 crore. SpiceJet loss narrows Budget carrier SpiceJet has reported a standalone loss of Rs 56.95 crore for the three months ended December 2020 against a profit of Rs 73.22 crore in the year-ago period. The airline had reported a loss of Rs 112.6 crore in the second quarter of the current fiscal. Kesoram posts profit Kesoram Industries Ltd has posted a profit after tax of Rs 53.41-crore on a consolidated basis in the third quarter, swinging back from the losses of Rs 102.42 crore recorded in the same period last year. The total income of the company also increased to Rs 734.03 crore from Rs 644.72 crore recorded in the third quarter of the last fiscal. The profit represents a one-time gain of Rs 42.24 crore from the reversal of income tax provision. The company said it was in the final stages of debt resolution, which would release pressure on the working capital requirement, once completed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
11-02-2021||Business||Adar Poonawalla to acquire controlling stake in Magma Fincorp Ltd||Vaccine king Adar Poonawalla is acquiring a controlling stake in Magma Fincorp Ltd (MFL). Poonawalla’s Rising Sun Holdings will hold 60 per cent in Magma Fincorp following a preferential issue of Rs 3,206 crore. Magma will also make a preferential issue of 1.7 crore shares each to Sanjay Chamria and Mayank Poddar. Chamria and family and Mayank Poddar and family are the members of the promoters and promoter group of the company. The promoters held 24.39 per cent stake in Magma Fincorp at the end of December. Post the preferential allotment, Rising Sun Holdings will have 60 per cent in Magma Fincorp, while Chamria and Poddar will hold 2.34 per cent each. In a late evening announcement, Magma Fincorp said that it would allot 45.8 crore shares to Rising Sun Holdings and 3.5 crore shares to Chamria and Poddar at a price of Rs 70 per share, aggregating Rs 3,456 crore and subject to shareholders’ and other regulatory approvals. It represents 64.68 per cent of MFL’s enhanced equity share capital. After the allotment, the existing promoter group stake would get reduced to 13.3 per cent. Following the preferential issue, Rising Sun Holdings would be classified as a promoter of Magma Fincorp. MFL and its subsidiaries will be renamed and rebranded under the brand name "Poonawalla Finance", subject to regulatory approvals. The existing financial services business of Poonawalla Finance will be consolidated into Magma Fincorp subject to compliance with current regulations. The board of Magma Fincorp will also be reconstituted with Rising Sun Holdings proposing to nominate Poonawalla as the chairman of the company and Abhay Bhutada,  managing director & CEO of Poonawalla Finance, as managing director. However, Chamria would continue as the executive vice-chairman of the board. In a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges, Magma Fincorp said an open offer would also be undertaken by Rising Sun Holdings, Mayank Poddar and Sanjay Chamria. The company is planning to hold a shareholder meeting to the preferential allotment March 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
11-02-2021||Business||Rajya Sabha passes Major Ports Authority Bill, 2020||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed the Major Ports Authority Bill, 2020, amidst strong opposition. The bill seeks to provide greater autonomy to 12 major ports in the country and make their governance more professional by setting up boards. The bill was passed through ballot votes with 84 in favour and 44 against it in the Rajya Sabha. The Lok Sabha had on September 23, 2020, passed the bill. Allaying the fears of members, the minister of ports, shipping and waterways, Mansukh Mandaviya, said the passage of the bill was not intended towards privatising the major ports but was rather aimed at boosting their decision-making powers to compete with their private peers. Various opposition parties, including the Congress, TMC, RJD, DMK, AAP, CPI(M) and CPI, raised objections to the bill in the Upper House of Parliament and alleged that it was aimed at privatising the ports and diluting the powers of the states on land use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
11-02-2021||Business||Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) valuation exercise to begin shortly||The much anticipated initial public offering (IPO) of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), which is expected in the third quarter of the next financial year, is making headway with the valuation exercise set to begin shortly. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced an IPO of the country’s largest life insurer in last year’s budget. However,  the Covid-19 pandemic adversely hit these plans. “In 2021-22, we would also bring the IPO of LIC for which I am bringing the requisite amendments in this session itself,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said while announcing the Union Budget for 2021-22. The budget has estimated that the government will rake in Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sales in PSUs. On Tuesday, LIC managing director Mukesh Gupta reportedly said the valuation exercise by the selected actuary will commence soon. This is a key step before the IPO. Last year, the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) had said  LIC needs to develop an Indian embedded value reporting framework for necessary disclosures for the IPO. It had then issued a request for proposal to seek bids from actuarial firms. Embedded value is a valuation measure used to estimate the consolidated value of shareholders’ interest in an insurance company. While there has been a lot of speculation, conservative estimates say the government could raise upto Rs 1 lakh crore from the offering. The latest development comes amid a huge 45 per cent drop in the insurer’s individual annual premium equivalent (APE) in January, which capped the industry growth at 8 per cent for the month. APE is a measure of new business of a life insurance company. It is computed as the sum of annualised first year premiums on regular premium policies, and 10 per cent of single premium policies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
11-02-2021||Business||Cairn CEO Simon Thomson plans to meet Nirmala Sitharaman||Cairn Energy Plc CEO Simon Thomson plans to meet finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman next week to press the Modi government to honour a $1.4-billion arbitration payout to the Scottish company. Finance ministry officials said Sitharman had not given Thomson any appointment time yet. “Cairn Energy CEO Simon Thomson is looking forward to meeting the Government of India finance minister in Delhi next week,” the company tweeted with a video of the chief executive urging a swift payout of the tax verdict. “The arbitration is now finalised and the award has been given and we would request along with the others, that the Indian government moves swiftly to adhere to the award that has been given,” Thomson said in the video address. He said the payout would send out an  important message to Cairn’s shareholders, “who are global financial institutions and who want to see a positive investment climate in India”. “I’m sure that in working together with the government, we can swiftly draw this to a conclusion, and reassure those investors as to the positive investment climate that India offers,” said Thomson in the video. Edinburgh-based Cairn had written to the Centre last month  saying it would be forced to seize the Indian government’s assets if New Delhi failed to pay it $1.4 billion after losing a bitter dispute over retrospective taxes. An international tribunal had in December unanimously ruled that India violated its obligations under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty in 2014, when the income tax department slapped a Rs 10,247-crore assessment using legislation that gave it powers to levy taxes retrospectively. The revenue authorities had charged Cairn for not paying tax on alleged capital gains made by the company from a reorganisation of its Indian businesses prior to its listing in 2006-07. The government then proceeded to seize Cairn’s residual 10 per cent stake in Cairn India. In a ruling that Cairn had previously described as “final and binding”, a Dutch tribunal ordered the Indian government to pay $1.2 billion in damages plus interest and costs to compensate Cairn for the shares long sold off by the tax department as well as for confiscating dividends and withholding tax refunds. This totals $1.4 billion. The Cairn CEO is seeking the meeting with the finance minister to understand the Indian government’s response to the arbitration award. Its shareholders have been egging the management to take action to get the money back. The 582-page verdict was handed down a month and a half ago. Even though it was directed to make the payment immediately, the government has given no indication of whether it will honour the award. Earlier this week, minister of state for finance Anurag Singh Thakur had told the Lok Sabha that the Cairn arbitration award was “under consideration” of the government. The government has appealed against a similar awared handed out to Vodafone in a Rs 22,000-crore retrospective tax demand case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
11-02-2021||Business||No excise duty relief plan from Centre to curb fuel prices||The Centre has refused to offer any relief to the public from soaring petrol and diesel prices in the form of an excise duty relief. Analysts said any excise duy cut would reduce the share of states in absolute terms from the central pool of taxes, especially after the budget manoeuvred a cut in the excise duty on petrol and diesel while imposing an agriculture infrastructure cess on them that left unscathed the final price but skewed the share of the fuel levy towards the Centre. “There is no such proposal at present,” oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said in the Rajya Sabha when asked if the government was looking at cutting taxes to cool off prices. Petrol and diesel prices on Wednesday scaled new highs in the country as rates were hiked for the second day in a row. Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 25 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. International benchmark rates had plunged to decade lows in April. The government had hiked the excise duty on petrol by a record Rs 13 per litre and diesel Rs 16 a litre to mop up the gains arising from the fall in rates but did not cut taxes when the prices bounced back. Retail petrol price have risen Rs 18.01 per litre since mid-March 2020 and diesel rates have gone up Rs 15.44. “In the last 300 days, there have been around 60 days of increase in price (and) in around 7 days in petrol and 21 days in diesel we have decreased the price. And for almost 250 days we have not increased or decreased prices... So, it’s a misnomer to campaign in that way that it is all-time high,” he told the Rajya Sabha. “When the international price of crude oil is higher, we have to increase the prices and when the international price is lower, we have to decrease the prices here too. This is a market mechanism which is followed by oil marketing companies. We have given the freedom to them," he said during Question Hour. The current rally in fuel prices is because crude oil prices have touched $61 per barrel mark for the first time in more than a year. NFL selloff The government will sell 20 per cent of its stake in National Fertilizers Ltd (NFL) through an offer for sale and has invited bids from merchant bankers for managing the share sale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
11-02-2021||India|| Twitter row: Govt draft rules to regulate social media platforms include Code of Ethics||Amid a row with microblogging site Twitter, which has refused to block accounts of several personalities and organisations backing the farm protests, the Centre has come up with draft rules to regulate news-related websites, social media sites and OTT platforms, NDTV reported. According to reports, the guidelines comprise a self-regulatory framework that has a particular code of ethics and compliance reports. A “chief compliance officer”, who will work on a 24x7 basis, will be appointed to address complaints from law enforcement agencies. The officer will also submit reports on compliance regularly, while a grievance redressal mechanism portal and an oversight mechanism will also come into play, as per NDTV sources. The government will develop this oversight mechanism, meant to “coordinate adherence to Code of Ethics by publishers and self-regulating bodies”. The report also states that in case of an emergency, a Secretary-rank officer will have power to take actions. Although there is no mention of a punishment in the draft, it states that sites will have to remove any content flagged by a court or such agencies within 36 hours of receiving a notice. The new rules come into view a day after Union technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad issued a warning to social media sites about abiding by the laws. “You will have to follow the Constitution of India, you will have to abide by the laws of India,” he said, taking names of Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn and WhatsApp. “You have millions of followers in India, you are free to do business and make money, but you will have to follow the Indian constitution,” he added. Twitter on Wednesday cited Indian law to resist the Narendra Modi government’s directive to act against news media entities, journalists, activists and politicians over posts related to the farm protests. Twitter made the announcements in the morning in a blog, hours before its senior management was scheduled to meet ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) officials. The ministry took umbrage to the Twitter blog post ahead of the meeting, stating that such action was unusual. “A deep sense of disappointment at seeing Twitter side not with ‘freedom of expression’ but rather with those who seek to abuse such freedom and provoke disturbance to public order, was conveyed to the Twitter representative,” the ministry said in a late-night release. Twitter’s argument — as articulated in the blog — for not acting against the handles of news media entities, activists and politicians is that such actions are not consistent with Indian law. “Because we do not believe that the actions we have been directed to take are consistent with Indian law, and, in keeping with our principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression, we have not taken any action on accounts that consist of news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians. To do so, we believe, would violate their fundamental right to free expression under Indian law,” the blog said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
11-02-2021||India||BJP won't rest before forming govt in Bengal with two-thirds majority: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said that the BJP will not rest before forming the government in West Bengal with a two-thirds majority. He said that the "war" is not just to remove Mamata Banerjee from power in West Bengal but to turn the state into 'Sonar Bangla' (Golden Bengal). "We will not rest before forming the government in West Bengal with a two-thirds majority," he said while addressing the "social media warriors" of the BJP here. Shah said that it will be ensured that every voter can freely exercise his/her franchise during the upcoming state assembly elections due in April-May. Shah, known to be the master strategist of the saffron party, said that winning the West Bengal polls will pave the way for electoral successes in Odisha, Telangana and other states of the country where the BJP is not in power. He set a target for the BJP's social media team to reach out to two crore of the 10 crore population of West Bengal by propagating the party's messages and the Centre's achievements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
11-02-2021||India||Rahul uses Congress’ family planning motto to slam Centre over farmers’ issue||Stepping up the attack against the government over the three farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that these legislations would damage country's food security system as also "break the spine of farmers" and that the country is being run by only four people with a 'Hum do, Hamare do' approach. Gandhi, who was participating in the debate on Union budget in Lok Sabha, kept speaking on the three contentious agri laws, triggering protests from BJP members with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi urging Speaker Om Birla to direct Rahul to speak on the budget. When the Speaker told Rahul to speak on the budget, he said he would talk only on the farmers' issue. Rahul said the Prime Minister, in his reply to the discussions on motion of thanks to the President's address, had mentioned that the opposition is talking about the farmers agitation but was not speaking about the content and intent of the laws. "So I thought let us make the Prime Minister happy and talk of the content and intent of these laws," he said, and alleged that "the intent of these three laws is to allow industrialists to buy unlimited quantities of foodgrains and hoard them as much as they want." Claiming that these measures will end the 'mandis' and will end the Essential Commodities Act, he said, "the new farm laws will destroy India's food security system and will hurt rural economy. The farmers are not going anywhere but will overthrow the government." Invoking the family planning slogan --Hum do Hamare do--, Gandhi attacked the government and said just four people are running the country. "Now four people are running the country...and everyone knows who they are," he said. The Prime Minister had said that these laws have given options to farmers -- "Yes, options are --hunger, unemployment and suicide", Gandhi alleged. The former Congress chief also said the agitation is not of the farmers alone but a movement of the country and the government will have to repeal the laws. Asserting that the farmers were only showing the way, he warned the Modi government that the ongoing farmers' protests against three agriculture laws will "dethrone" it from power. In a dramatic move, Gandhi also led his party members and those from the TMC and the DMK to observe a two-minute silence by standing to mourn the death of farmers during the ongoing agitation. Claiming that "200 farmers" have died during protests, he said he was doing this as the government has not paid tributes to them. The Congress leader also accused the government of "destroying” the MSME sector and said no new jobs are being created in the country because small industries are dying. "Agriculture is a sector of Rs 40 lakh crore. The intent of the laws are to give the monopoly of storing produce to a few persons, and prevent farmers from getting a good price. The idea is to break the spine of the farmers," he claimed. As Rahul was speaking, heated exchanges took place between the ruling party members, including ministers and the Opposition, with Joshi citing rules on specific debate and Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury asserting that as per rules, discussion of a general point is allowed and agriculture is related to the budget. Rahul also said first demonetisation hurt the country, then the GST and then the forced migration of labourers during the lockdown. "We had asked for a separate discussion on farmers. That was denied. In protest I am going to speak only on farmers and not on the budget. These people did not pay homage to dead farmers. I will observe silence for them, please join me," he said before standing and observing silence for two minutes. Reacting to Gandhi's action, the Speaker said that running the House was his responsibility and for leading the House on paying homage to those who have lost their lives in any tragedy. "You all are senior members and this is inappropriate behaviour. You can give me this in writing and let me undertake the responsibility I have been given," Birla said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||CBSE issues new guidelines for conducting class 9, 11 exams||The Central Board of Secondary Education has directed schools under it to take steps to identify and resolve learning gaps, and then conduct examinations for Classes 9 and 11 by following COVID-19 safety protocols. The board has also recommended that the new academic session begin from April 1. "For Classes 9 and 11, schools should take steps to identify and remedy the learning gaps and thereafter, conduct examinations by strictly following COVID-19 safety protocols as per the Examination Bye-Laws," the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Controller of Examination Sanyam Bhardwaj said in a letter to school principals. "This exam will also help in identifying learning gaps which could be addressed by schools in the new academic session, at the beginning of classes, by having a bridge course specially designed to address learning gaps," he said. Schools were shut in March last year as a precautionary measure following the outbreak of the coronavirus. During the subsequent nationwide lockdown, students moved to online classes. But as restrictions were gradually eased from June last year, schools reopened partially in a few states from October 2020 onwards. In the letter, Bhardwaj said, "While holding examinations/classes, COVID-19 safety protocols should be followed strictly. It would be appropriate to start the academic session 2021-2022 from April 1 to the extent feasible subject to the instructions of state governments." Schools are requested to follow the suggestions to make the next session more streamlined and ensure that learning gaps, if any, are addressed, he added. "Schools have opened in a majority of states and with the improvement of COVID-19 pandemic situation, it is expected that schools will be opened in other states and union territories. Schools should be fully geared up and prepared to welcome the students for face to face classes. This will help students attend schools for completing their practicals," Bhardwaj said. The CBSE had earlier this month announced the schedule for board exams for classes 10 and 12. "The board has taken the decision to reschedule the class 10 and 12 exams from May-June, because of the unprecedented situation arising due to COVID-19 Pandemic. As a result, a number of schools have been seeking advice from CBSE regarding examinations for classes 9 and 11 and about the commencement of the new academic session, Bhardwaj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||CAA to be implemented as soon as Covid vaccination ends, announces Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday said the upcoming Assembly elections in Bengal will be a contest between Narendra Modi's "development model" and her "destruction model" of governance. In \Bengal, where the BJP has launched a political blitzkrieg against the Mamata Banerjee government, he raked up the issue of the TMC supremo's opposition to the CAA, and asserted the contentious citizenship law will be enforced once the process of Covid vaccination has ended. Shah's whirlwind tour of the state and Assam was also marked by a social outreach to the Koch Ragbongshi and Matua communities whose concerns he sought to assuage. He claimed large-scale infiltration into Coochbehar district, which shares border with Bangladesh, has caused significant changes to its demography. The polls, he said, will be a fight between the "Vikas (development) model of the Narendra Modi government and Mamata Banerjee's Vinash (destruction) model". The home minister, who flagged off the fourth of the five 'Parivartan Yatra' of the BJP in Coochbehar, said the campaign is not for changing a chief minister, MLA or minister but ending infiltration and transforming West Bengal's condition. Addressing a rally in the north Bengal town, he said the yatra is also aimed at ending corruption patronised by "Bua-Bhatija" combine. The BJP has been accusing Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek, the Lok Sabha MP from Diamond Harbour, of "institutionalising corruption". "This 'Parivartan Yatra' is not for changing a CM, MLA or a minister. It is for ending infiltration, it is for ending violence and building 'Sonar Bangla', it's for the transformation of Bengal. "You vote the BJP to power in Bengal. Leave alone illegal immigrants, not even a bird from across the border will be allowed to enter the state," Shah said. Addressing another rally in Thakurnagar, a stronghold of the Matua community, Shah said the process of granting Indian citizenship to refugees under the CAA, including to the Matua community, will begin once the process of COVID vaccination has ended. Accusing the opposition parties of misleading the minorities about the Citizenship (amendment) Act, he said, its implementation will not impact the citizenship status of Indian minorities. He said the Modi government had in 2018 promised it will bring in a new citizenship law and kept it when the BJP was voted to power again in 2019. Shah said, after the country was hit by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, its implementation had to be kept in abeyance. "Mamata didi said we made a false promise. She started opposing the CAA and saying she will never allow it. The BJP always fulfils the promises it makes. We have brought this law and refugees will get citizenship. As soon as the Covid vaccination process ends the process of granting citizenship under CAA will begin. All of you will be respected citizens of this country," he said. Matuas, originally from East Pakistan, are weaker section Hindus who migrated to India during the Partition and after the creation of Bangladesh. Many of them have been accorded Indian citizenship but a sizeable section of the population has not got it. The Matua community, with an estimated population of three million in the state, can tilt the scales in favour of a political party in at least four Lok Sabha seats and more than 30 assembly seats in Nadia, and North and South 24 Parganas districts. It once stood solidly behind the TMC but had supported the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Asked if talks were held on the contentious National Register of Citizens (NRC) exercise and the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), Roy said no such matter was discussed as the Union home ministry has already declared the Koch- Rajbongshis as "aboriginals". "We belong to this land... so how can we be outsiders? Besides, we have been declared aboriginals by the home ministry," he said. The Koch-Rajbongshis along with five other communities in Assam has long been demanding Scheduled Tribe (ST) status. "All our pending demands were discussed at the meeting, and now I can only say that good days are ahead for the Koch-Rajbongshi community," Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India|| Farmers’ protests now find place in Trevor Noah’s late night show||Stand-up comic and late night show host Trevor Noah is the latest international personality from the entertainment industry to highlight the ongoing farmers agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws. Through his popular TV programme "The Daily Show", the Emmy-winning presenter on Wednesday night explained the origins of the farmers' protest, their demands and the subsequent global support the agitation has received. On February 2, a tweet by pop star Rihanna triggered a wave of support for the protesting farmers by a number of global personalities, activists and politicians. "Why are India's farmers protesting? The government tried to change the decades-old agriculture laws and that's when the manure hit the fan," Noah tweeted, along with the video link. In the show's segment 'If you don't know, now you know', which ran over eight minutes, the 36-year-old South African comic pieced together news clippings to provide a holistic view of the protest. The video clip also mentioned the burning of effigies of Rihanna and Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg, who had voiced her support. Noah, who delivers satirical news related to the international and American political matters in an entertaining way on "The Daily Show", said the government has decided that they've had "enough" of the protest because this is "a major crackdown". "Maybe they think postponing the law will satisfy the farmers. But think about it. In 18 months, people will be in the same position that they are in now. And the protests will happen all over again... "But this crackdown shows you how worried the government must be about the protest. And honestly they should be, because it's clear that these farmers are digging in for the long haul," Noah said in the video. Meena Harris, an American lawyer and niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, Hollywood veteran Susan Sarandon, actors John Cusack, Amanda Cerni, singers Jay Sean, Dr Zeus and former adult star Mia Khalifa have also lent their support to the protesting farmers. The government had criticised the tweets by Rihanna and other international celebrities, saying facts must be ascertained before people rushing to comment on the issue, calling it "neither accurate nor responsible".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||Rescue operation on pause in Uttarakhand as water level rises in Dhauliganga river||The water level in the Dhauliganga river surged again on Thursday, forcing rescue workers to suspend efforts to reach the over 30 people trapped in the Tapovan hydel project tunnel after the flash flood four days ago. Officials called it a temporary halt to the massive effort by multi-agency rescuers to break through the sludge and debris that choked the tunnel after Sunday's disaster, which left 34 dead and about 170 missing. Hours before the sudden rise in the water, rescuers had also begun an operation to drill through the debris from the mouth of the river to reach life-saving devices to the trapped workers, an apparent change in strategy after trying to shift mounds of debris. But as the water level rose in the river which flows into the Alaknanda, rescue workers scrambled out of the tunnel with their heavy machinery. Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria said the work has been temporarily halted as a precautionary measure. Amid mounting concern over the lives of those inside, the focal point of the rescue operation remains the 1.5-km "head-race tunnel" -- a part of the 2.5-km long network of tunnels. "A drilling operation was started by the rescue teams at 2 am to peep into the slush-flushing tunnel that is about 12-13 metres below," Vivek Kumar Pandey, the spokesperson for the lead rescue agency, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), said in Delhi. As the continuous flow of slush and silt remains a major obstacle between the rescuers and those trapped inside, a boring operation by a huge machine is being undertaken to see if this problem can be addressed in a different way and the teams can go further deep inside, he added. Drilling through the debris started from around 68 metres inside the tunnel, Garhwal Commissioner Ravinath Raman, who is supervising the massive rescue effort at the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) project site, told PTI. The focus at the moment is to take life-saving devices such as oxygen cylinders to those trapped by drilling, Raman said. The drilling is to be done for 12 metres to access the probable location of those trapped, he added. Till Wednesday, about 120 metres of slush from the mouth of the tunnel was cleared and those trapped inside were stated to be located somewhere at 180 metres, where the tunnel takes a slip or a turn. "More slush and water coming from inside the tunnel is making the way ahead difficult," Pandey had said on Wednesday. ITBP chief S S Deswal had told PTI on Wednesday that his men and those from other agencies will continue with the rescue operation till "any length of time" or till a logical conclusion is arrived at and the trapped workers are located. He had expressed hope that those trapped inside might be safe with the help of possible air vents in the structure. An officer said no doubt that those trapped inside must be in a bad situation without food and water. "But there is hope against hope that they are surviving somehow as the temperature inside the tunnel is about 20-25 degrees Celsius and some oxygen is possibly available to them," the officer said. Workers at the 480-MW Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel power project of the NTPC got trapped after a surge of water in the Alaknanda river system on Sunday, possibly triggered by an avalanche or glacier break. Apart from the over 450 personnel from the ITBP, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and the Army, the family members of those possibly trapped inside have stayed put outside the tunnel in anticipation of some news.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||BJP not a believer of political untouchability, asserts Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted on Thursday that the BJP does not believe in political untouchability and values consensus in running the country, as he noted that his government has bestowed state honours on even the ruling party's political rivals to acknowledge their service to the nation. Addressing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs at an event here to mark the 53rd death anniversary of Deendayal Upadhyay, a party ideologue who had founded its progenitor Jana Sangh, Modi said the saffron party always puts "rashtraneeti" above "rajneeti" and gives respect to even its political rivals. In this context, he said the current government has honoured former president and Congress stalwart Pranab Mukherjee with Bharat Ratna and noted that Padma awards were given to former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi and former Nagaland chief minister S C Jamir, both from the grand old party. Modi noted that he had said in Parliament that a government may run with majority but the nation runs with consensus. He also cited his government's tributes to national icons like Subhas Chandra Bose, B R Ambedkar and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, and observed that any other dispensation would not have done it. Upadhyay's ideals of "antyodya" (empowering the most downtrodden) and integral humanism are the inspiration behind the government's welfare works and the "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" (self-reliant India) programme to boost the economy, the prime minister said, adding that India has followed the principle of "nation first" in its external policy as well, without being influenced by any pressure. He urged the BJP units across the country to undertake 75 works for social welfare as the country approaches its 75th year of independence. Modi also suggested to the party MPs and other leaders to make a list of products they use in their daily lives and see if they can get rid of foreign stuff and instead, use their Indian alternatives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||Trudeau-Modi talk protest, democracy and dialogue ||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has said that he held a "good discussion" with his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi on many important issues, including on the two nations' commitment to democratic principles, recent protests, and the importance of resolving issues through dialogue. Trudeau made a telephone call to Prime Minister Modi on Wednesday. "I had a good discussion with Prime Minister @NarendraModi on many important issues, and we've agreed to stay in touch," Trudeau tweeted. "The leaders discussed Canada and India's commitment to democratic principles, recent protests, and the importance of resolving issues through dialogue," the Canadian Prime Minister's office said in a statement, in an apparent reference to the ongoing agitation by farmers in India. Trudeau in December said that Canada will always be there to defend the rights of peaceful protests, and had expressed concern over the situation, evoking a strong reaction from India. India later summoned Canadian High Commissioner Nadir Patel and told him that the comments made by Prime Minister Trudeau and others in his Cabinet on the farmers' protest constituted an "unacceptable interference" in the country''s internal affairs and these actions, if continued, will have a "seriously damaging" impact on the bilateral ties. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has also emphasised that the new farm laws have been passed by India's Parliament after a full debate and discussion and urged foreign individuals and entities to ascertain the facts before rushing to comment on the agitation by farmers. "The Parliament of India, after a full debate and discussion, passed reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector. These reforms give expanded market access and provided greater flexibility to farmers. They also pave the way for economically and ecologically sustainable farming," the ministry said in a statement last week. "We would like to emphasise that these protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the Government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse," it said. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November last year, demanding the government to repeal the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. During the phone call, Trudeau and Modi underlined the need to work collectively in rebuilding a more sustainable and resilient global economy. "The two leaders had an exchange on their respective efforts to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, protect the health and safety of their people, and provide economic support for their citizens," the statement from the Canadian prime minister's office said. The two leaders "spoke about India's significant efforts in promoting vaccine production and supply, which have provided vital support to countries around the world," it said. The two leaders agreed to work together on access to vaccines. The leaders also recognised the need for continued global coordination to respond to the pandemic and to promote recovery. "The two prime ministers reaffirmed their common interests in a free and open Indo-Pacific, and the importance of working together on global challenges such as climate change, strengthening global trade, and reinforcing the rules-based international order," the statement said. They underlined the need to work collectively in rebuilding a more sustainable and resilient global economy, it said. The leaders underscored the importance of the Canada-India strategic partnership anchored in shared values, strong people-to-people ties, and growing bilateral economic cooperation, it said. "The two leaders looked forward to working together at the G7, G20, and other international forums," it added. In New Delhi, the MEA in a statement said that Prime Minister Trudeau informed Prime Minister Modi about Canada's requirements of COVID-19 vaccines from India. Prime Minister assured Trudeau that India would do its best to support Canada's vaccination efforts, just as it had done for many other countries already. Expressing his appreciation, Prime Minister Trudeau said that if the world managed to conquer COVID-19, it would be significant because of India's tremendous pharmaceutical capacity, and Prime Minister Modi's leadership in sharing this capacity with the world. Modi thanked Trudeau for his sentiments, the MEA statement said. The two leaders also reiterated the common perspective shared by India and Canada on many important geopolitical issues. They agreed to continue the close collaboration between both countries in fighting global challenges like climate change and the economic impacts of the pandemic, it said. The leaders looked forward to meeting each other in various important international fora later this year, and continuing their discussions on all issues of mutual interest, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||Akhil Gogoi denied bail by SC in CAA protests case||The Supreme Court denied bail on Thursday to activist Akhil Gogoi, who is lodged in a Guwahati jail for his alleged role in the violent anti-CAA protests in Assam. A bench of justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose dismissed Gogoi's bail plea, saying, "We will not consider the petition at this stage." The bench, however, told advocate Runamoni Bhuyan that the petitioner may approach the top court for bail once the trial starts. Gogoi has challenged a January 7 order of the Gauhati High Court, which rejected his bail plea in a case related to his alleged role in the violent protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) lodged by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Krishak Mukti Sangram Parishad (KMSS) and Raijor Dal leader Gogoi is lodged in the Guwahati central jail since his arrest in December 2019. He was arrested on December 12, 2019 as a preventive measure, while protests against the CAA in the northeastern state raged on and resulted in violence at several places. Gogoi's case was subsequently handed over to the NIA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||Disengagement pact in eastern Ladakh reached, informs Rajnath ||India and China have reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South bank of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh that mandates both sides to cease forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced in Parliament on Thursday, in a breakthrough after a nine-month border standoff. Sharing details of the pact to defuse the tense military face-off in eastern Ladakh that severely strained ties between the two Asian giants, Singh also assured the Rajya Sabha that India has not conceded anything in the sustained talks with China. India will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken by anyone, he said. The defence minister said implementation of the pact will "substantially restore" the situation to the one which existed prior to the standoff that erupted on May 5 last, adding the two sides have agreed they should achieve complete disengagement at the "earliest" and abide fully by the bilateral agreements and protocols. Making a statement in the Upper House a day after China announced the disengagement process, Singh said both sides have agreed to remove structures that had been built since April last in North and South bank areas, and put in place a temporary moratorium on military activities including patrolling the traditional areas. The defence minister said under the agreement the Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) will keep its troops in the North bank area to east of Finger 8 and the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the Pangong lake areas, a major site of friction between the two large armies. He said the implementation of the pact started on Wednesday and it was agreed to convene the next meeting of senior commanders of both sides within 48 hours of completion of the disengagement in the Pangong lake area so as to resolve all other remaining issues. "I am happy to inform the House today that as a result of our well thought out approach and sustained talks with the Chinese side, we have now been able to reach an agreement on disengagement in the North and South bank of the Pangong lake," the defence minister said. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as the two sides continued military and diplomatic talks. "The agreement that we have been able to reach with the Chinese side for disengagement in the Pangong lake area envisages that both sides will cease their forward deployments in a phased, coordinated and verified manner." "The Chinese side will keep its troop presence in the North bank area to east of Finger 8. Reciprocally, the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa post near Finger 3. A similar action would be taken in the South bank area by both sides," he said. The defence minister said patrolling will be resumed in the areas only when both sides reach an agreement in diplomatic and military talks that would be held subsequently. He said these are mutual and reciprocal steps and any structures that had been built by both sides since April 2020 in both North and South bank areas will be removed and the landforms will be restored. "I want to assure this House that in these talks we have not conceded anything. The House should also know that there are still some outstanding issues with regard to deployment and patrolling at some other points along the Line of Actual Control(LAC) in eastern Ladakh," he said. "These will be the focus of further discussions with the Chinese side. We have agreed that both sides should achieve complete disengagement at the earliest and abide fully by the bilateral agreements and protocols." Noting that the Chinese side is fully aware of India's resolve by now, he said it is India's expectation that the neighbouring country will work with the Indian side in full sincerity to resolve these remaining issues. "I would like this House to join me in paying gratitude to our armed forces who have shown grit and resolve under these extremely harsh climatic conditions of Ladakh which has resulted in the present agreement," he said. "Our Nation will always remember the sacrifices made by our brave soldiers which has been the foundation of this disengagement at Pangong Tso lake." The defence minister exuded confidence that the entire House, irrespective of political affiliations, is united together for upholding the country's "sovereignty, unity, territorial integrity and national security". "And further, this House is one in sending out the same message demonstrating the strength and unity of our Nation to the entire world," he said. In the nine rounds of military talks, India had specifically insisted on withdrawal of Chinese troops from Finger 4 to Finger 8 on the North bank of Pangong Lake. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. On its part, the Chinese side was insisting on withdrawal of Indian troops from several strategic peaks on the southern bank of the lake. Around five months back, Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rechin La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank after the Chinese PLA attempted to intimidate them in the area. China on Wednesday said the Chinese and Indian frontline troops at the southern and northern bank of the Pangong Tso started "synchronised and organised disengagement" from February 10 in accordance with the consensus reached by both sides at the ninth round of China-India Corps Commander- Level meeting. The ninth round was held on January 24 and it lasted for around 16 hours. Both sides had rushed a large number of battle tanks, armoured vehicles and heavy equipment to the treacherous and high-altitude areas of eastern Ladakh region after tension escalated following a deadly clash in the Galwan Valley in June last. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the fierce hand-to-hand combat on June 15 in Galwan Valley, an incident that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades. China is yet to disclose the number of its soldiers killed and injured in the clash though it officially admitted to have suffered casualties. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||Drilling operation launched at Tapovan tunnel to rescue trapped workers||Rescuers launched a drilling operation on Thursday at the Tapovan tunnel, where an estimated 30-35 people have been trapped since a flash flood battered various villages and hydro-power projects in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, claiming 34 lives, while about 170 people are still missing. The focal point of the multi-agency rescue operation for the last over four days remains the more-than-1.5-km-long "head-race tunnel" of the total 2.5 km of the tubular structure, as every passing minute is mounting concerns over the safety of those trapped inside. "A drilling operation has been started by the rescue teams at 2 am to peep into the slush-flushing tunnel that is about 12-13 metres below," Vivek Kumar Pandey, the spokesperson for the lead rescue agency, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), said in Delhi. As the continuous flow of slush and silt remains a major obstacle between the rescuers and those trapped inside the tunnel, a boring operation by a huge machine is being undertaken to see if this problem can be addressed in a different way and the teams can go further deep inside, he said. Till Wednesday, about 120 metres of slush from the mouth of the tunnel was cleared and those trapped inside were stated to be located somewhere at the depth of 180 metres, where the tunnel takes a slip or a turn. "More slush and water coming from inside the tunnel is making the way ahead difficult," Pandey had said on Wednesday. ITBP chief S S Deswal had told PTI on Wednesday that his men and those from other agencies will continue with the rescue operation till "any length of time" or till a logical conclusion is arrived at and the trapped workers are located. "My boys are determined to locate those trapped...," the ITBP director-general had said in Delhi. He had expressed hope that those trapped inside might be safe with the help of possible air vents in the structure. "No doubt that those trapped or missing inside the tunnel must be in a bad situation as they have had no food and water for almost five days now. "But there is hope against hope that they are surviving somehow as the temperature inside the tunnel is about 20-25 degrees Celsius and some oxygen is possibly available to them," an officer working on the ground said. Workers at the 480-MW Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel power project of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) got trapped soon after the swollen Alaknanda river came hurtling down and washed away everything with its furious speed on Sunday. Apart from the over 450 personnel from the ITBP, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and the Army, the family members of those trapped inside have stayed put outside the tunnel in anticipation of good news.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||India logs more than 12,000 fresh Covid cases, 108 casualties in a day||India's COVID-19 tally has climbed to 1,08,71,294 with 12,923 fresh cases reported in a day, while the number of recoveries has surged to 1,05,73,372, the health ministry said on Thursday. The death toll in the country due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,55,360 with 108 more people succumbing to it, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,05,73,372, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.26 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The country currently has 1,42,562 active COVID-19 cases, which account for only 1.31 per cent of its total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 20,40,23,840 samples have so far been tested in the country for COVID-19, including 6,99,185 on Wednesday. The 108 fresh fatalities include 30 from Maharashtra, 18 from Kerala and 14 from Punjab. Of the total 1,55,360 deaths caused by the viral disease, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 51,390, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,396), Karnataka (12,244), Delhi (10,884), West Bengal (10,220), Uttar Pradesh (8,696) and Andhra Pradesh (7,161). The ministry stressed that over 70 per cent of the COVID-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||Farmers protest: Congress steps in with rallies ||The Congress leadership feels the time has come for direct political intervention to sustain the farmers’ struggle by mobilising public support across the country in the face of the government’s refusal to concede the demand for the repeal of the three controversial agriculture laws. The Congress, which has argued for long that the government was working on a strategy to tire out the protesting farmers and break the unity among the unions through coercion and defamation, has already launched parallel protest rallies in a bid to extend the scope of the movement in regions outside Delhi. They believe the protest can be sustained only by turning it into a people’s movement. The kisan mahapanchayats being held across western Uttar Pradesh has shown the way for the broadening of the struggle. While two major farmers’ rallies addressed by Congress leader Sachin Pilot were organised in Rajasthan over the past few days, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra held a rally in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur to start the “Jai Jawan-Jai Kisan” campaign that will continue through February. Priyanka will address rallies in Meerut and Bijnour on February 15. She is expected to visit Mathura and Muzaffarnagar on February 20. While Wednesday’s rally in Saharanpur was impressive, Priyanka is scheduled to visit Allahabad on Thursday and take a dip at the Sangam, a mega event expected to motivate party workers for the month-long struggle. All senior leaders of Uttar Pradesh have been asked to participate in the farmers’ rallies across the state. While there will be meetings in every block of Uttar Pradesh, a 14km-long padyatra has been planned in every district on February 25. Priyanka appealed to farmers to join the protest and said the peasants shouldn’t take even one step backwards till the three laws were repealed. “The time has come to wake up... don’t go back. You have started a movement, it is a movement for your existence, a movement for your land. Don’t go back even one step. We stand with you, we will fight for you. We will not go back before these laws are scrapped,” she said at Chilkhana in Saharanpur. “You have seen them (the central government), you have seen everything and so be wise now, understand the truth. Whenever they make a promise, you can be sure that it will be empty,” the Congress general secretary added. “They have done everything for their big, rich friends, opened all the doors for them. But where were those millionaire friends when there was a lockdown, when the epidemic hit us? Where were they and where was this government when people were walking on these highways towards their villages? What did you (the government) do, how did you help them? Those people (the government and its rich friends) don’t care for you,” Priyanka said. She said the Congress would repeal the laws if it came to power. “You will get better minimum support price; laws would be made for you and not to put you on sale,” Priyanka said. “I appeal to each and every farmer of any caste or religion to join the protest.” The Congress units in states such as Maharashtra and Gujarat are also planning to start farmers’ conferences soon. Rahul Gandhi, who will proceed to Rajasthan after taking on the government over the budget in the Lok Sabha on Thursday, will address farmers’ rallies at Sri Ganganagar and Ajmer on February 12 and 13. His visits to Assam and Bengal will start next week. On Wednesday the Congress leader attacked the Prime Minister’s “andolanjeevi” jibe at farmers by tweeting: “The one who is selling the country is crony-jeevi.” Reacting to the Prime Minister’s reply to the debate on the motion of thanks to the President’s address in the Lok Sabha, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said in a series of tweets: “Modiji, your commitment to farmer welfare is deceptive. You claim to be with farmers but actually you are with capitalists. Your policies establish this. You champion of divisive politics, you, not the Congress, are confused. You are the biggest example of autocratic rule in the garb of democracy.” Surjewala added: “You care for neither arguments and appeals, nor for human sensitivities. The most shameful example is your silence on the deaths of 220 protesting farmers. You champion of sermons, the entire country knows the difference between your words and deeds. You will realise if you introspect but your ideology doesn’t allow that. If you come out of self-delusion, you will repent over your failures in the last six years. But the problem is that you cannot see beyond I, me, my, myself. It is unfortunate that you pretend to be the mascot of democracy after crushing democracy everyday.” Additional reporting by Piyush Srivastava in Lucknow||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||Ladakh troops disengagement claim||The Chinese and Indian troops at the south and north banks of the Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh have started disengagement simultaneously, the Chinese defence ministry claimed in a statement on Wednesday. People’s Liberation Army (PLA) senior colonel Wu Qian, the spokesman for the ministry of defence, said in Beijing: “The Chinese and Indian front line troops at the southern and northern banks of the Pangong Tso Lake start synchronised and organised disengagement from February 10…. This move is in accordance with the consensus reached by both sides at the 9th round of China-India corps commander-level meeting.” India’s defence ministry and the Indian Army maintained radio silence and are yet to issue any statement on the Chinese defence ministry’s claim. Sources said China had been insisting that India vacate strategic heights on the south bank of the Pangong Lake on the LAC. Indian troops had last September occupied key heights on the southern bank of the lake after the PLA attempted to alter the status “unilaterally”. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points in Ladakh — the Depsang Plains, the northern bank of the Pangong Lake and Hot Springs — since May last year. The PLA has altered the unmarked LAC at these friction points and is estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Military veterans had earlier termed the Chinese offer of disengagement from the south bank of the Pangong Lake as a “trap”, saying India should press for disengagement from all friction points along the LAC. “Why should disengagement be restricted to one or two places when there is a massive build-up all across the LAC? The ground assessment has revealed that the PLA troops are attempting the change the status quo in eastern Ladakh at several fronts,” a veteran had said. The disengagement process at the Galwan Valley on June 15 agreed upon between the two sides had gone awry when 20 Indian soldiers were killed and at least 76 injured during a violent clash with the Chinese troops inside the Indian side of the LAC. An unspecified number of PLA troops were also killed. In the wake of the PLA’s massive deployment along the LAC in Ladakh, the Indian Army has put in place mirror deployment and has established habitat facilities for its 50,000 additional troops deployed there, backed by battle tanks, missile systems and frequent sorties by the Indian Air Force’s combat aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||Karnataka farmers gearing to hold rallies featuring Rakesh Tikait||Karnataka’s farmers are gearing to hold rallies featuring Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait to try and galvanise the farming community across southern India, having already held a series of protests in solidarity with their peers agitating in Delhi. While their main demand is the repeal of the three new farm laws, they also want the state’s BJP government to withdraw the new cattle slaughter law that is forcing farmers to spend huge sums on the upkeep of unproductive cattle, farmer leader Badagalpura Nagendra said. “We are getting Tikait to participate in a huge rally in Bangalore and a similar event in north Karnataka,” Nagendra, president of the state farmers’ association and Hasiru Sene (Green Army), told The Telegraph on Wednesday. “We want to bring farmers from all the southern states together to strengthen our movement against the new farm laws and other issues our community is facing.” The dates will be decided at Tikait’s convenience, Nagendra said. “We are looking towards dates at the end of the month since that would give us enough time to organise the events.” Asked to explain the choice of Tikait, Nagendra said: “Tikait is a national leader who commands respect from most of the farmers’ organisations. Since his presence has helped the agitation up north, we expect him to be a magnet for similar mobilisation in the south.” Nagendra said Dalit, student and workers’ organisations would join the upcoming protests to show “we are not alone in this fight”. On the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020, which imposes a blanket ban on cattle slaughter and prescribes up to seven years’ jail for violations, Nagendra said it had hit the farmers badly. “It prevents us selling unproductive cows or calves and forces us to spend huge sums on their upkeep,” he said. “We will also be demanding (the Centre provide) a relief package of Rs 2 lakh crore for Karnataka, which has over the past 21 years witnessed 13 years of drought and 2 years of floods that have left farmers reeling.” As a prelude to the main events, the farmers will organise a march to the Assembly during the budget session, expected to begin in 10 days, Nagendra said. “That will be preceded by protests in the 150 taluks of Karnataka to mobilise farmers,” he said. Close to 50 farmers’ organisations in Karnataka had recently united under the Samyukta Horata (United Struggle) to air their concerns and express support for the farmers protesting in Delhi. The Horata effectively shut down the state’s highways on February 6 during the nationwide “chakka jam”. “We will continue to fight under the Samyukta Horata until the Centre and the state government heed our demands and end this climate of hostility towards farmers in the country,” Nagendra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||ED's marathon raid on NewsClick and a telling cup story||The Enforcement Directorate’s raid on the office of the NewsClick portal ended a little after 10.30pm on Wednesday, almost 37 hours after it began. However, searches continued at the home of Prabir Purkayastha, the editor-in-chief of the portal that has investigated big business and extensively covered the farmers’ protests. Purkayastha has been called to the ED office on Friday. Also held in Purkayastha’s house is Commonwealth Writers’ Prize winner Githa Hariharan, who also owns shares in PPK NewsClick Studio Pvt Ltd that owns the website. Hariharan runs the Indian Cultural Forum on the NewsClick premises. Editor Pranjal Pandey and HR head Amit Chakraborty have been allowed freedom of movement. Sources said ED officials have taken the phones and laptops of Pandey and Chakraborty as well as other electronic devices, including two hard drives, from their office and homes. The agency is yet to publicly reveal the reason for the raids. The ED had begun the raids as early as 8.15am on Tuesday at technology columnist Bappaditya Sinha Sinha’s home in Chittaranjan Park. Sinha was released at 1.30am on Wednesday. In 2012, Patna High Court had held that continuous search and questioning by the income tax department for 36 hours amounted to torture and was a violation of human rights. The ED works under the finance ministry and, like the income tax department, draws officers from the Indian Revenue Service. Columnist Aunindyo Chakravarty, a consultant with NewsClick tweeted: “I have been making videos for @newsclickin for more than a year now. Used to visit its office every week till Covid came. It is so small that as a visitor, I felt I should wash the cup that I was given tea in. Obviously, such an organisation must be of great interest to the ED. “I mean this quite literally. I saw everyone washing their cups and putting it back on the rack in a small kitchen. I too followed suit. It is cash-strapped and can’t afford to subscribe to video services. Yet, everything they produce is under creative commons for everyone to use.” Sources said those questioned were given questionnaires by the ED. At least one person faced tangential queries and remarks on their proximity to the CPM and the movement against the new farm regime, the sources added. Several of those investigated, including Purkayastha who was jailed during the Emergency, are associated with the CPM. The raids drew widespread condemnation from journalists’ organisations, Left parties and civil society groups, including the BKU Ekta Ugrahan that leads the farmers’ movement. Their statements also drew parallels with the slew of cases filed against journalists covering the farmers’ protests. The Editors Guild of India said: “In the recent past, the website has been at the frontline of reporting on the farmers’ agitation, the anti-CAA protests, and has been critical of various government policies and of a few powerful corporate houses. EGI is concerned that raids by government agencies are not used as coercive measures to suppress free and independent journalism. The Guild demands that care be taken to not undermine the news operations of NewsClick and that its journalists and stakeholders are not harassed under the garb of such measures.” NewsClick said in a statement that the raids’ purpose appeared to be to cow down an independent voice. “In the past, the income tax department, the ED, various central investigative agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation and the National Investigation Agency have been selectively used in this manner against a range of people — from journalists to political leaders, to even farmers’ leaders…. The present raid at NewsClick appears to be on the same lines, and its purpose appears to be the same: to cow down an independent and progressive voice through a vindictive course of action. “In the meantime, NewsClick will continue to report and record voices of the unheard and unseen people of India, and the world, who are struggling to build a life of dignity and well-being,” the portal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||In farm law fight, Modi backs big business||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday extolled the corporate world in a Lok Sabha speech, took exception to the protesting farmers “abusing” the “private sector”, and again used the term “andolan jeevi” to disparage a segment of the protesters. The farmers, who fear the contentious laws would promote their corporate exploitation, have criticised not the entire private sector but “Adani and Ambani”, seen as the Prime Minister’s “crony capitalists” by critics and political opponents. Modi, however, used the sweeping expression “private sector” as he replied to the motion of thanks over the President’s address in the Lok Sabha. “To use improper words against the private sector may have got votes for a few people in the past but those times are gone,” he said. “The culture of abusing the private sector is not acceptable any longer.” Modi then appeared to be implying, without explanation, that attacking the private sector amounted to “insulting our youths”. “We cannot keep insulting our youths like this,” he said, before going on to laud the private sector. “The public sector is essential but the role of the private sector is also vital. If India is able to serve humanity it’s also due to the role of the private sector.... Wealth creators are important. If they don’t create wealth, how will it get distributed among the poor, provide jobs?” The Prime Minister argued that the running of every sector could not be left to “babus” — a somewhat condescending reference to officialdom, from petty clerk to bureaucrat. Modi accused his political rivals of tarnishing the farmers’ “pavitra (pure)” agitation and took a dig at the Congress, saying it was “divided and confused”. He said the party’s elders in the Rajya Sabha had listened intently to his speech on Monday (when too he had defended the new farm laws). “This (Lok Sabha members) seems to be a separate wing of the Congress party,” he said. Congress and Trinamul members protested uproariously for some time during Modi’s speech before the two parties walked out of the House separately. Modi’s praise of the private sector and targeting of “andolan jeevis” came sometime after this. He spoke for more than an hour and a half and ended his speech with an appeal to the farmers to come for talks. However, the farmers have already attended 11 rounds of talks despite repeatedly saying the government’s adamant attitude was rendering discussions fruitless. The government has sent no invite to the farm union leaders for talks in February so far. Modi acknowledged that in a big and diverse country like India, any law was bound to raise objections and might not turn out to be beneficial for all. He expressed readiness to talk and make amendments but insisted the laws were good, implying once again his lack of sympathy for the farmers’ demand for the acts’ repeal. “I consider the farmers’ agitation to be holy. But when andolan jeevis hijack holy agitations and showcase the photos of Naxals, terrorists and those in jail for harming the nation, is that not harming the farmers’ cause?” Modi said. “We need to differentiate between andolankaris and andolan jeevis.” Some human rights organisations that had joined the farmers’ protests had held up images of Father Stan Swamy and other rights activists and writers arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case and accused of Maoist links. However, the trial has not begun let alone the verdict being delivered, which means none of them has been proved to be a terrorist or convicted of “harming the nation”. Modi referred to the violent protests at toll plazas and the destruction of telecom towers, mostly in Punjab, blaming it on “andolan jeevis”. He said the new farm laws were meant to help small farmers but the Congress had raised an outcry to hide the truth about them.The Prime Minister insisted that the old system of “mandis and APMCs” and the minimum support price (MSP) would continue, while the farmers would have the added option of selling their produce in the open market. The farmers have, however, been asking that if this is so, why is the government not turning the MSP into a legal guarantee as they have demanded? In answer to the farmers’ query why the laws had been thrust on them when they hadn’t sought any, Modi said: “The argument has been made, ‘Why did you provide when we didn’t ask?’ Is this a feudal system that people would beg and then the government would give?” “Nobody had demanded a law against child marriage and dowry but (such a law) was made for the nation’s progress. Nobody had asked for a law on the triple talaq but it was done for a progressive society.” Modi justified the need to involve the private sector in the agriculture business, saying the government lacked enough funds to invest in infrastructure-building in the sector. Talking to reporters later, Akali Dal member Sukhbir Singh Badal flagged how Modi had as Gujarat chief minister favoured a legally guaranteed MSP. “There is a massive difference between what Narendra Modi said as Gujarat chief minister and (what he is now saying) as Prime Minister,” Badal said. “During the term of the UPA government, Modiji had headed a meeting of chief ministers where he demanded the MSP to be made a legal guarantee. He has retracted that stance now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||Kisans to march for Pulwama  jawans||The protesting farmers have decided to free the toll plazas in Rajasthan from Friday and organise a four-hour nationwide rail roko on February 18 as part of their plans to step up the movement against the farm laws. If anything, instead of mending fences, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s repeated assertion that the farm laws are good for the peasants and calling farmers names during his speeches in Parliament are adding fuel to fire, farmer union leaders said as they met on Wednesday at the Singhu border to take stock of the situation and plan protests to keep up the momentum. Apart from giving a call to free up the toll plazas of Rajasthan from February 12, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — the banner under which the farmer protests are being undertaken — has asked cultivators across the country to take out torchlight processions on February 14 in memory of the security personnel killed in the Pulwama terror attack in 2019 and the farmers who have died during the protests. The birth anniversary of Sir Chhotu Ram, agrarian reformer who had fought for the rights of farmers, on February 16 will be used to “expose the falsehoods” being spread by the Modi government about the farm laws and minimum support price. Sir Chhotu Ram is credited with having initiated the passage of the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act in 1939, which became the basis for the market committees. The new farm laws seek to weaken the existing agricultural produce market committees by creating an alternative system with more facilitating provisions. Farmers fear that the private mandis will edge out the APMCs in due course, thereby robbing them of their assured avenue for sale of produce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||Hamid Ansari sees threat to rule of law||Former Vice-President Hamid Ansari has said “strident nationalism has taken over the political and cultural landscape and is making India intolerant, arrogant and insecure and undermining fraternity”. In an interview to Karan Thapar for The Wire news portal, Ansari said “a version of nationalism that places cultural commitments at its core and promotes intolerance and arrogant patriotism has tended to intrude into and take over the political and cultural landscape”. Referring to it as “hyper-nationalism” and “strident nationalism”, he said it was threatening dissent and making the country insecure about its place in the world. It is undermining the fraternity that has held together the many different peoples, cultures, religions and ethnicities that make up the country, according to Ansari. The interview was to mark the publication of Ansari’s autobiography By Many A Happy Accident: Recollections of a Life. Ansari, who was born in Calcutta and spent his formative years in the city, pointed out that the process leading to this hyper-nationalism began with the 2014 general election results and reached fulfilment with the 2019 outcome. Ansari said the 2019 verdict represented “the success of populism… assisted by authoritarianism, nationalism and majoritarianism”. Ansari, who had for long been associated with the Congress, said hyper-nationalism had caused “a subversion of core values”, leading to an erosion in secularism. “The term secularism itself has almost disappeared from the government’s official vocabulary”, replaced by a “politico-ideological effort… to superimpose… the primacy of a religious majority”. India was becoming a Hindu country, Ansari felt. Another consequence of this cultural hyper-nationalism was that “our commitment to the rule of law seems to be under serious threat”, Ansari felt. He said the country had lapsed into “arbitrary decision-making and even… mob rule”, with a “noticeable decline in the efficacy of the institutions of State”. According to the former Vice-President, another worrying consequence was that hyper-nationalism had made “the fault lines in our society more visible” and rendered the country more fragile. Fraternity has weakened and insecurity has grown, he observed. On the higher judiciary, Ansari said: “The approach of the superior judiciary… does little credit to an iconic institution and damages public confidence.” Asked what all this meant for India’s minorities, specifically Muslims, Ansari said it was making them insecure. He said their confidence in getting justice from the government had diminished. He said he did not believe that the Citizenship Amendment Act was necessary to give refuge to persecuted minorities. The government already has the power to do so, Ansari pointed out. Asked if cultural hyper-nationalism and its implications were reversible or whether the process had gone so far that it could not be rolled back, Ansari said a turnaround was possible but depended upon the choice the Indian electorate made.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||Diptheria low immunity alert: Study||A nationwide study has revealed that less than a third of children below 17 years in India have required immunity levels against diphtheria, a serious bacterial infection, despite a decades-old immunisation programme. The study led by researchers at the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), Chennai, has found that about 30 per cent children aged 5 to 17 years are immune to diphtheria, while 70 per cent are partially immune or non-immune to the infection. The researchers say their findings help explain the troubling persistence of cases and outbreaks of diphtheria among children in India which accounted for nearly 77 per cent of global diphtheria cases over the past two decades. “The transmission of diphtheria is likely to continue in the country until the immunity gap is bridged through adequate coverage of primary vaccination and booster doses administered as part of the national immunisation and school health programmes,” the NIE researchers have cautioned. They have published the study’s findings in the journal Lancet Infectious Diseases. The diphtheria study piggybacked on a broader nationwide dengue survey in all age groups. The researchers measured antibodies against diphtheria in 8,309 blood samples from children aged between five and 17 collected during the dengue survey. They found 10 per cent of the samples were non-immune, 60 per cent were partially immune and 30 per cent were immune to diphtheria.The majority of children sampled in both rural and urban areas were partially immune. The study revealed caste differences in immunity levels — about 11 per cent of children from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were non-immune compared with about 9 per cent of children from the general of backward classes. Under children’s immunisation programmes, global diphtheria cases dropped by over 90 per cent between 1980 and 2000, but India reported over 79,000 cases of the global count of over 103,000 between 2000 and 2017. Paediatricians have observed for years that diphtheria — an infection marked by a sore throat, fever, and swollen glands in the neck — is making a resurgence in several states across India, likely because of gaps in vaccination coverage. Although the infection is treatable with antibiotics such as erythromycin or penicillin, deaths continue to occur. India recorded 897 deaths of about 41,600 cases in the decade ending in 2014, a case fatality rate of 2.2 per cent. Kerala had witnessed a particularly large outbreak of 734 cases between 2015 and 2017 in which three-fourths of the cases were among children aged above 10 years, and 134 of those cases among adults aged between 20 and 30 years. Priya Chandran, a community medicine specialist at the Government Medical College, Kozhikode, who had investigated the outbreak had cautioned about the likely presence of unimmunised adolescents and waning immunity among immunised children. Now, the NIE study has corroborated those suspicions at a national level. “The decline in immunity observed in all regions (of the country) indicates inadequate boosting of immunity with booster doses,” the NIE team led by director Manoj Murhekar said in their research report. India’s immunisation programme recommends two booster between 16 and 24 months and between 5 and 6 years. A national technical advisory group on immunisation had two years ago recommended two additional doses of diphtheria vaccines for children at the age of 10 years and again at 16 years. “The two additional doses have since been introduced,” a health researcher said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||No age relief plan for economically weaker sections ||The NDA government on Wednesday told Parliament that there was no proposal to offer age relaxation to candidates under the economically weaker sections (EWS) quota in jobs and admission to educational institutions. To a question from BJP leader Vivek Thakur on whether the government was considering a proposal to extend age relaxation to EWS candidates, minister of social justice and empowerment Thawaarchand Gehlot said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha: “No Sir.” Last year Gehlot’s ministry had mooted a proposal to give such a relaxation as demanded by beneficiaries. The NDA government introduced the 10 per cent reservation in the EWS category in central government jobs and admission to educational institutions in 2019. Before 2019, the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes  and Other Backward Classes  were entitled to 15 per cent, 7.5 per cent and 27 per cent reservation, respectively. The SCs, STs and OBCs get relaxations in age and qualifications under the eligibility criteria for jobs and admissions. Exceptions are also offered in the application fee. Candidates in the general category are allowed to appear for the civil services exams six times, subject to an upper age limit of 32 years. OBC candidates get nine attempts and are offered a three-year relaxation in the age criteria. SC and ST candidates can appear in the exams as many times as they want till the age of 37. The BJP leader in the Rajya Sabha, G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, had last year demanded that EWS candidates be also offered relaxations in age and qualification criteria. To another question, Gehlot said there was no proposal to exempt EWS candidates from application fee for jobs and admissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||Supreme Court stays free Internet for poor students||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed a Delhi High Court judgment directing private schools in the national capital to provide free electronic gadgets and Internet to children from economically weaker section and other disadvantaged groups studying in private unaided schools in view of the Covid-19 crisis. The high court had held that children from the underprivileged sections were entitled to such benefits as a constitutionally guaranteed fundamental right under the Right to Education Act. A Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde issued notice on the special leave petition filed by the Delhi government challenging the high court verdict. Prima facie the bench agreed with the Delhi government that the high court should not have entered into a policy decision of the State.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
11-02-2021||India||Why coronavirus doesn’t last long on paper||Scientists in Mumbai have discovered why the novel coronavirus survives less than three hours on paper but remains viable for three to seven days on smoother materials such as plastic, glass, or stainless steel. Their study exploring the mechanisms through which the coronavirus expelled in respiratory droplets remains viable has also explained the puzzling observation of varying survival times on different surfaces made by US researchers nearly a year ago. Rajneesh Bhardwaj and his colleagues at the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, have found that residues of droplets called thin films survive for a much shorter time on a porous surface, making it less conducive for the survival of the virus. “Our findings imply that covering glass, laminated wood or stainless steel with porous materials such as paper or cloth could reduce the risk of transmission from surfaces,” said Sanghamitro Chatterjee, a post-doctoral researcher and team member. Their study, which combined experiments on droplets and computer simulations, has suggested the coronavirus can survive for four days on glass, seven days on plastic or stainless steel, two days on cloth and only three hours on paper. Researchers at multiple academic institutions in the US were the first to show last March that the coronavirus could survive on cardboard for up to 24 hours but several days on plastic or steel. “That was a mystery actually — the respiratory droplets that hold the virus evaporate in seconds to minutes. The mystery was how can the virus survive even after the droplet has evaporated,” said Bhardwaj, associate professor of mechanical engineering. The IIT-Bombay scientists first used computer simulations to show that the droplets leave behind residual thin films — a surface of liquid about 100 times thinner than human hair where the virus can continue to remain viable. Then, they conducted experiments with droplets and residual thin films on different surfaces and found that thin films themselves have much shorter lifetimes on paper or cloth than on plastic, glass or stainless steel. “We now have a physical mechanistic explanation for the different survival times,” said Amit Agrawal, professor of mechanical engineering. “It is the geometric features of the surface rather than the chemical composition of the material that explain the differences.” Team member Janani Srree Murallidharan said the findings would help inform the public to exercise caution where necessary as well as to avoid unwarranted fears. During the early weeks of the pandemic last year, virus transmission from surfaces had stirred concerns. The scientists have published their findings in the journal Physics of Fluids.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
11-02-2021||India||Bhima Koregaon case:  shocking data forensics report||Lawyers for a human rights activist who has spent almost three years in prison for alleged plots to incite violence and eliminate Prime Minister Narendra Modi have given Bombay High Court a data forensics report that concludes evidence had been planted in his computer. The report has been filed as part of a plea to quash the case against Rona Wilson and his co-accused in what has come to be known as the Bhima Koregaon case. Wilson, who belongs to the Committee for the Release of Political Prisoners, and 15 others are in judicial custody in Maharashtra. The undertrials include Stan Swamy, an 83-year-old priest, and Sudha Bharadwaj, lawyer and trade unionist. Many of the detainees are elderly academics, lawyers and rights activists, and several of them have chronic ailments. The case, which has drawn international attention, is being handled by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which reports to the Centre. The report of the Massachusetts-based Arsenal Consulting, which has been filed in the court, says Wilson’s computer — which Pune police had seized from his Delhi home in April 2018 -- was compromised for almost two years before it was seized. “Arsenal connected the same attacker to significant malware infrastructure which has been deployed over the course of approximately four years to not only attack and compromise Mr Wilson’s computer for 22 months but to attack his co-defendants in the Bhima Koregaon case and defendants in other high-profile Indian cases as well,” the report says. Last year, rights group Amnesty International and University of Toronto’s Internet watchdog Citizen Lab had revealed that in 2019, a coordinated spyware operation was used to target at least nine human rights defenders, eight of whom are campaigning for the release of the Bhima Koregaon detainees. Also in 2019, Israeli spyware Pegasus — sold only to governments — was discovered to have been used to spy on human rights defenders by penetrating their mobile phones via WhatsApp. Facing persistent questions in the Rajya Sabha that year, communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told the House: “To the best of my knowledge, no unauthorised interception has been done.” The Arsenal report is authored by Mark Spencer, the president of the company which had investigated several cases of terrorism, including the Boston Marathon bombing in 2013, for US agencies. The report adds: “It should be noted that this is one of the most serious cases involving evidence tampering that Arsenal has ever encountered, based on various metrics which include the vast time span between the delivery of the first and last incriminating documents.” The most explosive revelation of the prosecution in a Pune court in 2018 was a letter found in Wilson’s computer. Public prosecutor Ujjwala Pawar had read out a part of it in court: “We are thinking along the lines of another Rajiv Gandhi-type incident. It sounds suicidal and there is a good chance that we might fail, but we feel that the party PB/CC must deliberate over our proposal. Targeting his road-shows could be an effective strategy.” The letter, signed “R”, is addressed to “comrade Prakash”. Arsenal has found this letter to have been planted in a hidden folder by malware that also enabled the attacker to spy on Wilson. Arsenal’s analysis was done on a digital copy of Wilson’s laptop hard disk, and a pen drive seized by the police. The attacker has not been identified yet. In all, 52 files were planted on Wilson’s computer, the jailed activist’s plea said. The NIA took the case over from Pune police early last year, as soon as the BJP had lost power in Maharashtra. The agency spokesperson did not respond to a call, nor to queries on the report WhatsApped by this newspaper. NIA sources have said that besides the purported electronic proof, the agency has other forms of evidence, such as witnesses, which it would present once the trial begins. In 2018, UN human rights experts said that terrorism charges in the case “are being used to silence human rights defenders who promote and protect the rights of India’s Dalit, indigenous, and tribal communities”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
11-02-2021||India||Twitter resists govt directive, cites Indian law||Twitter on Wednesday cited Indian law to resist the Narendra Modi government’s directive to act against news media entities, journalists, activists and politicians over posts related to the farm protests. But the microblogging site said it had permanently suspended over 500 other accounts and blocked access to some content in partial compliance with the Centre’s orders. Twitter made the announcements in the morning in a blog, hours before its senior management was scheduled to meet ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) officials. The ministry took umbrage to the Twitter blog post ahead of the meeting, stating that such action was unusual. Still, the meeting took place as scheduled and the IT secretary is understood to have insisted on full compliance with the directives issued since January 31 following the violence in Delhi during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. Ajay Sawhney, ministry secretary, stressed at the meeting that Indian laws must be followed irrespective of Twitter’s own rules and guidelines. He pointed to Twitter’s differential treatment of the Capitol Hill violence and the chaos at Red Fort. “A deep sense of disappointment at seeing Twitter side not with ‘freedom of expression’ but rather with those who seek to abuse such freedom and provoke disturbance to public order, was conveyed to the Twitter representative,” the ministry said in a late-night release. Monique Meche, vice-president, global public policy, and Jim Baker, deputy general counsel and vice-president (legal), who represented the social media platform at the virtual meeting, “affirmed their commitment towards following Indian laws and rules,” it said. Meche and Baker also expressed their continuing commitment towards building their services in India. They have also requested for better engagement between the government of India and Twitter’s global team,” the release said. Twitter’s argument — as articulated in the blog — for not acting against the handles of news media entities, activists and politicians is that such actions are not consistent with Indian law. “Because we do not believe that the actions we have been directed to take are consistent with Indian law, and, in keeping with our principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression, we have not taken any action on accounts that consist of news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians. To do so, we believe, would violate their fundamental right to free expression under Indian law,” the blog said. The ministry first responded to Twitter’s blog from the home-grown microblogging platform Koo, where many from the government and the BJP’s ecosystem are opening accounts. “Upon the request of Twitter seeking a meeting with the Govt, the Secretary IT was to engage with senior management of Twitter. In this light a blog post published prior to this engagement is unusual. Govt will share its response soon,” the ministry’s response read. The same message was later posted on Twitter. Initially, 257 handles using the hashtag “ModiPlanningFarmersGenocide” had been suspended in keeping with the government’s request. Later, 126 of these accounts were deactivated on February 1 while the others were restored by Twitter. The IT ministry in further notices asked 1,178 handles to be deactivated for allegedly spreading misinformation. Of these, 583 accounts have been deactivated. While the government had threatened penal action for non-compliance, Twitter had said while restoring the accounts that this action was in keeping with company policy, which favoured free speech. Pavan Duggal, cyber law expert, said: “Twitter is an intermediary and cannot sit in judgement or partially implement the order. Once a legal liability is denied, it has to be prepared for legal damages under the IT Act. At the same time, at some point in time, jurisprudence under cyber law needs to evolve as to can an intermediary cross the Lakshman rekha and challenge the government?” Other experts said the IT Act’s Section 69A had to be considered in entirety and flagged that it also spoke of reasonable restrictions. Twitter, if it does not act on a government order, has to face the consequences, including a jail term of seven years. Twitter said in the blog post on Wednesday: “We will continue to advocate for the right of free expression on behalf of the people we serve. We are exploring options under Indian law — both for Twitter and for the accounts that have been impacted. We remain committed to safeguarding the health of the conversation occurring on Twitter, and strongly believe that the Tweets should flow.” Twitter added that it had taken a range of enforcement actions -- such as permanent suspension of accounts in certain cases --- against more than 500 accounts escalated across all ministry orders for clear violations of Twitter’s rules. “Separately, today, we have withheld a portion of the accounts identified in the blocking orders under our Country Withheld Content policy within India only. These accounts continue to be available outside of India,” Twitter said. “We informed MeitY of our enforcement actions today, February 10, 2021. We will continue to maintain dialogue with the Indian government and respectfully engage with them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
11-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand: Trident behind glacial fragility||The combined effects of hydropower projects, deforestation and efforts to widen a pilgrimage road in Uttarakhand have exacerbated the fragility of the state’s glacial regions, making them vulnerable to disasters like Sunday’s flash flood, scientists and environmentalists said. Scientists are trying to determine the immediate trigger for the flash flood in Chamoli but, they say, the region’s vulnerability has increased over the years under the impact of global warming and local development activities. The Alaknanda basin, the region of Sunday’s flash flood, had seven hydropower stations in operation, eight under construction and four proposed stations. Mallika Bhanot, a volunteer with Ganga Avahaan, a citizens’ forum in Uttarakhand, has in a Twitter post described the Tapovan-Vishnugad and Vishnugad-Pippalkoti stations as “bumper-to-bumper HEP (hydroelectric power stations) on the Dhauliganga, a tributary affected by Sunday’s flash flood. “We’re seeing the cumulative effects of steady environmental degradation brought about by policies that have no focus at all on environmental protection,” Bhanot told The Telegraph About 45 per cent of Uttarakhand’s area is covered by forests and environmental groups have expressed concern about deforestation. “Deforestation and loose soil can enhance the dust levels in the environment,” said a senior scientist. Scientists have known for years that soot particles called black carbon can be transported long distances by wind to the Himalayas where they can contribute to glacial melting. Sections of environmental activists have expressed concern about the impacts of efforts to widen the Char Dham road, a 900km segment connecting four pilgrimage sites — Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath — with an all-weather road. Over 500km of the road has already been widened and, Bhanot said, the project is expected to contribute to deforestation through the destruction of tens of thousands of trees and to dislodge several million cubic metres of soil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
11-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand flash flood: Sludge flow-back stalls tunnel rescue attempt ||Efforts to rescue 25 to 35 people trapped in a blocked mountain tunnel in Uttarakhand since Sunday morning’s flash flood have stalled because of flow-back by a “sludge” of rocks, slush and water that has hobbled the rescuers and poses a danger to them. Teams from the army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the state and national disaster response forces had by Tuesday evening cleared about 100 metres of the 180-metre tunnel but couldn’t advance thereafter. “Debris and water are flowing back while we are cleaning the tunnel. We need to be careful because the water and debris might flow back with enormous force when we try to move forward,” ITBP deputy inspector-general Aparna Kumar said. Thirty-four bodies — of labourers working on two hydropower projects and villagers from nearby areas in Chamoli district — had been recovered by Wednesday evening but 170 people were still missing, state authorities said. “There’s been hardly any progress in the rescue operation. We have recovered 34 bodies but have no confirmed details about the dead and the missing,” state director-general of police Ashok Kumar said. The number of the missing has been given out on the basis of the names provided to the government by the companies involved in the two power projects. A senior employee of one of these companies had said off the record that the company did not have full records of all the labourers because it hired them through small-time contractors. The Rishiganga hydropower project near Raini village has been completely destroyed while the NTPC’s project near Tapovan village is heavily damaged. It’s a group of Tapovan workers, managers and engineers who remain trapped in one of the project tunnels. Two other tunnels — one of each project — had been cleared earlier, with 27 workers rescued. The theory that the flash flood was caused by a “glacial outburst” — offered on Sunday and dismissed on Monday in favour of an avalanche theory — received a shot in the arm on Wednesday, with the additional claim of an earthquake as the possible trigger. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had on Sunday cited state scientists to suggest a glacier on the Nanda Devi mountain had broken apart and caused the devastation. Scientists elsewhere too said a glacial lake breaching its banks was the possible cause. On Monday, however, Rawat quoted the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing, Dehradun — an arm of the Indian Space Research Organisation — to say satellite imagery suggested that recent snowfall on the mountains, loosened by a landslide, had come down in the form of an avalanche. He said there was no glacier on the Nanda Devi. However, the weather office said it had no evidence of heavy snowfall at the site since Thursday, either. Now a fresh study has suggested that a 500-metre-long “hanging glacier” on the Raunthi peak, 5,600 metres above the sea level, broke and caused the devastation. “According to an analysis of data collected by Planet Labs, an agency from San Francisco, the glacier was hanging at 82 to 85 degrees. A portion of the glacier and boulders slid and travelled about 11km on February 6 (Saturday) night and fell on the upper Rishiganga catchment area, which is at an altitude of 3,800 metres,” M.P.S. Bisht, director of the Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC), Dehradun, told reporters. “The ice and debris formed an artificial lake (where the portion of the glacier fell). This lake collapsed the next morning, bringing devastation to the lower Rishiganga catchment area.” Bisht said an earthquake had occurred in the area at the time the hanging glacier broke and fell. He said there had also been fresh ice from recent snowfall on both sides of Raunthi, which too barrelled down along with the boulders. According to a USAC study conducted between 2002 and 2018, some 26sqkm of the 243sqkm glaciated area in the Nanda Devi region had vanished in the previous 37 years because of global warming.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
11-02-2021||West Bengal||Left activists clash with police in Calcutta during march over jobs||Left and Congress activists demanding jobs clashed with the police in central Kolkata's Esplanade area Thursday as they tried to break barricades on their way to state secretariat Nabanna, resulting in injuries to several participants and also the police.  Condemning the brutal attacks on students and young men and women by the "police force of the Trinamool Congress government", Left Front Chairman Biman Bose announced a 12- hour West Bengal bandh by the Left and associate parties from 6 am on Friday in protest.  "The way police unleashed atrocities on the participants in the march to Nabanna, it created a situation somewhat akin to the historic Jallianwala Bagh incident," Bose said in a statement.  The Left Front chairman claimed that more than 150 students and young men and women were injured in the police action while participating in the 'Nabanna abhiyan' programme of the student and youth wings of the Left and Congress demanding jobs and better education facilities.  Bose said that the bandh call has been discussed with the Left Front constituents and the Congress party, with which it has formed an electoral alliance for the coming assembly elections in West Bengal.  The Left-Congress alliance has come up to make the Bengal polls a triangular fight with the TMC and the BJP.  The march to Nabanna started at College Street but was stopped by the police on SN Banerjee Road in the Esplanade area.  As the activists tried to head further by breaking the heavy metal barricades, police used water cannons.  Amid slogans against the Mamata Banerjee government, the Left-wing youths and students tried to climb up the barricades, following which police began a baton-charge and also fired tear-gas shells.  Some police officials were also reported to be injured in the clashes.  CPI(M) politburo member Mohammad Salim alleged that the Mamata Banerjee government is totally dependent on the police force to suppress protests and demands by the people.  "Why is she afraid of receiving a memorandum from jobless youths," he asked in a press conference at the CPI(M) headquarters here after the incident.  Condemning the attacks on the agitators, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Pradip Bhattacharya said that the Trinamool Congress government has lost the people's faith and violent suppression of protests is an indication of that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
11-02-2021||West Bengal||Shah pitches for Modi’s 'vikas model’ against Didi’s ‘vinash model’ in Bengal||The upcoming Assembly elections in Bengal will be a contest between Narendra Modi’s “development model” and the ruling TMC’s “destruction model”, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Thursday, while terming Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as a “failed administrator”. He said the BJP's ‘Parivartan Yatra’ is not for changing a chief minister, MLA or minister but ending infiltration and transforming the condition of Bengal. Addressing a rally in Coochbehar, he said the yatra is also aimed at ending corruption patronised by Bua-Bhatija combine. The BJP has been accusing Mamata and her nephew Abhishek, the Lok Sabha MP from Diamond Harbour, of “institutionalising corruption”. He also spoke about the political killing of BJP workers and warned that the perpetrators will be thrown behind bars. “This ‘Parivartan Yatra’ is not for changing a CM, MLA or a minister. It is for ending infiltration, it’s for the transformation of Bengal. “You vote the BJP to power in Bengal. Leave alone illegal immigrants, not even a bird from across the border will be allowed to enter the state,” Shah said addressing a rally before flagging off the fourth of the five ‘Parivartan Yatras’ planned by the BJP ahead of the assembly polls. The union minister said the BJP is ready to take on the “goons” of the ruling TMC. “You think that we can get intimidated by the TMC goons? They cannot stall BJP’s march to power. Once we are in power, each and every perpetrator of violence that led to the killing of BJP workers will be thrown behind bars,” he asserted. He alleged that Mamata Banerjee gets angry at ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan, but will herself begin chanting it by the time assembly polls are over. “If ‘Jai Shri Ram’ is not chanted in India, will it be chanted in Pakistan? You get angry over it because you want to appease a particular section of people for vote bank politics,” he said. Shah said the upcoming assembly poll will be a contest between the “vikas (development) model” of the Narendra Modi government and Mamata Banerjee's “vinash (destruction) model”. The home minister said while the Modi government works for “jan kalyan” (public welfare), the Mamata Banerjee dispensation is bothered only about “bhatija kalyan” (nephew’s welfare).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
11-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP MP Raju Bista seeks national law on workers' land rights||BJP MP Raju Bista of Darjeeling in Parliament on Tuesday raised the demand to develop a national legislation for granting land rights to tea and cinchona plantation workers. The demand for workers’ land rights is a key issue of both factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, now allies of Trinamul. Though Bista has been talking about land rights, the issue is not stated in the BJP manifesto unlike that of the Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha. “Yesterday (Tuesday), under Rule 377 of the Parliament, which permits us to raise the matters of urgent public importance, I raised the issue of developing a national legislation for granting Parja Patta land rights to tea and cinchona garden workers,” Bista said in a written statement. The Darjeeling legislator seems to be looking at a provision similar to the one prescribed in The Schedule Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forests Rights) Act, 2006. “It has become apparent to me that the only way to ensure justice for them is through the intervention of the Union Govt. Just as how the Union Govt has enacted the Forest Rights Act (2006) to provide land rights to the forest dwellers, I believe the workers from our region will get justice with the Union Govt enacting a law which will guarantee Parja Patta rights for our tea and cinchona garden workers (sic),” Bista’s statement reads. The state government can grant land rights to tea gardens and cinchona plantations. Bista’s decision to seek central intervention could put the Trinamul and its hill allies in a spot, observers feel. Over 3 lakh people work in the tea gardens of north Bengal and can influence some 15 of 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal. Even in Darjeeling hills land rights is a major issue as more than 70 per cent of the hill population do not have it. The Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha had made land rights a major poll issue in the last Lok Sabha polls and Darjeeling Assembly bypolls, both in 2019. The first part of the Lok Sabha budget session will end on February 13 but the second part of the session will start from March 8 and is likely to carry on till April 8. Bengal is likely to go for elections from April as the tenure of the present state government ends in May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
11-02-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah to launch yatra in Cooch Behar||Union home minister Amit Shah will flag off the fourth leg of the BJP’s Parivartan Yatra here on Thursday. The saffron camp has lined up a public meeting at the Rashmela Ground in the town where Shah will be present. In December 2018, the BJP had planned a similar yatra that was supposed to start from Cooch Behar. However, the campaign was eventually cancelled. “The Union home minister will be here and will offer puja at the Madanmohan temple. He will then speak at the public meeting and will flag off the yatra. We will prove our strength at the Rashmela Ground,” said Sanjoy Chakraborty, a district general secretary of the BJP. Shah will also pay homage to Panchanan Burma, a social reformer revered by the Rajbanshi community. In Cooch Behar, Rajbanshis are in majority and their support decides the fate of political parties in the elections. While the BJP is putting all efforts to show its strength in the district, Trinamul has decided to organise protests against the Centre’s farm law in all blocks of Cooch Behar. “There will be protests in all blocks against the law that is anti-farmer. Also, farmers will wear black badges and work tomorrow in protest. Our leaders and workers will gather at specific venues to join the demonstrations,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the Cooch Behar district Trinamul president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
11-02-2021||West Bengal||Bird-watch, jungle trails for north Bengal tourists||The state tourism department in association with industry stakeholders and NGOs has drawn up a plan to work together and promote new attractions and activities in north Bengal to attract more tourists. Tourism minister Gautam Deb on Wednesday revealed the contents of the plan drawn to help revive the sector that took a beating in last year’s pandemic. Under the plan, it was decided to promote new tourism circuits and introduce activities such as bird watching, water sports and jungle trail at Bhorer Alo, the mega tourism hub developed by the state government at Gajoldoba in Jalpaiguri. “The sector that suffered the most during the pandemic is tourism. Now that things are getting back to normal, we have chalked out a plan to help revive the industry. The plan, we believe, can help bring in more tourists to north Bengal,” Deb said. He added that his department along with the stakeholders intended to promote a religious circuit covering Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar. “Under the circuit, A tourist can start from Jalpaiguri palace, visit prominent temples of the district like Debi Choudhurani, Bhramri Devi and Jalpesh and then head for Cooch Behar. In Cooch Behar, one can visit the famous Madan Mohan temple, Kamteswari temple, the historical relics in Gosanimari, the Cooch Behar palace and other heritage buildings of the district,” the minister said. For Gajoldoba, the department plans to train 300 local residents who can take tourists for bird-watching. Gajoldoba and Baikunthapur forest host many migratory birds. “This will create an alternative earning option for villagers and help tourists enjoy their trip more. There are plans to start bicycle trails to the forest from Bhorer Alo and water sports next to the Teesta river,” said Raj Basu, convener of the Association for Conservation and Tourism. According to him, a two-day training programme for boatmen of Gajoldoba and local youths will be held at the site from February 11. “They will be trained to identify birds and on safety measures. Later, similar training would be held for youths before cycle rides and jungle trails start. Members of eight NGOs in Jalpaiguri will conduct the training,” added Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||West Bengal||Centre plans 3-day Cooch Behar palace gala ||The Union ministry of culture and tourism will host a three-day cultural extravaganza on the premises of the Cooch Behar palace next week, a move that is being seen as an attempt by the saffron brigade to use the event to attract voters ahead of polls. Dubbed the Rashtriya Ekta Mahotsav, the cultural fest will be held from February 14 to 16 wherein playback singer Kailash Kher, artistes from other states as well as cultural troupes from the district will perform. “It will be a gala event where local artistes as well as those from other states will be present. The idea is to celebrate the birth anniversary of Panchanan Barma (the revered Rajbanshi leader and reformer, February 14) and showcase the Cooch Behar palace. The local Rajbanshi culture will be portrayed through the fest,” said Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar. The Centre’s plan to host the cultural event at a time like this has drawn flak from other political parties, particularly Trinamul. The ruling party has said that the BJP wanted through this event to counter the Mamata Banerjee government’s yearly cultural event Uttarbanga Utsav. “Never ever has the BJP government come up with a cultural event,” said north Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh. “It is clear that as the Assembly elections are drawing near, the BJP is using all possible tools to attract voters, and this time, it is a cultural fest. However, people can understand their intentions,” the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata uses mango metaphors to seek support from Malda||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee sought refuge in mango metaphors to seek support from the people of Malda, a district famed for the fruit, where Trinamul drew a blank in recent Assembly and Lok Sabha polls. Mamata, who addressed a public meeting at the DSA Ground of Malda on Wednesday, said: “Malda made us return empty-handed election after election though we have executed many development projects in the district...” “I would like to ask the Malda residents...will you hand over ‘fajli (a popular mango variety)’ and ‘amsatwa’ (a traditional mango candy) to me this time,” she said, drawing large rounds of applause from the audience. Mamata also spoke about neighbouring Murshidabad, a district with minority population of 67 per cent, and said her party could win in two of three Lok Sabha seats there, unlike in Malda. “Even the BJP grabbed a seat here,” she said. “Now that you have elected a BJP MP, I would like to know what the party has done for you so far.” In north Bengal, Malda has the highest number (12) Assembly seats. Back in 2011, when Trinamul had allied with Congress, the party could win in one seat and got a second seat at a bypoll in 2013. In the 2016 polls, Trinamul drew a blank. It was the same in the Lok Sabha polls of 2014 and 2019. Mamata, who has largely banked on the minority vote bank here, pointed out that despite such defeats, she chose Mausam Benazir Noor, Malda district Trinamul chief, as a candidate for the Rajya Sabha. “She is an MP in the Rajya Sabha now. As far as development is concerned, we have carried out a series of jobs, including the bridge over Ganga to connect the Bhutni islet,” she said. Earlier in Raiganj, she took on the turncoats and said their desertion will not impact her party. “I had assigned some people with responsibilities but they fled for their own interest... it is good that they have gone away. We will continue to work for the people and their absence will not matter to the party in any way,” said Mamata at Raiganj stadium. She alerted the minority community about the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) that plans to contest in some minority dominated districts. “The BJP is trying to bring in a party from Hyderabad to divide votes. We should be alert about them,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||West Bengal||‘Rath’ highlights BJP’s Bengal disconnect||Barely 200 people turned up to catch a glimpse of the BJP’s Parivartan Yatra in Rampurhat on Wednesday with questions being raised on the party’s ability to strike a chord with Bengal where the “chariot” used for the procession generally denotes devotion and not the muscle power that the saffron camp seeks to highlight through the ride. The second leg of the procession — the BJP had initially called it rathyatra — had been flagged off on Tuesday by BJP national president J.N. Nadda in Birbhum’s Tarapith, a holy place for Hindus, in the presence of over 4,000 people. After covering 90km, the decorated air-conditioned bus — billed as the rath that will usher in change in Bengal — reached Rampurhat’s Kusumba village, where the home of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s maternal uncle is located. Hardly 200 people waited at Kusumba Netaji Milan Mandir Club to welcome the cavalcade that included the chariot and some vehicles. The man who flagged off the yatra was missing. So were prominent Bengal BJP leaders, who were seen pushing and shoving each other barely 24 hours ago to be in the same frame with Nadda at Tarapith. “I inaugurated the first yatra (on February 6) from Nadia’s Nabadwip and it is the second. This will bring about a change in Bengal by removing the Mamata Banerjee government,” Nadda boasted as he flagged off the second yatra from Tarapith. Around 5,000 people were present when he launched the third leg of the yatra at Jhargram on Tuesday evening. In the absence of the leaders at the Rampurhat village in Birbhum district, the foot-soldiers also kept away, robbing the yatra of the excitement with which it had rolled out. The low turnout has raised questions on whether the decision to hold the rathyatra was right. More importantly, some BJP insiders are asking whether the party has the organisational capability to pull off such a show in Bengal. The questions have become more pertinent as Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to flag off the north Bengal leg of the yatra from Cooch Behar on Thursday. The rath culture has been an integral part of the BJP’s politics since its patriarch L.K. Advani took out a rathayatra in 1990 demanding Ram temple at Ayodhya and the spectacle resulted in electoral gains for the party as its vote share went up to 20.1 per cent in 1991 from 11.4 per cent in 1989. The BJP polled around 9.5 per cent votes — up from 1.5 per cent in 1989 — in 1991 in Bengal. Following the Advani model, some BJP insiders said, poll strategists in Delhi planned the ongoing rathyatra ahead of the Assembly polls. “The presence of senior leaders is creating excitement at the launch of the yatra and then, it’s dissipating,” said a BJP insider. Some social scientists this correspondent spoke to said the expectation that the rathyatra would evoke excitement in Bengal might have been misplaced because of the cultural gap with northern India. “Advani’s rathyatra might have been successful in other parts of the country, but as far as I can recall the discourse those days, it symbolised the muscle power of patriarchy, whereas people of Bengal have mostly been devoted to the goddess or the power of a mother,” said Apurba Mukhopadhyay, a retired professor of political science at Burdwan University and Netaji Institute for Asian Studies, Calcutta. “I think there is a basic difference of culture between rathayatra in northern India and Bengal. In north India, a chariot represents wars or valour of the fighters, whereas in Bengal and some parts of eastern India, a rath is devotional as deities used to ride on it. It’s unlikely people of Bengal will relate to a rath carrying political leaders.” Taramoy Mukherjee, president of Tarapith temple committee, explained the concept further and said for most Bengalis, a rath means the rath of Mahesh, on which Lord Jagannath (also known as the lord of the universe), Lord Blabhadra and Maha Devi Subhadra take a ride or the rath that goddess Tara of Tarapith takes once every year. “Hardly a few people from our temple went to participate in the ongoing rathyatra. For most of us, rath is for the deities,” he said Surajit Mukhopadhyay, a professor of sociology at Amity university, said while an attempt to reach out to voters through a state-wide road show couldn’t be faulted, calling it the rathyatra didn’t fit with the psyche of people in Bengal. “The BJPs failure to understand Bengal’s culture is exposed. If they had any idea, they wouldn’t have drawn up such a plan,” he said. A BJP insider said the discourse might have prompted the party to call it a Parivartan Yatra, but most supporters are calling it rathyatra. “Whenever party workers call us up to know the location of the decorated bus, they refer to it as a rath. That’s why ordinary people also think it’s a rath.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||West Bengal||No Covid death in Calcutta in 24 hours||Bengal on Wednesday logged 283 Covid-19 recoveries, 179 new cases and five deaths, but none from the city. The numbers helped to lower the state’s total active cases for the 107th day straight since Vijaya Dashami. Bengal, with 37,190 active cases on Dashami (October 26), now has 4,387. The state now has 3.14 per cent of the national total of active cases, less than half its share a couple of months ago. “We are looking to get our share of active cases to less than 2 per cent and a recovery rate of over 98 over the next few weeks,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate, rising for 110 consecutive days, is 97.45 per cent now, ahead of the national rate of 97.24. The state’s positive confirmation rate — the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests done — is 6.96 per cent now, a steady fall for 82 days. On Wednesday, the state reported 21,608 tests, taking the total past 82.09 lakh, at 91,221 tests per million people. Of the toll of 10,220, 8,584 (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate stayed at 1.78 and the national rate at 1.43 per cent. “Unlike all other key indicators, our mortality rate has remained more or less stagnant, despite major improvement in our daily toll, because the number of new infections detected daily has dropped sharply,” explained the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||West Bengal||29-year jail for Khagragarh blast convict||A court here on Wednesday sentenced Jamat-ul-Mujhahideen Bangladesh leader and main accused in the 2014 Khagragarh explosion, Jaidul Islam Iliad Kauser, to 29 years of rigorous imprisonment. The verdict was pronounced by chief judge of a city session court, Subhendu Samanta. Thirty people had been sentenced to life in 2019 in the same case. Since Kauser had been absconding and was arrested in 2018, his trial was held later. He was also an accused in Bihar’s Bodhgaya blast in 2005. The blast at a flat in Burdwan’s Khagragarh had claimed two lives and blown the lid off the JMB module in Bengal. National Investigation Agency had been conducting the inquiry into the Khagragarh case. The NIA investigators had seized 55 improvised devices and a huge quantity of RDX from the blast site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Matuas plan to ask BJP for 30 seats||Centre’s delay in rolling out the Citizenship Amendment Act has given the All India Matua Mahasangh, which is led by BJP MP Santanu Thakur, an opportunity to pile pressure on the BJP and ask Union home minister Amit Shah to field at least 30 Matua candidates in the districts of North 24-Parganas and Nadia in the Assembly polls. Shah will be in Thakurnagar on Thursday. “We will ask Amit Shah to field Matua candidates in Assembly segments where our community dominates the electorate. There are almost 80 Assembly seats that have a large Matua presence but in at least 30 of those seats in North 24-Parganas and Nadia, we constitute over 60 per cent of the electorate. In these 30 seats ,we will demand that the BJP nominate candidates from the Matua community,” said a senior leader of the Mahasangh. The Mahasangh leadership will place the demand before Shah when he will briefly visit the Thakurbari in North 24-Parganas to pay tribute to community gurus Harichand and Guruchand Thakur and to Baro Maa Binapani Devi before a public meeting scheduled to begin at 3.30pm on Thursday, the senior leader said. The Mahasangh’s demand to field Matuas on 30 seats is likely to put the BJP in a fix and the party will have to deal with the issue cautiously because alienating the community can prove to be major hurdle to achieving its goal to rule Bengal. The Matuas have already demonstrated signs of restlessness over the delay in framing and implementing the CAA rules and the BJP leadership in Bengal is aware that any slip on their part will be utilised by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who said several times that she would not allow implementation of the citizenship matrix in Bengal. The Matuas expect Shah to speak on the CAA rollout and clear the confusion that has set in after the home ministry recently got a fresh extension of deadline to frame the rules. The reigning confusion within the community has emerged as a challenge for the Mahasangh that seeks to ensure its bargaining power within the legislative domain and assuage sentiments of its members by making the BJP field Matuas on 30 seats. “It has become very important for us to get our own men elected so that they can raise our issues. Since Independence, we have been left at the mercy of other communities who have seldom taken up our cause,” said a leader close to Mahasangh chief Santanu. Although Santanu refused to confirm the possibility of discussing the demand of fielding Matuas in the coming polls with Shah, the MP said he would be happy if community members entered electoral politics. A Mahasangh leader said raising the demand had become a “necessity” for Santanu’s political existence. “With the Centre delaying the CAA roll-out, it has become very tough for us to keep the support base intact. With Trinamul launching an aggressive campaign to woo back the community, it will be tough for Santanu to survive without bargaining for greater political power,” the Mahasangh leader added. BJP’s Bongaon organising district president Debdas Mondal said: “I am aware of such demand being raised by a section of the Mahasangh. However, the decision to nominate the Matua community members solely rests with the BJP’s top leadership and we have nothing to say on it.” The Trinamul leadership has ridiculed the Mahasangh over the demand to field Matuas in the polls. “It is another ploy of Santanu Thakur and his aides to lure the Matuas after BJP’s citizenship promise turned out to be fake. People will give a befitting reply to the BJP and Santanu Thakur for cheating the people,” said Trinamul leader Gopal Seth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee accuses BJP of trying to surpass Gods with rath yatra||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday drew parallels of the chariots of Hindu gods with the “rath tableaux” used by the BJP for its Parivartan Yatra and accused the leaders of the saffron camp of trying to equal or surpass gods while dubbing raths plush mobile hotels. In Bengal, the BJP has launched a statewide road show or rath yatra that intends to move through all 294 Assembly constituencies of the state. While the BJP yatra has already started in some parts of south Bengal, it will flag off in Cooch Behar on Thursday for north Bengal. Mamata, who flew by chopper from Behrampore to Raiganj first and then Malda to address public meetings organised by Trinamul, launched a scathing attack at the BJP rath yatra. “We have seen the famous rath of Puri... every year, I participate in the rath yatra organised by Iskcon and I have also read and heard about the rath of Arjun where Krishna was the charioteer in the Mahabharata. But the rath yatra that the BJP has been organising here is different. It is nothing but a plush mobile hotel where leaders are entertaining themselves,” Mamata told people at Raiganj stadium. “We have huge respect for raths on which gods mount…. Does that mean we will have to venerate BJP leaders who are trying to place themselves equal to or above gods like Lord Jagannath? We have also read about the rath of Ravana in Ramayana which he used to abduct Sita.…. I want to know whether the BJP is running this rath of Ravana. In the name of religion, the party is indulging in sacrilegious activities,” Mamata said in Malda. In both the public meetings, Mamata time and again referred to the tableaux of BJP and accused the saffron brigade of trying to play divisive politics in Bengal. “They did nothing for Bengal and these days, “rathbabus” are coming here to mount chariots and deliver sermons to people. They are going around in raths, enjoying delicious cuisine on board. People of our state will never endorse such politics,” said Mamata. Political observers said the BJP has been playing the polarisation card — especially in Malda and North Dinajpur with considerable minority population — to consolidate Hindu votes. Amid this backdrop, they said the chief minister’s demystification of the BJP rath as “mobile hotels with delicious cuisine” was a planned strategy to exert pressure on BJP in their own coin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||North East||Hima Das appointed as Assam DSP||Star sprinter Hima Das, who is currently looking to qualify for the Tokyo Olympics, has been appointed as a Deputy Superintendent of Police by the Assam government. Hima thanked Assam Chief Minister and former Union Sports Minister Sarbananda Sonowal for the job, saying it will motivate her. "I thank our Hon'ble Chief Minister @sarbanandsonwal sir @himantabiswa sir for my appointment as Deputy SP with @assampolice The decision is a huge motivation for me. I look forward to be of service to my state and my nation. Jai Hind!" Hima said in a tweet. Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju lauded Assam government for the decision. "Well done! Assam Cabinet, headed by CM @sarbanandsonwal Ji has decided to offer the post of DSP in Assam Police to sprinter queen @HimaDas8!," Rijiju tweeted. The 21-year-old from Assam, known as 'Dhing Express' referring to the town near her native village, is currently training at the NIS-Patiala and will be aiming to qualify foe the Tokyo Olympics as the athletics calendar starts in a few days. The reigning world junior 400m champion, who won a silver in women's 400m rin the 2018 Asian Games, was also part of the gold-winning women's 400m relay and mixed 400m relay quartets in the quadrennial event in Jakarta. Rijiju, however, made it clear that Hima will continue to run for the country despite her appointment as DSP. "Many people are asking, what about Hima's sports career? She is training for Olympic qualification at NIS Patiala & will keep running for India," Rijiju said in another tweet. "Our elite Athletes are employed in various jobs yet continue to play. Even after retirement, they'll be engaged in promoting sports."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-23
11-02-2021||North East||Assam alert after road violence in Hailakandi ||A row over the construction of a road at Kachurthal area in Assam’s Hailakandi district bordering Mizoram’s Kolasib district on Tuesday morning escalated into an arson by evening leaving three persons injured and 20 huts gutted, police said. In retaliation, a group attacked a missionary school in Hailakandi district, around 10km from Kachurthal, and also burnt a car on the campus, on Tuesday night. The school is run by a Mizo. Though no fresh violence was reported on Wednesday, the administrations of both states were on their toes after Hailakandi-based organisations blocked National Highway 154 in protest against Tuesday’s arson allegedly by “people and police of Mizoram”. Kachurthal is around 35km from Hailakandi town. On the Mizoram side, Kachurthal is known as Zophai, falling under Kolasib district. The Assam-Mizoram border is around 164.6km long. Three districts of Mizoram — Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit — share their border with Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts of Assam. The inter-state border has been witnessing flare-ups since August last year, triggered first by a row in Karimganj which then spread to Cachar. The row was doused with the intervention of the Union home ministry after about three months, compelling an Assam government official to wonder “why a relatively peaceful border has become so volatile”. Tuesday’s flare-up, sources said, needed to be addressed promptly because the arson follows a blast in a school in the same area last week.Katlicherra MLA Suzam Uddin Laskar told The Telegraph in Guwahati that he would raise the matter in the Assam Assembly session starting on Thursday, seeking a permanent solution to the border row. According to him, the people of Mizoram have encroached “at least 20km land” in Hailakandi district under the “nose” of the BJP-led state government which swears by “protecting jati (community), mati (land) and bheti (hearth).” “People of Mizoram backed by its police carried out the attack at Kachurthal, which is our land. Our administration was a mute witness. Tension had been brewing since 11am but our administration unfortunately could not stop the attack. It is my request to the government to deploy a few companies of CRPF personnel to restore normalcy,” Laskar said after meeting Assam director-general of police B.J. Mahanta on Wednesday afternoon. Additional director-general of police Mukesh Agrawal visited the border on Wednesday to take stock of the situation. The affected people in Hailakandi district have been put up in a nearby lower primary school. Laskar also condemned the attack on the missionary school. “We sent a delegation to the school today. We condemn such incidents. We want to live in peace and that can be ensured only by the Centre and the two state governments by resolving the border dispute,” he said.Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted on Wednesday: “The Mizo National Front’s Legislature Party Meeting held today condemns the cowardly attack on innocent Mizos by miscreants at Gharmura, Hailakandi District, Assam. I denounce this vile act of violence against children, women and men.” Sources in the Kolasib district administration said that a survey for providing electricity was under way in the area. “A row over what an excavator was doing in the Mizoram area triggered a verbal duel which later turned volatile with people from both sides getting involved. In the evening, a group burnt down 19 huts and later some people attacked the Mizo missionary school which falls in Hailakandi. But the situation is under control. Both administrations are in constant touch,” a senior official said. Laskar said the road is being constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana in Hailakandi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-23
11-02-2021||Opinion||Second warning: U'khand glacier burst||The full extent of the damage in Uttarakhand — flash floods washed away at least two hydroelectric power projects and killed many people — is yet to be ascertained. But the losses are expected to be extensive. The disaster has been attributed to several causes, including a landslide and a glacial lake burst. However, there is likely to be a general consensus regarding the role of climate change as a catalyst in an ecologically fragile zone. The latest assessment of the United Nations’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change found that glacier retreat and the thawing of permafrost are projected to decrease the stability of mountain slopes; the Global Climate Risk Index 2020 also found India to be the fifth most vulnerable country to the effects of climate change out of 181 nations. But natural disasters are often the result of a complex amalgamation of factors. It would, therefore, be foolhardy to view climate change as the sole contributor to the tragedy in Chamoli which, ironically, was the seat of the Chipko movement. This destruction comes less than a decade after the Kedarnath flash flood of 2013, which claimed more than 5,000 lives. Where these two events intersect could well be unregulated construction, myopic promotion of tourism and intensive mining. Successive state governments have displayed a flagrant disregard for the delicate ecosystems of the Himalayas in their bid to sustain a lucrative, but ecologically damaging, tourism industry. In spite of the terrain being difficult and inaccessible, tourism figures neared 25 million in 2015 and are expected to touch 67 million by 2025. What has aggravated the threat is a faulty template of development. In 2015, a report by the environment ministry had unambiguously linked power projects to the 2013 deluge. The urgent need to rethink the current development model for the Himalayan region cannot be overstated. This should involve a serious scrutiny of such activities as the damming of Himalayan rivers, construction of hydel projects and other investments in infrastructure. But can this kind of contemplation be expected from elected governments whose disregard for the environment — reflected in industrial depredations on ecologically sensitive zones, the watering down of protective regulations and the pursuit of an anti-ecological model of progress — is well known? Not unless the environment and its destruction become electoral issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
11-02-2021||Opinion||Just move: Trump second impeachment||Sir — With the second impeachment trial of the former president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, having begun, people are waiting with bated breath to see its outcome. On January 6, Trump supporters stormed the Capitol, forcing senators to evacuate in the middle of counting the Electoral College votes ratifying President Joe Biden’s victory. Trump has since been accused of “inciting insurrection” with Democrats as well as several Republicans demanding that he be held accountable for his actions. It remains to be seen whether Trump is convicted of his crimes. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta Harsh words Sir — The prime minister of India, Narendra Modi, recently made a statement in Parliament in defence of the three controversial agricultural reform laws passed by his government, and requested the protesting farmers to end their agitation and engage in discussions with the authorities (“Noxious”, Feb 10). It must be noted that in the same address he called protesters “Andolan Jeevi” and “parasites”, warning the people of India to beware of them. Modi assured the farmers that the minimum support price will remain, but the farmers’ unions naturally do not trust the prime minister. So far 11 rounds of talks have been held, but to no avail. The prime minister’s conviction that there is a ‘foreign conspiracy’ at play in these protests — he remarked in Parliament that ‘FDI’ might as well be termed “Foreign Destructive Ideology” — and that the country should be aware of this development is nothing but a diversionary tactic. It is quite obvious that the criticism faced by the Modi government regarding the farmers’ protests in the international arena has struck a nerve. It was good to see the Opposition stand up to the prime minister’s assertion with the senior Congress leader, Mallikarjun Kharge, terming it as “misleading”. It is time to defuse the violent situation surrounding the three bills. They must be repealed in the interest of the farmers and the progress of the nation. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The phrases, “Andolan Jeevi” and “Foreign Destructive Ideology”, coined by Narendra Modi in Parliament to describe the farmers protesting against the three new farm laws and the tweets by foreign nationals and global celebrities who support the agitation are linguistic innovations typical of him. In spite of his empty and inflammatory rhetoric, he did not actually address the core issue of the farm laws and their unacceptability to the farmers. It is unfortunate that the prime minister demonized dissent when peaceful protests have formed the backbone of the freedom struggle in India and continue to shape our lives and politics. The farmers of our country have been protesting against the contentious laws for months on end and over 160 people have lost their lives. This cannot be trivialized, scoffed at or brushed aside. Demeaning them, as well as other civil rights activists and protesters, as “parasites” is unacceptable. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It is quite ironic to hear Narendra Modi label protesters as “Andolan Jeevi” when he owes his political career to student protests. The Navnirman Movement of 1974 was a turning point in Modi’s political career. In 1975, he was elected the general secretary of the Lok Sangharsh Samiti in Gujarat. The prime minister would do well to reflect on his past before denigrating his critics.N. Nagarajan,Secunderabad Sir — There is nothing more unfortunate than the prime minister of India using sinister words such as “Andolan Jeevi” and “parasites” to refer to the protesting farmers. The government, riding on sheer jingoism, is trying to demoralize the protesters and turn public opinion against them. Would Modi have the temerity to label the Jewish people’s protests against the Nuremberg laws or M.K. Gandhi’s dissent against the British raj as the acts of “parasites”? He should be much more careful in choosing his words.Subhadeep Ganguly,Silda, Jhargram Sir — Narendra Modi’s words in Parliament while talking about the farmers’ protests eerily remind one of the Third Reich. Unless we are very careful, India might just go down the same path. Nabanita Mukherjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
11-02-2021||Opinion||Holy touch: Sabarimala law||When the traditions of a temple feature large in an election campaign, it exposes the distortions afflicting politics in India. The Congress in Kerala has promised that if it comes to power after the forthcoming assembly elections it will enact a law to bar women of reproductive age from the temple at Sabarimala as has been the tradition. A draft law to this effect has been released, threatening a penalty of up to two years of imprisonment for anyone who violates this or any other tradition relating to the temple. The party’s anxiety for votes seems to have overcome, in the first place, technical propriety — the Supreme Court is yet to review its earlier judgment that had found the temple’s ban on women’s entry unconstitutional. As noticeable is the Congress’s desire to seize what would be a typical promise of the Bharatiya Janata Party in order to gain leverage and, with the same stroke, push aside the Communist Party of India (Marxist) that heads the ruling Left Democratic Front. The CPI(M) had welcomed the 2018 Supreme Court ruling in favour of the entry of women of all ages into the temple. The scale of protests that followed damped its enthusiasm somewhat. That the Congress won 19 of the 20 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections was perceived to be the result of the Left’s support to the change in traditional temple practice. In 2018, while Sonia Gandhi and Congress leaders in Delhi said they did not support anti-women traditions, the state party unit had baulked at change. It is the state Congress’s canniness that is now being used as a strategy to win the assembly elections, throwing overboard propriety, fairness, secular distance, interest in governance or any enlightened approach towards tradition, ritual and gender bias. It is a surrender of principles and defined political values for a populist cause. But it is not just the Congress’s decision that is the problem. Using religion in the service of politics is always poisonous: India should have learnt that by now. No party that claims to be secular can dabble in that brew without damaging itself and also giving right of way to religion-driven divisiveness. By helping to valorize superstitious, oppressive and unscientific attitudes, such distortions end up hurting people the most.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
11-02-2021||Opinion||Faith and great crossings||My newly-wed grandmother was about my age when she crossed a river of blood, the deepest gash on the nation’s body politic, to start her life over in a new land. In my handed-down consciousness, I try and step into the worn-out shoes strapped loosely over her rose-dyed feet. I surreptitiously enter her mind to play out the exact thoughts that arose as she stood in a room full of belongings, suffering the malady of unprecedented indecision: what to take, what to leave behind. In a different world, my eyes gloss over the room I come back to at the end of every day, the cupboard that holds my clothes, the table on which my laptop sits, the books on the shelf, a vanity full of objects I bought on a whim, and then I imagine them catch fire. On such an occasion, what would I save? Of all the devastating stories that constitute Partition history, the one that stands out in my memory is of the moment my grandmother turned around to scan her home for the last time, hurriedly picked up the idol of the god she worshipped, and walked towards a future of uncertainty. For me, that final glance at the present helplessly dissolving into the past encapsulates the tragedy of migration. In an environment of communal tension that prompted the migration of Partition victims like my ancestors, the singular act of reaching out for a god was, at once, a complex attempt to save one’s religion while also expecting to be saved by it. It is, in a sense, both a leap of and towards faith that, to an adolescent girl, was embodied in a brass idol. But how stable are the guard rails of faith when religion itself is affronted? How does faith then root the uprooted? On December 11, 2019, as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act was passed, religion was invoked in India’s corridors of power, anticipating a similar fate of displacement for those unfavoured by authority. The voices that swelled in protest at Shaheen Bagh formed the node of a new faith. Although the fault lines of conflict had not changed since 1947, faith, as conceived in the nation’s collective imagination, had outgrown the individual’s prayer to become an insubstantial figure often misappropriated by demagogues. Faith at Shaheen Bagh was placed in a more accessible value of democracy, which the onslaught of strongman politics had seemingly threatened. When faith contained by an institution has to endure the harshest of blows, a fortress is erected around it by its believers. Since it is difficult to articulate the essence of faith, the grip of its persuasion, or the verity of its claim, one can only perceive it as a force of humanity. Like energy, it is neither created nor destroyed, but it flows from one body to another through a network of shared experiences. Several strands of the strongest human subjectivities intersect at the experience of migration — the loss of identity, the reconstruction of memory, the re-evaluation of selfhood — all of which gain new meaning as one traverses the line between belonging and unbelonging. Herein, faith totalizes the dissociation from the trepidation of migration. The rejection of one’s person from the womb of the land that had nurtured him/her can only be mitigated by an embrace of acceptance. The displaced open their arms to the world; faith is what receives them — not a crutch, but a refuge. In this context, one need not go too far back in time to recall the plight of migrant workers of India in the wake of the pandemic. As the government declared a lockdown without prior notice, little thought was spared for the daily wage earners working in different states left without the means to return to their villages. As the migrants embarked on a journey whose end seemed unreachable, what fuelled their spirit? When democracy seemingly abandoned them, faith manifested in the memory of their homes. Some might have imagined it as the warmth of domestic bliss, others as the touch of the familiar ground under their feet: the soil that had birthed them and they wished their remains to return to. With ideas of religion and the State being dangerously superimposed on each other, the definition of faith in one’s nation runs the risk of becoming amorphous. Curiously, in several regional languages of India, the word, ‘country’, translates to ‘des’. But ‘des’ by itself could mean one’s village or the nation at large. Therefore, unlike nationalism, faith betrays the limitation of borders. Hence, faith is also solidarity. Like kinship, it is forged in a common furnace that feeds and sustains its believers. At the Singhu border where farmers have mobilized to protest against the three farm laws passed in Parliament without consultation, the protesters have come equipped with fragments of their hearth and homes to see them through their fight. I think of the langar that the farmers set up every day and the food that fills the stomachs of those who fill ours. Such an image takes me back to my first visit to the Golden Temple at Amritsar where an old lady had placed on my palm a generous dollop of ghee-soaked, sweet halwa. Her head covered in a soft cotton cloth, grey strands of hair peeking from underneath, she reminded me of my grandmother. She could just as well be one of the women of Shaheen Bagh or a migrant mother waiting to be reunited with a child — each a victim of displacement, each a supplicant of faith.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
11-02-2021||Opinion||Dark before dawn||When the National Democratic Alliance government under Narendra Modi came to power in 2014, several liberal intellectuals simply pooh-poohed the fears of many that we would face an assault on democracy in the country. Our democratic institutions, they argued, were strong enough to tame an RSS-dominated administration if it ever tried to violate them. This argument did appear to have some plausibility. After all, the earlier NDA government of Atal Bihari Vajpayee had not resorted to any drastic measure to curb the civil liberties and the democratic rights of the people. It was no doubt a government in which the Hindutva elements lacked the numerical strength to take any such measure even if they wanted to; but the long, post-Independence years of democratic functioning, other than the brief Emergency period, lent credence to the idea of the durability of democracy in the country. Today, when the government tramples on civil liberties and democratic rights of the people with complete impunity; when draconian anti-terrorist and anti-sedition laws are systematically used against social activists and critics of the government; when an atmosphere of fear pervades the entire country; when educational institutions are overrun by hoodlums; when the media and, allegedly, even the judiciary bow to the dictates of the executive; when well-known public figures like Mrinal Pande, Rajdeep Sardesai and Shashi Tharoor face legal harassment if not worse; when the Bhima-Koregaon accused are left to rot in jail for years without trial on trumped-up charges — the earlier faith in the strength of India’s democratic institutions appears, in retrospect, to have been touchingly naïve. Why, one may legitimately wonder, did the institutions of democracy prove to be so weak? Why have the media that played such a stellar role in fighting Indira Gandhi’s Emergency become so supine today? Why have some judicial judgments — the judiciary had generally been independent of the executive during much of the post-Independence period and boasted of luminaries like Justice H.R. Khanna during the Emergency — been so controversial today? Of course, the judiciary cannot single-handedly prevent the rise of fascism, but the fact remains that the judiciary in the United States of America played an important role in preventing Donald Trump’s usurpation of power. In Germany, the time span between the introduction of democracy (whatever one may think of Weimar democracy) and its subversion by the fascists was a bare decade and a half, between 1918 and 1933; in India, however, we are talking about a democracy that has lived for seven decades, excluding the Emergency period. Why did such a long period of democracy not create institutions more resilient and durable than we have seen in India? The reason, I believe, lies in the fracturing of social unity that has occurred of late in the country that provides not only transient support for fascist politics but also a more durable and substantial support. This fracturing is due to the pursuit of neoliberal economic policies that have dramatically widened wealth and income inequalities in the country. The beneficiaries of this widening have been not just the top 1 per cent of the population, which got the lion’s share of the gains, but also a substantial segment of the middle class that has gained from the pursuit of neoliberalism. The extent of increase in inequality has been truly dramatic during the neoliberal period: according to Thomas Piketty and Lucas  Chancel, the share of the top 1 per cent of the population that was 13 per cent of the national income in 1922-23 and 20.7 per cent in 1939-40 dropped, thereafter, to reach a low of 6.2 per cent in 1982-83, and then climbed to 21.3 per cent by 2014-15. Further, it was not just the top 1 per cent; a much larger proportion benefited from neoliberalism. The top 10 per cent, which obtained 40 per cent of the national income at the beginning of the millennium, increased its share to 55.9 per cent by 2014-15. Considering the fact that national income rose much faster in the neoliberal era than earlier, a major increase in the incomes of the upper 10 percent of the population must have occurred under neoliberalism compared to earlier. The beneficiaries of neoliberalism belong not only to the higher income group; they also belong in social terms to the group of Hindu upper caste males. They are strongly opposed to any egalitarian economic measures, and feel drawn towards a political party that, while garnering votes through communal polarization along religious lines, eschews any egalitarian measures. The argument that they advance, whether implicitly or explicitly, is that their improved economic status is because of their abilities and talent rather than them being already well-positioned in society to take advantage of the opportunities that open up through neoliberalism; if the lower castes, the minorities and other disadvantaged segments of the population are excluded from the benefits of economic growth, then the reason for it lies in their lack of ability and talent rather than in their disadvantaged social status. They see egalitarian measures as pandering to ‘populism’, to demands from people of little worth; such pandering, they believe, comes in the way of economic growth. Big business, especially the nouveau element in it, naturally feels drawn towards a political party that ruthlessly protects and promotes its interest, that doles out concessions to it on the grounds that it consists of ‘wealth creators’, that abridges workers’ rights to struggle for better living conditions, and that expands the scope for its encroachment into the agricultural sector to ensure that the composition of its output conforms to the demands of the advanced countries. In a period of crisis of neoliberal capitalism, a government formed by such a party protects and increases the profits of big business at the expense of petty production and opens up for it new avenues of accumulation. A formidable alliance thus comes up that includes big business, especially its nouveau element, the feudal landed interests, the newly affluent segment of the middle class, and the lumpenproletariat. This alliance appeals even to the classes it suppresses — the workers, peasants and petty producers — by invoking communal passions. And it gets generously funded by big business to capture and hold on to power. This alliance, although it invokes an ultra-nationalism, is the ultimate negation of the nationalism advanced by the anti-colonial struggle. Anti-colonial nationalism had visualized a nation where there was a degree of social, economic and political equality among all segments of the population. In a society characterized by millennia of institutionalized inequality in the form of the caste-system, this conception was truly revolutionary. And notwithstanding its incomplete realization, it continued to guide the nation in the period before neoliberalism. Indeed, anti-colonial nationalism can be legitimately said to have ushered in a veritable social revolution. What is happening now is a counter-revolution against that social revolution, with a social base that includes big business and a middle class whose motivations are economic as well as social. The fragility of our democratic institutions arises from the fact that those manning these institutions are recruited from this social base. However, this counter-revolution is bound to fail. It has no economic agenda for bringing succour to the people against the economic crisis, not even to the till-now affluent middle class. The farmers’ challenge to this regime constitutes the first step towards its unravelling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Body recovered from stone mine in Hazaribagh village||The body of a dead person was recovered from a stone mine at Barkangango village in Barkatha block on Thursday, police confirmed. The dead man was identified as Rakesh Kumar Mahto, resident of Barkangango village. Villagers later claimed that this was a result of a blast carried out at the stone mine, where five people died and 15 others were injured. They said that the other four bodies were taken away by the relatives and now the administration was denying any such incident, as the mine belongs to a person close to a politician. Talking about the incident, superintendent of police Karthik S confirmed one death and said a search operation was on to find others, as claimed by the villagers. However, Barhi sub-divisional officer Srikumar Tarachand said the police found no signs of blast, and brushed off the villagers’ claims as a rumour. “We had checked nursing homes but did not find any injured people there. Right now I am rejecting these reports”, he said. Tarachand added that the dead body was sent for postmortem to Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital. The district mining officer has been summoned to the village to check if the mine was legal or not, the officer added. Sources however claimed that the officials were getting a share of money, and so illegal stone mining using machines were being carried out without any issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Health secretary visits MGM Hospital, flags ambulance issue||Health secretary Kamal Kishore Soan on Thursday inspected the government- run MGM Medical College and Hospital in Jamshedpur for the first time after assuming the position. He was accompanied by East Singhbhum Deputy Commissioner Suraj Kumar, hospital superintendent Dr Sanjay Kumar and East Singhbhum civil surgeon Dr. R N Jha. The health secretary flagged the hospital for not using one of the two ambulances provided by the health department. He later spoke to the hospital superintendent and gave him necessary directives for improving the health care facilities. During his over-two-hour visit in the Sakchi hospital, Soan also inspected the emergency and children’s wards, after which he went to the blood bank on the premises of the hospital and the Out-Patients Department (OPD). “This was my first visit. Every effort will be made to improve infrastructure as well as medical services at the hospital,” he said after the inspection. The paramedical staff and contractual workers  met the health secretary and appraised him about their problems, with the former group handing him a memorandum. The  health secretary also  patiently listened  to the woes of patients, some of whom spoke about  poor cleanliness, upkeep and ill-management at the hospital. Soan had earlier gone to the MGM Medical College in Dimna, where he tried to know about the infrastructure bottlenecks and problems of teaching and non-teaching staff. With over 500- bed the MGM Medical College and Hospital is the biggest government  health care centre in the entire Kolhan region comprising three districts - East Singhbhum,  West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Residents spurn meeting on Ranchi light house project||Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC)’s attempt to hold talks with residents of 26 slums at Jagannathpur in Dhurwa, majority of whom are against the Centre’s ambitious light house project coming up in their area, failed to materialise on Thursday as no one turned up. The civic body, which functions under the state urban development department, is now working out fresh dates for a meeting to convince the residents of the utility of the project that involves construction of low-cost homes out of prefabricated structures. Even after a month since the foundation stone for the project was laid online by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 1, work on the ground is yet to begin. RMC sources said local residents had been staging protests fearing displacement. “In the past, deputy mayor Sanjeev Vijayvargia tried to resolve the impasse by meeting residents personally at least twice. Now, slum dwellers  are gearing up to hit the streets to block the project,” said an RMC official. Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra was,  however, hopeful. She said work would begin soon as attempts were on to dispel “certain myths” surrounding the projects. “Talks can solve all their issues. Today’s meeting got cancelled because there was a local haat and all had gone there. We are trying to hold meetings at a convenient time soon,” she told reporters at RMC office. Explaining their opposition, Mithun Paswan, the convenor of Basti Bachao Sangharsh Samiti that represents residents of all 26 slums, said they were not against the housing project, but wanted the government to change the site. “The project is planned at a three-acre ground behind Yogada College. This is the only ground we have where children play. If this project comes up there, people won’t have any open space at all,” he said, suggesting the department to shift the project to an area next to the old Assembly building. Paswan said many residents fear that once construction starts, the administration would raze their homes to acquire more land for the project. “These slums came up in the 1960s and inhabit around 2 lakh people. For years, we have been demanding that these be regularised. We have been paying all municipal taxes. Hence, we request the government to shift the project,” he said. Under the light house project, a total of 1,008 flats _ built using state-of-the-art prefabricated structures _  are to be constructed with an estimated budget of Rs 133 crore of which the Centre and state will chip in with their shares while a beneficiary will have to shell out a certain percentage after the rates of the dwellings are fixed. The light house project is a part of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) and is meant for beneficiaries of economically weaker sections earning up to Rs 3 lakh per annum. Besides Ranchi, the Centre has rolled out the scheme in Indore, Rajkot, Chennai, Agartala and Lucknow in the first phase setting a target of completing them within 12 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Chamoli: 29 Jharkhand residents stranded, 14 missing ||The count of Jharkhand labourers stranded in avalanche-ravaged Chamoli district of Uttarakhand jumped to 29 on Thursday, while the number of those missing remained 14, according to figures compiled by the state control room set up to coordinate relief and rehabilitation. So far, names of 43 Jharkhand residents, either missing from the site or stranded in Uttarakhand, have been registered with the state control room, managed by Phia Foundation on behalf of the department of labour in Jharkhand. Besides, three labourers from Karnataka, two from Madhya Pradesh, two from Bihar and one from Uttar Pradesh have also contacted the state control room for help. Of the 29 Jharkhand residents stranded in Chamoli, 10 are from Latehar, seven from Jamtara, two from Hazaribagh, three from Bokaro and seven are from Ramgarh. At least nine of the 14 labourers missing from Jharkhand are residents of Lohardaga district. Besides, four Ramgarh residents and one Bokaro resident are missing from Chamoli, where a glacial burst led to an avalanche on Sunday, causing massive floods along the Alaknanda and Dhauliganga rivers. While some media reports stated that a labourer from Lohardaga district was feared dead in the avalanche, Lohardaga deputy commissioner Dilip Kumar Toppo said on Thursday that there was no confirmation whether the man who died in Uttarakhand was a resident of the district. The death toll in the Chamoli incident has jumped to 35, while around 200 people are feared missing. “We are in touch with all the Lohardaga residents stranded in Uttarakhand. Our team is also coordinating with families of those who are missing from Chamoli and so far, no death from our district has been confirmed,” said Toppo. Mithilesh Kumar, a resident of Ramngarh district, informed the state control room on Thursday that he and nine other labourers from Jharkhand were stranded in Chamoli since the avalanche. He told the control room that most of the labourers, working at a National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) project, have not received their wages yet. Most of their belongings got washed away in flood, he said. Rooplal Singh and Santosh Singh from Latehar, who were stranded in Chamoli since the avalanche, were on their way to Dehri-On-Sone via Haridwar on Thursday. “Our contractor gave us the money to travel up to Haridwar. Now, we are on our way to Dehri-On-Sone,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Black Diamond Express back on track from Saturday||Black Diamond Express, one of the most popular trains between Dhanbad and Howrah, will resume services from Saturday, February 13, bookings for which were opened on Thursday. Much to the relief of regular commuters, businessmen and traders, the train will resume operation from Howrah from Sunday. Both the Up and Down trains will run as specials, with different names and numbers. But the halts would be the same, as followed during the pre-lockdown period. However, during its return journey the train will reach Dhanbad at 11.18 am eight minutes behind the previous arrival schedule of 11.10 am despite leaving Howrah as per its previous schedule. “All preparations have been completed for the operation of the train. The rakes are ready at Dhanbad, since the responsibility for the primary maintenance of coach lies with our division,” Akhilesh Kumar Pandey, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager told The Telegraph Online. Chief Reservation Supervisor of Dhanbad Railway Station, Sanjeev Kumar said, “There was a lot of rush at the counters because of the high demand of the Black Diamond Express.” The train was among several that had been suspended since March last year, due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. Expressing happiness over its resumption, former President of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce Md Sohrab said small vendors, who depend on the Calcutta market, will benefit from the move. “Both Coalfield Express and Black Diamond Express are complementary to each and serve as lifelines for Dhanbad traders. We thank the railway administration for the restoration of the trains” said Sohrab. The Coalfield Express started operating from December 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma elephants flee the chill, move to 'warmer' foothills ||The prevailing chill atop the Dalma wildlife sanctuary has prompted elephants to move to the relatively warmer foothills. Even the jumbos who have returned from their annual sojourn to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal are embarking  on a downhill journey. If night temperatures at Dalma top is between 6-7 degree C, it is 11 in the foothills. With the elephants positioned in the foothill, Dalma range office is concerned about the safety of villagers and their farmland. The range office has, therefore, issued an alert, asking  villagers not to venture out of their homes at night. Trackers (village youths recruited as daily wagers to keep a tab on movement of jumbos and other animals) have been instructed to maintain strict vigil. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra confirmed that the elephants were anchored in the foothills. “It is very cold at the top. The elephants would take the uphill journey once the conditions get warmer,” he added. A forester said separate herds of elephants, who are home-bound from Bengal, were stationed in the periphery of the 192 sq km sanctuary. “The prevailing chill seems to have stopped them from entering the sanctuary. They feel warm in the periphery,” he added on condition of anonymity. Foresters believe that elephants would not damage standing crops or homes in the foothills since adequate food and water is available in the jungles. “But one cannot predict mood swings of the jumbos. But we are alert to avoid any  man-animal conflict,” another forester said. Almost all the 154-odd elephants have left Bengal and are yet to slip into the sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur. The jumbos left for Bengal in August-September last year. Usually, they are home by February-March. However, some of the elephants returned home in December. Elephants follow two designated corridors – one from Jhunjka anmd the other from Burudih. The first one leads to Nutandih while the second passes through Narsingpur (Ghatshila range), Dalapani,Suklara and Aamdapahari. Both the corridors merge at Mirjadih from where the elephants cross Haludbani, Bhadodih. Bota and Dimna to reach Dalma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Supporters of Raghubar Das and Saryu Roy clash in steel city||Supporters of arch political rivals, former chief minister Raghubar Das and his one-time bete noire in the BJP who ended up ousting him from the Assembly Saryu Roy, clashed at Burmamines on Thursday morning over the celebration of Pandit Dindayal Upadhyaya's birth anniversary. According to sources, as Roy’s supporters assembled at Raghubar Nagar at 10.30am to begin the function, BJP supporters of Das arrived and started creating a ruckus. A clash ensued in which stones were freely hurled by both groups. But police were quick to intervene and ensure the violence did not escalate. Thursday’s clash occurred in the backdrop of frayed tempers after plaques installed by Roy’s supporters to announce a beautification project at Raghubar Nagar were defiled and damaged, allegedly by Das’s BJP supporters, on Tuesday. Police said that after Thursday morning’s clash supporters of both leaders gathered at Burmamines police satiation to lodge FIRs. OC of Burmamines police station Raju Kumar said the situation was now under control on account of their timely intervention. “But we are keeping a close eye on key men belonging to both groups. Supporters of both the BJP and Roy’s outfit Bhartiya Jan Morcha turned up at the thana to lodge complaints against each other. If they do give us something in writing, we will definitely register cases accordingly," the OC told The Telegraph Online. Das and Roy were rivals even when they were in the BJP. But ever since Roy became MLA from Jamshedpur East, defeating five-time MLA Das in his own pocket borough after contesting as an Independent in the 2019 Assembly elections, the two leaders have been at daggers drawn. So as Roy tries to strengthen his place in the constituency by initiating development projects, Das supporters are trying their best to make life difficult for him and his supporters. Sources claimed that Roy’s supporters retaliated to Tuesday’s incident by defacing a number of plaques set up by Das supporters. A month ago, Das supporters allegedly damaged yet another plaque set up by Roy’s supporters at Bhalubasa in Sitaramdera, also under the Jamshedpur East constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city NGO innovates while training special athletes||Old scooter tyres seem to have effectively replaced the usual medicine balls when it comes to building strength for the intellectually impaired for a newly-introduced sports discipline. Special athletes at the steel city are enjoying the mini-javelin throw training stint being imparted by Jeevika, a Sonari-based NGO working for the promotion of intellectually challenged. "Medicine balls are not easily available in Jamshedpur. So we thought of using scooter tyres to build the back, shoulder and stomach strength of our wards. Training is going on in a hassle-free manner and the athletes are gradually becoming tuned to things," said Avtar Singh, the founder of Jeevika and a former university champion in javelin throw. According to him, the  tyres weigh around 2.60 kg each and are appropriate for the standard of their wards. "We have also prepared mini-javelins (below 400 grams) by using plastic pipes and floor hockey sticks in our effort to comply with international standards. We are a non-profit organisation operating without availing any government assistance whatsoever. So, we have to go for jugaad," Singh, a seven-time national cycling champion, said. While Sukhdeep Kaur, secretary of Jeevika, has been  guiding the Jeevika students for the discipline, Singh is carrying out the main field work and training. Singh said it is essential to build the strength of the athletes so that they can withstand the load of mini-javelin throw. Each javelin weighs between 300 gram to 600 gram and length is between 27 inches to 44 inches. Hard rubbers were inserted on the rear for making javelin travel like an arrow. "The mini-javelins made by us are proving handy,” Singh, who is an NIS (National Institute of Sports, Patiala)-accredited coach, said. The Jeevika students who are undergoing training include Ryan Francis, Aakash Sharma, N. Sai Krishna, Pankaj Kumar, Ankit Mukherjee, S. Umesh, Sunil Gope and Sumit Sahu. The specials train for two hours at Joggers' Park in Sonari. "I have never done such kind of exercise. I am enjoying throwing the old scooter tyres. Training is being conducted without any problems," said Krishna, who won two medals (in athletics) in the Special Olympics International World Summer Games held in Abu Dhabi in 2019. Singh had been to Washington in 2007-08 on his own expenses to gain knowledge under experts involved in introducing mini javelin among special athletes||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Two CRPF jawans injured in shootout with Maoists in Bokaro||Two CRPF personnel were injured in an encounter with Maoists at the Tutijharna jungle situated in the foothills of Luggu under Gomia Block on Wednesday night, police said on Thursday. “The incident occurred late in night when jawans of CRPF, SAT, Jharkhand Jaguar and district police were jointly conducting an anti-naxal search operation in the jungle. As the security personnel reached Tutijharna, Maoists opened fire on them. We are trying to nab them,” Bokaro SP Chandan Kumar Jha said. More than a hundred rounds of bullets were exchanged between two parties, police said. The injured CRPF jawans are in the rank of Hawaldars in 154 battalion. Constable Satyendra Singh sustained major bullet injuries in his stomach and in a critical condition at a Ranchi hospital. Another personnel, Vishnu, sustained minor injuries as bullets brushed past his chest. Both of them are undergoing treatment. The police have recovered  weapons and other items used by the Maoists from the spot, who fled the site after facing backfires. “Massive combing operation has been launched in the forest cover. Security personnel have recovered a weapon, several live cartridges and other items used by naxals at the encounter site,” Jha added. They have also found a tent, where the Maoists were resting before the CRPF personnel found them. Few naxals have also got injured in the firing, sources said. However, the police have not confirmed anything yet, as it is difficult to assess loss on their part at a point when the police are still behind them. The squad that engaged in the gun battle is suspected to be that of Birsen, who has movements in jungles of Jhumra. Sources said Birsen holds the post of Regional Committee Member of CPI (Maoist). Jha along with CRPF officials have reached the spot and are monitoring the combing operation in the jungle. Paramilitary forces are being reinforced in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||More than 1.5 lakh people vaccinated so far, 13,884 inoculated in a day||Three more Ranchi residents died of Covid-19 virus on Wednesday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1081 and that in Ranchi to 241, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi also reported 24 of the 45 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection that surfaced in Jharkhand on the day, while 21 of the 42 Covid patients who recovered on Wednesday were residents of Ranchi, the bulletin further stated. While the number of active cases rose to 464 on the day, Jharkhand administered the first of two doses of Covishield vaccine to more than 1.5 lakh people by end of Wednesday, achieving 45 per cent of its vaccination target, a separate report from the NHM stated. On Wednesday, as many as 13,884 healthcare workers and frontline workers, taking the total number of people inoculated in the state so far to 1,57,706, stated a report released by the NHM on Wednesday night. The state achieved 56 per cent of its vaccination target on the day, it further stated. Ranchi, which was lagging behind other districts in vaccination rate, achieved 118 per cent of its target on Wednesday by inoculating 1899 people while only 1613 were registered to get Covishield jabs. However, the district has so far achieved only 29 per cent of its target despite vaccinating 15,996 people here. In terms of numbers, the district is the best performer in Jharkhand, but it is the worst performer in terms of vaccination rate. Garhwa was the second-best performer in terms of vaccination rate on Wednesday. At least 1740 of the 1800 beneficiaries registered there were inoculated there, helping the district achieve 97 per cent of its target. Giridih was the worst performer of the day with only 19 per cent of the registered 1865 beneficiaries vaccinated there. At least five more cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) were reported in the state on Wednesday, taking the total count of AEFI cases in Jharkhand to 256, stated the NHM report. At least 170 of the 256 AEFI cases were reported in Ranchi, which did not report any fresh AEFI case on Wednesday. Bokaro and Dhanbad reported two AEFI cases each, while the fifth case occurred in Giridih. As per government data, the state on Wednesday inoculated 12,713 healthcare workers and 8,010 frontline workers, mostly policemen. Around 63 per cent of the registered frontline workers were inoculated, while 48 per cent of healthcare workers were administered shots of Covishield vaccine. More than 1.19 lakh people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, and 98.70 per cent of them have recovered, reveals government data. The growth rate of cases in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.07 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was more than 2187 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Palghar cop team probes seaman murder||A three-member police team from Maharashtra on Wednesday completed their two-day probe at Palamau in Jharkhand into the alleged murder of a 27-year-old seaman, while lawmakers from the state continued to appeal to the Union government for a CBI investigation into the killing. According to Chainpur police station inspector Umesh Kumar Gupta, the team from Palghar had sought their help in reaching out to the family of Suraj Kumar Dubey. “The police team, all of them of sub-inspector rank, had sought our help and we assisted them as per their requirement. They questioned and noted down details yesterday (Tuesday) and also on Wednesday morning after reaching the deceased’s village in Kuldiha panchayat under Chainpur police station of Palamau district. The family members were questioned separately about Dubey and his activities during his stay at his native village,” said Gupta. Sources in the police said the Maharashtra police team spoke to the investigating officers at Chainpur police station on Wednesday morning and also sought mobile call details of Dubey accessed by Palamau police after a missing person’s report was lodged by the parents. According to the dying declaration of Dubey, he was abducted by three unidentified men in an SUV outside the Chennai airport around 11pm on January 30 while he was on his way to Coimbatore. The armed men allegedly demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh and held him captive for three days before setting him ablaze in a forest. Dubey was found semi-conscious with over 90 per cent burns in a forest at Palghar in Maharashtra on February 6 and eventually died on the way to hospital the same day. The sailor’s father, Mithilesh Kumar Dubey, said that his son had returned home to Palamau for a holiday of one month. “He left home to report back for duty on the INS Agrani at Coimbatore on January 30 via the Chennai airport. We failed to contact him in the evening as his mobile was switched off and lodged a missing person’s report at Chainpur police station on February 1. It is impossible that my son was abducted for ransom, otherwise the kidnappers would have demanded money from us. The entire incident appears fishy and only an investigation by the CBI can unearth the truth behind the death of my youngest son. Why did the abductors take my son from Chennai to Palghar in Maharashtra is also puzzling,” said Mithilesh Kumar. He performed the last rites of his son on Monday on the bank of the Koel river in Palamau. Meanwhile, BJP MP from Palamau and former director-general of police V.D. Ram on Tuesday met Union defence minister Rajnath Singh in Delhi seeking a CBI probe into the incident. Ram had also appealed to Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday for a CBI probe to get to the truth behind the intention of abduction as no ransom call was received by Dubey’s parents. Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth on Tuesday also wrote to Shah for a CBI probe into the murder so that the culprits are brought to book at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Latehar workers in Chamoli on return path||A group of 10 workers from Jharkhand’s Latehar district, who survived the ravaging flash flood caused by a glacial lake outburst in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, set out on their journey home on Wednesday. When contacted, one of the workers Rooplal Singh said: “We have lost everything. We are now returning though we are not sure how we will reach home without sufficient money.” They were travelling in a bus that was about to reach Hardwar, he said at around 3.30pm on Wednesday. “The contractor under whom we were working at a construction site there gave us some money that will help us reach Hardwar. But how we will complete the rest of the journey is unknown,” Singh said. He added that they would have to travel in a train without ticket if no help comes from any other source by then. “We have informed about our condition to the control room run by the Jharkhand government but no help has reached us so far,” he said. They were outside when the tragedy struck on Sunday, he said, adding that they started running towards a hill when people started shouting “bhago, bhago (run, run)”, and were thus saved. “Later we found everything we had, including our IDs, had been washed away,” Singh said, adding that they were wearing the same clothes since the flash flood struck on Sunday. They spent two days at a temporary shelter where they were also offered food, Singh further said, adding that they left for home when the contractor gave them some money. “The contractor said he couldn’t arrange anything more for us and advised us to get some money from home,” he said. Our families are also not in a position to help us with money, he added. Asked how they could reach home without enough money, Singh said: “There is no alternative left but to travel in a train without ticket and face whatever comes our way.” Singh and nine other workers from Bariatu panchayat area of Latehar district had gone to work at a construction site at Tapovan village in Chamoli. While the 10 survived, 14 other workers from the state — nine from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh and one from Bokaro — are still missing. Besides, contact was also lost with a group of six tourists from Jamtara district that reached Mussourie on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
