12-02-2021||Calcutta||The last teams standing||KIDS’ FINAL The Kids’ final on January 31 turned out to be quite a humdinger with the Shooting Stars facing off against Destroyers. And after 10 overs, both were tied at 120. The match had to go into a Super Over, with Shooting Stars pipping Destroyers to the post. The toss was won by Siddhant Pal of Shooting Stars who elected to bat. As per the rules, the first five overs had the under-12 players batting and bowling. Both the captain and Kamish Rao, the sponsor, had a special word for opener Ishaan Bose but he did not last long. The very next ball after he got out in the fourth over, Aryan Bhaduri got out hit wicket. Parth Ranjan of Destroyers was on a roll, having effected all three dismissals. But Aryan Mohan kept the scoreboard ticking, clearing the ropes at regular intervals. As the sixth over starts, the junior batsmen retire and the two captains face each other, with Siddhant taking guard against 13-year-old Jayatra Chaudhuri who brings himself on. At the fall of the fourth wicket, Aryan Mohan who had retired undefeated, gets to return to the crease. With Siddhant going great guns at the other end, the commentator Rohit Kolte wondered on the mic: “Kya 100 ka ankra chhu payenge Shooting Stars?" Shriya Pandey, a reserve player of the team who was helping out the scorers, retorted: “Koi shaq nahin!” By the time the innings ended, a small bonfire had been lit on the sidelines around which some spectators had formed a huddle to keep off the cold. The match too was heating up with Vatsal Nimodia getting run out off a sharp return from Siddhant in the third over. But Kanishk Khadgawat, the other opener, found an able partner in Ujan Ghosh. Thanks to Kanishk (42 off 25), the Destroyers scored over 60 in the first five overs, creasing brows in the Shooting Stars camp. Yug Kaul played a cameo at the end to level the scores. The Super Over had Destroyers batting first and scoring 11, including a six. But Siddhant and Sayan managed to chase it down with a ball to spare. Siddhant, who was also named the Player of the Tournament, won hearts by giving away his Player of the Match trophy to Aryan Mohan. “Had he not batted so well, we would not have had the runs on the board,” said the victorious captain, who plays in the under-15 tournament of the Cricket Association of Bengal, along with his friend Dheer Jain, who cheered him in the finals despite his own team My Team Mavericks losing in the semi-final. A pizza party took place at Dominoes in the Rosedale Garden complex across the road. “The sponsor has promised another party,” Siddhant grinned. Sudeshna Banerjee When D11 and Warriors had faced off in the group stage, D11 had come up trumps. Since then, both teams had grown in experience and confidence throughout the tournament. At the finals on Sunday, D11 won the toss and elected to bat but lost five quick wickets with none of the batsmen reaching double digits, thanks to a fiery spell by Subodh Chandra from Warriors, who scalped four of the top five. Nonetheless there was remarkable rearguard action with Rajiv Patnaik scoring a blistering 59 runs in 20 balls with 10 hits to the ropes. Vishal Sarda, Salil Yagnick and Riyaz Ahmed too contributed cameos and the team put up a fighting 156 for eight at the end of 12 overs. Warriors lost a wicket in the first over but averted a collapse like their opponents. The DD11 bowlers, however, maintained a decent economy rate, with Patnaik leading the pack, allowing only 14 in his three overs. With the fielding too being tight, the Warriors found it tough to score. The number of dot balls by D11 bowlers started increasing and the Warriors started slipping on run rate. The mounting pressure forced the batsmen to come down the pitch and  take the risky aerial route. A few strokes did cross the boundary but miscued shots led to catches along with two stumpings as well. The fact that there were no extras was proof of the discipline of the D11 bowlers. The team that debuted in the UPL this year ended up winning  the final by a massive 68 runs. “We are a bunch of friends who hang out together and thought of forming a team,” said captain Sidhartha Agarwal. “It is our team spirit that led us to victory.” Agarwal said he had a hunch that the pitch would react differently because of the early morning rain and his decision to bat first paid off. Baljeet Singh, captain of Warriors, was a true sport. “We had been chasing targets and winning matches all through the tournament and today’s score was achievable too. The last five overs proved too expensive for us. Still, we enjoyed immensely,” he said. Salil Yagnick of D11 was named the Man of the Match for taking three wickets. Aniket Sil The women’s final was down to Mystic Maya versus Minions. It was a 10-over match consisting of 10 on-field players and two substitutes. Mystic Maya won the toss and decided to bat, sending out Riya Khan to take strike and Krupa Javalgi at the other end. Poonam Yadav, the captain of Minions, opened the bowling. The first delivery was a no-ball which led to a run and a free hit. But Poonam compensated by getting Riya caught behind in the very next ball. Still the Mystic Mayans scored briskly, thanks to a superb 42-run partnership between captain Mamtaa Baid and Sowmya Sengupta. The crowd cheered when Sowmya struck the first six of the evening and their partnership ended only in the last ball when she got run out. Minions had been set a steep target of 97 runs but they had an excellent strike rate thanks to Poonam’s boundaries. Her consecutive sixes not only helped her score a half-century — she stayed unbeaten at 67 —but also made the spectators applaud. Mystic Maya turned the game around when the Minions needed to score 30 runs in four overs. A maiden over by Riya increased the pressure on Minions and 12 runs were required in the last over. But a canny change in the field placement and bowling plan by Mamtaa ensured that the Mayans won the game by six runs. “It was an achievable target for the Minions but our strategy was to either get wickets or restrict the runs. Since we could only take one wicket, we had to got for defensive field placing to prevent the boundaries,” said Mamtaa. The captains shared the honours with Mamtaa being named the Player of the Match and Poonam the Best Bowler as well as Player of the Series. Aniket Sil||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Meet the four mates of Sohini Majumdar ||Shohini Majumder has four dogs, all as like as chalk and cheese. The first-born is Angel, a German Shepherd who lives up to her name. “She’s calm, caring, and obedient. She even takes my mother’s permission before going to play on the terrace,” says Shohini approvingly. Angel’s daughter is Winnie who, far from seeking permission, often goes missing from the house, only to surface in the neighbour’s. Next came Mili, a street dog whom the family had arranged to get sterilised. “But she developed an infection that made her hind legs lifeless. We brought her home to nurture back to health and never could give her up,” says the lady who runs a content writing firm. Mili has recovered now and much of the credit goes to Winnie. “Winnie would force Mili to play with her and all that exercise healed her. My father even jokes that Winnie’s play-bites worked like acupuncture on Mili’s legs!” Finally came Tutu, a puppy who the family found crying in their lane and adopted. And now any guest to the house has to spend 20 minutes playing with the four dogs before so much as saying hello to the humans. Passerbys get an earful from Winnie and her sidekick Tutu. “But they don’t mean to scare them away. They mean to invite people in.” It’s only Mili who is moody in the pack. She decides if she lets you pet her or not. “Actually she’s gone through such pain and has had so many strangers pricking her with saline needles that she has a phobia about outsiders.” And then there’s Angel who, despite being the first dog in the family, has never been insecure about the newbies. She doesn’t even spare a glance at barking street dogs when we take her for a walk,” says Shohini. Walks are a much-loved routine in the family. “If I comb my hair or change my outfit in the evening the dogs know they are going out. Winnie will even bring her leash to me,” smiles Shohini, who feels it’s often the dogs who take her for a walk. Her younger sister Rohini seconds that. “The other day Winnie was so restless on her walk that she ran, dragging me till I fell on my face,” Rohini grimaces. And then there’s Angel, who goes to walk without a leash at all. “Once when I was walking Angel, the leash slipped out without my notice,” says Rohini. “When I turned back I saw Angel gone! I was panic-stricken and didn’t know where to search. But then I headed home and saw Angel had returned and was, in fact, waiting for me.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Farewell options for your pet||While the city now has a handful of pet burial grounds, a crematorium has also opened, near Dum Dum. Opened in the last week of December, the facility has already cremated about 100 animals. Situated near the dumping ground off Belgharia Expressway, the South Dum Dum Municipality Pet Crematorium has two electric furnaces with a trolley on the outside to carry the bodies of animals. It can carry a maximum weight of about 500kg while the furnace coils can reach 800°C temperature. Besides pets, the service is also open to cattle and other animals and so a crane is on standby to lift and place large animals onto the trolley. A waiting room and toilets are available for mourners. “When my pet dog died it was just two months before the Lok Sabha elections,” said MP Saugata Roy, who had come for the inauguration. “I cancelled all my rallies and appointments so we could bid him farewell. But to my surprise, I couldn’t find a single crematorium or burial ground in my neighbourhood. We had to drive 10km out of the city where a person allowed his backyard as a pet burial site. It was a traumatic experience and I don’t want anyone to suffer like that,” said Roy. Urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim said the idea for the crematorium for animals was the chief minister’s. “We have seen animal carcasses being left to decay at roadsides and canal sides, which is unhygienic. Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) took up this project at a cost of Rs 4 crore. It is spread over 10 cottahs,” said the minister, who also heads CMDA. The facility is open round the clock and can be contacted at 25602357. The pet burial ground in New Town, in the meantime, has been of help to many a grieving pet family. But the plot has run out of space and the land is being recycled over for more pets. “A burial ground is bound to run out of space and we are recycling the plots after a year,” said Debashis Sen, chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) that has built the facility. “We have received several requests from pet owners who want to pay more and keep the space intact for longer but we cannot allow that,” he said. The 24-hour facility had opened about two years ago and the 160-odd plots got filled up in 22 months. Beloved dogs, cats, rabbits have all made the space their final resting ground and plaques and tombstones have been erected bearing names, pictures and messages from their families. “Our visiting hours are from 4 to 5pm and people come every day with flowers, dhoop dhuno, toys etc,” said an official of the centre. They don’t allow food as that would attract rodents. “After a year, we inform the families that the space will be recycled and that they may take home their plaques. Some even seek a fistful of the soil that their pets have become one with.” The New Town authorities have no plans for a pet crematorium. Suchismita Bose of Salt Lake’s BF Block had recently gone to bury her 10-year-old Golden Retreiver Walle there and had found the service helpful. “Of course, it would have been better if they could have retained the pets in the ground for more than a year but this is better than cremating them. The natural tendency of animals is to dig the ground and bury their deceased loved ones so a burial ground seems like the best option for them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Bhaiphota with a twist, only for sisters||The ululation, the conchshell blowing, the gifts, and above all the sandalwood paste on the forehead… It was all there. The only person missing was the brother. But he was not missed at all for what was being celebrated on a winter afternoon at The Sonnet was Bon Phota. The organiser and the common sister to all the guests was Indrani Ganguly. “We sisters feel somewhat excluded on Bhaiphota which we observe for the well-being of the brother. So I thought of having an event exclusively for sisters,” said the director of DB Block-based Sristi Dance Academy, who grew up with only a sister as sibling. Most guests took the event in a spirit of enjoyment. “We have given phota to friends for fun. Recently two friends turned 40. We went to bless them,” laughed Chandreyee Ghosh, who recently featured in the film Cheeni. Some took the occasion seriously and lauded the women-only initiative. “Men have always cornered women. But in some Northeast tribes, women are the head of the family,” said Aparna Niyogi, a lawyer who has earlier served as a municipal councillor. The two ‘sisters’ who received the most requests for selfies were Lily Chakraborty and Sakuntala Barua. They too happily obliged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Ray to Gulzaar, for 62 years||Lily Chakraborty, all of 79, went back to work when most of the city was still working from home. “The producers called me, saying they were resuming shoot from July 15. I joined on July 31.” Chakraborty stays in the same building as her sister’s family in Dum Dum ever since her husband passed away 11 years ago. “They were unwilling to let me go out but I was feeling suffocated and anxious sitting at home.” Chakraborty has completed 62 years in the film industry, starting with the laugh riot Bhanu Pelo Lottery in 1958. “It was a small role (of the typist Maya).” Ten years later, she would play the lead in another Bhanu Banerjee film, Bhanu Goenda Jahar Assistant. Basking in Ray Few know that she was close to bagging the lead too in Satyajit Ray's film Apur Sansar when she was 17. “Sharmila was having trouble getting leave from school to shoot. One of his (Ray’s) production managers took me to their Lake Temple Road house. Bijoya (Ray) boudi tene chul bedhe dilen. He (Ray) said he had already spoken to a girl and if it worked out with her, I was not to feel disappointed. I was brought up in Madhya Pradesh and had no clue who Satyajit Ray was,” she laughed. The same year, she did a scene in Suchitra Sen’s Deep Jwele Jaai too. A milestone film in her career is Tapan Sinha’s Hasuli Banker Upokotha. “I was doing major roles at this time though not heroine, except in Bibaho Bibhrat (another laugh riot with Anup Kumar and Rabi Ghosh). “But I never called Manikda to remind him that he had promised to consider me in future.” Then she left for Bombay, returning briefly to do Tarun Majumdar’s Phuleswari. “I played Sandhya Roy’s sister-in-law.” It was in Bombay that she received a letter from Ray, saying he had liked her in Phuleswari. “He wanted me to do a role in Jana Aranya, Shankar’s novel that he was adapting for the screen.” Chakraborty dropped all work to come and do the film. “Later when he visited Bombay, he took me to Rajkamal Studio to finish the dubbing.” Fifteen year later, she would be cast again in Ray’s Sakha Prosakha. “Ami onar khub pochhonder artiste chhilam. When he finished scripting for Uttaran, Boudi had asked; ‘Ei role ta ke korbe?’ He had responded: ‘Kyano? Amader Lily achhe’,” she smiled at the recollection. Ray passed away soon after and the film was directed by his son Sandip. Chakraborty left for Bombay on getting an offer in a mythological film. “At that time in the 70s, Naxalite violence was at its peak. The frequent bombing affected filming. Work reduced in Tollygunge.” The project took time and she ended up renting a place in Bombay. “Tanuda (Majumdar) came over to read me the Phuleswari script. Mukulda (Dutta, the lyricist) was also there. The hotel was just behind our residence yet Mukulda insisted on sending me home in a car, so his driver could see my place.” A week later, the driver came to pick me up. “Mukulda’s wife Chand Osmani, a famous actress of the time, was cooking jeere diye machher jhol. Mukulda said Gulzaar had seen my Deya Neya and wanted to meet me. So I went over. He was about to marry Rakhee around that time and I spotted a high-heeled pair of shoes outside.” Gulzaar read her a script and then asked how her Hindi was. “Till then he was conversing in Bengali. As I switched to Hindi, he exclaimed that I was as good as Jaya (Bachchan). I said we hailed from the same state, Madhya Pradesh.” That film was Achanak, where she acted opposite Vinod Khanna. Next year, she did the star-studded Chupke Chupke. “Hrishida (Hrishikesh Mukherjee) directed it. Achanak too was his production. He had recommended my name.” Around this time, Uttam Kumar sent for her to do Bhola Moyra. “He had wanted me in another film after Deya Neya but said he had to give the role to someone who asked for it and he could not say no.” Chakraborty could not return to Bombay after completing Bhola Moyra as the theatre fraternity insisted that she was needed here. “I always had a soft corner for theatre as I used to act on stage from my youth,” she recalls. Bilkis Begum, co-starring Subhendu Chatterjee, ran for five years. “It would have gone on if Bijan Theatre did not close for renovation. Even the last night was houseful, like the first,” she recalled. Chakraborty has a lot of memories with another stalwart, Ray’s favourite actor Soumitra Chatterjee. “We worked together in a string of films in recent times — Tumi O Tumi, Sesh Chithi, Meyemanush, Saanjhbati... Abalamban has still not come out. We did not share a scene in that film, being part of two different families.” The last film they worked in together was Saanjhbati, which was shot extensively in Salt Lake. “That film has received a lot of appreciation. Everyone did well. Dev worked so hard in that film, especially on dubbing.” As she gets up on being called for a group photograph, it strikes one that Chakraborty and Chatterjee shared more than screen. They had in common a commitment that defied all other considerations, including their advanced age — to work. “They (the producers) do have a good system in place. The studio is sanitised, my car is sanitised…” she assures one, on being requested to be careful in these pandemic-hit times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Woman out for walk found dead near home in Behala||The body of a woman was found in a lane near her house in Behala’s Jayshree Park early on Thursday, police said. The woman was found lying face down. Morning walkers, who first spotted the body, didn’t realise that the woman was from their neighbourhood till a police team came and took the body away. The woman has been identified as Nila Bhattacharya, 45. The police took her to Vidyasagar Hospital, where doctors declared her dead. The body has been sent for post-mortem amid questions whether she had fallen or someone had hit her. “There were injury marks on her head and left eye. It is still not clear whether she fell and injured herself or someone hit her with a heavy object,” said a senior police officer. “The post-mortem report will provide some answers.” Nila lived with her husband and son at their house in Anandapally, near Jayshree Park, in Behala. Police have learnt that she would regularly step out in the evening, like she did on Wednesday. She had a shawl-like cover on her and was wearing chappals. When Nila didn’t return, family members looked for her at the places she would usually visit. Not sure what to do next, they were waiting for daybreak. The body was spotted a few metres from her house in the morning. “There were blood stains on her face, but no injury marks on her arms and legs. There were no marks to suggest there was a scuffle or that she tried to resist someone,” an officer of Behala police station said. The lane where the body was found is in the middle of a quiet locality on the outskirts of Behala. It has rows of houses on one side and a boundary wall on the other. The lane is so narrow that it is difficult for a vehicle to pass through. “It is unlikely she was dumped from any vehicle late at night,” another officer said. The police have started a case of unnatural death. Officers said they might add other sections after going through the post-mortem report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine registration fraud racket||The lack of clarity about the registration for Covid-19 vaccine doses has led to confusion among citizens and fraudsters have jumped in to dupe elderly Calcuttans. Several people have received purported text messages asking them to enrol their names for receiving a free dose of a Covid vaccine that the government is likely to administer to the elderly and those with comorbidities. The message asks the recipient to click on a link to update identity documents as part of the enrolment process. “These are fake messages through which fraudsters are trying to lure clueless citizens into an online trap,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Elderly residents who live alone in the city will find it convenient to enrol their names sitting at home, an officer said. Police said they had received reports of people receiving such fraudulent messages. “We are trying to create awareness that such messages should be ignored or the number should be reported to the police. It is advisable never to call back on such numbers or click on any link sent through a text message from an unknown number,” the officer said. What can happen if one clicks on the link? Fraudsters are using more than one modus operandi to dupe people on the pretext of registering their names for Covid vaccines, a cyber expert said. Either they will ask to call back on a mobile number given in the text message or ask the recipient to click on a link and share personal details. “Clicking on the link will download an application on your phone that has the potential to mirror your phone. Henceforth, any financial transactions you make can be accessed by the fraudsters. In case you call back on the number, they will ask for your personal details and then coax you into clicking on the link,” said a senior police officer. Fraudsters may also ask you to pay a small amount like Rs 10 to get your name registered, the police said. “This, too, is a trap. Once you click on that link and then make a transaction, however small, it will comprise your banking details.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Institute of Child Health to add 80 beds||The Institute of Child Health will set up 80 more beds, taking the bed count of the Park Circus hospital to 300. All 80 beds will be set up in an 11-storey building coming up on the campus, officials of the hospital said. The existing 220 beds will eventually be shifted to the new building. Apurba Ghosh, paediatrician and director of the institute, said they were hoping to start functioning from the new building in two to three years. “We have 220 beds. We plan to add 80 more beds when the new building is ready,” he said. “Our old buildings have suffered considerable wear and tear. Besides, we are also facing a space crunch as we have started new projects, like a nursing college. The new building is also needed to upgrade the facilities of the hospital and bring in some modern equipment.” The foundation stone of the new building was laid by minister Firhad Hakim on Thursday. Another official of the hospital said the new beds would be split across departments. The hospital plans to open neurosurgery and cardiac surgery units once the new building becomes functional, the official said. “The hospital started with only 40 beds.... The number of patients is increasing with time. There is an urgent need to have a bigger space, to accommodate the growing needs of patients as well as for the safety of the patients. Our old buildings are showing signs of wear and tear,” said Aradhana Ghosh Chowdhury, the deputy CEO of the hospital. About 450 children are treated at the hospital’s OPD every day, said an official. The nursing college will start admitting students this year. The hospital also offers MD (paediatrics) and postgraduate diploma degrees in child health. “The students have to stay on the campus, according to new rules. We have to create hostel facilities, for which we need more space,” said Ghosh. “I urge all to donate for the construction of the building. We are a non-profit hospital and need significant donations from people. We are in talks with some private corporations,” said Ghosh Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Teen foils child marriage in South 24-Parganas village||A child marriage was foiled on Monday at a village in South 24-Parganas because of efforts of a teenager in the neighbourhood. The 17-year-old girl, a member of a local child protection committee, went to the would-be bride’s home on Monday morning, hours before the marriage. She was instrumental in prevailing upon her parents to cancel the wedding, said other members of the committee who accompanied her to the girl’s home. A “strict warning” from police was helpful in “persuading” the parents. “We were tipped off about the marriage on Monday morning. I am happy that we reached there in time and were able to stop the marriage,” said the teenager, a Class XI student. The marriage was to have taken place at a village near Ghutiari Sharif, around 45km from the heart of Calcutta. “The 14-year-old girl, a student of Class VII, and the youth had known each other for a while and were spotted together by some villagers. The girl’s parents came under pressure and they approached the boy’s parents on Sunday. The two families scheduled the wedding for Monday,” said Samim Laskar, 29, a member of the child protection committee. “The girl’s father is a daily wage earner and was struggling to find work regularly. He has three daughters.” Metro has reported a spike in child marriages, especially in South and North 24-Parganas, in the wake of the lockdown induced by the Covid pandemic. Faced with a severe financial crisis, many families are considering getting their underage daughters married. On Monday, when the committee members reached the girl’s house, her parents were not home. “The girl denied she was about to get married but new clothes strewn around the house were a give-away,” said Laskar. A small crowd had gathered outside the home, taunting the visitors for “interfering in personal matters”. A social worker accompanying the visitors then called up an officer of a police outpost in Ghutiari Sharif. A team of cops reached the spot and drove the crowd away. The girl’s mother returned a while later. She was insisting the marriage was far away, but she broke down following a warning from the police. The teenage committee member spoke to the mother and daughter in detail. “She told the mother that she was sacrificing her daughter’s future for a short-term gain. When the woman said they were unable to bear her expenses, she spoke of various government schemes for girls and promised to provide institutional support from the committee,” Laskar said. The mother went to the police outpost to give an undertaking that she would not get her daughter married before she turned 18. The village-level child protection committees have been playing an integral part in curbing child marriages and trafficking in South 24-Parganas. The committee members raise awareness against child marriage, child labour and trafficking by extensive campaigning. “These groups are created to provide a safe space where children and adolescents can express and raise issues that concern them. They play a vital role in implementation of comprehensive community based interventions,” said a representative of International Justice Mission, an NGO that trains many such child protection committee members. Most of the committees have adolescent members. “The closure of schools had made our job difficult. Now that the schools are set to reopen, I can regularly interact with girls again,” said the teenager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||CMC stops 'registering' for Covid vaccine||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has stopped “registering” names of people above 50 at its ward health clinics for vaccination against Covid, officials of the civic body said on Thursday. Senior officials of the CMC’s health department conveyed the decision to stop the so-called registration to officials in charge of health services in the 16 boroughs of Calcutta at a meeting at the civic headquarters. Metro reported on Thursday that some ward health clinics of the CMC had kept books where people above 50 were enrolling their names in the hope that they would get preference when vaccination of the general public would begin. Senior state government officials had told this newspaper that the health department had not asked the CMC to register names of people above 50 since it was not clear when their turn would come for Covid vaccine doses. Currently, health-care and frontline workers are being given Covid shots. The Centre has hinted that vaccination of people above 50 and those below 50 but with comorbidities would start after March 6. “The commissioner of the CMC has instructed the civic health department to stop registration of names of Calcuttans above 50,” said an official. This newspaper called municipal commissioner Binod Kumar on Thursday evening but he said he could not hear anything. He did not respond to text messages till late on Thursday. The registration was being done at a few ward health clinics and it triggered a flood of queries from people in other parts of the city. In the absence of any public campaign by the CMC about the registration, people were also raising questions about the validity of the process. WhatsApp messages, sent by some ward coordinators to select residents of their areas, were circulating across the city. Many people landed up at their nearest CMC offices to enquire about where and how to register their names. CMC doctors managing health clinics where the registration did not start said they were under pressure from the respective ward coordinators — outgoing councillors — to start such registration in their clinics. “We were telling the ward coordinators that there was no guarantee that the registration would be considered valid when inoculation of the general public would start, but they would argue with us. Today’s instruction to stop the registration will help us,” said a doctor. “We would often get calls from residents who wanted to register their names.” More than 1,300 names had been registered in Ward 82 in Chetla. A few names had also been registered in Ward 68 in Ballygunge. The Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines, issued by the Centre, mentions that “the latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and Legislative Assembly election will be used to identify people aged 50 years or more”. A health department official said the state had to follow the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry in matters related to vaccination. The so-called registration raised questions in the minds of people outside Calcutta whether the city was being given preferential treatment. Among Calcuttans who did not get WhatsApp messages from their ward coordinators, many wondered whether some people were being preferred over others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||PCB gives coal-to-LPG push to ironers in Salt Lake||Coal burnt by the neighbourhood ironer has been identified as a significant source of air pollution. So the West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) has decided to distribute LPG-powered iron pressers to them. On Tuesday, the programme was initiated in Lake Town by handing over 60 such irons to the roadside ironers from the Bidhannagar assembly constituency area. The programme, held in presence of fire and emergency services minister Sujit Basu, WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra and member secretary Rajesh Kumar, has been undertaken to reduce air pollution and carbon emission in Salt Lake, as well as in Calcutta and Howrah. The pollution levels remain consistently higher in these areas compared to the national benchmark. “We want to reduce air pollution caused by burning of coal to generate heat in roadside laundries by handing over free LPG-powered iron pressers to them,” said PCB chairman Rudra. “So far, we have received a list of about 400 such ironers in Salt Lake. We will hand over the rest soon,” he told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Minister Sujit Bose pointed out that air pollution needed to be reduced without affecting the livelihood of poor people. So this is a useful move on both counts,” he said. The PCB chairman claimed that apart from the environmental benefit, the switch over from coal to gas would mean economic gain for the ironers. According to a survey, roadside laundry workers spend around Rs 200 per day on coal to iron about 150 clothes. “The cost would reduce to Rs 40 per day once they switch.” While the PCB is providing the iron presser worth Rs 4,800 with a gas-filled cylinder free, the recipients would have to refill the LPG once the first cylinder gets exhausted. State environment minister Soumen Mahapatra had earlier told The Telegraph Salt Lake that the PCB planned to handover 10,000 iron pressers in Calcutta, Bidhannagar and Howrah in a phased manner. A recent air pollution study conducted by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), commissioned by WBPCB, found that ironers contribute 0.14 per cent of the total PM 10 pollutants and 0.29 per cent of the total PM 2.5 pollutant load in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation area’s air pollution mix. PCB officials say that though Bidhannagar was out of the purview of the NEERI study, its figures are expected to be close to Calcutta’s. Both PM 10 and 2.5 pollutants are toxic — the latter more so — as they can enter the respiratory system and trigger diseases, including cancer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Salt Lake resident cheated of Rs 11 lakh||Three men were arrested in East Midnapore’s Egra early on Thursday for allegedly duping an elderly resident of Salt Lake of Rs 11 lakh by posing as executives of a cellular service provider, police said. The arrest followed a complaint lodged by Manav Mehra, a resident of BG block in Salt Lake’s Sector II, with Bidhannagar East police station. The three were picked up based on the statements of a fourth accused, who had been arrested on January 25, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. According to the complaint, Mehra’s father Amit had received a call in January and the caller introduced himself as an executive of a telecom service provider, the officer said. The caller told Amit Mehra that his cellphone number would be blocked and his SIM card would be deactivated as he had not submitted some documents. “The caller then asked Mehra to follow his instructions. Mehra received a link on his cellphone and the caller asked him to click on it and tell him the OTP that was sent to him,” the officer said. After Mehra shared the OTP with the caller, Rs 11 lakh was withdrawn from his bank account. An officer of the commissionerate said Mehra had been sent a link for a team-viewing app that let people control a cellphone or computer remotely. “Once Mehra told the caller the OTP, he gained complete control of his cellphone and siphoned off the money from his bank account,” the officer said. The three men who were arrested early on Thursday are Sougata Barapanda, Naba Kumar Patra and Shantanu Pradhan, alias Babu, all residents of Egra. Barapanda and Patra are distributors of a telecom service provider in Egra, while Pradhan sells SIM cards. The cops had earlier arrested Asif Khan from West Burdwan in connection with the case. A large number of pre-activated SIM cards have been recovered from the men. The SIM cards had been activated using forged documents, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Subdivisional hospital gets critical care unit||The opening was done virtually by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who also holds the health portfolio, from a programme at Netaji Indoor Stadium while local MLA and minister Sujit Bose, deputy chief medical officer, health, North 24-Parganas, Suparna Chattopadhyay and sub-divisional officer Biswajit Panda were present on a stage at the hospital. The guests were given a tour of the new ward where till recently Covid vaccination was being undertaken. Now the space has been sanitised and fitted with ventilators, ECG machines, defibrillators, BiPAP machines and infusion pumps. The 12-bed facility will run from next week with six beds for now. “The hospital caters to a wide cross-section of people in a big sub-division that ranges from Duttabad on one side to Sukantanagar and Polenite on the other, including all the blocks of Salt Lake and 10 more outside. It has developed step by step in recent years. I have contributed Rs 29 lakh from my local area development fund for this,” said Bose, who is also the chairman of the Rogi Kalyan Samiti of the hospital. Partha Pratim Guha, the superintendent of the hospital, expressed satisfaction that patients would no longer have to be referred to Nil Ratan Sircar Medical College and Hospital if they turned critical. “Sometimes getting a bed would be difficult. Now we hope to provide complete care under the same roof,” he said. Other facilities that have been added in the past three years are blood bank, digital X-ray, and CT scan. “All these are open round the clock. The chief minister had visited the hospital in 2015 and asked us what facilities were needed. The requirements are being met gradually,” Guha added. The programme was conducted by medical officer Subhro Bhattacharya, who is in charge of the state homeopathy dispensary at the hospital. An award of contract has also been passed this week for an ENT endoscope worth Rs 18.45 lakh for the hospital. “We hear even a dialysis unit has been sanctioned for us. We will create space for it once there is confirmation,” hospital sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||New police chief in charge||Supratim Sarkar is the new police commissioner of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. He has taken over from Mukesh Kumar. Kumar has now been posted as DIG Barasat range. Before this, Sarkar held the post of additional CP-II in Calcutta Police and had earlier served as the North 24-Parganas superintendent of police from 2007 to 2009. The shuffle is in line with the Election Commission’s stipulation that no officer should be in the same post for more than three years during the polls. In Salt Lake, the inspector-in-charge of the Bidhannagar South police station was replaced. Saikat Ghosh has also joined as the deputy commissioner, traffic, a few days ago. The vaccination drive of Bidhannagar Commissionerate began on Wednesday. The early recipients of the vaccines included deputy commissioner, headquarters, Surya Pratap Yadav, deputy commissioner of police, Bidhannagar, Umesh Ganpat and assistant commissioner of police, north, Shantanu Koar. The officers were administered the Covishield vaccine at Calcutta Heart Clinic. Henceforth policemen and women will be administered vaccines from both the Calcutta Heart Clinic and the Salt Lake sub-divisional hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals seek Covid vaccine clarity||The Centre is planning to start Covid-19 vaccination for two priority groups among the general public and private hospitals are asking how long they will have to provide infrastructure for the campaign and whether they need to allot more space and personnel. Some private hospitals said they might not be in a position to provide infrastructure and personnel for the vaccination programme if it goes on for an indefinite period. Others said they are ready to vaccinate the general public. If private hospitals opt out in large numbers, the queue for the jabs will increase at government health-care units, including those run by civic bodies across the state. The Centre has hinted that Covid vaccination among two priority groups of the general population — people above 50 and those below 50 but with comorbidities — would start after March 6. Most private hospitals said they had to provide five rooms for Covid vaccination. The room where recipients are made to wait for half an hour after being administered the jab has to be large to ensure physical distancing. Around 10 personnel, including doctors and nurses, are needed each day for the vaccination. Now most hospitals are administering Covid-19 vaccine doses to not more than 100-odd people — health-care workers and frontline workers. But officials of several private hospitals said the number could increase several times when others would start getting doses. Then they might need more rooms and personnel. “We have decided not to continue the vaccination programme after inoculation of health and frontline workers is completed. At the beginning of the drive, the state government’s form had three options for vaccination — health-care workers, frontline workers and general people. We ticked only the first two,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “A large area of our hospital has been dedicated to the vaccination programme and we cannot keep it like that indefinitely.” The CEO of another private hospital said they had asked the state government whether it was possible to pull out of the vaccination drive midway. “We have limited space in our hospital and can run the programme for maximum six months. It’s fine if everyone is covered in that period. Otherwise, we’ll have to opt out,” said the CEO. An official of the state health department said taking part in the vaccination drive was optional for private hospitals. “They can opt out anytime,” he said. An official of the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences said they would approach the state government to know how many people would have to be vaccinated each day when the programme starts for the general public. “Now we are vaccinating around 100 people on an average every day. If the number increases, we have to gear up our infrastructure and personnel,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. “With the existing infrastructure, we can vaccinate more than 200 people. We have to increase the number of rooms and personnel if the government says more people will have to be vaccinated daily,” Venkatesh said. Doctors and government officials said they are flooded with queries from “common people” about when they would be vaccinated and where. “More than 70 per cent of my patients are asking me when they will get the vaccine,” pulmonologist Ajoy Krishna Sarkar said. Some of the hospitals said they would continue with the vaccination drive. “We have told the state government that we are ready to administer vaccines to the general public,” said Rana Dasgupta, CEO, Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Mission mosquito||New Town has imposing statues of owls and rhinos but residents with multiple swollen red dots all over their hands will claim that it’s mosquitoes that are the most formidable presence. Salt Lake is no better. Mosquito nets have been pulled out of the loft and mosquito repellents are being sprayed generously all over households. Mosquitoes are back in the news as the pet peeve of the twin townships. Nightmare in New Town Residents of New Town’s AB, AD, AI, AL, CD, CE and DC have been crying hoarse about mosquitoes since the start of the year. Mrinal Das, a Santoshpur resident, spends the winter every year in the two-storeyed building he has built in AL Block. “This year, things were so bad that we had to quit New Town after staying for just a month and half, a full month earlier than we had planned to. There is wild growth in our adjacent vacant plots. Sometimes the NKDA team used to come for fogging but that only drove the mosquitoes into the house. It was unbearable even at daytime,” said Das, who has recently retired from service. Aniket Basak of AB Block has to shut all doors and windows of his house by 4pm. But that does not guarantee respite. “We have to keep the doors of the kitchen and the toilet closed too as they sneak in through the exhaust fan outlets there. In fact, going to the toilet at night is a torture as they lie in wait inside in a scourge.” He hopes that the situation would improve before summer. “It will be impossible to sleep with everything shut like this in the heat.” Even if one steps outside, in full-sleeved dress, the mosquitoes target the part of the body that they find uncovered, residents say. Whenever Uniworld City resident Sunil Khatri went down to watch the cricket tournament in their complex last weekend, he had to carry two things: mosquito repelling ointment and an electric racket to smack and electrocute the pests. “Without these it’s impossible to sit in the open in New Town,” he said. Salt Lake on the edge In Salt Lake, many blocks off the Kestopur canal, in sectors I and II, and off the Eastern Drainage Channel, in Sector III, are reeling under the onslaught of mosquitoes chasing them everywhere. Samar Bhattacharya of EE Block has had to give up on his evening walks due to the menace. “They keep following and buzzing over our heads. It gets worse in the evenings and we don’t see any vector control teams around anymore,” said Bhattacharya. “It’s never been as bad as this winter. This year we’ve had to take out mosquito nets,” said Bijoy Narayan Chaudhuri, vice-president of Jal Vayu Vihar Co-operative Housing Society. His complex lies on the entrance of Salt Lake from the Chingrihata side where construction work is on to build the Airport-New Garia Metro over the Eastern Drainage Canal. “The labourers are dumping their materials in the canal and the water is stagnating, giving a free run to mosquitoes. The corporation workers are spraying insecticide and fogging but it’s not helping,” said Chaudhuri over phone, sitting inside a mosquito net in his apartment at 6pm. Himadri Roy of Salt Lake’s AB Block is just as fed up. “Previously during morning walks we could see the Kestopur Canal water flowing but now it’s not only stagnant but also very low in depth. Mosquitoes are having a field day. We’ve given up urging  the authorities to do something about it,” he said. Challenges ahead The administration has a difficult challenge on hand, warn entomologists. Culex quinquefasciatus, the species of mosquito mostly breeding in New Town, is tough to control, they say, as these can fly in any direction up to 5km from their breeding site in search of blood. NKDA had contacted the Calcutta Municipal Corporation for help and chief vector control officer Debashis Biswas had come to give a two-hour presentation on January 19. Speaking to The Telegraph Salt Lake, Biswas points out that Culex quinquefasciatus become prevalent from October to March. “It remains active till March and is a vector of filariasis. But filaria patients are almost non-existent in Calcutta, Salt Lake or New Town -- it needs to bite a human to transmit the worm and the disease -- so it is more of a nuisance.” It breeds after the rainy season gets over when concentration of organic matter and organic ions increase in water. “Roadside gully pits, open surface drains, water accumulated in construction sites, abandoned water bodies and sides of canals where the water is stagnant are perfect breeding sites for this mosquito,” Biswas said. The suggestions he made at the presentation included resection and flushing of canals. “The Kestopur canal needs to be flushed by the irrigation department by opening the Bagbazar sluice gate.” He also suggested giving a guideline to promoters to keep the construction sites free of larvae. “They should buy knapsack sprayers and spray larvaecide. Every seven days, stagnant water should be pumped out as mosquitoes can breed there otherwise. In case that is not possible, two to two-and-half litres of kerosene should be sprayed for every 100sqm area, though this is not a long term solution,” he said. He also spoke of which insecticide to spray in what kind of terrain and suggested the eco-friendly BTI powder to be sprayed in canals. “Once the official letter comes from NKDA, our people will visit the spots to monitor how the vector control work is progressing in New Town.”. On war footing “We are aware of the mosquito menace and are using a multi-pronged approach to tackle the problem,” said Debashis Sen, chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). “In consultation with the fisheries department have released a lakh guppies in water bodies of the township including canals and those at Rabindra Tirtha and Eco Park,” Sen said. The fish eat up mosquito larva. They have also identified a problem with the septic tanks in the fringe areas of the township and are trying to overcome it. “A septic tank has three chambers. A vent pipe comes out of the third chamber which has only water. There is a species of mosquito, Armigeres subalbatus, which breeds inside. If the open mouths can be wrapped with nets, the entry of mosquitoes into the tank and their breeding can be blocked,” explained Biswas. Sen said they are now indeed getting the mouths of the tanks covered to control the menace. NKDA’s vector control team is also netting the surface of Kestopur Canal to trap mosquitoes underneath. “That way, even if they do breed in the water they will be unable to fly out of the region,” he said. The intensity and frequency of fogging and larvicide spraying has been increased and recently, the campuses of West Bengal Judicial Academy and St Xavier’s University were sprayed and fogged too. Teams on boats are spraying along the banks of Bagjola and Keshtopur canals. “At the same time I request residents not to allow water to stagnate. It’s winter but it rained the other day and such spells can lead to water accumulation. There can be no room for complacency,” said Sen. Relief in sight Alok Das, of CE Block, feels the NKDA’s actions have started to bear fruit. “Mosquitoes are still there but things seem to be improving over the last few days. The Kestopur canal is being cleared of water hyacinths and spraying of larvaecide is also being done. Earlier the cleaning was happening till the concrete box bridge near Loha Bridge. Now they are extending the activity till Aquatica. A net has been installed to guard the flotsam from drifting downstream into the New Town part of the canal,” said Das, who regularly goes over to monitor the canal-side work. Ajit Jose was down with dengue in the second week of January. “The weather was pleasant so I used to go for evening walks. I must have  got bitten then,” says the general manager of Ibis Hotel, who has recently moved into New Town. “Our hotel is fogged regularly but outside in the streets the mosquitoes were everywhere.” He too believes the situation has improved with the rise in temperature. Spraying equipment defunct If you’re impressed with the effort in New Town wait till you hear of the state in Salt Lake. A Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation official said that many of their larvicide-spraying equipment had become defunct. “And we can’t call for new tenders till the elections,” he said. “Salt Lake does not have open drains and it’s perplexing how there has been such a rise in the number of mosquitoes,” said Pranay Kumar Ray, member of the civic body’s board of administrators. “We will  launch a drive to check all septic tanks.” An official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority, which provides civic services to Sector V, said that they were spraying larvicide regularly but a dip in temperature had led to a spurt in mosquitoes. On Wednesday, The Telegraph saw accumulated water thrown from pavement eateries on the sides of the roads in Sector V. Do it yoruself Fed up of the lackadaisical attitude of the authorities, some Salt Lake residents have taken it upon themselves to tackle mosquitoes. The AE (Part II) association has been spraying larvicide around the block for the past couple of months. “The civic body’s vector control measures are not enough and since our block is adjacent to Kestopur Canal we are at the mercy of mosquitoes, whose population has gone up by several times,” said Tapas Sengupta the secretary of the AE Block Samaj Kalyan Sangha. “The authorities must release water into the canal by opening the lockgate of the Hooghly river at Baghbazar.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Bandh worry on day of school reopening||Thousands of students who are set to return to school after almost a year went to sleep with uncertainty as Left parties have called a 12-hour bandh on Friday. The state government has allowed schools, which have been shut since March last year as a precaution against Covid, to reopen for Classes IX to XII from February 12. Parents are anxious that going to school on Day 1 after resumption of in-person classes might be hampered if the bandh disrupts transport. Suman Das, a resident of Piyali in South 24-Parganas, is a Class XII student at Katjunagar Swarnamoyee Vidyapith in Jadavpur. “We take a train from Piyali to Jadavpur. We are not sure whether we can allow him to go tomorrow because train services might be disrupted,” said mother Pratima Das. Asked about the bandh, education minister Partha Chatterjee said the government would go ahead with its decision to reopen schools on Friday. “Everybody wanted schools to reopen. What will happen to the students who will appear in Madhyamik and higher secondary exams? If they (those who have called the bandh) take any decision without paying attention to these issues, what can we do? We will go ahead with our plan,” he said. Schools are sticking to their reopening schedule. “We will keep the school open and also continue with online classes. Those students who will come to school will have on-campus classes and those who cannot can attend online classes. We leave it to parents to decide whether they can send their wards to school or not,” said Sunita Sen, the principal of The BSS School. Many parents said they would accompany their children to school fearing trouble. “I will drop my daughter in the morning and pick her up in the afternoon. I do not want her to be alone because there might be disturbance on the road,” said S. Mukherjee, who lives in Panchasayar. Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School, expressed the hope that the bandh would not impact public transport. “Friday is the first day of school after so many months and we are eager to welcome the students back. Many senior students travel on their own and depend on public transport,” said Prasad. “Many of our students come from places far away from Jadavpur. They rely on public transport. How will they come to school? Guardians are worried,” said Parimal Bhattacharya, the headmaster of Jadavpur Vidyapith. “The guardians are calling us to find out what they will do. We are clueless, too. An elaborate plan to restart school has suffered a jolt,” said Subhabrata Mukherjee, the headmaster of Sanskrit Collegiate School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Faced with resistance from parents, schools offer online exams||The parents of many students of Classes IX and XI at Delhi Public School Ruby Park have objected to the authorities’ decision that the children would write their exams on the campus. About 600 parents have handed over a petition to the school authorities pleading that the option of online exams be kept open. Faced with resistance from parents, some schools have called off the decision to conduct on-campus exams and some are offering students the option of writing the test online. The state government has allowed schools, shut since March last year as a precaution against Covid, to reopen for in-person instruction for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. But many parents are still reluctant to send their children to school and many have refused to give consent. “We want the school to give us the option of online exams, because we feel conditions are not conducive enough to send children to school,” said the mother of a Class XI student of DPS Ruby Park. The school is reopening on Friday for the students of Classes IX to XII. Exams are slated later this month. Officials of the school said the two classes (IX and XI) together have around 1,200 students. When asked about the parents’ demand to hold online exams, principal Joyoti Chaudhuri said: “Since we are reopening after so many months, our primary focus now is to resume classes on Friday. We will abide by whatever guidelines the board (CBSE) has given us.” The CBSE sent a circular to all school heads on Thursday, saying: “For Classes IX and XI also, schools should take steps to identify and remedy the learning gaps and thereafter, conduct examinations by strictly following COVID safety protocols as per Examination Bye-Laws. This exam will also help in identifying learning gaps which could be addressed by the schools in the new academic session, at the beginning of classes, by having a bridge course especially designed to address learning gaps.” Delhi Public School New Town has decided to cancel on-campus exams for students of Classes IX and XI. The tests will be held online, which 90 per cent of the parents want. “We had wanted to conduct exams in school, but we have to take the consent of parents and also respect the concerns of the parents,” said principal Sonali Sen. Teachers have also realised that children have lost the habit of sitting for two to three hours at a stretch, which they are required to do to write an exam. The last time the students wrote an exam at school was in February-March last year. At Julien Day School Ganganagar, only about 14 per cent of the parents have given consent to send their children to school. “We will conduct both online and offline examinations. We cannot force children to come in such a situation,” said principal Bobby Baxter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta airport lounge meant for passengers taking chartered flights deemed ‘unsafe’||A lounge at the Calcutta airport meant for passengers taking chartered flights and private jets and looking for exclusive privileges will not become operational because it has been deemed “unsafe and unviable” by the authorities, officials said. The 1,000sq m lounge, adjacent to the integrated terminal, was supposed to be a for-hire facility for those passengers who seek exclusivity. It was constructed in 2015 at a cost of Rs 1.6 crore but has been lying defunct since. An official of the government-run airport said the bureau of civil aviation security had raised concerns about the lounge because of its proximity to some of the parking bays. According to another official, some other security concerns were raised, too. “The general aviation lounge was to have a security check-in facility. The passengers who would check into the lounge before boarding a flight were not supposed to go to the security check-in counter and stand in a queue. The lounge was supposed to have an X-ray machine and frisking booth,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya said. “However, Central Industrial Security Force personnel needed to be deployed round the clock there. But because of lack of demand, deploying CISF personnel round the clock was not viable at that time. So, the clearance was not given. The plan to operate the lounge has been shelved.” The director said the furniture set up at the lounge had been shifted to other facilities on the premises. Portions of the walls and ceiling of the lounge are coming off because of lack of maintenance, officials said. When the lounge was built in 2015, it was meant for users to hold private meetings, too. According to the plan, a passenger checking into the lounge can use the conference room and bedroom. Airport officials said they were not planning to set up a similar facility at another place within the terminal because of lack of demand. “There is no demand for such a facility at the Calcutta airport. When the lounge was built, a few chambers of commerce had requested for such a facility. But later no one showed any interest,” an official said. All major private airports in India, including the ones in Mumbai and Delhi, have such a lounge. “Before the Covid pandemic, the two passenger lounges in the international and domestic sections did not have much footfall,” an official said. “Now, the only lounge that has some demand is the one for VIPs. Politicians coming to Calcutta use that lounge.” Officials of some of the airlines said they had raised objections about the lounge being built outside the terminal building when it was being constructed. “We had said it would be difficult to deploy our personnel to take the passengers to that lounge and assist them. But no one had listened then. It was a waste of government money,” said an official of a private airline. The airport director said the lounge would not be demolished but there was no plan yet on how to use the facility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Biker killed in hit & run on Picnic Garden Road||A man riding a motorbike died in an accident on Picnic Garden Road early on Thursday, police said. Khokon Mandal, 52, was wearing a helmet when an unidentified vehicle hit his two-wheeler and sped away, the police said. Mandal, a resident of Nonadanga’s Bhai Bhai Colony in Anandapur, was taken to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, where he was declared dead. Police officers said deserted roads or relatively less crowded stretches are more prone to accidents as vehicles tend to speed through them. The police said they were examining footage from CCTV cameras closest to the accident spot to try and track down the offending vehicle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
12-02-2021||Business||Special court grants bail to former ICICI boss Chanda Kochhar||Former ICICI Bank CEO and MD Chanda Kochhar on Friday appeared before a court here in the alleged ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case, and was granted bail. It was the former banker's first appearance in the court. On January 30, the special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) had summoned Chanda Kochhar, her husband Deepak, Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot and other accused after taking cognisance of the charge sheet. Chanda Kochhar accordingly appeared before the special Judge A A Nandgaonkar. Her lawyers Vijay Agarwal and Rahul Agarwal sought bail for her, arguing that she had been cooperating with the Enforcement Directorate's probe and had visited the ED office in Delhi whenever summoned. The Central agency has never arrested her in the case, they pointed out. The judge granted her bail on a bond of Rs 5 lakh and directed that she should report to the ED office whenever required and not leave India without the court's permission. The court also asked her to surrender her passport to the ED immediately. "The applicant shall not tamper with the evidence or attempt to influence or contact the complainant, witnesses or any person concerned with the case," the order said. Deepak Kochhar, who is currently in judicial custody, was also produced before the court. Dhoot's lawyers said he did not remain present as he had not received the summons. A prosecution official said they tried to serve the summons to the industrialist, but could not do so as there was no male member present at his house to accept it. The ED arrested Deepak Kochhar in September 2020 after it filed a case for money laundering based on an FIR registered by the CBI against the Kochhar couple, Dhoot and others. The ED alleged that Rs 64 crore out of a loan of Rs 300 crore sanctioned by a committee of ICICI Bank headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Limited was transferred to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd (NRPL) on September 8, 2009, a day after the disbursement of loan. It is alleged that this was a quid-pro-quo for sanctioning the loan as NRPL was owned by Deepak Kochhar. Judge Nandgaonkar, while taking cognisance of the charge sheet, had observed that from the material presented by the ED, it appeared that Chanda Kochhar misused her official position in granting loan to Dhoot and Videocon group firms, and "got illegal gratification" through her husband. The material was sufficient to proceed with trial against the accused, the court had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||FM takes dig at Chidambaram, says budget aims to make India self-reliant||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the Budget is aimed at making India self-reliant and provides strong stimulus for medium to long term sustainable high growth. While replying to the discussion on the Budget 2021-22, the minister also attacked former finance minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram for suspecting the Budget numbers. She, however, did not mention his name. Stressing that the Budget is for Aatmanirbhar Bharat, she said, "attempt made in this Budget is to provide strong stimulus and provide such a stimulus which can bring in that kind of a multiplier effect...". "We are also looking at medium to long-term sustainable growth to keep India in that kind of growth trajectory which will maintain us as one of the fastest growing economies in the world," she said. With coronavirus pandemic affecting economic activities in the country, India's GDP growth is estimated to contract to a historic low of 7.7 per cent in the financial year ending March 2021. The economy is likely to pick up in the next fiscal and expand by about 11 per cent, as per various estimates. Referring to Chidambaram's remark that major numbers are suspect in the Budget presented by her on February 1, Sitharaman said it was the Congress finance minister who had artificially increased capex numbers during 2007-08 when UPA was ruling the country. She said bonds were issued to oil marketing companies and fertilizer manufacturers in lieu of cash subsidies to "make the balance sheet attractive". "Fake narratives were created... Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not depend on fudging," she said. The finance minister also said that infrastructure creation, continuing reforms, and transparency of accounts are major features of this year's Budget.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||Markets end flat after choppy trade||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended flat after choppy trade on Friday, tracking weak cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE Sensex gyrated 543.96 points before closing 12.78 points or 0.02 per cent higher at its new closing record of 51,544.30. The broader NSE Nifty, however, slipped 10 points or 0.07 per cent to 15,163.30. ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Infosys, HDFC twins, Bajaj Finserv and SBI. On the other hand, ITC, ONGC, Sun Pharma, Bharti Airtel and Titan were among the laggards. According to Anand James, Chief Market Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, risk appetite trickled down and equities pared gains with several cities across globe entering fresh lockdowns. "Indian equities were in the green in the first half with Bank Nifty rising over 1 per cent, but VIX rose in the second half, and traders opted cut down long bets across sectors, going into the weekend," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, most bourses remained closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.72 per cent lower at USD 60.70 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points in opening trade on Friday tracking gains in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank amid persistent foreign fund inflows. The 30-share BSE index was trading 141.75 points or 0.28 per cent higher at 51,673.27, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 36.50 points or 0.24 per cent to 15,209.80. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech, HDFC Bank, TCS and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, ITC, ONGC, Bharti Airtel, SBI and IndusInd Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 222.13 points or 0.43 per cent higher at its new closing peak of 51,531.52, and Nifty advanced 66.80 points or 0.44 per cent to its all-time high of 15,173.30. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 944.36 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. "Domestic equities look to be soft at the moment. Benchmark indices remained upbeat and continued to ride post the announcement of Union Budget, which was also supported by a sharp recovery in FPIs flow," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. US equities finished mostly higher mainly on growing expectations of higher fiscal stimulus after weaker-than-expected Jobless claim data. Elsewhere in Asia, most bourses remained closed on account of the Lunar New Year and other holidays. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.62 per cent lower at USD 60.76 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||Data leak worry after Koo’s coup||The founders of homegrown microblogging site Koo spent much of the last couple of days managing two challenges: first burnishing its ‘Indian’ credentials while dispelling any concerns over its Chinese funding links, and second ensuring the platform is robust enough to deal with the influx of new users as ministers and bureaucrats clamber on to it along with their followers after the Modi government’s latest standoff with Twitter. Koo co-founder Aprameya Radhakrishna, who earlier founded online cab booking service TaxiForSure, has revealed that the funding of parent company Bombinate Technologies Pvt Ltd largely came from Indian investors. The $4.1 million series A funding round announced last week was led by former Infosys veteran Mohandas Pai’s 3One4 Capital which joins other investors such as Accel, Kalaari Capital, Blume Ventures and Dream Incubator. According to data from Crunchbase, Bombinate Technologies had raised a series A funding in 2018 for Vokal, an application that allows questions to be asked and answered in Indian languages. That round of funding of $5 million had a Chinese investor: Shunwei Capital, which will now exit the company, says Radhakrishna. “Koo is an India registered company with Indian founders. Raised earlier capital 2.5 years ago. Latest funds for Bombinate Technologies is led by a truly Indian investor 3One4Capital. Shunwei (single digit shareholder) which had invested in our Vokal journey will be exiting fully,” he said in a tweet. But Koo has already become embroiled in controversy after ethical hacker Elliot Anderson revealed on Twitter that the platform was exposing sensitive information of its users including email address, date of birth, marital status, gender etc. There have also been concerns about whether its servers are based out of India. Radhakrishnan has vigorously countered the criticism in a series of tweets. “The data visible is something the user has voluntarily shown on their profile of Koo. It cannot be termed a data leak. If you visit a user profile, you can see it anyway,” he said. Radhakrishna also posted a screenshot of its domain information to assert that the company is registered in India and its servers are located in the country. The company has already built a 3 million user base and is looking to raise it 10-fold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||Coal India net profit declines 21% in Q3||State-owned CIL on Thursday reported a 21.3 per cent fall in consolidated net profit at Rs 3,085.39 crore for the quarter ended December 31, 2020.  The company had posted a net profit of Rs 3,923.87 crore in the corresponding period a year ago. Income during October-December 2020-21 slipped marginally to Rs 24,334.62 crore from Rs 24,602.19 crore in the year-ago period. CIL’s production during the quarter under review increased to 156.78 million tonnes (mt) from 147.50mt in the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year. Coal India accounts for over 80 per cent of domestic output. The company said its board has given approval for the incorporation of two wholly owned subsidiaries, one for solar value chain (ingot-wafercell-module) business vertical and another for new and renewable energy. CIL will also pump in over Rs 1.22 lakh crore in projects related to coal evacuation, exploration and clean coal technologies by 2023-24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||ITC posts 11% fall in profit after tax in Q3||ITC has posted an 11.4 per cent decline in profit after tax in the third quarter at Rs 3,587.09 crore, down from Rs 4,050.4 crore recorded in the same period last year. Total income, however, went up 5.1 per cent to Rs 14,670.17 crore from Rs 13,960.5 crore. The company declared an interim dividend of Rs 5 per share of face value Re 1. Sequentially, however, ITC did better in terms of profit and income. Profits were up by 5.1 per cent, while total income was up 6.8 per cent. Cigarette, the mainstay of the company’s business, showed higher revenues both sequentially and year-on-year basis. However, the profit before tax was down year-on-year to Rs 3,658.65 crore but was up on a quarter-on-quarter basis. The non-cigarette FMCG business recorded a revenue and PBT growth year-on-year but they were down quarter-on-quarter. Losses from the hotels business, which were severely affected by the pandemic, came down sequentially.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||Air fares set to rise as govt increases cap by up to 30% ||Air fares are set to go up after the Centre on Thursday announced higher minimum and maximum fares by 10-30 per cent. The cap has been extended till March. The increase is in the region of 10 per cent for a one-way fare at the minimum fare level for a flight of less than 40 minutes to about 30 per cent for a maximum fare for a flight of between 180 minutes to 210 minutes. The new fares will take effect from Thursday. Flights between cities that are under 40 minutes have been classified under Section 1, while those under 40-60 minutes are under Section 2. Section 3 consists of destinations 60-90 minutes apart by flight, Section 4 comprises cities 90-120 minutes apart, Section 5 consists of cities 120-150 minutes apart. Destinations between 150-180 minutes and 180-210 minutes have been classified under Section 6 and 7, respectively. The fresh lower and upper limits set by the ministry for these bands were: Rs 2,800 - Rs 9,800; Rs 3,300 – Rs 11,700; Rs 3,900 – Rs 13,000; Rs 5,000 – Rs 16,900; Rs 6,100 – Rs 20,400; Rs 7,200 – Rs 24,200, respectively. So far a flight from Delhi to Calcutta or Delhi to Mumbai for flights, which has duration of 90 to 120 minutes the lower fare cap has been increased to Rs 3,900 from Rs 3,500 whereas the cap on maximum chargeable fare has been increased to Rs 13,000 from Rs 10,000, officials said. They said the actual cost of a one-way ticket will be slightly higher as the passenger will have to bear the cost of User Development Fund, Security fee and GST. In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the aviation ministry implemented a restriction on domestic airfare in May, 2020 to help both airlines and passengers from predatory pricing. Airlines have to make available 40 per cent of total seats in an aircraft at less than the mid-point price between the highest and lowest fares, aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola earlier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||Magma Fincorp to focus on small loans||Adar Poonawalla, set to acquire Magma Fincorp (MFL), on Thursday said the deal had caused a change in his plans for the finance sector: Poonawalla Finance his current non-banking finance company (NBFC) will cease to exist while MFL will focus on small loans . On Wednesday, Rising Sun Holdings Pvt Ltd, a company controlled by Poonawalla and MFL, had announced a preferential issue which will lead to Rising Sun Holdings have a controlling 60 per cent in MFL. Consequent to the allotment, the existing promoter group stake would get reduced to 13.3 per cent even as the net worth of MFL will increase to over Rs 6,300 crore. Magma Fincorp and its subsidiaries will also be renamed and rebranded as Poonawalla Finance, subject to regulatory approvals. Subsequent to the completion of the preferential allotment, the existing financial services business of Poonawalla Finance will be consolidated into Magma Fincorp. The stock markets on Thursday gave a thumbs up to the development, with the Magma Fincorp stock rising almost 10 per cent to end at Rs 93.40 on the BSE. Speaking to a business television channel, Poonawalla said while Poonawalla Finance (which began operations two years ago) provides personal loans and to the SME segments, they plan to surrender the lending license even as MFL will don the Poonawalla Finance brand name. “Post the ILFS crisis, Magma Fincorp had been struggling to raise money from capital markets and their dependence on bank borrowings had been consistently increasing. Moreover, the volatile trends in asset quality (especially in vehicle finance) had kept the profitability under consistent pressure. This transaction would strengthen Magma’s overall capital position and would allow the company to realign its business as desired’’, analysts at Emkay said in a note. The board of Magma Fincorp will also be reconstituted with Rising Sun Holdings proposing to nominate Poonawalla as the Chairman of the company and Abhay Bhutada, presently Managing Director & CEO of Poonawalla Finance, as Managing Director. However, Sanjay Chamria would continue as the Executive Vice Chairman of the Board. An open offer will also be made by Rising Sun Holdings, Mayank Poddar and Sanjay Chamria to whom preferential allotment is being made. Magma Fincorp will allot 45,80,00,000 shares to Rising Sun Holdings, and 3,57,14,286 shares to Chamria and Poddar at a price of Rs 70 per share. The open offer will be made at the same price. Commenting on the development, analysts at ICICI Securities said that Magma Fincorp has been at the receiving end of the liquidity crisis when risk aversion of banks and debt investors was at its peak, though it was gradually coming out of it. Backing of a strong corporate group with substantial fund infusion will likely have a positive impact on its credit ratings and contain the cost of funds, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
12-02-2021||Business||Sun Pharmaceutical settles whistleblower complaint with Sebi||Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd and its founder Dilip Shanghvi have settled a whistleblower complaint with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) alleging diversion of funds through the company’s sole distributor. Sun Pharma has paid a settlement amount of Rs 56.1 lakh, Shanghvi has paid Rs 62.35 lakh. Other top executives of the company that included chief financial officer- Uday Baldota (Rs 24.65 lakh), whole time directors Kalyanasundaram Subramanian (Rs 36.9 lakh), Sailesh T. Desai (Rs 37.41 lakh) and Sudhir V. Valia (Rs 37.41 lakh) have also settled the case without admission or denial of guilt before the capital market regulator. Whistleblower complaints were made against the country’s largest drug maker and its wholly owned subsidiary, Sun Pharmaceutical Laboratories Ltd, alleging that they had been diverting funds through Aditya Medisales Ltd (AML), its sole distributor in India. It was also alleged that transactions with AML were going on for several years. However, AML was disclosed as a related party of Sun Pharma only in 2017-18. Sebi said it observed during the investigation that AML was a related party of Sun Pharma. even before the scheme of amalgamation between two companies. However, the relevant compliance pertaining to related parties, as required under Sebi LODR (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements), were not made by Sun Pharma with regard to AML. According to SEBI, prior approval of the audit committee for transactions with AML, as required under the LODR Regulations, 2015, was not obtained. Further, considering that the transactions with AML would have qualified as material related party transactions, it required approval of shareholders under regulation 23(4) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, which was not obtained. The market regulator also said that disclosure of related party transactions with AML in the Annual Reports for 2015-16 and 2016-17, as required under regulation 34(3) read with schedule V of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, was not made. Due to this, it was observed that Sun Pharma had violated regulation 23(2), 23(4) and 34(3) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 SEBI was satisfied that there are sufficient grounds to inquire into the affairs and adjudicate upon the alleged aforesaid violations. The competent authority,vide order datedMarch 02, 2020. The market regulator added that since a company acts through its board of directors and the directors are responsible for all the acts of omission and commission by the company and therefore Shanghvi and the other key executives were in charge of operations and decision making process, and therefore, they had violated LODR provisions. SEBI however, pointed out that in terms of Regulation 28 of the Settlement Regulations, it has the right to take any enforcement action including restoring or initiating the proceedings with regard to the settlement order if any representation made by the applicants in the settlement proceedings are subsequently discovered to be untrue or they breach any of the clauses or conditions filed during the settlement proceedings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
12-02-2021||Business||Aditya Mittal becomes new chief executive officer of ArcelorMittal||Aditya Mittal has been elevated as the new chief executive officer of ArcelorMittal, signalling a transition at the top leadership of the world’s leading steelmaker. Prior to this position, Mittal was the chief financial officer and the president of the company, while his father Lakshmi Niwas Mittal was the CEO and the chairman. After the reshuffle, L. N. Mittal, who founded the company in 1976, will adorn the role of the executive chairman. ArcelorMittal said he would continue to lead the board of directors and work together with the CEO and the management team. Genuino Christino, who was the head of finance, will succeed Aditya as the CFO. The day-to-day operation of ArcelorMittal, which has a presence in 60 countries, including India, will be run by Aditya, who has been spearheading the company’s mergers and acquisitions, the core strength on which the $53.3-billion empire has been built. Born in 1976, Aditya joined his father at Ispat International in 1997 and oversaw the IPO of Ispat. He subsequently became the head of M&A. As the CFO of LNM Holdings, he led the combination of Ispat International with LNM to form Mittal Steel, of which he became the CFO. He identified the opportunity of combining Arcelor and Mittal Steel and led the merger offer which culminated in the creation of ArcelorMittal in 2006. Aditya also spearheaded the acquisition of Essar Steel in partnership with Nippon Steel of Japan in 2019. He is now the chairman of the company renamed as AM/NS India. “This seems like the right moment to transition to executive chairman and the board unanimously agree that Aditya Mittal is the natural and right choice to be the company’s chief executive. We have worked closely together since he joined the company in 1997, indeed in the recent years we have been managing the company together,” L. N. Mittal, 70, said in a statement. Born in the Churu district of Rajasthan, he studied in St Xavier’s College on Park Street in Calcutta before heading towards Indonesia to build a rolling mill, marking the journey which catapulted LNM to the top of the steel world. Better show ArcelorMittal on Thursday posted a net income of $1.2 billion for the quarter ended December 2020 against a net loss of $1.8 billion in the year-ago quarter. For the whole of 2020, it reported a net loss of $733 million against a net income of $2.4 billion in 2019. ArcelorMittal follows a January to December fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
12-02-2021||Business||Amazon challenges court order staying restriction of Future-Reliance deal||Amazon Inc on Thursday challenged an order of the division bench of the Delhi high court that had stayed an earlier order of the same court directing Future Retail Ltd (FRL) and other statutory authorities to maintain status quo on the Kishore Biyani company’s Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. In its special leave petition, expected to come up for hearing on Monday, Amazon has said the division bench order of February 8 was being passed “hastily” and was “unsustainable in law” since it did not even wait for the verdict of an order from the single judge of the same court that was reserved on February 2. The Delhi high court should not even have entertained the appeal filed by FRL against the single judge’s order, Amazon said. The US online giant argued the appeal was barred under Section 37 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. Pleading if the division bench order was not set aside by the apex court, it would cause “irreparable loss”, Amazon said the bench had “… failed to appreciate that the single judge order was issued… for the limited purpose of preserving the rights of the parties till the pronouncement of the final orders”. But without waiting for the pronouncement of the final order, the division bench had “hastily passed” the status quo order, Amazon has contended. Earlier on February 8, the bench of  Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh had ruled that statutory authorities such as the National Company Law Tribunal, CCI and Sebi cannot be restrained from proceeding with the deal. On February 2, the single judge bench of  Justice J.R. Midha had directed FRL to maintain status quo vis-a-vis  Reliance Retail after Amazon Inc challenged the deal between FRL and Reliance Retail. “This Court is satisfied that immediate orders are necessary to protect the rights of the petitioner (Amazon) till the pronouncement of the reserved order. In view of the matter, the respondents are directed to maintain status quo as on today at 4:50pm till the pronouncement of the reserved order,” the judge had said in the February 2 order while reserving its order on the main petition. It also directed all other concerned authorities to maintain status quo in relation to the matters which are in violation of the emergency award and to file a  report with regard to the present status within 10 days. Aggrieved, FRL filed the appeal before a division bench which stayed the single judge order. Future Retail on Tuesday had filed a caveat in the Supreme Court demanding the company be heard if Amazon files a case in the apex court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
12-02-2021||India||Explosion in Tamil Nadu fireworks factory leaves 11 dead||At least 11 workers were killed and 36 injured when an explosion ripped through a fireworks factory near Sattur in this southern district in Tamil Nadu on Friday, Police said. The explosion occurred when some chemicals were being mixed to produce fireworks at the unit in Acchankulam village, they said, adding the injured had been hospitalised. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami, Governor Banwarilal Purohit and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi were among those who condoled the deaths. Modi and Palaniswami announced an ex-gratia of Rs two lakh each and three lakh each to the kin of the deceased from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund and the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund respectively. The factory building was damaged badly under the impact of the explosion and many suffered burns. Palaniswami, in a statement, said all the 11 workers were killed on the spot and that he has ordered a probe into the incident, while assuring due legal action. Several fire fighting units were deployed to douse the fire and take up the rescue operations. Earlier, TV visuals showed relatives of the victims wailing near the mishap site while the injured were rushed to hospitals in ambulances. Modi said the "fire at a firecracker factory in Virudhunagar, Tamil Nadu is saddening." Posting in his official Twitter handle, @PMO India, he said "in this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I hope that injured recover soon. Authorities are working on the ground to assist those affected: PM @narendramodi." "An ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each has been approved from PMNRF for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to a fire in Virudhunagar, Tamil Nadu. Rs 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured," he said, in tweet, which was also made in Tamil. Palaniswami, in a statement, said all the 11 victims were killed on the spot and expressed grief over the deaths. "I was anguished to know that 36 persons have been injured in the explosion and have directed the officials to ensure due medical treatment to them," he said. He announced a sum of Rs three lakh each to the families of the deceased and Rs one lakh to those who had suffered grievous injuries. The Chief Minister said he has directed expediting the relief work and asked the district collector Virudhunagar, home to the country's fireworks hub, to console the families of the victims in person. The collectors concerned should conduct periodic checks at such units to ensure workers' safety, he said, adding the factories should follow due safety measures in view of the coming summer season, indicating high temperatures then could lead to similar mishaps. Purohit said he was shocked and grieved to hear about the accident and prayed for the early and complete recovery of the injured. "I offer my deep condolences to the families of those who are mourning the loss of their near and dear ones," he said in a Raj Bhavan statement. Gandhi, in a tweet, said: "Heartfelt condolences to the victims of the firecracker factory fire in Virudhunagar, Tamil Nadu. It's heart-wrenching to think of those still trapped inside. I appeal to the state government to provide immediate rescue, support & relief," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||Two more bodies recovered, death toll rises to 38 in Uttarakhand disaster||Two more bodies were recovered from the flash flood-hit areas of Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Friday, taking the toll in the calamity to 38, as rescue teams battled on against the odds for the sixth consecutive day to get to 25-35 people trapped in a sludge-choked tunnel here. One body was recovered from the rubble at the demolished Rishi Ganga Hydel Project in Raini and the other from Maithana, district administration officials here said. A separate team of rescuers was formed under the supervision of the executive engineer of the Rural Works Department to expedite the search operation taking the help of locals and old photographs of the demolished Rishi Ganga hydel project. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel using excavators and JCBs are dredging through the muck to locate the missing, the officials said. At Tapovan, besides the continuing sludge clearing and drilling inside the tunnel, an approach road is being built near the Gauri Shankar temple so that a Pokland machine could be sent down in search of those missing in the debris. A cofferdam is also being constructed at Tapovan to prevent any more water from flushing into the tunnel. Meanwhile, with scientists spotting a new glacial lake in the higher reaches of Rishi Ganga, an eight-member team of the scientists of the Geological Survey of India was formed to inspect the lake, Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria said. The GSI team is being sent to inspect the lake and submit its report to the district administration at the earliest, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||Brazen compromise on security, says Congress on LAC pact||The Congress on Thursday fiercely confronted the Narendra Modi government’s triumphalism about a breakthrough with China on the intrusion into Ladakh, describing the agreement as “a brazen compromise on national security and territorial integrity”. Rahul Gandhi set the tone of discourse soon after defence minister Rajnath Singh’s statement in the Rajya Sabha with this blunt tweet: “No status quo ante=No peace & tranquillity. Why is the Government of India insulting the sacrifice of our jawans and letting go of our territory?” While Rajnath himself referred to outstanding issues with China, the tenor of his statement suggested satisfaction even as status quo ante had not been restored and Indian troops were clearly in a disadvantageous position compared to the situation prior to April-May 2020. Condemning the government’s stance as a “failure of Modi’s diplomacy and strategy”, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said that “the false bravado of a fake nationalist government was exposed”. Surjewala said in a statement: “Modi government is brazenly compromising national security and India’s territorial integrity. This is clear from defence minister’s statement. The Prime Minister is scared of even uttering the word ‘China’, much less ensuring that Chinese are pushed back decisively from illegal occupation of India’s territory in Depsang Plains, Gogra Hot Springs Sector, Pangong Tso Lake area and Chumur, southern Ladakh.” Accusing the government of misleading the nation, Surjewala said: “Modi government refused to give an unequivocal assurance for restoration of ‘status quo ante’ as on April 2020. Can the Prime Minister and defence minister explain their complete and total failure in protecting India’s territorial integrity? Why is the government agreeing to a selective disengagement only in Pangong Tso Lake area and that also by presumably changing the LAC to India’s disadvantage? Even in Pangong Tso Lake area, India was occupying Finger 4 and was patrolling up to Finger 8 on the north bank. India’s stance has been clear and unequivocal — LAC is up to Finger 8. As per defence minister’s statement, Indian troops will withdraw now to Finger 3.” Rejecting the BJP’s charge that the Congress was being irresponsible on such a sensitive issue, Surjewala said India’s territorial integrity was non-negotiable and was about partisan warfare and blame-game. He said, “Does it not tantamount to redrawing the LAC to India’s disadvantage and creating a buffer zone between Finger 3 and Finger 8, that is, on our side of the LAC? Our forces had shown extraordinary courage and valour in face of the Chinese aggression and had occupied the vantage points on ‘Kailash Ranges’ on the southern bank of Pangong Tso Lake area. Defence minister’s statement today would mean that our armed forces will be withdrawing from these vantage points in Kailash Ranges on the southern bank.” Arguing that one of the most strategic and provocative incursions into the Indian territory by Chinese was in Depsang Plains, Surjewala said: “The Chinese have occupied our territory 18 kilometres inside the LAC up to Y-Junction (bottleneck) and are stopping our armed forces from patrolling up to the PP-10, PP-11, PP-11A, PP-12 and PP-13. This has also jeopardised one of the most important and strategically placed airstrip of Daulat Beg Oldi. Even in the year 2013, China had intruded up to the Y-Junction and there was nearly a six months long stand-off between Indian and Chinese forces. The then UPA-Congress government and our armed forces successfully pushed the Chinese back to LAC at that point of time without ceding any territory.” The Congress statement further said: “Why is the government completely silent on pushing the Chinese back from Gogra Hot Springs? As per reports, Chinese are also patrolling up to Chumur in southern Ladakh. Why did the government not address this important strategic issue? Minister V.K. Singh undermined India’s position by making statement contrary to national interests and giving a handle to China to unjustifiably paint India as the aggressor. Why has V.K. Singh not been sacked for undermining India’s strategic position? Does the Prime Minister’s silence indicate that the statement was made by Singh at the behest of the government? If so, what is the reason for this brazen compromise of India’s national security?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||No territory conceded to Chinese, clarifies govt||India on Friday said it has not conceded any territory as a result of the agreement finalised with China for disengagement of troops in Pangong lake areas in eastern Ladakh. Hours after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that the government has "ceded" Indian territory to the Chinese and raised questions over the agreement, the Ministry of Defence issued a strongly-worded statement, saying the effective safeguarding of country's national interest and territory in the Eastern Ladakh sector has taken place because the government reposed full faith in the capabilities of the armed forces. "Those who doubt the achievements made possible by the sacrifices of our military personnel are actually disrespecting them", the statement said. The ministry also made certain clarifications in the statement, and said, "the assertion that Indian territory is up to Finger 4 is categorically false. The territory of India is as depicted by the map of India and includes more than 43,000 sq km currently under illegal occupation of China since 1962." "Even the Line of Actual Control (LAC), as per the Indian perception, is at Finger 8, not at Finger 4. That is why India has persistently maintained the right to patrol upto Finger 8, including in the current understanding with China," the MoD said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday told Parliament that as per provision of the agreement, China will pull back its troops to east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank of Pangong lake while the Indian personnel will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region. "India has not conceded any territory as a result of the agreement. "On the contrary, it has enforced observance and respect for LAC and prevented any unilateral change in the status quo," it said. The ministry also asserted that permanent posts of both sides at the north bank of Pangong Tso are longstanding and well-established. "On the Indian side, it is Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 and on the Chinese side, east of Finger 8," the MoD said, adding the current agreement provides for cessation of forward deployment by both sides and continued deployment at these permanent posts. The statement said the ministry has taken note of some misinformed and misleading comments being amplified in the media and on social media regarding the disengagement currently underway at Pangong Tso, asserting that it is necessary to set the record straight and counter certain instances of wrongly understood information. Addressing a press conference, Gandhi questioned why the Prime Minister did not make a statement on the LAC situation and claimed that Singh "sheepishly" made a statement on the issue in both Houses of Parliament. "Why has he asked the Defence Minister to make the statement, the Prime Minister should say - I have given Indian land to China, this is the truth," he alleged. He said it has emerged that Indian troops are now going to be stationed at Finger 3 at Pangong Tso lake. "Finger-4 is our territory, that is where our post used to be. So, now we have moved from finger-4 to finger-3. Why has the Prime Minister Modi given up Indian Territory to the Chinese? This is the question that needs to be answered by him and by the Defence Minister," Gandhi said. "Why have Indian troops, after the hard work that they had done in capturing Kailash ranges, been asked to move back," the Congress leader asked. "What has India got in return for this? Most importantly, the more important strategic area, Depsang plains, why have the Chinese not moved back? These are the real questions. Why have they not moved from Gogra-Hot Springs," the former Congress chief asked. "It is the responsibility of the Prime Minister to protect the territory of the country. The Prime Minister has ceded Indian Territory to the Chinese. It is his responsibility to solve the problem," he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||Twitter blocks 97 per cent accounts, posts identified by Centre||Twitter has blocked over 97 per cent of the accounts and posts flagged by the IT Ministry for provocative content and misinformation around farmers' protest, sources said. This followed a meeting between Twitter representatives and the Information Technology Secretary on Wednesday evening where the US-based microblogging platform was issued a stern warning to comply with local laws or be prepared for action. The Ministry had questioned Twitter's delay in taking action on its order to block provocative content that could impact public law and order, whereas the American company had been quick to crack down when a similar instance occurred at US Capitol Hill. According to the sources, Twitter has now complied with the orders and over 97 per cent of the accounts flagged have been blocked. Twitter did not respond to queries on the matter. On February 4, Twitter was asked to take down 1,178 accounts with links to Pakistan and Khalistan supporters that were spreading misinformation and provocative content related to farmers' protest. Prior to that, the government had sought blocking of 257 tweets and handles in connection with the agitation by farmers over the new agricultural laws. Twitter had complied with the orders only to restore the accounts hours later. Twitter on Wednesday morning had said it has suspended over 500 accounts and blocked access to several others within India, but maintained that it would not block accounts of "news media entities, journalists, activists and politicians" as doing so "would violate their fundamental right to free expression" guaranteed under the country's law. It, however, yielded to the orders later after the crucial meeting on Wednesday evening. In a statement after the meeting, the IT Ministry had stated that the microblogging platform had been asked to take strong action against "well-coordinated" campaigns "designed to create disharmony and unrest" in the country. Monique Meche, Twitter Vice President Global Public Policy and Jim Baker, Deputy General Counsel and Vice President Legal, had affirmed Twitter's commitment towards following Indian laws and rules. The executives had also requested for better engagement between the Indian government and the company's global team. Sources said Twitter's latest move to block the flagged accounts is itself a validation that the government's orders were backed by sound reasoning and logic. The government had made it clear that it will not negotiate with the platforms while insisting on compliance with its orders as it believed that a private commercial entity in India cannot unilaterally decide on public law and order, ignoring the democratic values of the country. IT Ministry was of the view that Twitter, being an intermediary, was required to take immediate action after receiving the government's notice to block handles, but did not move with haste to take down "atrocious" hashtags and "incendiary" content even amid a volatile situation. IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had recently emphasised that the government is all for freedom of speech and expression and that it remains investor-friendly, but disrespecting democratic values is not acceptable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||TRP scam: Arnab's interim protection extended till March 5||The Bombay High Court hearing the TRP scam case on Friday extended till March 5 the interim protection against coercive action granted to journalist Arnab Goswami and other employees of ARG Outlier Media that runs Republic TV channels. The interim relief was extended after the high court adjourned the hearing on ARG's plea challenging the investigation of Mumbai police in the TRP scam case. Friday's hearing was adjourned after the Maharashtra government's counsel, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, pointed out that in its rejoinder affidavit filed last week to counter the police's charge sheet, ARG had relied upon several new documents that were not part of its petition. Sibal said that since he would need time to respond to the new documents, ARG's counsel senior lawyer Harish Salve must not rely upon those documents during his day's arguments. Salve, however, insisted on relying upon those documents. The court then adjourned the hearing after accepting Sibal's statement that the interim protection granted to Goswami and the others will continue till the next date. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale said it will hear the plea through video-conferencing only for its interim prayer of protection on March 5. The bench will hear ARG's main prayers challenging the police's investigation and seeking the transfer of probe to the CBI or any other independent agency, on March 16 via physical hearing. Salve told the court that he had taken the vaccination for COVID 19 recently and was due for the next shot of the vaccine six weeks later. Therefore, he will not be able to travel to attend the physical hearing. The court then intervened on a lighter vein and asked the Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, when the judges and senior lawyers were likely to get the vaccine? "I am deviating, but Mr Singh (ASG), why is vaccination not happening for us also?" the bench asked. ARG media and Goswami had approached the high court last year, filing a bunch of petitions seeking several reliefs in the TRP scam. They alleged that the whole case was malafide and that they have been targeted for Republic TV's reportage in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, and the Palghar lynching case, last year Last month, the Mumbai police had filed two affidavits in the case through Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh, and ACP Shashank Sandbhor of the crime branch saying it had not targeted Republic TV or its employees. The police had said its probe was not a result of any political vendetta. The same HC bench on Friday adjourned another petition filed by Goswami, seeking to quash the case lodged against him in a 2018 abetment of suicide case. This plea will also be heard on March 5. Goswami and two others have been accused of abetting the suicide of an interior designer Anvay Naik. The trio were arrested in the case and later released on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi resigns from Rajya Sabha||TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi announced his resignation from the Rajya Sabha on Friday, saying he feels suffocated in the House as he is unable to do anything for the violence going on in his state, Bengal. "If you sit here quietly and cannot do anything, then it is better that you resign from here and go to the land of Bengal and be with people," he said in the Upper House of Parliament. Trivedi said the world looks at India when something happens. "What I mean to say is the way violence is taking place in our state. Sitting here, I am feeling perplexed as to what should I do," he added. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP said he is unable to bear various incidents that are happening in Bengal. "I am grateful to my party that it has sent me here, but now I feel a little suffocated. We are unable to do anything and there is an atrocity (going on). My voice of conscience is saying what Swami Vivekananda used to say -- arise, awake and stop not till the goal is reached," Trivedi said while announcing his resignation from the House. Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh said there is a due process for resigning from the House and asked Trivedi to submit his resignation in writing to the chairman. Trivedi’s announcement stunned his party, the TMC, but the signs were visible, said sources close to him, ndtv.com reported. On Thursday, he had tweeted, praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech in Parliament at a time when his party boss Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has been attacking the policies of the BJP and its leadership relentlessly. To Modi's shout-out to the private sector in India's progress and global standing, Trivedi tweeted: "I am personally in agreement with this. The way forward is to let our young talented mind innovate, create and distribute wealth. Pay Govt levies, create jobs. For that, our Govt officers (babus) too, need to encourage the youth." His Twitter account briefly vanished after his resignation. Reacting to Trivedi’s announcement on Friday, Trinamool Congress leader Saugata Roy said he was saddened. "This is unfortunate. I am saddened. It is not good that he has resigned. I knew he was dissatisfied but I did not know he would quit," he said. Trivedi was nominated to the Rajya Sabha last year by the TMC. He was a Lok Sabha MP from Barrackpore but had lost the 2019 parliamentary election and had felt sidelined in the party since. He was defeated by Arjun Singh, a former Trinamool leader who had joined the BJP. Another MP, Sukhendu Roy, questioned why Trivedi was allowed to speak out of turn in the Rajya Sabha, and said on his resignation: "Trinamool means grassroots. This will give us an opportunity to send a grassroots worker of ours soon to the Rajya Sabha." Moments after the news emerged, senior BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya told reporters: "Dinesh Trivedi is more than welcome to join BJP. He has taken a year to quit the Trinamool". The BJP leader said he had met Trivedi a year ago and he had told him "things were not good". TMC has lost several leaders to the BJP in the run up to the Bengal elections due in April-May. The trickle turned into a flood when in December 2020, Mamata Banerjee lost her top aide Suvendu Adhikari, who first quit as minister after an extended period of uncertainty, and then immediately joined the BJP. Over 40 more leaders and workers followed him out of the Trinamool.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||Centre, Twitter served notice by SC on monitoring fake news||The Supreme Court on Friday sought responses from the Centre and Twitter India on a plea seeking a mechanism for regulating content and advertisements spreading hatred through fake news and instigative messages via bogus accounts. A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the Centre and Twitter Communication India Pvt Ltd on the plea filed by one Vinit Goenka, which said there are hundreds of fake Twitter handles and bogus Facebook accounts in the name of eminent people and high dignitaries. Advocate Ashwini Dubey, appearing for Goenka, said directions are needed for establishing a mechanism to regulate hateful content on the social networking site. The bench said that it is issuing notice in the matter and tagging the plea with other pending matters. The plea filed through Dubey said, These fake Twitter handles and Facebook accounts use real photo of constitutional authorities and eminent citizens. Therefore, common man relies upon the messages published from these Twitter handles and Facebook accounts. The PIL said that fake news is the root cause of many riots, including the one in Delhi earlier this year, and bogus accounts are used to promote casteism and communalism which endangers fraternity and unity of the country. It is submitted that presently a total number of Twitter handles in India is around 35 million and total number of Facebook accounts is 350 million and experts say that around 10 per cent Twitter handles (3.5 million) and 10 per cent Facebook accounts (35 million) are duplicate/bogus/fake, the plea said. Political parties use fake social media accounts for self-promotion and image building and to tarnish the image of opponents and contesting candidates, especially during the elections, the plea submitted. The plea has also sought directions to make a law as per which an action can be initiated against Twitter and their representatives in India for willfully abetting and promoting anti-India tweets and penalize them. The petition further said that a representation to the authority concerned to act in accordance with the law of the country against social media giant Twitter was filed but no action has been taken so far by authorities concerned. It also pointed out that the Ministry of Home Affairs has banned Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) under the Unlawful Activities and Prevention Act on July 10, 2019, yet it continues to have an active presence on Twitter and allegedly espouses hatred, terrorism and sedition, criminal acts. "The logic and algorithms that Twitter uses should be shared and vetted by Indian government authorities or competent authority for screening anti-India tweets... KYC of all social media handles in India must be conducted for making social media safe and accountable and traceable," the plea said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||Mallikarjun Kharge to succeed Ghulam Nabi as leader of Opposition||Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge is likely to replace Ghulam Nabi Azad as the leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha and the party has written to the chairman of the Upper House of Parliament in this regard, sources said. The Congress has written to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu for appointing Kharge to the post of leader of the Opposition after Azad's retirement, they added. The post will fall vacant after Azad's tenure as a Rajya Sabha member ends on February 15. Azad is a member of the Upper House from Jammu and Kashmir, which does not have an Assembly currently after it was made a Union Territory with the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution. Kharge, a Dalit leader from Karnataka, was the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha from 2014 to 2019. The grand old party could not get the leader of Opposition's post in the previous and the current Lok Sabha as its numbers were less than the mandated 10 per cent of the total number of seats in the Lower House for claiming the post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||India records 9,309 fresh Covid cases, 78 casualties in a day||The daily new COVID-19 cases fell below 10,000 for the third time this month taking India's tally of cases to 1,08,80,603, while fresh fatalities were recorded below 100 for the seventh time in February, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. A total of 9,309 infections have been reported in a day. The death toll increased to 1,55,447 with 78 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,05,89,230 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.32 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,35,926 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.25 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,47,89,784 samples have been tested up to February 11 with 7,65,944 samples being tested on Thursday. The 78 new fatalities include 25 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 7 each from Punjab and Karnataka. A total of 1,55,447 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,415 from Maharashtra followed by 12,402 from Tamil Nadu, 12,251 from Karnataka, 10,886 from Delhi, 10,225 from West Bengal, 8,696 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,161 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Rahul slams govt over LAC disengagement pact||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday questioned the government over its agreement with China on disengagement in eastern Ladakh and alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has "ceded" Indian territory to the Chinese. His attack on the government came a day after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh assured Parliament that India has not conceded anything in the sustained talks with China and it will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken away by anyone. Addressing a press conference, Gandhi said Singh "sheepishly" made a statement on the LAC situation in both Houses of Parliament and it emerged that Indian troops are now going to be stationed at Finger 3. "Finger 4 is our territory, that is where our post used to be. Now we have moved from Finger 4 to Finger 3. Why has Prime Minister Modi given up Indian territory to the Chinese? This is the question that needs to be answered by him and the Defence minister," Gandhi said. "Why have Indian troops, after the hard work that they had done in capturing Kailash ranges, been asked to move back," Gandhi asked. "What has India got in return for this? Most importantly, the more important strategic area, Depsang plains, why have the Chinese not moved back? These are the real questions. Why have they not moved from Gogra-Hot Springs," the former Congress chief asked. "It is the responsibility of the prime minister to protect the territory of the country. The prime minister has ceded Indian territory to the Chinese," he alleged. The Indian government's position at the beginning of this was status quo ante as in April 2020 that is what they were negotiating for, he asserted. In a breakthrough after a nine-month border standoff, Defence Minister Singh had announced in Parliament on Thursday that India and China have reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South banks of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh that mandates both sides to "cease" forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. Singh had shared the details of the pact to defuse the tense military face-off in eastern Ladakh that severely strained ties between the two Asian giants. In an identical statement later in the Lok Sabha, he had said the disengagement process was "going on well", and that the implementation of the pact will "substantially restore" the situation to the one which existed prior to the standoff that erupted on May 5 last.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Cricket Association of Uttarakhand: ‘Internal affairs’ guardians silent||After Bollywood, cricket. The poison is spreading. Former India opener Wasim Jaffer has faced a barrage of abuse and targeted disinformation after he quit as Uttarakhand’s cricket coach and was accused by officials of forcing religious-based selections. Although Jaffer, who played 31 Tests for India and was a colossus of domestic cricket, has received support from some former players, conspicuous by their silence were most of the luminaries of the game who had last week bristled at international criticism of the government’s handling of the farm protest and tweeted in support of the ruling dispensation. Jaffer quit on Tuesday, accusing Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) officials of pushing “undeserving players”. The trolling began after CAU secretary Mahim Verma publicly accused Jaffer of “communalising the team and favouring Muslims”. He also alleged that Jaffer had dissuaded players from chanting “Rambhakt Hanuman ki jai” and allowed a Muslim cleric to enter a Covid-induced bio-bubble to conduct prayers. Jaffer has denied both allegations. On Thursday, the CAU sought a report from senior team manager Navneet Mishra on the alleged bio-bubble breach. “The Cricket Association of Uttarakhand has taken cognisance of the seriousness of the Wasim Jaffer incident and accordingly instructed its senior team manager Navneet Mishra to submit a detailed report on the matter,” Verma said in a media release. Online, a troll army pounced on Jaffer, who has over 19,000 first-class runs and 57 centuries at an average above 50, with a barrage of invectives. Some videos claimed he was involved in proselytising — an unproven allegation that, if true, does not signify anything illegal. The trolls claimed that those supporting Jaffer were hypocrites as they had not supported Sachin Tendulkar when he and other former Indian players tweeted in support of the government over the peasants’ movement. Jaffer has defended himself against the allegations, tweeting on Wednesday night: “1. I recommended Jay Bista for captaincy not Iqbal but CAU officials favoured Iqbal. 2. I did not invite Maulavis 3. I resigned cos bias of selectors-secretary for non-deserving players 4. Team used to say a chant of Sikh community, I suggested we can say ‘Go Uttarakhand’ #Facts.” Iqbal Abdulla is a spinner. The chant of the Uttarakhand team is the Sikh religious slogan “Rani Mata Sache Darbar ki jai”. Some of Jaffer’s teammates and other cricketers backed him. Spinner Anil Kumble tweeted: “With you Wasim. Did the right thing. Unfortunately it’s the players who’ll miss your mentor ship.” All-rounder Manoj Tiwary tweeted: “I would request the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand (BJP) Mr. Trivendra Singh Rawat 2 intervene immediately nd take note of the issue in which our National hero Wasim bhai was branded as communal in the Cricket Association nd take necessary action. Time 2 Set an example #WasimJaffer.” Seamers Irfan Pathan and Dodda Ganesh too tweeted in favour of Jaffer. “Unfortunate that you have to explain this,” Pathan tweeted in reply to Jaffer’s tweet explaining his stand. Notable for their silence were Tendulkar, captain Virat Kohli, India’s head coach Ravi Shastri and the other cricketers who had tweeted in support of the government’s farm laws with the hashtags “IndiaStandsTogether” and “IndiaAgainstPropaganda”. A joke doing the rounds on Twitter on Thursday was: “Fans ask Indian cricketers to support Wasim Jaffer since it is cricket’s ‘internal matter’.” The government and its backers had claimed that the farm protest and its handling were India’s “internal matter”. Sudheendra Kulkarni, a former BJP member who was in Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s PMO, tweeted: “Stop bringing the virus of communalism into cricket. I stand by #WasimJaffer, the pride of Indian cricket. He’s rendered great service to the game. Has an almost unbeatable record as the highest run-scorer (12,038) in Ranji Trophy. Stop maligning India’s Muslim heroes!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Amit Shah buys citizenship time, hurts Matua community||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday steered clear of laying down a clear timeframe for the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), disappointing many in the Matua community that has a significant presence in over 30 Assembly seats in Bengal. Shah said the citizenship issue of the immigrant Matua community would be resolved “the moment” the vaccination process for Covid-19 was over and the pandemic situation was under control. Addressing a public rally at the Matua headquarters in Thakurnagar, Shah said: “We have passed the CAA.… The moment the vaccination process is over and the corona situation is under control, all of you will get citizenship.” Probably aware that such an announcement would not cut much ice, he promised a slew of initiatives for the Matua community if the BJP came to power in Bengal. Seeking to make his promise about the CAA more credible before the audience, Shah said no one, not even Mamata Banerjee who has opposed the act tooth and nail, can stop its implementation. “I was supposed to come here earlier but could not because of some unavoidable reasons, which made Mamata Didi happy as she thought I wouldn’t come any more. But let me assure you that I will keep coming back till she is defeated,” Shah had said at the beginning of his speech, drawing loud cheers. But his comment linking the implementation of the CAA with the completion of the vaccination — a repeat of the answer he had given this correspondent during his December 20 Bolpur trip — came as a shock for many in the Matua community. State BJP leaders had raised expectations that the Union home minister would at the Thakurnagar rally roll out a definite schedule for the act’s implementation. It remains unclear when the vaccination campaign in a country of 130-crore-plus people would conclude. As the BJP had reaped political dividends from Matua-dominated areas of the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections by dangling the citizenship carrot, the community has been eagerly awaiting the implementation of the CAA. Against this backdrop, chief minister Mamata Banerjee recently spun a counter-narrative. She said the BJP was confusing the Matuas by promising citizenship even though these immigrants from Bangladesh, most of whom possess documents like the voter card, Aadhaar card, ration card and land deeds in their names, were already Indian citizens. The two contrasting narratives on citizenship will be at the core of the Trinamul-BJP tussle in the 30-odd Matua-dominated Assembly segments — spread over North 24-Parganas, Nadia and north Bengal — in the upcoming elections. If the immediate reactions of some in the audience after the rally were any indication, the BIP should have reason to worry. “It’s very clear that we will not vote for the BJP if they cannot resolve the citizenship issue,” Harashit Gonsai, a prominent community leader, told The Telegraph after Shah’s meeting. Disappointment was visible on the face of Gonsai, who was surrounded by his associates. He said he would convey his feelings to Santanu Thakur, the BJP MP from Bongaon and the tallest Matua leader. Other Matua community members like Saikat Giri, a BJP supporter who had come from Nadia, were equally upset. “Citizenship is our key demand, but there was no clear answer when we will get it,” Giri said. The 27-year-old school teacher, who has an Aadhaar card and a ration card, could not explain why he felt his Indian citizenship was in doubt. This lack of clarity is not unique to Giri: scores of Matuas think they need a citizenship card or an equivalent document to have the same status as other Indians. That the Matuas were expecting a specific announcement was clear from the speeches that community leaders delivered before Shah’s arrival at the venue. Most of the speakers said their demand was unconditional citizenship through the CAA. Some of the speakers fuelled hopes that Shah would deliver on the demand soon, leading many in the audience to expect the issue to be resolved before the Assembly polls. The manner in which Shah began his speech bore hints that an announcement was imminent. He said: “I had promised that I would come to Thakurnagar and clear the confusion about the CAA.” He then switched to topics such as the contribution of Matua icons like Hari Chand and Guru Chand Thakur towards the social uplift of the community, and the misrule of the Mamata government, before returning to the main theme. “Once the CAA is implemented, the refugees will get the respect that has been their due for a long time. We will also be able to slam the doors on illegal infiltrators,” Shah said. His failure to offer a timetable dashed hopes, but the Union home minister couldn’t have done anything else as his ministry had recently informed Parliament that the deadline to prepare the CAA rules had been extended to July 9, 2021. Although many in the community were upset, Santanu, chief of the All India Matua Mahasangha and the local MP, expressed satisfaction with Shah’s promise. “We are satisfied with what he said today.… He came such a long way to offer the citizenship assurance. It is a great gesture. We don’t see any uncertainty on the issue any more,” he said. Asked if his organisation had demanded any specific timeframe for the implementation of the CAA, he said: “We cannot demand a deadline for obvious reasons. Our people have realised that implementation is not possible overnight.” While Santanu was prepared to allow the Centre time to tackle the pandemic, he was unequivocal in his demand for a simplified process of citizenship, effectively a reassertion of the demand for unconditional citizenship. This demand, many in the BJP believe, is the real challenge as the act requires a citizenship seeker to apply for the status, which in turn implies that he or she has been living illegally in India. Most Matuas this correspondent spoke to said they did not want to convey the impression that they had been living illegally in India. “The pandemic may have given the home minister a chance to explain the delay in the implementation of the CAA, but the question is: what will happen when the rules are finally announced in line with the provision of the act that Parliament passed?” a Matua leader asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Content and intent that ‘hamare do’ won’t utter: Rahul Gandhi||A possible Freudian slip by the Centre that told the nation its “hamare do” are “Adani and Ambani” got Rahul Gandhi a laugh and much real estate on social media. But beneath the wisecrack lay a political cut and thrust that Parliament had almost forgotten. The occasion on Thursday was the discussion on the general budget in the Lok Sabha. But Rahul spoke only on the contentious farm laws, ambushing the government after it had denied a separate debate on the ongoing farmers’ movement despite the Opposition’s passionate pleas and tumultuous protests. By the time Rahul had concluded by declaring he would not touch upon the budget in protest against the denial of a separate debate on farmers, he had landed several lethal punches. One, Rahul addressed a direct reply to Prime Minister Narendra Modi who has been saying no Opposition leader has explained what is wrong with the farm laws. “The Prime Minister had said the Opposition is talking about the protests but is not talking about the content and intent of the laws. So I thought today, let’s make the Prime Minister happy and talk about the content and intent of the farm laws,” Rahul said, springing the topic. Two, his cheek ensured that the treasury benches tried their best to thwart him by shouting. Unwittingly, the government ended up giving the impression that it did not have the courage to discuss the farm laws. With an audacious call for a two-minute silence, Rahul led an unparalleled expression of solidarity with the farmers from the floor of the House. The government, which has been religiously ignoring the deaths of scores of protesting farmers, again ended up looking cold-hearted. The talking point swirled around the “hum do, hamare do” slogan Rahul had borrowed from the family planning campaign. Amid uproarious protests by BJP members who insisted that the Congress leader could not be allowed to raise the farm laws while discussing the budget, Rahul said: “Like corona’s new strains, the family planning slogan of ‘hum do, hamare do’ has re-emerged. Only four persons are running this country — hum do, hamare do.” As BJP members rose in protest and Opposition MPs burst into an “Adani-Ambani” chorus, Rahul said: “Naam sab jaante hain (Everybody knows the names). Those beautiful, chubby pictures you must have seen on the hoardings of ‘hum do, hamare do’. Now this is about four people running the country.” The Congress MP’s insinuation hung mischievously in the Lok Sabha air. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi leapt to his feet and said, interrupting Rahul: “It is wrong to say that 40 per cent storage capacity is with Adani and Ambani. He will have to prove his allegation.” Ripples of laughter flowed through the Opposition benches. Rahul recalled Modi’s complaint 24 hours earlier that the Opposition was not discussing the “content and intent” of the new farm legislation bouquet and proceeded to critique them, law by law. “The first law says anybody can buy food grain as much as he wants. The objective is to finish off the mandis (wholesale markets),” the Congress MP said. He added: “The second law allows the big corporate (entities) to store unlimited amounts of grains, vegetables and fruits. There is no stock limit. The intent is to start unlimited hoarding in the country by killing the Essential Commodities Act. “The intent of the third law is to prevent farmers from approaching the courts in case of disputes. The real intent is to allow one corporate friend to sell everything — which will finish off small farmers and traders — and to allow another corporate friend to create storage monopoly. The Prime Minister said it is optional. He has of course given three options — One, hunger; two, unemployment; and three, suicide.” Contending that the plan was to hand over the agriculture business, worth Rs 40 lakh crore, to “hamare do”, Rahul said: “Unlimited storage will allow manipulation of prices. They are conspiring to break the backbone of India. They are breaking the backbone into pieces to be handed over to two friends. This will destroy the rural economy and India’s food security. This is not the first attempt; Modi started it with note-bandi and continued it during the corona-induced lockdown.” The Congress MP warned the government against presuming that the farmers would end their protest. “Do not commit the mistake that this is a farmers’ protest. Farmers are only showing the way; this is a people’s movement. If you think you can suppress the poor and the kisan-mazdoor with your power and money, you are mistaken. The people will remove you from power. The government will have to withdraw the farm laws.” Rahul wrapped up his speech by appealing to all the members to stand in silence for two minutes as the government had refused to pay homage to the over 200 farmers who have died in protest. While most of the Opposition members promptly stood up, the BJP continued to protest loudly. This prompted Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who had repeatedly intervened to ask Rahul to speak on the budget, to say: “It is my responsibility to conduct the proceedings. Your conduct was not good. It was not dignified behaviour. We all respect farmers, soldiers; people have died in the Uttarkhand tragedy…. You could have asked me for a condolence motion.” Congress leaders stoutly defended Rahul’s conduct, asserting that parliamentarians would have to invent ways to raise critical concerns if legitimate parliamentary devices to express public sentiment in the House were not allowed. Rahul, too, said: “We wanted a debate on farmers. The Speaker consulted the government. But the government did not allow the debate.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Nationalist Congress Party rift in Kerala||The Kerala political landscape is set for a realignment with the Nationalist Congress Party divided on whether to stay with the ruling Left Democratic Front or switch sides to the Opposition coalition led by the Congress. The simmering differences within the NCP headed by Sharad Pawar came to the fore when it became clear that it would not get the contentious Pala Assembly seat in the upcoming Kerala elections. With the Kerala Congress (Mani) led by Jose K. Mani having switched to the LDF in October 2020, and Pala being the traditional hub of the party originally formed by Jose’s father K.M. Mani, it was expected to cause a rift within the ruling front since the seat is now held by the NCP. A section led by NCP state president T.P. Peethambaran Master and Mani C. Kappan has made it clear that they would not settle for anything less than the Pala seat that the party snatched from the UDF in the 2019 bypoll following K.M. Mani’s death. The historic win for the LDF ended the five-decade reign of the Kerala Congress (Mani) that was then a part of the UDF. But after Jose made the move to the LDF, it became immediately evident that he wanted the Pala seat that his father had nurtured for five decades. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan recently informed the NCP leadership that Pala would not be available this time and instead offered the Kuttanad Assembly seat to the party. But the NCP itself is divided on whether to leave the ruling front that is forecast to win a second consecutive term. A faction led by transport minister A.K. Saseendran, who is most likely to stay back by splitting the party, has complained to Pawar about Kappan openly claiming he would contest only from Pala. “Neither the central unit nor the state unit of the NCP has so far held any discussions on leaving the LDF,” Saseendran told reporters on Thursday, making it clear which side he preferred. But Peethambaran and Kappan are in Delhi to hold the final round of discussions with Pawar and Praful Patel, who is in charge of the Kerala unit, and arrive at a decision on Friday. Kappan has no doubt about where he would contest from. “I have already said I will contest from Pala,” he told a news channel. Asked by a news channel what would he do as the LDF has already spoken the last word on Pala, Kappan quipped, indicating at a shift away from the ruling front: “You just have to guess.” In another sign that the NCP was headed for a split, posters featuring images of Kappan have appeared across Pala, welcoming the pre-poll “Aishwarya Kerala Yatra” of Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala. There is also talk that Kappan would participate in the march once it reaches Pala, the hub of central Kerala’s Christian community. “We expect the NCP to take a call (on whether it would leave the LDF). We welcome him (Kappan) to join us,” Chennithala told reporters on Thursday, adding “there is nothing wrong if he wants to join the yatra”. State Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran also invited the NCP faction to join the alliance. “I welcome Kappan to the UDF. We can give him our ‘hand’ symbol if he joins us,” he said. While the NCP is not a major player in Kerala, having them on its side would mean a “moral victory” for the UDF after the exit of the Kerala Congress (Mani) last year. “Getting the NCP or even Kappan will be a moral victory for us although even he would need our votes to win in Pala,” said a senior Congress functionary who did not want to be named.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Farmers’ agitation: Justin Trudeau raises protests with Narendra Modi||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau raised the “recent protests” during his telephone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. This was the first time the two leaders had spoken after India warned Canada in December that relations could be affected if the Canadian leadership continued to comment on the farmers’ agitation. Trudeau had then spoken up for the farmers’ right to protest peacefully. According to the readout of Wednesday’s conversation, issued by Trudeau’s office, “the leaders discussed Canada and India’s commitment to democratic principles, recent protests, and the importance of resolving issues through dialogue.” None of this was mentioned in either Modi’s tweet on the conversation or the readout issued by the external affairs ministry subsequently. “Was happy to receive a call from my friend @JustinTrudeau. Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of Covid vaccines sought by Canada. We also agreed to continue collaborating on other important issues like Climate Change and the global economic recovery,” Modi had tweeted on Wednesday night. The Indian readout too focused mostly on New Delhi’s vaccine diplomacy: “Prime Minister Trudeau informed Prime Minister Modi about Canada’s requirements of Covid-19 vaccines from India. Prime Minister assured the Canadian PM that India would do its best to support Canada’s vaccination efforts, just as it had done for many other countries already.” The Canadian readout acknowledged India’s efforts in promoting vaccine production: “Prime Minister Trudeau and Prime Minister Modi spoke about India’s significant efforts in promoting vaccine production and supply, which have provided vital support to countries around the world. The two leaders agreed to work together on access to vaccines.” Trudeau’s call to Modi came four days after Canadian shadow health minister Michelle Rempel Garner asked his administration whether it had reached out to India, and the Prime Minister specifically, for Covid vaccines. On January 28, the Indian external affairs ministry had listed Canada among the countries where vaccines were likely to be sent on a commercial basis. Further, according to the Canadians, the two Premiers reaffirmed their common interest in a free and open Indo-Pacific, and the importance of working together on global challenges such as climate change, strengthening global trade and reinforcing the rules-based international order. The Indian readout did not go into the specifics of the discussion on the Indo-Pacific but contained a reference to committing the two countries to fighting the challenge of climate change together. After highways were dug up and water cannons used on November 26 to stop farmers from moving towards Delhi to pressure the Modi government to repeal the three contentious farm laws, Trudeau had in December spoken up for their right to protest peacefully. India had responded with a warning that such comments could affect bilateral ties but Trudeau iterated his views at a media conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir minus status, toll still high||Casualties seem to have risen sharply among security forces in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in the first full year after the scrapping of the special status, challenging the government’s projection of the move as a panacea for the region’s problems. Police intelligence data accessed by The Telegraph suggest that violent deaths increased almost 38 per cent among security force personnel, from 129 in 2019 to 178 in 2020. These figures include the casualties from both combat and non-combat violence - such as suicides, fratricidal killings and accidents - as well as the deaths in Ladakh from the Chinese intrusion. While the army’s figures show a decline in violent deaths, from 99 in 2019 to 86 in 2020, they do not include the non-combat casualties or the Ladakh toll. Figures available with police intelligence show that 178 security force and police personnel were killed last year, 112 in combat and 66 in non-combat violence. Non-combat violence such as suicides or attacks on colleagues or officers is largely a result of stress, suggesting the August 5, 2019, decisions have not eased the pressure on the forces. Some of the stress may, however, have been a result of the Covid-related restrictions on leave and movement. Of the 66 non-combat deaths, the report says, 35 were suicides - apparently the highest in 10 years. Among the 112 killed in combat, 35 died in hit-and-run militant attacks, the police intelligence report says. Another 31 died in firing from across the Line of Control, 26 in gunfights with militants and 20 in clashes with the Chinese army in Ladakh. The standoff along the Line of Actual Control is seen widely as a fallout of the scrapping of Article 370 provisions and bifurcation of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state into two Union Territories. It is believed that the move to bring Ladakh directly under the Centre's administration angered Beijing, which lays claim to the area. The casualties in Pakistani shelling too are perceived to be a consequence of increased hostilities between the two countries following the August 2019 decisions. Army figures show 86 deaths among all the security forces across Jammu and Kashmir in militant attacks or cross-border shelling. Two of the army's dead were colonels. One of them, Colonel Santosh Babu, was among the 20 soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese troops on June 15 last year. The Valley was no less hostile to the forces, who lost Colonel Ashutosh Sharma of 21 Rashtriya Rifles, Major Anuj Sood and three jawans in one of the deadliest gunfights in May in north Kashmir. Earlier in April, the army had lost five members of the elite special forces during a four-day operation in the Keran sector of Kupwara. The police intelligence figures show that the two Union Territories witnessed more than 460 conflict-related causalities in 2020, against 368 in 2019, marking a 25 per cent surge. Among the dead were 221 militants, of whom at least 176 were local and at least 30 were foreigners. The militants lost 40 commanders, including two operational chiefs from the Hizbul Mujahideen and one from the Jaish-e-Mohammed. Both the police and army figures put the militant casualties at 221, against 159 the year before. The only solace has been a decline in civilian killings, from 80 in 2019 to 68 in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier disaster: Gushing muddy water halts rescue work for four hours||Rescue work in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, where 25 to 35 people are feared trapped in a tunnel, had to be suspended for four hours on Thursday when dark-coloured ice and muddy water came hurtling down the Rishi Ganga and raised the water level in the river’s downstream. When work resumed around 6pm, the rescue workers had to again abort the operation after proceeding only around 2 metres into the Niti Valley tunnel as they encountered a thick steel mesh and a concrete structure. The team has been able to move around 102 metres into the tunnel by clearing debris. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) workers feared trapped since Sunday’s flash flood are believed to be stuck around 180 metres inside. Eyewitnesses said a huge mass of black ice and water mixed with mud and sludge began flowing down the Nanda Devi mountain in the upper Rishi Ganga catchment area around 2pm and eventually reached downstream, raising the water level in the river. The rescue workers, alerted by their colleagues, scrambled out of the tunnel, whose mouth is located on the bank of the river, with their machines. “We had never seen such a spectacle before. Black-coloured ice and water came down the river with great force. Sunday’s calamity seems to have played havoc with the Rishi Ganga river. This is beyond our imagination. Scientists must study today’s incident against the backdrop of the flash flood of Sunday,” said Bhawan Singh Rana, the panchayat chief of Raini, the most affected village where a hydro-power project has been destroyed. “The water level goes up in the hilly rivers when there is rainfall but today was a sunny day. There must be some lakes on the top of the mountain and they are collapsing for some reason,” Rana said. Thirty-four bodies — of labourers working on two hydropower projects and villagers from nearby areas in Chamoli district — had been recovered by Wednesday evening but 170 people were still missing, state authorities said. Teams from the army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) had to stall the rescue work inside the tunnel on Wednesday too because of flow-back by a “sludge” of rocks, slush and water. The work had resumed on Thursday around 11am but had to be stopped again at 2pm when the river water level rose. When the men entered the tunnel again around 6pm their path was obstructed by a thick steel mesh and a concrete structure. “The debris could not be cleaned because of the obstruction,” a government source said. Ashok Kumar, the director-general of police of Uttarakhand, said: “There are adverse situations preventing us from continuing the rescue work. We are considering the option of drilling from above to enter the tunnel.” He said there had been no communication with those who might be trapped inside. “Vertical drilling looks like an important option for us,” said Aparna Kumar, deputy inspector-general of the ITBP who is camping in the area since Sunday. She said the NTPC believed that its workers were trapped near the T-point at the end of the first tunnel, which is straight and 180 metres long.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||State plane blow to Bhagat Singh Koshyari||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari was scheduled to travel by a state government aircraft to Dehradun in Uttarakhand on Thursday, but the permission to use the plane was not granted to him even after he had boarded it, sources said. The governor later took a commercial flight, the Raj Bhavan said. The Raj Bhavan said the governor’s secretariat had written to the state government  seeking permission for the use of aircraft “well in advance” on February 2. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said the Maharashtra government had followed all the norms.  “If the governor wants to use the government plane for private work, here are some rules and had the government violated those rules, it would have been in the dock,” he said. According to the  Raj Bhavan, Koshyari is scheduled to preside over an IAS event at the Lal Bahadur Shastri academy of Administration at Mussoorie on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||India||CBSE writes to principals about commencement of new academic year from April||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday wrote to the principals of its affiliated schools about the commencement of the new academic year from April with the plan to hold in-person lessons for students of Classes IX to XII and the conduct of assessment for Classes IX and XI. Academic activists of students of Classes IX to XII will come back to regular face to face mode in schools affiliated with Central Board of Secondary School (CBSE) from coming academic year, if the advice by national board is accepted by states. “It would be appropriate to start academic session 2021-2022 from 1st April, 2021, to the extent feasible subject to the instructions of the state governments,” said the CBSE letter. The board exams for Classes X and XII will be held with a reduced syllabus in May and June. The CBSE said exams for Classes IX and XI should be held by following Covid protocols. A CBSE official said schools had already opened for students of Classes IX to XII in most of the states to help them clear their doubts and conduct practical classes. The schools are taking all precautions, he said. The official said the CBSE had reduced its syllabus up to 30 per cent for students of Classes IX to XII for the academic year 2020-21 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the country. However, the reduction is unlikely to continue in 2021-22. “The plan is that classes for students of IX to XII will go on as usual in schools. So there is no merit in continuing the reduction in syllabus,” the official said. Last year, the CBSE had deleted chapters on federalism, nationalism, citizenship, democratic rights, diversity, religion and caste, demonetisation and GST, among others, from the syllabus of students of higher classes. Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Springdales School in Delhi, said the opening of institutions for adolescents was essential. “Over the last year, students have faced a significant learning gap. When they come for doubt clearing and practical classes, we find that they are unable to sit for long periods and write. Their ability to conduct practical experiments has also been affected. This is the case of those who have had access to online classes. Those who have had no access to online classes will face a learning gap of a year,” Wattal said. Commenting on assessment, she said online exams and tests were not a fair medium for assessing a student’s knowledge, skills and abilities. Real-time school was essential for a collaborative environment, making learning productive for both scholastic and co-scholastic activities, she said. Wattal said it was also important to start normal classes as the syllabus for competitive examinations like JEE and NEET had not been reduced and students were expected to cover the entire course. Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon Group of Schools in Delhi, said online learning cannot be a substitute for in-person classes. “In any case online learning is not available to all the children. Things have vastly improved now. All Covid-19 related restrictions should not be applicable to schools only. Let us not forget that learning losses have a serious impact in the long term,” Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||India||Social media firms must stick to Indian laws: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union IT and communications minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said all social media platforms were welcome in India but must adhere to Indian laws, the warning coming amid a row over Twitter’s refusal to fully comply with a government order to deactivate a host of accounts. Prasad said social media companies had taken immediate action when rioters targeted Capitol Hill in Washington but ignored directives for similar action after chaos broke out at the Red Fort during the farmers’ Republic Day tractor parade. “This double standard would not work here,” he said. Prasad flagged controversial content such as those with the hashtag “ModiPlanningFarmersGenocide. “Yeh kya mazak hai (What kind of a joke is this)?” he said. “Please don’t spread enmity, violence and misinformation. Please follow the Constitution of India and the law of the land. Otherwise we will be very strict,” he said, replying to a question in the Upper House. Prasad said that while social media platforms had their own self-regulatory mechanism to check and evaluate inflammatory content, that did not mean they would not follow Indian rules. “This will not work here,” he said. The Constitution guarantees freedom of speech but Article 19(2) also says this freedom is subject to “reasonable restrictions” for the sake of preserving the country’s “sovereignty and integrity”. On Wednesday, Prasad’s ministry had expressed displeasure at Twitter for failing to remove all the 1,100-plus accounts and posts the government had accused of spreading misinformation about the farmers’ protests. The government was riled after Twitter had in a public blog post said it had taken down only half the accounts and posts flagged by the government. The microblogging site had cited Indian law and “our principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression” to resist the government’s directive to act against news media entities, journalists, activists and politicians. But the government told Twitter’s representatives that the microblogging site had to follow its orders and that this was non-negotiable. Asked about the steps the government had taken to check the spread of misinformation on social media, Prasad told the House “we have recently flagged Twitter” on the matter. His ministry officials are talking to Twitter. “Our commitment (to) freedom of media, right of individuals and independence of the judiciary is complete and total. But we are equally concerned about the safety and security of India,” Prasad said. He told MPs the government was working on new guidelines that would address gaps in the protection of Indians’ privacy on social media. “Work is in progress,” he said. Prasad said he wanted to convey to the media platforms that freedom was important but they could not abuse it by showing unbidden revenge sex videos, porn, street violence and videos that ignite passions and fuel violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||India||Economic adviser prod to release consumer expenditure survey report||A year after the NDA government withheld the release of a consumer expenditure survey for suspected discomfort over unfavourable findings, its chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian has demanded its release, a minister has informed Parliament. In response to a question in the Rajya Sabha by Congress members L. Hanumanthaiah and G.C. Chandrasekhar who wanted to know if the chief economic advisor had demanded to make the survey report public, minister of state for statistics and programme implementation Rao Inderjit Singh said in a written reply: “Yes Sir”. The National Statistics Office (NSO) under the ministry of statistics and programme implementation had conducted an all-India survey on household consumer expenditure from the period July 2017 to June 2018. But the ministry decided not to release the report citing a higher divergence with the administrative data. According to a report in Business Standard, the survey found a fall in consumer spending for the first time in more than four decades. After the demand was made by Subramanian, the government is at present considering to release the report. “The ministry has followed a rigorous procedure for vetting of data and reports which are produced through surveys. The results of this survey were examined and it was observed that there was a significant variation in the levels in the consumption pattern as well as in the direction of the change while comparing with other administrative data sources. The matter is being looked into and finalisation of the results of the Consumer Expenditure Survey 2017-18 is under consideration,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||India||Military veterans question India’s continued silence on restoration of status quo||Military veterans and security experts have expressed concern about the disengagement process agreed with China over the Pangong Lake and questioned India’s continued silence on the restoration of status quo as it was in April 2020 before the Chinese intrusion. They are also asking why, under the pact announced by defence minister Rajnath Singh in Parliament on Thursday, India has agreed to stop patrolling territory that it controlled till now. “Is there a deal within the deal? We talk about the ‘fog of war’; this seems to be the fog of peace and fog of disengagement,” a former lieutenant general said. Rajnath told the Rajya Sabha that neither side would patrol its traditional areas on the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks until they have worked out all the modalities in diplomatic and military talks. He did not mention any demand or agreement for restoration of status quo ante as of April 2020, but said the disengagement was aimed at restoring peace and tranquillity to the border areas. Several veterans said that agreeing not to patrol areas claimed by India “amounts to further territory loss for India and a huge disadvantage tactically for its army”. They said the Chinese army seemed to be trying “salami-slicing tactics” to impose a revised status quo. The term refers to an aggressor country claiming another’s territory and disputing the rival’s claim so forcefully that the territory becomes a “disputed” one. During the process of dispute resolution, the aggressor ends up getting a part of it. Among the other questions the veterans said Rajnath had left unanswered: Will the Indian troops also subsequently vacate the strategic heights on the Pangong Lake’s south bank that they had occupied last September after the Chinese attempted to alter the status “unilaterally”? Why no mention of the Depsang Plains, operationally critical for the Indian army, where the Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines? Will India press for disengagement at all the friction points? “It’s shocking that we are withdrawing from territory we have controlled. Chinese troops have stopped us doing our normal patrolling at several friction points since May last year. And now we have agreed to step back from our claimed territory,” the retired lieutenant general who spoke to this newspaper said. “This seems a very dangerous disengagement process. The restoration of peace and tranquillity does not mean restoration of status quo ante.” Colonel Ajai Shukla (retd) tweeted: “On the heights above Pangong Lake, India is restricted to west of Finger 2/3. On the lake shore, China can now patrol till its claim line along Finger 4. India can no longer patrol till its claim line at Finger 8. Line of Actual Control (LAC) has effectively shifted west by 8km.” He added: “Rajnath Singh @DefenceMinIndia is a careful man. In Parliament, he refrained from claiming that India’s core demand — restoration of the pre-April status — had been met. Instead, he claimed that the disengagement would ‘substantially restore’ the situation to pre-April 20.” In the Pangong Lake area, India claims the territory till Finger 8 but the Chinese have advanced 8km up to Finger 4 from their erstwhile position at Finger 8 since May last year. Rajnath told Parliament the Chinese army would return east of Finger 8 on the north bank and the Indian troops would go back to their Dhan Singh Thapa Post at Finger 3 on the north bank. Neither side will patrol this area. Veteran Sushant Singh tweeted: “Two final points: One, the whole process is rather complex and uncertain, worsened by an environment of deep mistrust and hostility between the two sides. Two, anything other than return to status quo ante works in China’s favour (two steps forward, one step back kind of move).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||India||Centre to Parliament: India, China disengagement begins||The government on Thursday informed Parliament that India and China had begun disengagement at the Pangong Lake under an agreed process that stipulated neither would patrol its traditional areas till the modalities had been worked out at the operational and diplomatic levels. India broke its silence on the disengagement process in the Rajya Sabha a day after the Chinese defence ministry spokesperson announced that the two countries’ frontline troops had begun a “synchronised and organised disengagement from February 10” at the southern and northern banks of the Pangong Lake. The government’s silence till Thursday morning was attributed to the need to make important announcements first in Parliament when the national legislature was in session. Presenting a statement, defence minister Rajnath Singh said: “The agreement that we have been able to reach with the Chinese side for disengagement in the Pangong Lake area envisages that both sides will cease their forward deployments in a phased, coordinated and verified manner.” He added: “The Chinese side will keep its troop presence in the north bank area to east of Finger 8. Reciprocally, the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3. A similar action would be taken in the south bank area by both sides.” Describing these as “mutual and reciprocal steps”, Rajnath said the structures built by either side since April in the north and south bank areas would be removed and the landforms restored. He said the two sides had agreed to a temporary moratorium on military activities in the north bank, including patrolling in the traditional areas. Patrolling will resume only after both sides have reached an agreement in their diplomatic and military talks. Rajnath said that within 48 hours of the completion of disengagement in the Pangong Lake area, senior commanders will meet to address and resolve all remaining issues. He did not identify the remaining issues, but these should include the disputes over Depsang and Demchok besides the Galwan Valley, prised open by the Chinese last summer after having remained a settled issue since the 1962 war. Rajnath sought to assure the House that India had not conceded anything under the agreement. Opposition members sought clarifications, permitted by the Rules of Procedure of the Rajya Sabha, but Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu disallowed them. He cited national security and emphasised that the negotiations with the Chinese were still on. Congress member Jairam Ramesh reminded Naidu of his direction to Rajnath in the last session to organise an in-camera briefing for party leaders on the situation along the Line of Actual Control. Naidu said Rajnath had been in touch with him on this and that they had decided to wait a while before having the in-camera briefing. He said this had been communicated to some of the party leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||India||Aged publisher and author held for 60 hours at Saket||The 73-year-old online publisher, Prabir Purkayastha, and the 67-year old award winning author, Githa Hariharan, have been held for around 60 hours at their Saket home as Enforcement Directorate officials continued their “search and survey” of premises associated with the news portal, NewsClick. Hariharan owns shares in PPK NewsClick Studio Pvt Ltd that owns the website and runs the Indian Cultural Forum on the NewsClick premises. An email and a WhatsApp message from this newspaper to ED director Sanjay Kumar Mishra asking whether this was a record duration for a raid by an agency of the finance ministry, among other details, have failed to elicit any response. Sources who witnessed the searches in at least six locations in the national capital have confirmed that bank and investment documents, tax returns, email history caches, mobile phones, computers, hard disks — tools of journalism, including contacts of sources, and tools to manage finances — have been taken. Besides Purkayastha’s home and the offices of NewsClick and its sister concerns located on two floors of a narrow building in south Delhi’s Said-ul-Ajaib, the homes of editor Pranjal Pandey, HR head Amit Chakraborty, technology columnist Bappaditya Sinha and an employee named Shekhar have been searched. ED officials left the portal’s office, and restored the freedom of movement of everyone, besides Purkayastha and Hariharan, late on Wednesday night. Many unions, clubs and guilds of journalists from India and abroad have condemned the raids. The website has been hailed by trade unions and farmer groups who have termed the raids as a return of the Emergency. A statement by the Indian Women’s Press Corps on Thursday condemning the raids said: “The IWPC believes that in a country, in which freedom of speech and expression is guaranteed by the Constitution, the expression of views divergent from that of the establishment are an essential part of a vibrant democracy and cannot be muzzled. Raids or charges of sedition cannot be used to shape and coerce the media and shut down those who differ. The Indian media is far too large and diverse to be intimidated by these messages of fear.” NewsClick’s website continues to function with reporters working from their homes, filing reports and uploading them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||India||Adivasi Mela brings smiles to faces of women in Odisha||The coronavirus-induced lockdown had wiped the smile off the face of 40-year-old Ambika Tope of Odisha. With her income drying up, the tribal woman was unable to pay the tuition fees of her two children — 13-year-old daughter and son, aged eight. Her husband, who works as a daily wager, had also been rendered jobless. However, the tribal fair that concluded here on Tuesday, helped Ambika and many other tribal women to resume their earning activities. The annual fair registered business worth Rs 2 crore, according to officials. Nearly 2.5 lakh people visited the fair which commenced on January 26. For Ambika and thousands of tribal women, who faced a tough time on the economic front because of the pandemic, the Adivasi Mela, organised by the Odisha government, came as a boon. The stalls set up by them at the fair sold a variety of products, including rice, pulses and spices and generated tremendous response. Ambika, who hails from Jhirapani under Bisra block of Sundergarh district, said: “We faced all kinds of hardship during the lockdown. Our income dropped to zero. Shopkeepers who used to buy our products like spices stopped their purchases. I had daily arguments with my husband. He started drinking which added to our woes.” Ambika, who was unable to buy even a packet of biscuits for her children during the lockdown, is happy that the bad phase is behind her. “Things have improved after the lockdown. Business has been much better for the last two months. Things are beginning to normalise. I have also started repaying the loan of Rs 50,000 that I had taken,” she added. Similar is the story of Sita Khadia, who had also set up a stall at the fair. “The response was good. I am going back home with a good income. There is demand for our products such as spices and desi rice. During the lockdown I had taken a loan of Rs 1 lakh to keep my family going and to restart my business. Now things are looking much better. Lockdown was a sudden decision that hurt us like the decision to stop the circulation of old Rs 500 notes. Such decisions take people by surprise which is not good. People should be informed about such moves in advance,” said Khadia. The fair drew people from all walks of life as typical tribal products including mandia, turmeric, raw rice and tribal jewellery were on offer. Adivasi Tribal Language and Culture member secretary A.B. Ota told The Telegraph: “Earlier we used to set up 300 stalls every year. But this time we put up only 90 stalls because of Covid restrictions. Last year, the tribals had done business worth Rs 6 crore. But this time the business was lower compared to last year as the stalls had been reduced. Despite the Covid restrictions, the tribal women did good business. The response from visitors was good.” Lalatendu Mohapatra, special officer, exhibition, said: “The I&PR (information and public relations) department, under the direction of secretary S.K. Singh, had put up a photography exhibition focussing on tribals which was a major attraction of the fair.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Kolkata court awards 7-yr jail to chit fund company official||A court here on Friday sentenced an official of chit fund company Rose Valley to seven years in jail for duping investors of their money through ponzi schemes floated by the firm. Judge Anupam Mukhopadhyay of City Sessions Court also slapped a fine of Rs 2.5 lakh on Arun Mukhopadhyay, who was a director in the Rose Valley group. The court convicted Mukhopadhyay after he admitted that he was guilt during the hearing. Lawyer for the depositors Arindam Das said that thousands of people were duped by the Rose Valley Group, which had set up multiple companies to run their chit fund operations. According to the court, Mukhopadhyay, who was arrested after the scam was unearthed in 2013, was in custody for three years before being released on bail, and this period of incarceration will be included in the total jail term of seven years he has to serve. Several accused, including Rose Valley group chief Gautam Kundu, have so far been arrested in connection with the chit fund scam being probed by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Normal life partially affected in 12-hour Bengal bandh called by Left Front||Normal life in Bengal was partially affected on Friday due to the 12-hour state-wide bandh called by the Left Front in protest against police action on its activists during their march towards state secretariat Nabanna. Schools in the state are scheduled to reopen during the day for students of classes 9-12 after a gap of 11 months. They were shut in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. Left cadre blocked railway tracks and roads in Malda, Barddhaman, Raiganj, Asansol, Dankuni and parts of Calcutta, North 24 Parganas and Nadia districts during the bandh that began at 6 am. Protestors burnt tyres at some places and offered roses to policemen in other areas. Left activists demanding jobs clashed with police in central Calcutta's Esplanade area on Thursday as they tried to break through barricades during their march towards Nabanna, leading to injuries to several participants and also the police. Calling for a bandh in protest against the "brutal attack" by the police, Left Front chairman Biman Bose had claimed that over 150 students and young men and women were injured. Massive police presence was witnessed on the roads during the day to ensure that public transport functioned normally. Left Front leader Sujan Chakraborty said that people have spontaneously responded in favour of the bandh. He said that school students have not been prevented from physically attending their classes. Meanwhile, Indian Secular Front leader Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui extended support to the bandh. Condemning the police action, he alleged that the TMC government conducts administrative repression even as it opposes the "unconstitutional activities" of the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Sevoke–Rangpo railway project risky: Villagers||A joint forum of forest dwellers in the hills have launched a campaign against the Sevoke–Rangpo railway project and viaduct planned at Rangpo, the bordering town of Sikkim, alleging that they would put thousands of forest villagers at risk. “The railway project will affect over 1,500 families in 24 forest villages along the 40km stretch between Sevoke and Rangpo. Another 57 families in Rangpo will be at risk because of the viaduct project. We want both projects stalled for the interest of the region,” said Leela Kumar Gurung, secretary of the Himalayan Forest Villagers’ Organisation (HFVO), here on Thursday. Gurung alleged that both projects were taken up without adherence to environment and forest laws, and the Forest Rights Act, 2006, and Forest Conservation Act, 1980, were getting violated. “From February 6, we launched the first leg of the campaign from Sankosh (a river along the Bengal-Assam border). It will end at Malbazar (Jalpaiguri) on February 14. We are telling people about the adverse effects of these projects on villagers and the environment,” he added. According to sources in HFVO, the second phase will be in Gajoldoba from February 18 to 20. The final phase will start from Sukna on February 22 and end in Sevoke on February 28. Back in 2009, the Sevoke-Ranpo rail project was launched by then railway minister Mamata Banerjee to include Sikkim in India’s railway map. Later, the viaduct — a 1km-long flyover — was planned in Rangpo, the main entry point to Sikkim, to ease traffic. The project, assigned to National Highway Infrastructural Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL), is on. “A case has been filed at the Supreme Court. The manner in which the projects are being carried out, there a risk of a cave-in in the ecologically fragile area. We saw what happened in Uttarakhand,” said Soumitra Ghosh, a representative of the organisation, referring to the Sunday avalanche.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Welfare fund for all refugees pledged by Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday promised that a BJP government in Bengal would constitute the “Mukhyamantri Saranarthi Kalyan Yojona (Chief Minister’s Refugee Welfare Scheme)” for all refugees, launch a scheme for Matuas’s education and employment and provide monthly pension to Matua community heads. With no clarifications on the controversial citizenship matrix, Shah preferred to woo Matuas with a bouquet of “assurances” as he was well aware that the support of the community would play a key role in grabbing power in Bengal. While laying stress on education of the next generation of Matuas, Shah reminded the crowd about the contribution of their guru and social reformer Harichand-Guruchand Thakur to the community. Apart from the Mukhyamantri Saranarthi Kalyan Yojona for all refugees, Shah also announced that if the BJP was voted to power, it would provide monthly pension to Matua Dalapatis, a small group of community heads, so that they could survive with honour in their old age. Another commitment was a scheme for undergraduate and postgraduate students belonging to the Matua community and their employment. Announcing a list of pre-poll promises, Shah said the BJP within a week of coming to power in the state would send a proposal to rename the Thakurnagar railway station as “Shridham Thakurnagar” and promote the holy abode of the Matuas as a tourist spot. He also promised to improve infrastructure of the Harichand-Guruchand temple in Thakurnagar, while proposing to build a new temple in the memory of the two community gurus. Shah unveiled a model of the proposed temple amid huge applause. Pallab Dhara, a young Matua who came from Burdwan, said: “The proposals if implemented will be good because they are intended at social and economic development of the young generation of Matuas.” Sarvabharatiya Matua Mahasangh chief Mamatabala Thakur, leader of the rival faction of Matuas and former Trinamul MP, said: “Amit Shah has clearly tried to hijack the development initiatives that Mamata Banerjee has already implemented.” “She has already constituted Matua Development Board for overall development of the community. At the same time, Amit Shah is trying to take credit by proposing to rename the Thakurnagar railway station, which I as an MP had made at least four years ago. The BJP is trying repackage our endeavours,” Mamatabala said. All India Matua Mahasangha chief and BJP MP Santanu Thakur said: “Amit Shah has spoken about the comprehensive development of the community, which includes education and jobs for youths. The proposals cover a boarder spectrum, while nobody knows what Trinamul has offered for us in the name of the board.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Shah’s promises galore for Rajbanshis, Matuas||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday made several promises to woo Rajbanshis, which included formation of a battalion in the name of the erstwhile princely state of Cooch Behar in central paramilitary forces (CPMF), a Rs 500 crore cultural centre for the community and a Rs 250 crore statue of social reformer Panchanan Barma. He made the announcements for the community whose votes could swing results in half of 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal at a public meeting here. “The Narayani Sena (of the Cooch Behar kings) had staved off the aggressive Mughals and tales of their valour are known even in the far-flung Gujarat. That is why we have decided to form a Narayani battalion in central paramilitary forces. A training centre of these forces would be named after Chila Roy,” the home minister said. Chila Roy or Sukladhwaj, the younger brother of king Naranarayan, was the fiercest fighter of the Cooch Behar royal family. For several years, Cooch Behar residents, especially the Rajbanshi community, have been demanding the creation of a battalion in the name of Narayani Sena in defence forces. Last year, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is desperate to win back the support of Rajbanshis as a majority of them sided with the saffron camp, had announced creation of a Narayani battalion in the Bengal police. The headquarters of the battalion will be set up in Mekhliganj of Cooch Behar, she had said. “It seems BJP leaders have understood the pulse and that is why the home minister came up with the announcement of a similar battalion in the CPMF,” said a political analyst. Addressing a gathering of around 50,000 people at the Rashmela Ground, Shah also announced that the Centre would spend Rs 500 crore to raise a cultural centre for Rajbanshis and Rs 250 crore to build a new statue of Panchanan Burma, both in Cooch Behar. “We will also develop a national level tourist circuit covering prominent temples and heritage properties of Cooch Behar,” he said. Before landing in Cooch Behar, Shah went to Bongaon in the neighbouring Assam and met Ananta Maharaj, a leader of the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association. Ananta, who represents a faction in the association — the other one is headed by Bangshibadan Burman who has lent his support to Mamata — is from Cooch Behar but lives in Assam. Ananta Maharaj enjoys considerable clout among Rajbanshis. After the public meeting, the BJP leader flagged off the tableaux of the party’s Parivartan Yatra in north Bengal. Then, he went to Madanmohan temple (established by the Cooch Behar royals) and offered a puja. Before leaving Cooch Behar, the home minister paid homage to the statue of Panchanan Barma in the town. In his speech, Shah spoke against infiltration from Bangladesh, an issue that had been flagged time and again by the Rajbanshi community. “As I met Ananta Maharaj and reached here, I saw settlements and realised that infiltration is an important issue here. The Trinamul government can’t stop the infiltration. Once we are voted to power, even a bird cannot infiltrate through the (Bangladesh) border,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Meeting on border crimes in Jalpaiguri||The Jalpaiguri district administration on Thursday held a high level meeting with officials of paramilitary forces and central government departments to curb illegal activities in the district ahead of the Assembly elections, particularly in areas close to the international borders. “The elections are yet to be announced but we have decided to start preparations to stop illegal activities. At the directive of the Election Commission, we had a meeting with officials of different departments and agencies. All of us would be working in coordination and vigil would be enhanced on the international borders,” said Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri. Senior officials of the BSF, Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Customs, GST and income tax were present at the meeting, said sources. In Jalpaiguri district, the Sadar and Rajganj blocks share borders with Bangladesh. The boundary in the Sadar block has a stretch 55km. The frontier is 39km long in the Rajganj block. Different stretches of the Bangladesh border, whose combined length is 18km, are not fenced. The district also shares borders with Bhutan. While the Nagrakata block shares a 30km border with Bhutan, the Dhupguri block has 15km of boundary with the Himalayan country. According to administrative sources, arms smuggling, circulation of black money and inflow of illegal (non-duty paid) liquor are common ahead of the elections. “It is necessary to stop such activities to prevent intimidation of voters. That is why the meeting was held and a clear message has been passed on to central agencies and departments to make all efforts to check such practices. In areas close to the borders, check-posts would be set up to frisk vehicles and luggage,” said an official. In the past few days, reports have reached the administration that some people are illegally bringing in liquor made in Bhutan and storing the same at some places. “The excise department has been asked to take stern steps and act in coordination with the SSB and the district police,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Engineer beaten up in Malda, finger at Trinamul leader||The assault of a senior engineer posted in Old Malda block of Malda district on Wednesday evening by a Trinamul leader led to protests on Thursday by BDO office employees with a cease-work. Accused Trinamul leader Santosh Maiti, also husband of the local panchayat samiti’s sabhapati, however, has denied the charges and instead accused the engineer of corrupt activities. According to sources, on Wednesday evening some contractors came at the block office premises to protest the process of tenders for the construction of three ICDS buildings. “They were angry as the jobs were allotted to contractors not from Old Malda. Suddenly, Maiti started roughing up Sushanta Das, a senior engineer of the block looking after the tender process,” said an employee who joined the protest on Thursday. Das filed a police complaint against Maiti and four others, police sources said. On Thursday, employees at the block office expressed concern over their security and stopped work to protest. “If a sincere and senior employee like him (Das) is not safe, how can we be sure that we won't face such attacks during our work,” said an employee. Maiti called the charges "baseless". “I had simply tried to mediate an altercation between the contractors and the engineer. Some people are conspiring against me,” the Trinamul leader said. District Trinamul leaders responded cautiously. “The police should probe and find the truth. It is undesirable that an engineer has been manhandled.  No one should take law into his own hands,” said a district Trinamul leader. BJP jumped into the fray, with Nitai Mondal, the leader of opposition at the panchayat samiti, asking for the arrests of all the accused. “The administration should also ensure security of the employees working in the block,” Mondal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung defers public meeting for TET||Bimal Gurung has decided to postpone his first public meeting at Kurseong in more than three-and-a-half years as it coincided with the first teachers’ eligibility test (TET) conducted by the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) this Sunday. “I have been forced to take this decision as the future of the younger generation is more important. Our public meeting and TET exams are coinciding but public meetings can be held on any other date,” said Bimal Gurung, president of his faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. The meeting would now be held on Monday, he said. Around 14,500 candidates will appear for the GTA’s TET from 11. 30am to 2pm in 32 centres across the hills. With Gurung’s proposed mega show at Kurseong on Sunday — his first address in the hill town after being on the run since August 2017 — there were fears among many candidates of inconveniences in reaching exam venues. A political observer said at this moment Gurung could not afford to inconvenience the general public. The TET exam recently come into focus after an audio clip purportedly that of a teacher associated with the Gurung camp, Kamal Thapa of Rohini Tea Primary School, surfaced on social media, where the teacher was heard directing a candidate to fill up the TET application form stating she has a diploma certificate in elementary education (D.EL.Ed) obtained between 2015 and 2017. Thapa purportedly said he could provide the certificate for Rs 1.5 lakh and a primary teacher’s job for Rs 3 lakhs. Thapa was expelled by the party after the audio clip surfaced in public domain. Raju Pradhan, the founding assistant secretary of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Gurung camp), quit the party on Thursday. “I decided to quit as I did not like the party’s decision to align with Trinamul,” said Pradhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Police and Left youths clash, bandh today||The march of 10 Left student and youth organisations such as SFI and DYFI to Nabanna on Thursday took a violent turn as the police and protesters clashed, leaving many injured and prompting the Left Front to call a 12-hour strike on Friday against “police brutality”. Police sources said 38 protesters and 25 policemen were injured in the clash, and 42 protesters were arrested. SFI state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya, however, claimed around 400-500 protesters had been hospitalised. Thursday’s march to demand jobs started from College Street and was to reach Nabanna to hand over a list of demands to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “All we wanted was to give the list to the chief minister. They could’ve arrested us there (Nabanna) but instead cops brutally beat us up on the road,” said Minakshi Mukherjee, DYFI state president. The police had put up layers of barricades to stop the rally at Dorina Crossing in Esplanade. The Left outfits, however, wanted to breach this and head towards Nabanna. Police sources said at least 25 police pickets had been set up along the route of the rally and some 4,000 personnel were on duty. All alleys along the SN Banerjee Road, which the rally took to reach Esplanade, were blocked by the police and water cannons had been set up at two points. Eyewitnesses said trouble started at Dorina Crossing when the police halted protesters. As some protesters tried to break barricades, the police fired water cannons and tear gas shells. When protesters tried to counter with stones, the police did the same. As tension grew, the police lathicharged protesters. Left sources said a protester’s eye was injured and many others were gravely wounded. An angry Left Front leadership reacted to “police brutality” with a 12-hour bandh call from 6am on Friday. “When BJP goons go on a rampage in the name of protest, the police do nothing. But they brutally come down on a peaceful protest of Left student and youth outfits,” said Left leader Sujan Chakraborty. The Congress, whose youth wing had taken part in Thursday’s rally, condemned the police attack. Congress MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Abdul Mannan said his party would back Friday’s strike. The strike coincides with the day schools are set to re-open after almost a year of Covid-induced shutdown. The Bengal government issued a notification on Thursday evening cancelling all types of leave for government employees and those in state-aided institutions in view of the strike called by the Left on Friday. Employees who don’t attend duties on Friday will face a day’s pay cut and a day’s deduction from their service life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata to Shah: Speak first on son’s wealth||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday mounted an aggressive counteroffensive against Amit Shah, calling him out on personal attacks, accusing him of craving power in Bengal and advising basic courtesy as the Union home minister. The Bengal chief minister questioned Shah and other BJP leaders relentlessly focusing their attacks on the alleged corruption by her and nephew, Trinamul Congress’s heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee. She turned the tables with a question on the source of the wealth — which grew, on record, exponentially after the BJP came to power at the Centre — of Union home minister’s son Jay Shah. “Only bhatija-bua (nephew-aunt), all the time. We are very bad, because we are from Bengal. What about your son? How did he make that kind of money? Respond to that first,” said Mamata to loud cheers from thousands in the audience, comprising civil society members, self-help groups and NGOs, at the Uttirna amphitheatre in Alipore here. Responding to Shah’s claims of the Centre allocating funds for the state, which her government allegedly misappropriates, the Trinamul chief said the money in question was not from the Prime Minister’s pocket, to begin with. “The audacious claims that Modiji gave money, and Mamataji ate it all up. Did Modiji give it from his pocket? It’s the people’s money, taxpayers’ funds, channelled from a government to another government…,” said a visibly outraged chief minister. “Today, again, he said, we are all bhroshtachari (corrupt)…. Then, what are you? Dushtachari (Wicked)? All of us are bhroshtachari, durnitiporayon (corrupt)? The mother of the thief has the loudest voice…. I heard him (Shah). Phuchka khabar khawmota nei, phulko luchi khabey (They lack the ability to handle even the basics, yet they aspire for glory)… with their feet on the throats of farmers,” she added. “I ate everything up? You have to prove it. If you cannot, you should resign.” Picking up from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi had left off on Sunday, with a football reference to drive home a political message, Mamata threw a challenge at him. “The khyala (game) isn’t that easy…. Hoye jaak, ekta khyala. Gonotontreyr khyala, porikkhar khyala, rajneetir khyala (Let’s have it then, a game. A game of democracy, a game of trial, a game of politics)? Want it at the Brigade Parade Grounds?” she asked.  “On one side, there will be your team, including the Left and the Congress. On the other side, Trinamul Congress will stand alone. I will be the goalkeeper. I will do nothing else. I will see how many goals you can score past me. Who wins this khyala,” she added. Mamata then coached the Union home minister on basics of civility. “I say this with sadness. Because if I don’t, they will mistakenly assume I am weak. Civility cannot be one-sided…. The things he said here, his body language, the ugliness of the language, and such monstrous mindset,” she said. “I say this clearly, it does not behove a Union home minister…. I am telling you clearly, in language you understand. You can abuse me, but you cannot ignore me, this you must understand….,” she added. The chief minister also criticised Modi over his andolanjeevi jibe at the farmers’ movement, lambasting his government for the way it had been treating farmers and those opposed to the citizenship matrix. “Abusing the andolankari (agitator) as andolanjeevi (those making a living off agitations)? I am the daughter of many an andolan (movement). I am a street-fighter even today. That is my biggest identity, my biggest pride… inside or outside a government. I was, am and will remain with the people. Till the very end,” said Mamata. “Again, he has come here to make his CAA-cooh noises. There will be not a tnyaphoo (peep) here. The NPR, the NRC, the CAA, not one of them will happen here,” she added. The chief minister then urged the civil society to come forward and join her fight, underscoring why it was important to save what Bengal stands for. “With folded hands, I seek your support. I ask all of you to join this fight to save Bengal. Protect it from riots. Guard its peace. For the sake of development, of students and youth, of the honour of mothers and sisters, of farmers and workers, of culture, of religion, of civilisation itself, and of yourselves,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 4,313 active cases in all in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday logged 286 Covid-19 recoveries, 217 new cases and five deaths, including three from Calcutta. The unbroken dip in Bengal’s total active cases continued for the 108th day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. Active cases, which numbered 37,190 on Dashami, have fallen to 4,313 now. Bengal has 3.11 per cent of India’s active cases, less than half of its share a couple of months ago. “We have 4.3 thousand active cases left, while over 4.3 lakh vaccine doses have been administered here. We are joint sixth in India in terms of the number of doses administered,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 111 days straight to touch 97.46 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.25. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.95 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 83 days. On Thursday, the state reported 22,106 tests, taking the total past 82.31 lakh, at 91,467 tests per million people. Of the total toll of 10,225, 8,584 deaths (84 per cent) have been attributed by the state to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained at 1.78 while the national rate is 1.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Goons kill guard at Asansol supermarket||An armed security guard was killed and two employees of a private cash handling agency were injured when six motorcycle-borne goons fired at them in daylight on Thursday on the premises of a branded supermarket chain here. The security guard and the two employees foiled the attempt of the gang to loot cash at Kalyanpur in the West Burdwan town, but were shot at, leaving the guard dead. Police said around 11.30am, employees of a private cash handling agency were shifting Rs 70 lakh from the supermarket to a van to deposit it at a bank. As the two cash-laden bags were being dumped in the van, six masked youths on two bikes trained revolvers at the guard Rabiul Mirdha, employee Prashanta Debnath and driver Bikash Pal. “As Mirdha resisted, the goons opened fire,” said a police officer. “A bullet hit Mirdha on his throat. The other bullets hit the glass windows of the van and shards of glass injured Debnath and Pal. All three were rushed to Asansol district hospital where Mirdha was declared dead on arrival.” The goons failed to take  the bags of cash, fleeing when employees and guards of the supermarket came out hearing the gunshots. The police said the goons had left behind a motorcycle, but it could be stolen. “The motorbike bears the registration of Durgapur road transport authority but we suspect it could also have been stolen too,” said an investigating officer. Two persons have been detained for interrogations, the officer said. “We have also taken CCTV camera footage of the supermarket and alerted all neighbouring police stations, including our counterparts in the (nearby) state of Jharkhand,” said Tathagata Pandey, assistant commissioner of police (central). Police said the goons were aware about the time when cash from the supermarket chain was supposed to be shifted to the bank. “They had been waiting at the spot and they seemed to have carried out a recce beforehand,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
12-02-2021||North East||Two killed, three injured in Sikkim car accident||Two persons died and three were injured when the car they were travelling in met with an accident near Tashi Viewpoint in Gangtok in the early hours of Thursday. The dead included Mewang Gyatso, 24, son of Pempa T Bhutia, the director general-cum-secretary of Sikkim health department. The other deceased was identified as Michelle Grace Lepcha, 21. The injured were Chris Pradhan, Sharsod Mimami and Siddharth Basnet, who is the son of Raju Basnet, the secretary of Sikkim’s sports and youth affairs department. “The three have received serious injuries and are being treated at the STNM Hospital in Gangtok,” said a police source. The source said the cause of the accident was not immediately known. “Preliminary investigation suggests the driver lost control and rammed the vehicle into the retention wall along the road. We have seized the vehicle and are carrying further investigation to ascertain the cause of the accident,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-23
12-02-2021||North East||Amit Shah meets Rajbongshi leader in Assam||Union home minister Amit Shah flew to Assam’s Chirang district on Thursday morning to fulfil a “promise” he had made to Ananta Roy Maharaj, the founder member of the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association, which has “considerable” influence among the Koch-Rajbongshi community in poll-bound Bengal. After Shah’s visit to the Satipur residence of the 63-year-old Roy where the minister spent around 50 minutes, the association’s founder member told the media that “good days await our people as all our pending demands will be fulfilled”. Assam minister and North East Democratic Alliance convener Himanta Biswa Sarma and state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass accompanied Shah. From Satipur, Shah flew to Cooch Behar in north Bengal to address a rally in the Rajbongshi heartland where he promised to build a cultural centre for the community at a cost of Rs 500 crore, among others. Though Roy, who became much sought after following reports about Shah’s impending visit to his residence this week, did not spell out what transpired during the discussion or what were the pending demands, sources told The Telegraph that it was the BJP’s attempt to woo the community before the Assembly polls. The community, according to Roy, has a “decisive” say in “52 of the 54 Assembly seats” in north Bengal. Sources said Shah’s visit to Roy was undertaken with an eye on the Bengal polls where the BJP is going all out to unseat the ruling Trinamul Congress and that it will also have an “impact” in Assam where the community has a population of over 50 lakh and has been demanding Scheduled Tribe status for several decades. Both Bengal and Assam go to polls in April-May. Sources also said the demands included a separate state or Union Territory for the community comprising seven districts of Bengal and undivided Goalpara district (presently it has five districts), ST status for the community in Bengal and Assam, constitutional recognition of the Koch-Rajbongshi language, a separate regiment for the community’s youth in the army and paramilitary forces and chapters on Koch-Rajbongshi icons in history books, among others. The association has been pressing for a separate state/Union Territory since its formation in 1998. Roy said the princely state of Cooch Behar was merged with India on August 28, 1949, and in 1950, it was included in the state of Bengal. “There is a historical basis for our demand. Cooch Behar was to remain a separate state but became a district of Bengal. We want the Centre to restore the status of the Rajbongshi state. We had discussed the issue with Congress-led UPA government and now we are discussing it with BJP-led NDA regime. We have the support of over 18 lakh people in north Bengal,” Roy told this newspaper, alluding to the association’s electoral influence, a reason why Shah and the BJP are courting him. That both Shah and Roy share “more” than a rapport was also evident from what he said when asked about the home minister flying in to meet him during a hectic campaigning schedule. “I have met Shahji twice before — in October last year and on January 31 — and briefed him about our long-pending demands. I also told him about his predecessor Rajnath Singh’s commitment to fulfil our demands once the BJP enjoyed majority in both houses of Parliament and has its own nominee as the President. “Without a majority, it cannot fulfil our statehood demand despite our treaty of merger with India. Before Rajnath, we had placed our statehood demand before the Congress which too supported us but it did not have the majority to see it through,” Roy said. “When I last met Shahji on January 31, he had asked me to have food before leaving. I also invited him to visit our Satipur residence and have lunch with us. He promised that he will visit us today and then fly to Cooch Behar. He kept his promise. He assured me that they will fulfil some demands now and the rest after the elections,” Roy said, without revealing the demands. Volunteers of the Narayani Sena dressed in traditional attire lined up along the road to Roy’s Satipur residence to welcome Shah. The minister had “pitha and laaru” at Roy’s residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-23
12-02-2021||North East||Dibrugarh vice-chancellor stick  for public funds ‘misuse’||Dibrugarh University vice-chancellor Professor Ranjit Tamuli has been suspended by Assam governor Jagdish Mukhi on the charges of “grave” financial irregularities and “misuse” of public funds, according to a statement issued by the Raj Bhavan on Thursday. Mukhi, also the chancellor of the university set up in 1965 in Upper Assam’s Dibrugarh district, ordered the suspension acting on the “report” of the fact-finding committee and on “consideration” of facts and materials available on record and placed before him, finding “prima facie a case of grave misconduct, abuse of power and lack of commitment on the part of Tamuli”. Tamuli is the third varsity official to be suspended since last week. The other two officials — registrar Hari Chandra Mahanta and deputy registrar (finance & accounts) Diganta Borah — were suspended for their alleged involvement in financial irregularities. Mukhi also decided to constitute a high-level inquiry committee to look into details of the functioning of the Dibrugarh University for the past five years. Dibrugarh University Teachers’ Association, Dibrugarh University Officers’ Association, Dibrugarh University Employees’ Association and Lahowal MLA had submitted petitions to Mukhi on allegations of gross financial anomalies and misappropriation of funds against Tamuli. They had also staged protests against these irregularities. Not satisfied with Tamuli’s explanation on the charges, Mukhi, in order to ascertain veracity of the allegations constituted a fact-finding committee under the chairmanship of commissioner and secretary, higher education department, Preetom Saikia, and Upper Assam division commissioner Moloy Bora, who were assisted by experts from the Directorate of Forensic Science, Kahilipara. “The decision for immediate suspension has been taken to ensure that witnesses are not influenced/coerced in any way and material records of the University are not tampered with in any manner whatsoever and for ensuring a fair enquiry,” the statement said. The governor has handed over the charge of the vice-chancellor to Professor R.N.S. Yadav, the seniormost professor of the varsity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-23
12-02-2021||Opinion||Shared warmth: Modi and the judiciary||Mutual admiration is often stimulating. But when members of the higher judiciary wax eloquent over the excellences of the prime minister while he expresses approval of the judiciary’s dutifulness, the exchange of compliments appears somewhat iffy. While releasing a commemorative stamp on the occasion of the Gujarat High Court’s diamond jubilee, the prime minister expatiated on the theme of the judiciary’s dedication, by which it upholds the Constitution and also strengthens it by constructive and creative interpretation. The judiciary has safeguarded the rights of the people and their personal freedoms, while responding in the right way whenever national interests are prioritized. Were courts supposed to do anything else? However, the prime minister’s approbation is understandable, since Indian prisons now hold numbers of people who have gone against the prime minister’s notion of ‘national interest’. He referred to India’s belief from scriptural times that good governance is rooted in law. His compliment to the judiciary seemed to assume his own good governance. Although public appreciation of the judiciary’s uprightness is welcome from a prime minister, it could be asked whether a tone of patronage is quite fitting. But such proprieties are obsolete in Narendra Modi’s India, because the Supreme Court judge, M.R. Shah, reportedly said on the same occasion that he was honoured to be in the presence of the most “popular, loved, vibrant and visionary” leader. In a similar vein, the chief justice of the Gujarat High Court found the cause of Mr Modi’s popularity to lie in his sense of fairness and devotion to duty, while there was a general chorus from senior lawmen about his vibrant leadership and success in making India notable in the world. But effusive praise of a ruling political personage from members of the senior judiciary cannot be desirable: it undermines the separation of powers and dents the perception of the judiciary’s independence. This last is a fundamental requirement; if judges — as happened in the case of the retired judge, Arun Mishra — are overcome with admiration for political leaders in power there may arise doubts about their dedication to Constitutional, democratic values and rights. The people’s trust in the judiciary should not be shaken. The law must be seen to remain in its own place: neither to need nor to give bouquets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
12-02-2021||Opinion||Big Brothers: cyber vigilantes||Is Narendra Modi’s government keen to mould Indian citizens after its own image? The query is being raised in response to the home ministry’s initiative to raise a corps of citizen-volunteers who would be responsible for identifying and reporting, among other transgressions, ‘anti-national’ activity. It has been reported that the programme would be piloted in Jammu and Kashmir and Tripura but its deleterious impact would be similar irrespective of geography. This is because the intent of this intervention is to facilitate a culture of public vigilantism. And if the history of investing segments of the population with unprecedented powers is anything to go by — the notorious legacies of the Salwa Judum in Chhattisgarh, Bihar’s caste militias or the outfit that swears its allegiance to the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh may be instructive in this context — it does not take long for such forces to mutate into agencies of intimidation. Given the extraordinary strain on India’s social fabric and the resultant erosion that has coincided with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s political ascendancy, the citizen-watchdog could lead to a further spurt in spurious allegations against critics of the regime. Such an outcome cannot be ruled out especially since the rhetoric of the ‘anti-national’ — it eludes legal definition — has been used by the BJP and its Hindutva fraternity to curb dissent, criticism and, most worryingly, free speech. The absence of a statute for the creation of such a batch of volunteers who may turn rogue is unlikely to bother the powers that be. Radical experiments, the BJP’s minders believe, are necessary to neutralize Old India. This proposal also brings to light the need to assess India’s existing cyber security network. Are the bona fide cyber security institutions proving to be inept in tackling the wide array of ‘crimes’ that the new Big Brothers are meant to monitor? What is equally worrying is the continuous weaponization of social media platforms by the Centre and state governments. The cyber-volunteer idea has coincided with the Centre’s browbeating of Twitter into submission. Several states — Uttarakhand, Bihar, even Kerala — have attempted to turn their hawk-eyed gaze on critical posts on social media. Social media’s extraordinary power to mobilize people must be the principal cause for the anxiety of the powers that be. Ironically, the collateral damage — the choking of freedom and rights — is deemed secondary by the custodians of democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
12-02-2021||Opinion||Notes on change in India||In spite of the dread of a tiny virus, 2020 ended on notes of celebration. A large and significant section celebrated the iron fist that did away with an autonomous Kashmir, corrected the imbalance in citizenship, countered the Chinese, resurrected a glorious Ram mandir, destroyed liberal thought, promised to double farmers’ incomes and is crusading against the anti-national, the undisciplined Dalit, women and Muslims. Another section celebrated the resistance to all these. This was reflected in small and large gatherings of students, workers, farmers, women, nurses, doctors, teachers, lawyers, engineers and the displaced, the disabled and the unemployed. The smallest but most significant section celebrated their net worth zooming up by 35 per cent at a time the national GDP contracted by 23 per cent. All the celebrations were about ‘change’, but what was the change? The change sought by the iron-fisted and the tight-fisted is explicit enough: the former moving towards an international market with a domestic Brahminical order; the latter seeks to acquire wealth. But what change did the resisters imagine? The protests in Jammu and Kashmir that lingered on from 2019 demanded the restoration of Article 370 and 35(A) and the rights that the citizens of Jammu, Kashmir, and Ladakh possessed before the state was split into two. The other protest that spilled over into 2020 demanded the scrapping of the CAA and the NRC. Early in 2020, protests erupted in university campuses against fee hikes, the New Education Policy, repression and, later, against the UGC guidelines. The lockdown put an end to demonstrations but it could not stop the migrant workers from registering their dissent. The year triggered off three different movements that are likely to set the agenda for 2021. Firstly, changes in labour laws spurred protests, culminating in a general strike in November demanding cash transfers, rations, employment, tenure, pensions, and withdrawal of the laws. Then the farmers began their agitation; they remain outside Delhi demanding the repealing of three farm laws. Thirdly, anti-rape, anti-molestation, and anti-patriarchy stirrings have grown in spite of the ‘love jihad’ laws. All these resistances as well as the stirrings of the subaltern castes have a common theme: returning to an earlier state of affairs. Perhaps we need to go back to earlier ideologies and rework an imagination of a better society. If we accept that we live in a rampaging capitalist society, then we may also see that the three forces that drive capitalism are the perpetual search for profit, an antagonism towards productive and reproductive labour and ceaseless extraction of nature. Resistance, therefore, may reflect on Gandhi’s talisman to understand how these forces can be countered. Protecting the Constitution is admirable; but would not rooting citizenship in work and advocating for the Directive Principles of State Policy to become rights be worthier contributions? If a living wage — proposed in 1948, agreed to in 1957, and legally affirmed in 1961 and 1991 — were fought for with determination, would it not signal a huge step for all labour — including women’s hidden labour — against capital while challenging profit? If living wage and environmental costs were introduced into the MSP calculations, could it spur the imagination of agricultural workers to reclaim the value of their labour while also steering the way towards crops that restore nature’s health? Where does the counter to hate lie except in the affection for and passion of collective work and living that Tagore celebrated?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
12-02-2021||Opinion||A tale of two health schemes||As always, the battle over healthcare schemes has begun before elections. However, political parties tend to forget or intentionally ignore the importance of universal healthcare coverage. A year before the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the Bharatiya Janata Party announced the PMJAY-Ayushman Bharat scheme, an insurance scheme that provides coverage of five lakh rupees per year for secondary and tertiary care with numerous riders for the selection of target populations in rural and urban areas. The National Health Authority came up with a circular, which fixed parameters as per the Socio-Economic and Caste Census, 2011. This led to the imposition of severe restrictions on universal access to healthcare. Households possessing automobiles, members with a government job or monthly incomes above Rs 10,000 or non-agricultural enterprises registered with the government are excluded from the scheme. These conditions have led to the exclusion of a vast section of the population. The West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, had announced the Swasthya Sathi scheme ahead of the 2016 assembly elections. Now, before this year’s assembly election, she has extended its scope to include all citizens of the state. Initially, SS was an insurance-based scheme. But recently, the government made it clear that it will not involve any third party and that it would transfer the amount directly to the insured. The transition from insurance to assurance may have been necessitated by the changing electoral atmosphere. The basic difference between PMJAY and SS is in the coverage of the population. The latter seeks to cover the entire population of Bengal, whereas PMJAY only covers 50 crore people in India. In SS, the state government will bear the entire expenses whereas in PMJAY the costs are split in a 60-40 ratio between the Centre and the state with some exceptions. While SS is an assurance-based model, PMJAY is insurance-based. In SS, a single card suffices for every member of the family while in the case of PMJAY each family member would have an individual card (chargeable at Rs 30 per printout). The Bengal government has also empowered women of each household by issuing the SS card in the name of the female head of the family, but PMJAY has no such provision. Another important feature of the SS card is that it can be used in Vellore, Tamil Nadu, where a significant number of Bengalis go for secondary and tertiary care. The SS’s fortune will now depend on how Banerjee’s government manages the private sector. Already, there have been several incidents of private hospitals rejecting SS card-holder patients, saying that the rate of several treatments under the SS scheme was too low. In a public meeting in Ranaghat, Nadia, the chief minister had warned private hospitals that refusal of treatment could lead to the cancellation of their licences. But given their impudence, controlling private sector hospitals could pose a challenge for Banerjee’s government. The history of such insurance-based schemes has been rather chequered in India. For example, Andhra Pradesh’s Rajiv Aarogyasri Community Health Insurance scheme, which sought to provide quality healthcare to the poor, failed because insurance companies and private hospitals ripped off the government by allegedly faking bills and performing unnecessary operations. Bengal’s private hospitals cannot claim to have a pristine record either. However, the question is this. If governments are ready to spend huge sums to fund secondary and tertiary care, why cannot they spend the same amount to create the infrastructure necessary for universal healthcare? The latter can help families reduce their out-of-pocket expenditure on OPD care — excluded in both PMJAY and SS — which is the most common reason for visiting a hospital. The Covid-19 pandemic has also exposed the cracks in our healthcare infrastructure: neither insurance nor assurance model is in a position to repair them. Over the years, public healthcare and its inherent values have been systematically dismantled by corporations. The State, for the most part, has been an apathetic bystander, if not an accomplice. Health is primarily the responsibility of the State. It must be noted that every time an individual avails of the benefits of these schemes, taxpayers’ money goes into private hands. Governments as well as citizens would be better served by channelling funds into improving the healthcare system in a meaningful way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
12-02-2021||Opinion||Against thinking||The freedom of thought and the associated freedom of expressing one’s ideas together form a fundamental bulwark of democracy, arguably as important as the freedom to live. The freedom of thought is best enshrined in academia. Institutes of higher learning like universities and colleges are, in every society, the nurseries where such intellectual freedoms flourish. Up to the level of secondary education, young people are taught the value of thinking by and for themselves, while being exposed to ideas that are well known and well established. Hence, academic freedom can be thought of as constituting an essential feature of democracy. This is not to argue that anything can be accepted as representing freedom of thought and expression. For instance, if someone or some group propagates that the Holocaust did not happen, it represents a patent falsehood. There are enough facts and figures that give compelling and unambiguous evidence of it happening, with its inhuman consequences. This propagation of proven lies does not represent freedom. On the other hand, some individual or a group might argue that genocide is good and even justified in certain cases. Here it is obvious that the freedom of expressing this is in direct conflict with the freedom to live. Hence, the expression of supporting genocide is never acceptable. The reason for bringing this up is because there are forces today that are weakening the freedom to think and express original ideas; ideas that could be socially debated. Potentially these debates and their outcomes could make the world a better place to live in. The world of ideas and opinions in academics is under threat. One talks of institutions at the macro level being stripped of their social role to provide justice and to nurture new ideas: political institutions, the judiciary, the bureaucracy, and institutions of higher learning to name just a few. One complains about their erosion. When it comes to concrete instances, however, one feels scared to talk about a particular politician, a specific judgment, a corrupt civil servant or an authoritarian leader of an academic institute. Yet, the rot does start from the micro level of particular organizations and institutions. What has been happening, mostly unnoticed and hidden from the public gaze, is the systematic erosion of learning and freedom of expression in institutions of higher learning. There is a concerted effort to meddle in academia: the syllabi, content, who teaches, what is allowed to be discussed, who regulates and, above all, who must be obeyed beyond any question. What is being demanded is absolute loyalty to one particular way of thinking and believing. Debates and discussions are not encouraged and, in certain cases, simply not permitted. Creating anxiety is the key instrument used in achieving this. One can lose one’s job, be humiliated, punished, and even be identified as a crook with dishonest dealings, or a tax evader, or an anti-national terrorist. Even one’s citizenship can be questioned. Either one dissents and is punished, or one conforms and receives rewards. It is hard to be neutral. The dominant way of thinking implies that if one is not in support of the official position, then one is against the nation. Those who remain quiet implicitly signal their conformity. How does a ‘good’ academic institution get eroded and ultimately ruined? The crux of the matter lies in exercising total control. People close to the political party in power are put in charge of an institution. The person in charge then changes processes, conventions and rules, such that all decisions become as centralized as possible. Once this is done, the exertion of control is easier because desired results can be achieved without explicit violation of due process. This control is most commonly manifested in the denial of institutional resources in many kinds of ways. Promotions become more difficult and everybody in the faculty is given the impression that they are not quite up to the required intellectual mark. Criticism is not used as an enabler for improvement but as a humiliating and demeaning threat. The non-academic staff members are easier to control. They can be transferred across departments, or they can be asked to ‘voluntarily resign’. Unions are broken up. Anyway, the non-academic staff members do not contribute directly to the freedom of expression, but enable the physical and procedural conditions within which such freedoms can be exercised. This enabling environment is gradually vitiated. Students, on the other hand, comprise stakeholders who are articulate and have the capacity to express themselves in terms of new ideas and thoughts. They have energy and a basic sense of fairness that can trigger protests and dissent whenever they see injustice, even if it does not affect them directly. Students are natural allies for protesting against institutional as well as larger social ills. Students are, therefore, a potential threat to the system of total control and absolute loyalty. They can be threatened with physical violence if the need arises, and the overall system of criminal justice is brought to play its part: the police, trumped-up charges, short incarcerations without being produced in courts of law, and of course the pursuance of false and lengthy cases. The social sciences and humanities as disciplines pursued in institutions of higher learning constitute a natural space where new ideas and social critiques are likely to emerge. These disciplines are carefully monitored — what is actually taught, and who teaches the subjects. In an institution, in the selection committee constituted for hiring a professor of ancient Indian history, the expert picked was a professor of life sciences and known to be close to the ruling political party. In another instance the head of the institution asked a member of the faculty directly whether he was now suitably afraid of authority. It would be difficult for such situations to arise in organizations where there is more participation by faculty members and students in decision making. Checks and balances are more likely to be better designed. In the sciences, control has to be more subtle. Modern science thrives on questioning existing theories as well as raising doubts. The nuanced attack lies in the political promotion of myths and superstitions where falsehoods, repeated many times over, become part of an altered belief system of ordinary people who then begin to suspect science and scientists. The availability of the internet in the times of the Kurukshetra, gold in gau mata’s milk, plastic surgery performed on Lord Ganesha’s head and the miraculous power of cows’ excreta are recent instances of demeaning science at the highest political levels. Here again, ultimate control is important even if a few scientists continue to do their own intellectual work. The lies and alternative narratives begin to be believed because someone propagated them as uncontested truths. The question marks that remained on issues such as whether an election was really stolen or whether sophisticated plastic surgery was practised in ancient India gradually become replaced by full stops. Power inevitably engenders the need for control. The control of thoughts and feelings is likely to get more sophisticated and easier with the development of emerging technologies. Ideological intolerance is germane to political establishments. Every political party has been guilty of this to some extent in the past. What is happening now is much more systematic and subtle. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand sending teams to Chamoli to help those stranded  ||The Jharkhand government has decided to send teams of officials to flood-ravaged Chamoli district of Uttarakhand to facilitate the safe return of all those who are stranded there, officials said on Friday. Family representatives of all those who are currently missing will also accompany the labour department teams for on-spot identification of the bodies, officials added. State labour commissioner A. Muthukumar told local reporters that a family member or representative of those who are missing would also accompany the labour department teams. “Labour superintendents of all those districts from where we received information about missing persons will start going to the affected site along with the family members of workers. District administrations are making arrangements in this regard and coordinating with authorities in Uttarakhand,” said on Friday. As per the figures issued by the state control room, 14 workers from Jharkhand are missing since Sunday’s glacier break that triggered an avalanche and flash floods, washing away a dam and hydro power plant that was being constructed by the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) in Tapovan. All 14 missing were working at the NTPC project site. Of the 14, nine are from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh and one from Bokaro. As many as 29 are stranded at different places, while some are on the way back. Officials fear that those missing may be dead, but there has been no official confirmation on them. “Even family members are of the view that those missing aren’t alive anymore as most of those who went traceless were working inside the tunnel which got flooded. There were reports from on-spot rescue teams that some may have got swept 150 metre inside the tunnel, from where it is virtually impossible to return,” remarked an official. “Talks are on for DNA sampling of family members of those missing. This apart, the labour department team has been empowered to take a call on the mode of transport to ring back those who are stranded. The government is also ready to airlift anyone if required,” added the official. Family members of missing persons from Ramgarh district reached Tapovan on Friday. They are understood to have poled in funds for the journey. But they couldn’t be contacted as their phones remained out of range.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant calls for national action plan on migration, social security of workers||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has called upon the Centre to form an action plan along with states on issues of migration and social security for workers. "Our workers are the wheels of the country's economy and without ensuring their safety and security we cannot think of development. I would like to appeal to the Central government to take all states into confidence and make an action plan at the earliest on responsible migration, social security and social infrastructure for such workers," he said while delivering the keynote address at “Thinc Migration”, a series of webinars presented jointly by the Omidyar Network India and The Indian Express on Friday. In his address on “Decoding India's internal migration”, Hemant said that while industry and infrastructure are necessary for the nation's growth, equally important was the future of workers and their families. "Jharkhand is working on an action plan for ensuring security and safety of migrant workers. It is an issue which needs to be solved by all governments. After witnessing the pathetic plight of migrant workers during the Covid-19 pandemic it is time for us to wake up and work earnestly in finding a solution along with industrialisation and infrastructure growth," stressed Hemant. Criticising the Union government for overlooking problems pertaining to inter-state migration of labourers while introducing fresh codes in labour laws, Hemant said, "In 2020, the Central government brought four labour codes instead of the 29 labour laws and I have been told that the labour codes have ignored the problems faced by workers during inter-state migration making… “We emulate western policies in labour reforms but while doing so we neglect responsible migration, social security and social infrastructure policies. We should get over the myth that labour friendly policies are not industry friendly policies." Hemant recalled the Jharkhand government’s agreement with Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to ensure that workers from Jharkhand were not exploited while toiling on projects.  "However, I am hearing from districts that once again workers are being taken by middlemen in an unsafe manner. The Central government should frame a pan-India law against exploitation of such workers," said the chief minister. While expressing condolences for the tragedy at Uttarakhand, Hemant said several workers from Jharkhand were still missing and that his government, along with the Uttarakhand government, was trying to trace them. He said the state government had also set up a control room to coordinate relief and rehabilitation. Hemant said that several youths who had returned during the Covid-19 lockdown did not want to return to their workplace, which made his government launch the “CM Employment Generation Project (CMEGP)”. As per the programme, subsidy to youths have been hiked to 40 per cent from the earlier 25 per cent, while the need for a guarantor has been abolished. The chief minister expressed shock that on the annual budget announced by the Centre, the provision for MGNREGS had been reduced by Rs 38,500 crore. He rued that in Jharkhand, the wage rate under MGNREGS was not even Rs 200 per day, which was grossly insufficient for workers in the present context. "I have appealed to the Union government to increase the wage rate from Rs 194 to at least Rs 295," he said. The chief minister said that during the Covid-19 pandemic, Jharkhand scripted history in terms of MGREGS man days. "We created 9 crore man days and are committed to take it to nearly 11 crore man days under MGNREGS. We also topped in terms of timely payments to workers, number of agro-based schemes and personal benefit schemes in the country," he said. The chief minister said that during the lockdown, the state government set up kitchens at highways and remote villages. The state spent Rs 38.75 crore to run 6,595 CM Didi Kitchens across 4,500 panchayats and set up 1,300 dal bhaat centres. Rs 14,00,000 was given to families of deceased migrant workers during. The chief minister also highlighted how Jharkhand led from the front to bring back migrant workers during the lockdown period. "Over 600 migrant workers were airlifted from Leh-Ladakh and Andaman and Nicobar region, 8.50 lakh workers were brought home by 240 special trains and 600 buses were used to ferry workers from neighbouring states and Rs 25 crore was paid to over 2 lakh migrant workers through direct benefit transfer. “We established a Covid-19 migrant control room on March 27 and launched a web portal in which nearly 7.50 lakh migrant workers registered. We have completed skill mapping of 5,30,541 workers. We were the first state to ferry migrants on a train and plane." Hemant said that in the state budget, his government was determined to increase the purchasing capacity of people of Jharkhand with special focus on the rural sector in order to curb migration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand orders audit of Covid testing data||The Jharkhand health department has directed all 24 districts to undertake independent audits of Covid-19 testing data in the wake of a massive testing fraud that has surfaced in neighbouring Bihar, prompting the Nitish Kumar government to launch a probe. Sources in the state health department said on Friday that in order to eliminate any such possibility here, letters, signed by Jharkhand Rural Health Mission Society (JRHMS) director Ravi Shankar Shukla, were dispatched to all deputy commissioners on Thursday night, asking them to maintain strict vigil to prevent forgery. According to the letter, a copy of which is available with The Telegraph Online, Shukla has asked deputy commissioners to set up a district-level team to independently re-verify the authenticity and validity of Covid-19 testing data. “Verify randomly the identity of the patient tested for Covid-19 by matching key fields such as SRF ID (specimen referral form identity number), mobile number, address and the like. Analyse the turnaround time i.e. gap between sample collection, testing and generation of results. Analyse the pendency in data updation in ICMR portal and ensure regular updation besides any other measures deemed fit to retain the authenticity of all the data,” the letter said. The mission director has also asked deputy commissioners to issue necessary instructions for immediate compliance so that findings can be shared with the state health department. Shukla termed the letter as a routine process. But another official in the health department admitted that errors could not be ruled out. “Although we have been alert from the beginning to prevent any data fudging at any level, issues can’t be ruled out since private players have been roped in for Covid testing. So as a heightened precaution, a data audit is required,” he said. The officer added that all districts had been asked to increase the rate of testing as compared to a few months back, Jharkhand’s daily testing rate is less than 10,000 in recent weeks. “Although the positivity rate and overall infection is low of late as per the national trend, but this is also the time when we shouldn’t let our guard down and try to test as many people as possible to ensure that undetected cases don’t exist. In some districts like Pakur, Khunti, fresh cases surfaced again recently, which meant that either people remained undetected or the infection came from outside,” he said. As per government data issued on Thursday night, as many as 119,206 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far. Of them, 98.71 per cent of have recovered. Of the 456 active cases in the state, at least 227 were from Ranchi. Jharkhand orders audit of Covid testing data||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||BJP MP meets minister to seek help for Indian students in Russia ||Ranchi BJP MP Sanjay Seth on Friday met with Union External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, seeking his immediate intervention to address the concerns of around 6,000 Indian students enrolled in Russian institutions. In a letter handed over by Seth to the minister, he said Russian educational institutions and universities are asking overseas students to return to its campuses at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic is far from over, and regular flights are unavailable. “About 6,000 students are currently enrolled in different Russian institutions and educational entities for pursuing research and higher studies. Majority of Indian students annually go to Russia to pursue studies in medicine. From Jharkhand too, 200 students are currently availing education in foreign varsities there. However, I have come across many cases recently, where students have informed that their institutions are asking them to resume offline mode of classes,” Seth said, adding that many are concerned about their academic future. “The institutions are building pressure on students and parents through different agencies to exert pressure on returning back to the campus to resume studies/research work. Many even complained that the online mode of teaching has been halted to build pressure. Some even claimed that they are facing illegitimate threats of backlogs if they don’t rejoin at the earliest. Covid-19 is still not over globally and international travel hasn’t returned to normalcy. How can an institute force students to return in times like these,” he questioned. Seth later said that he is equally concerned for those hailing from Jharkhand. “During the lockdown, the government somehow facilitated the return of Indians stranded abroad. From Jharkhand, there are many tribal students who cracked scholarships and fellowships to pursue higher studies. Now, they are living in fear. Hence, I decided to raise the issue with the Minister of External Affairs. The MEA will be taking up the matter,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||Three Jharkhand players on IPL auction list this year||Three Jharkhand cricketers, including pacer Varun Aaron, will go under the hammer during  the Indian Premier League (IPL) auction, set to be held in Chennai on February 18. Varun is the only capped player while leg spinner Ajay Gopal Sonu and allrounder Utkarsh Singh are uncapped when it comes to the cash-rich tournament which was held in the UAE last year owing to the pandemic. Varun, who has been released by Rajasthan Royals, has a base price of Rs 50 lakh while Jamshedpur’s Sonu and Ranchi-based Utkarsh have Rs 20 lakh each against their name. A total of 292 players have been confirmed to be a part of the IPL auction pool ahead of the 14th edition of the tournament, expected to be played in India from April. Senior spinner Harbhajan Singh and middle-order batsman Kedar Jadhav, along with Australians Steve Smith and Glenn Maxwell, have been bracketed in the highest base price Rs 2 crore. Varun, who has donned Team India colours in 2011, played several matches for Rajasthan Royals. It cannot be said with guarantee whether he would be picked at the auction . Varun has also played for Royal Challengers Bangalore in the past. State players Sourabh Tiwary, Ishan Kishan, Anukul Roy (Mumbai Indians), Shahbaz Nadeem and Virat Singh (Sunrisers Hyderabad) have been retained by their respective franchises. Monu Singh has been released by Chennai Super Kings and is not on the upcoming auction list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||BSNL Jamshedpur hits it big at company awards ceremony||Four employees of the Jamshedpur Secondary Switching Area of the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) bagged the Vishist Sanchar Seva Padak award of the company, sweeping the ceremony on Friday. The awards, Bharat Sanchar Seva Padak at the all India level and Vishist Sanchar Seva Padak at state level, are given by the telecom major  to officials to recognise their hard work at  executive and non-executive levels. The four awardees were  Kanteshwari Das, Prince, Natwal Kumar Singh and B. Laxmi. Das, an office superintendent based in the Jamshedpur area, was selected for her outstanding contribution in timely processing of pension, family pension and compassionate ground appointments. Junior engineer Prince was selected for his outstanding contribution in project Samundra Manthan, wherein scrap and obsolete materials were disposed and sold through  and BSNL earned a revenue of Rs 1.8 crore. Singh, a sub-divisional engineer, got the award for his exemplary contribution in commissioning 228 number of leased circuits out of 231 circuits (the target given), an achievement of 98.7 per cent, which was the highest in the  entire Jharkhand circle. Another official B.Laxmi, a sub- divisional engineer was selected for the coveted award for  acting as a change agent in giving a boost to the enterprise business segment in Jamshedpur SSA. She managed to get significant business from not only government institutions but also private companies and corporate houses. The  enterprise business (EB ) segment revenue increased from Rs 5 crore to Rs 6.7 crore in FY 18-19 because of her hard work. The award for the year 2018 was finalised by the Jharkhand circle and the four employees were selected for the  Vishist Sanchar Seva Padak . The shortlisted employees were chosen based on the nomination received from all the six Secondary Switching Areas of Jharkhand circle. As part of the award, each of them was given a cheque of Rs 21,000,  a 50 gm silver medal along with a citation by K.K.Singh, the new chief general manager of Jharkhand Circle at a ceremony held at the BSNL's Pardih office in Jamshedpur. The chief general manager congratulated the awardees and motivated others to achieve such a feat. "This is a reflection of the importance and the role played by the Jamshedpur Secondary Switching Area in the overall growth of the Jharkhand circle," he said at the felicitation event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||First virtual convocation at XLRI to be held on February 20||Steel city-based premier B-school XLRI will hold its 64th annual Convocation on February 20 in a virtual mode to bid farewell to the 2018-20 batch, the institute announced on Friday. Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director of Hindustan Unilever Ltd will be addressing the first-ever virtual ceremony as the chief guest. The institute will present graduating certificates to a total of 527 students, including  182 and 180 students of Postgraduate Programmes in Management - BM and HRM of 2018-2020 batch; 104  students of 15-months PGDM (General Management) Program; 13 students of Fellow Programme in Management (FPM) and  48 students of  2017 -2020 batch of  PGDM-BM Programme (Evening). “Convocation is the most significant event in the academic journey for every student, as it is the culmination of all the efforts put in by an individual during their time at the XLRI campus. Considering the current Covid-19 pandemic, we have decided to shift the 64th annual convocation to the virtual medium,” XLRI director Fr. P. Christie said. XLRI Board of Governors Chairman T.V. Narendran said that for seven decades, the institute has held on to its mission of proffering world-class education across various management-centric programmes. “XLRI diligently strives to create a value-based and ethics-driven teaching and learning environment while underscoring the need for all-round development. This emphasis on inculcating important core-values is what sets XLRI apart from other B-schools in the country,” he said. XLRI , a premier, private management institute of the country was established in 1949 and has grown into a top-ranking business management school of international repute over the years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
12-02-2021||Jharkhand|| Hemant inaugurates agriculture fair||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||Niraj Sinha takes over as new DGP of Jharkhand||Niraj Sinha, a 1987 batch IPS, has been named Jharkhand's director general of police (DGP) replacing the incumbent M V Rao as per a state home department notification issued late on Thursday night. Sinha was currently ADGP of the anti-corruption bureau. Rao on the other hand will be in-charge of DG Home Guard. As per the notification, Sinha will continue to be in-charge of ACB till any replacement is named. On his appointment, Sinha said that his priority will be to carry forward the good works of his predecessors and continue the campaign against Naxalites in the state. "Maintaining law and order and keep the state free of Naxal incidents will be the top priority of the police. The force will also work towards improving public-police relationship," said Sinha who assumed  charge on Friday. Rao, who was an interim DGP since March 2020, on the other hand, thanked the state government for giving him a chance and all his critics. He tweeted: "I am grateful to all those who encouraged me to do my job as DGP. I am grateful of people who were critical for having kept me alert and do better. I am also grateful to persons who spewed venom for making me stronger." Ever since Rao's appointment on a temporary basis last year replacing former DGP Kamal Nayan Choubey soon after Hemant Soren came to power, Opposition BJP has been critical of the government for ignoring others in  seniority. BJP also kept raking up poor law and order in the state accusing DGP of especially failing to curb the spate of rapes and crimes against women and children. BJP's Godda MP Nishikant Dubey was openly critical of Rao accusing him of working as an agent of the Hemant government by using police to file false cases against him and his family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||Eight accused granted bail in case on CM’s convoy attack ||Eight persons out of about four dozen who were arrested in connection with the attack on chief minister Hemant Soren’s carcade last month were on Thursday granted bail by the court of additional judicial commissioner Diwakar Pandey, close to a month after a police crackdown. The court has asked each of them to furnish two bonds worth Rs 10,000 each. Speaking with reporters after the hearing at a civil court, advocate Kirti Nayan appearing on behalf of the eight accused said, “We claimed that the arrests were based on political grounds and there were no specific proven allegations against our clients. Court agreed for bail on sureties.” An unruly mob attacked the pilot vehicle of CM’s carcade at Ranchi’s Kishoreganj on January 4 during protests against the beheading of a young girl whose body was found from city outskirts in Ormanjhi on January 2. Ranchi police slapped FIRs against 72 named and several unnamed persons for the violent protests. While the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government had blamed opposition BJP for orchestrating the attack on Soren, the saffron outfit had denied the allegations, terming the protests as a spontaneous reaction by angry residents over falling law and order in the state. On January 7, Bhairav Singh, who was named as prime accused in connection to the carcade attack surrendered in Ranchi civil court while police arrested about 40 people following subsequent raids. On January 14, police finally cracked the beheading case by arresting one Bilal Sheikh and his wife in connection to the murder which turned out to be an incident of an extramarital relationship.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||More than 50 per cent vaccinated across the state||Jharkhand achieved 52 per cent of its vaccination target on Thursday by inoculating at least 13,558 of the 26,239 registered beneficiaries on the day, thereby helping the state achieve 50 per cent of its total vaccination target so far, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. So far, as many as 174501 of the 349819 people registered to get the Covishield jab have been inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand, stated a report released by the NHM. As per the report, Ranchi achieved 67 per cent of its vaccination target on the day, but remained the worst performer in terms of vaccination rate among Jharkhand districts so far. As many as 1128 people were vaccinated here. Pakur, on the other hand, achieved only 15 per cent of its target, the lowest among districts in the state. Only 206 people were vaccinated there. Dhanbad and Deoghar emerged as top performers on the day by achieving 89 per cent of their respective vaccination targets. As per government data, no fresh case of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) were reported in any part of Jharkhand on Thursday. Since the launch of the immunization programme on January 16, Ranchi has achieved only 31 per cent of its vaccination target – the lowest in Jharkhand. However, Ranchi has vaccinated 16758 people, the highest among districts in the state. Giridih has achieved 67 per cent of its target, which is the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, as many as 45 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Thursday, while 53 patients recovered, a separate bulletin released by the NHM on Thursday night stated. Ranchi reported 24 of the 45 cases and 29 of the 53 recoveries on the day. The number of active cases dropped to zero in four districts – Giridih, Godda, Jamtara and Pakur. As per government data, at least 18 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on the day. As per government data, as many as 119206 people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand so far and 98.71 per cent of them have recovered. Of the 456 active cases in the state, at least 227 were from Ranchi. As many as 59 people were battling the infection in East Singhbhum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||Three children killed as sand mound caves in ||Three children were buried alive after a mound of mud caved in at Koiritola in Sharda village in Jharkhand’s Garhwa district, around 220 km from state capital Ranchi on Wednesday evening. The dead children included Supriya Kumari, 11, and Pritiya Kumari, 10, — both daughters of Rajesh Ram —and the 13-year-old son Ramashish Ram, grandson of Sitaram Ravidas, all residents of Sharda village. According to Sagma block development officer Dipak Minz, the three children had come out of their house at around 7 pm to play in the field on the banks of the Turi rivulet. At night, when they did not return the family members started searching. “It was then that they got information that few children had got into the mud mound and during the course of searching using excavators they found the bodies of the three children. We have come to know that few persons had used JCB excavators to dig sands for construction purposes and later on even some villagers also had dug sands for construction purposes and this had led to a shallow pit of sand which caved in on Wednesday,” said Dipak Minz. The BDO who had to face locals’ wrath on  Wednesday night while recovering the bodies said that the administration will carry out a detailed probe into the incident. “We will start a probe to identify the persons who had started digging sands from the pit and only after probing we can ascertain what action should be taken against those persons who had dug sands leading to such shallow structure causing death of minors,” added Minz. The bodies of the three children were sent to Garhwa Sadara Hospital for post-mortem and handed over to relatives on Thursday for the last rites. The BDO who was present during the last rites of the three children gave an amount of Rs 3000 each to the families whose kids have died in the mishap and also 1.5 quintals of rice to each of the families,” said Dipak Minz.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
