13-02-2021||Calcutta||At CIMA, Koregaon meets Rome, courtesy Prashant Patil’s sculpture-installations||CIMA Award 2019 recipient Prashant Shashikant Patil’s first solo exhibition was inaugurated at the CIMA Gallery on Friday in the presence of chief guest Gianluca Rubagotti, Italian consul-general in Calcutta, Rakhi Sarkar, director of CIMA Gallery, Pratiti Basu Sarkar, chief administrator of CIMA Gallery and the artist community. Patil, who hails from Koregaon in Maharashtra, was selected for the award from among 158 applicants, through a strict evaluation process. “In the 28-year journey of CIMA, the Awards is personally my favourite. Though we have worked with all the top artists of India, CIMA Awards has given us a kind of fulfilment that we’ve never had before. We would not have discovered young people like Prashant without the Awards,” said Rakhi Sarkar. The evaluation process has a two-layer system of 20-25 distinguished jury members, with the artists remaining anonymous. The jury doesn’t know them, their gender, where they come from. All they see is the artwork and the details next to the artwork. “It is, therefore, a very objective system where provincialism, any kind of institutional bias, gender bias doesn’t come into play,” said Sarkar. Patil’s work is best described as sculptural drawing installation where he uses the medium of hot glue gun. “He always says his art is about connecting and I think Prashant has very successfully connected the cultural sensibilities of Maharashtra with that of Bengal,” said Sarkar. For Rubagotti, Patil’s work evoked connections with Italy. “When I was going up and down the gallery looking at your pieces I tried to play a little game. I know your roots are very much here, in India, in Maharashtra and in Bengal but I was trying to imagine you in Italy. The first feature that strikes me is the interplay between light and shadow. So I was imagining you, staying in the beautiful Church of St Louis in Rome, spending hours in contemplation of the masterpieces by Caravaggio. But I am not trying to draw any comparison,” the Italian consul-general told Patil. “The other feature of your work is the research for new material. Once again my mind went back to 1960s Italy when we had the avant garde movement where the people tried to reject the previous forms of art and material and started using new material like rock, sand, rope. This is not to say that you are the new exponent of the avant garde movement of 60 years ago but this is a little game that I like to play, and I think it would be useful also for you to have more and more inspiration and take some time and travel to my country,” Rubagotti added to applause. Patil’s family came down from Maharashtra for the opening as did his friends from Santiniketan. “I feel like he is getting some return for the hard work he has put into his art. From childhood he was most interested in art and was always participating in all kinds of artwork. It feels really good to see his work here today,” said his father Shashikant Patil. For the artist, this exhibition has finally given him the satisfaction that not even working on it for a year-and-a-half had. “Till I was able to see my work displayed, I couldn’t be satisfied. When I was hanging my work the decision between whether shadow was my main preference or the drawing caused a lot of difficulties. It was a difficult decision to make,” said Patil, adding that the shadow of our traditions that we are leaving behind is one of the biggest parts of his work. “Shadow is very romantic and that has been displayed so wonderfully. The effect of the shadow is very attractive. Also at some point it reminds me of reticulate venation we studied in biology, it is so delicate… so fragile, like gossamer. One can enjoy his work for hours,” said artist Shreyasi Chatterjee.  The exhibition is on at CIMA Gallery till March 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||School resumption: Hostel shut, class inaccessible||In-person classes resumed at schools across the city on Friday but many students who depend on government hostel accommodation do not know when they can get back to schools. The state government’s decision to keep hostels shut has cast a cloud on the future of thousands of marginalised students, many of them with special needs. Education is almost synonymous with hostels for these students, most of whom are from very poor families. They do not have a fixed home and Internet connection is a distant dream. A shelter and food are incentives for these pupils. Several government schools in and around Calcutta have hostels for students from financially disadvantaged families. Special schools for differently-abled students, too, are likely to remain open just on paper unless the hostels are reopened, said teachers. At most schools for the blind, the bulk of the pupils are from districts. “If hostels are not re-opened, most of these students are likely to drift away from education. I fear some of them already have. The order to reopen such schools without reopening hostels means nothing,” said an official of the school education department. Haranath High School in Bagbazar has a hostel that can accommodate around 100 students, a third of them in Classes IX and X. But as the hostel has not been reopened, none of these students can attend in-person classes. Light House for the Blind, a special co-ed school for the visually impaired near Tollygunge police station, has 118 residential students, 48 of them in Classes IX to XII. “The students who are to appear in Madhyamik are the worst sufferers. If the hostels do not reopen, some of them will not be able to continue studies. Many girls are likely to be married off,” said principal Amiya Satpati. There are over 70 special schools in the state for the differently abled, most of them residential. The department of mass education runs these schools. Following the school education department’s nod to reopen schools for students of Classes IX to XII, the department of mass education has issued a notice to reopen the special schools. The state government has decided against the reopening of hostels because it fears the physical distancing norm, a key precautionary measure against Covid-19, could not be followed in hostels, where each room is shared by multiple students. “But the government has to realise that the needs of all students are not identical. Shutting the hostel doors means shutting the door of education on many students,” said the principal of another special school. As hostels are still closed, some institutions are arranging accommodations for students. Jadavpur University has recently provided funds to 22 of its visually impaired students so they can stay at rented places that have good Internet connectivity and attend online classes. But most government residential schools lack the resources to extend similar help to the students. “Maintaining physical distancing inside hostels would be difficult. But we are sensitive to the needs of the students of special schools. We are looking into this,” said Roshni Sen, the secretary in the mass education department. An official in the school education department said: “If students of residential schools face genuine problems, if we get enough representation from them, we will look into it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Student returns as bandh blocks Jadavpur school’s gate||Anirban Bera, a student of Class XII at Jadavpur Vidyapith, was looking forward to stepping on the campus for the first time after March last year, when schools were shut down as a precaution against Covid-19. But the student of science had to return disappointed as a group of Students’ Federation of India (SFI) supporters picketed outside the school’s gate to enforce the 12-hour bandh called by Left parties. Bera, who will appear in the higher secondary practical exams from March 10, was looking forward to resumption of in-person classes so he could get some hands-on training. “It is crucial to get the bare minimum hands-on training before the practical exams. Since the institution remained shut for 11 months because of the pandemic, we could not attend any practicals. But as bandh supporters blocked the entry, I decided to return home,” said Bera. The Dhakuria resident, accompanied by mother Mithu Bera, turned up in front of the school around 10.25am. The entrance was blocked by SFI supporters. The group had placed a placard on the gate that read: “Chhatra chhatrider opor aaghater pratibadey aaj dharmaghat safal korun (make the bandh successful to protest the assault on the students).” Police allegedly assaulted supporters of the SFI and the Democratic Youth Federation of India, both wings of the CPM, on Thursday when they were marching towards Nabanna. Bera and his mother waited for around 20 minutes. As the SFI supporters showed no sign of budging, they decided to return home. “We did not want to take any risk. Bandh supporters stood at the gate holding flags. Cops were around. What if the situation worsened? We decided to come back. On our way back, we saw a few students returning home,” the mother recounted. “Some of the teachers were advising me over the phone to wait. But I was not feeling comfortable and returned,” said Bera. At Jadavpur, the bandh supporters were initially protesting in front of gate number 4 of the university. They put up a blockade on Raja Subodh Mullick Road that runs along the boundary of JU. Around 10.20am, the SFI supporters decided to block the entry to Jadavpur Vidyapith and took control of the gate. As the stand-off persisted, headmaster Parimal Bhattacharya went down to the gate to speak to the protesters. “I told them what they were doing was harming the students. The students had come to attend practical and theory classes after so many days. The protesters were entitled to protest peacefully but they could not harm the interest of our students,” said Bhattacharya. The bandh supporters left around 10.50am, following Bhattacharaya’s intervention. “I have heard some students went back home because of the blockade. That was unfortunate. We will ensure that additional classes are held to make up for the loss.” Students entered the campus even as the headmaster stood guard at the gate. Why did the SFI, which had been vocal about reopening schools and colleges, scare students away? “We did not scare anyone away. We explained to the students and the guardians why our supporters were protesting in front of the school. They understood the reason and went back…. After we ended the protest, many students entered the school,” said Debaraj Debaanth, a member of SFI’s Calcutta district committee and a student of JU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Elderly woman with heat-pad charred at Garfa home||An elderly woman who lived alone was found charred on her bed at her Garfa home on Thursday evening. Police suspect the fire that engulfed the bed on which 74-year-old Tapati Sarkar was sleeping was caused by overheating of a heat-pad that she had wrapped around one of her legs and dozed off without turning it off. Cops said they were waiting for the forensic opinion before concluding the exact cause of the fire. Residents of an apartment at Eastern Park found smoke billowing out of a second-floor flat, whose main door was slightly open, police said. On entering the flat, they found a charred Sarkar lying on a bed that was still engulfed in flames. “The victim had been living alone in the apartment since her husband had passed away in 2019. Her only daughter lives with her husband on Cornfield Road. According to their statement, the elderly woman was always advised never to lock her main door so that next-door neighbours could enter the flat in case of an emergency,” said an officer of Garfa police station. Sources in the forensic team that visited the spot said they found a heat-pad wrapped around her leg with its wire exposed because of the fire. “Preliminarily it appears overheating of the heat-pad caused the fire. There is a possibility that the elderly lady had fallen asleep with the heat-pad switched on and carbon monoxide from the burned wire could have caused her death before the fire engulfed the bed and charred her body,” a forensic department official said. The final report, he said, could be prepared only after conducting an autopsy of the body. An unnatural death case has been registered with Garfa police station. The police said no foul play could be detected till Friday. Sarkar’s daughter and son-in-law told the police that they had tried to contact her over the phone on Thursday several times but the phone kept ringing. A domestic help who works in the flat adjoining Sarkar’s had seen the door slightly open and spotted smoke coming out when she alerted other neighbours, the police said. Neighbours tried to douse the fire with extinguishers and water but by then, the woman had been charred to death. She was taken to SSKM Hospital, where she was declared dead. This was the seventh reported case in the city over the past five months of an elderly woman dying of burns suffered at home. The other victims suffered burns while cooking, offering prayers or lighting a cigarette. Police and fire department officers said it was always advisable to switch off electronic gadgets while sleeping or after working. There have been instances where people working with laptops on bed have dozed off with the gadget still on and an overheated cable triggered a fire in the room. There were also reports of a half-lit cigarette butt causing fire in a mattress that killed occupants of the room.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta schools record poor turnout on day one ||Schools across the city recorded a low attendance — much lower than what they had expected — on the day campuses reopened after remaining shut for almost a year because of Covid-19. The low attendance suggests parents are still wary of sending their children to school despite the decision taken by many institutions to phase out reopening in batches and shifts. The government had allowed reopening of schools for students of Classes IX to XII from Friday. On the first day, a number of schools recorded attendance between 20 and 50 per cent of the reduced number of students who were supposed to go. Not a single student turned up in at least two schools — one in Rajarhat and the other in Baguiati. Teachers said parents were in no rush to send their children to school and put their health at risk. "Many want their children to continue attending online classes as there is still the risk of contracting Covid-19,” a teacher said. Parents are also wary because children might not be following the physical distancing norms once they meet friends after almost a year. At Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, only about 30 per cent of students who were called to the campus turned up. The school called students of Classes X and XII and divided them in groups. Of the 140 children who were supposed to attend on-campus classes, 46 turned up. The attendance was around 50 per cent at The BSS School, Sushila Birla Girls’ School, Shri Shikshayatan School and Swarnamyee Vidyapith in Jadavpur. At Jadavpur Vidyapith, about 40 per cent of the students of Classes IX, X and XII who were called turned up. At Hare School, of the 350 students called to the campus, only 80 turned up. At North Point Senior Secondary Boarding Schools (in Rajarhat and Baguiati), the attendance was zero. “I am scared to send my daughter to school. My mother-in-law is 69 and I do not want my daughter to be a carrier and infect her. We have hardly stepped out since last March,” said R. Singh, whose daughter is in Class XI at a south Calcutta school. Parents also do not want to let their children use public transport. “Parents who are willing to send their children to school are not doing so because they do not want them to travel in public transport or pool cars,” said Meena Kak, the director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. “The fear of the virus has not gone from the minds of the parents and they will not be ready to send their children to school till they feel the students will be completely safe there. They think the children might not be able to maintain (the mandatory) 6ft distance between themselves,” said Reeta Chatterjee, the director of North Point Senior Secondary Boarding Schools. “Parents are jittery because the pandemic is not yet over. We will have to counsel them,” said Kazi Masum Akhtar, the headmaster of Katjunagar Swarnamayee Vidyapith in Jadavpur. “Technology has allowed children to learn in a personalised way,” said Bratati Bhattacharyya, secretary general of Shri Shikshayatan School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||CMC mulls floor area ratio relief||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will provide 10 per cent additional floor area ratio (FAR) to commercial establishments to enable them to create more built-up space, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the civic body’s board of administrators, said on Friday. He told Metro the CMC had amended its rules to provide the benefit to all commercial establishments. “We will give 10 per cent additional FAR to all commercial establishments. Earlier, we gave 10 per cent less FAR to commercial establishments compared with residential properties. Now, both residential and commercial properties will be given the same FAR.” “The additional FAR will allow commercial establishments to construct more space. More space can employ more people. This is being done so that more employment is generated,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Music contest for the young in north Calcutta||A three-day classical music competition for those aged 19 and below started in a heritage house in north Calcutta on Friday. Thirty participants took part in the round for percussion instruments. The competition, organised by Sutanuti Parishad Chorebagan Anchal in association with Anindya Mitra Musical Trust, has three categories: vocal, instrumental and percussion, and is being held at Chatu Babu Latu Babu’s home, Beadon Street.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Guardrails for Kalighat bridge||The width of the Kalighat bridge shrank by 4 metres on Friday after guardrails were installed along the two sides, as recommended by a committee of bridge engineers, after weeks of delay. The committee had recommended in September that the sides of the bridge be barricaded. The recommendation followed a health assessment of the bridge that revealed that its sides had weakened and continuous load could lead to a collapse. On Friday afternoon, police installed the barricades along the two sides of the carriageway of the bridge, which runs above Tolly’s Nullah. An engineer of the CMDA, the custodian of the bridge, said 2 metres of the carriageway on both sides had been barricaded. “The actual width of the carriageway is 15.5 metres. After installing the barricades, it has shrunk to 11.5 metres,” said the engineer. “The Behala-bound and Hazra-bound flanks are now 5.5-metre wide each. If dividers are placed, the width will come down further,” the engineer said. A bus and a two-wheeler can pass side by side through each flank, the engineer said. Amitabha Ghosal, who heads the committee of engineers that had recommended that the sides of the bridge be barricaded, said on Friday the concrete in the belly of the bridge had come off in several places and the iron wire reinforcements had been exposed. “The bridge has to be pulled down but as an immediate measure we have recommended that the sides be blocked. The sides are more vulnerable. We have also recommended some strengthening work as a temporary measure,” said Ghosal. Engineers of CMDA said the sides were blocked immediately after the recommendation had been made last year but the barricades were subsequently withdrawn without their knowledge. Metro had visited the bridge at least thrice in the past month but did not find any barricade. The CMDA has floated a tender for the strengthening work, which will extend the bridge’s life by another 18 to 24 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University alumni raise Rs 25 lakh||Jadavpur University’s batch of ’91 of the department of electronics and telecommunication engineering has raised Rs 25 lakh that would be used to rebuild houses in North 24-Parganas that were damaged by Cyclone Amphan. The money will initially go to Baliadanga village in the Hasnabad block. Four batch mates who had launched the initiative - Chittralekha Dutta, Surjodipta Dutta, Arup Chakrabarty and Abhik Mukhopadhyay – visited the campus on Friday along with the five  villagers who will be handed the houses on the occasion of the Bengali New Year in April. They met vice-chancellor Suranjan Das to discuss the initiative. “The scale of devastation is so huge that it is imperative that the help is provided from as many quarters as possible. We had got in touch with the 36 students of our batch last July,” said Abhik Mukhopadhyay, now a professor of computer science and engineering at IIEST, Shibpur. Siddhartha Sengupta, who had graduated from the department of construction engineering in 2011, is helping the house-building project with his expertise. Each family will get a pukka house comprising one living room-cum-bed room, one kitchen and one toilet. “We needed someone who has expertise in building houses that can survive adverse weather conditions,” said Mukhopahdyay. Project CHHAD (roof) aims to build 500 houses in the next two years. “The students of Jadavpur University believe in the motto of giving back to society. So we have decided to help out the villagers in their hour of distress. We aim to create a scalable and sustainable model as opposed to one-time donation,” said Chitralekha Dutta, who works in IBM. Teachers of the university had in June last year raised Rs 2.02 lakh and transferred Rs 1,000 to each student from the Sunderbans to help them in the post-Amphan distress. Students, too, raised resources and delivered essentials such as rice and pulses to their friends in distress. The batch of ’91 came to know about the scale of devastation inflicted by the storm from the students who have been running a community kitchen in the Sundarbans. “We visited Baliadanga village and other areas to assess the situation,” said Mukhopadhyay. Bijoy Ghosh, a resident of the village said, they had received a tarpaulin sheet and other help from the local panchayat but the houses had not yet been rebuilt. “We will have a shelter of our own now,” said Bijoy, who came to JU on Friday. VC Suranjan Das said: “This bonding at the time of crisis is setting an example.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Weekend cruise to Serampore, Chandernagore||A cruise on the Hooghly will take visitors to Serampore and Chandernagore every Saturday and Sunday. The 11-hour ride, which will have its inaugural run on February 14, will cost Rs 350 and will have one-and-a-half hour stops at the former Danish (Serampore) and French (Chandernagore) settlements. The vessel will leave Millennium Park jetty at 10am and return at 9pm. It has a well-stocked library, an open deck and an on-board tuck-shop for quick bites. Tickets can be bought from the Millennium Park jetty. The “European Settlement Boat Ride”, as the cruise has been named, will halt at Serampore around 1pm after nearly an hour’s journey from Calcutta and offer visitors an opportunity to lunch at The Denmark Tavern. Located on the riverfront, the tavern was opened in 1786. It provided lodging and meals for “gentlemen passing up and down the river”, as mentioned in an advertisement in the Calcutta Gazette. One can see Serampore College, established in 1818 by English Baptist missionaries, and visit Serampore Johnnagar Baptist Church, founded in the early 19th century. The other sites to visit are St Olav’s Church, Baptist Mission Cemetery and the Danish Cemetery. The cruise will leave Serampore around 2.30 pm and reach Chandernagore after an hour. During the hour-and-a-half halt at this erstwhile French colony, tourists will get to see the Strand. The Strand is a 700-metre-long tree-shaded promenade along the Hooghly with old French mansions and other colonial buildings along the way. One can also visit the Dupleix Palace, which houses the Chandernagore Museum and Institute. The cruise is being organised by the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC), in collaboration with the Danish Cultural Institute and the Oxford Bookstores. “The Europeans first came on a ferry. So this cruise will be an ideal way of seeing the European settlement in Bengal,” said Thomas Sehested, the director of the Danish Cultural Institute India. “The cruise will give people a glimpse into the European history in India which is often undermined,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the managing director of WBTC. “It’s good to have such initiatives that make people understand history and appreciate global cultures,” said Priti Paul of the Oxford Bookstores.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Tuhin Kanti Ghosh, former president of Indian Newspaper Society, passes away||Tuhin Kanti Ghosh, who was president of the Indian Newspaper Society and chairman of the news agency UNI in the mid-1980s, passed away at his south Calcutta home on Wednesday. He was 73. He was also a member of the Press Council of India. Ghosh, who chaired the regional committee of the IENS eastern region in the early 1980s, was the grandson of  Tushar Kanti Ghosh, who headed the house that published the newspapers, the Amrita Bazar Patrika and the Jugantar. Tuhin Kanti was known for his musical skills and love of sports. An outdoor person whose childhood idol was Jim Corbett, Tuhin Kanti became a conservationist later in his life. Tuhin Kanti is survived by his wife Subarna and daughters Labonita and Anandita, sisters Rita and Ronita and brother Tamal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
13-02-2021||Business||Lufthansa lays off 103 Indian flight attendants||Lufthansa has terminated the services of 103 India-based flight attendants after they allegedly sought “job assurance” from the management while the German airlines group had offered them leave without pay option for two years, sources close to the developments said. These employees had been working on a fixed-term contract with the airline and some of them were with the carrier for more than 15 years, the sources added. In a statement to PTI, a Lufthansa spokesperson said that severe financial impact of the coronavirus pandemic leaves it with no choice but to restructure the airline and as part of that “it will not be extending the fixed-term employment contracts of its Delhi-based flight attendants”. The sources, however, alleged that Lufthansa terminated the services of 103 Delhi-based flight attendants on fixed-term contracts overnight, without serving any prior notice to them, citing the coronavirus pandemic. “These terminations happened overnight without giving any prior notice. Some of these terminated people had been employed for nearly 15 years,” according to the sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||SC confirms e-voting validity for winding up of six mutual fund schemes of Franklin Templeton||The Supreme Court on Friday upheld the validity of the e-voting process for the winding up of six mutual fund schemes of Franklin Templeton and said the disbursal of the funds to the unit holders will continue. This came when a division bench of Justice S A Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna rejected the opposition by some unit holders to the e-voting process. The bench said that the disbursal of funds had to be done according to the earlier order of the apex court. It may be recalled that on February 2, the Supreme Court had ordered that Rs 9,121.59 crore be disbursed within three weeks to the unit holders of Franklin Templeton’s six mutual fund schemes. It had said that disbursal of money would be done in proportion to unit holders’ interest in the assets. The apex court had then entrusted SBI Funds Management Pvt Ltd to disburse the money. The six schemes are Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund. Following this, Franklin Templeton said in a letter addressed to investors of the six shut debt schemes that payments to all investors whose accounts are KYC compliant with all details available will be made from the week beginning February 15. Of the Rs 9121.59 crore that will be distributed to unit holders in proportion to their holdings, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund will receive Rs 5,075.39 crore while Franklin India Low Duration Fund will get Rs 1,625.36 crore. Similarly, Franklin India Short Term Income Fund will receive Rs 469.24 crore, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund Rs 926.15 crore and Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund fund Rs 1,025.45 crore. Earlier, the apex court had asked the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to appoint an observer for overseeing the e-voting process. The e-voting with regard to the winding up of the fund house’ six mutual fund schemes had taken place in the last week of December and it was approved by a majority of unit holders. On January 25, the apex court had said that it would first deal with the issues related to objection to the e-voting process for winding up of the six mutual fund schemes and distribution of money to the unit holders. Prior to this, it had granted three days for filing of objections to the e-voting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||ArcelorMittal to reduce 20 per cent corporate office employees by 2022||Global steel giant ArcelorMittal has announced a $1-billion fixed cost-reduction programme under which the company would be reducing 20 per cent of its corporate office employees by 2022. ArcelorMittal is the world’s leading steel and mining company, with presence in 60 countries and steel making facilities in 17 countries. It employs around 190,000 people. In an update for the October-December quarter of 2020 and full year 2020, ArcelorMittal said the $1-billion structural fixed cost-reduction plan aims to maintain competitiveness in the post Covid-19 environment. The plan includes 20 per cent reduction in corporate office headcount, reducing contactors, reallocation of resources etc, the company said. At the onset of the pandemic, a fundamental part of the company’s response was to align costs to the lower activity level. The measures taken to “variabilise” fixed costs were critical to protecting profitability and cash flows. Throughout this period, the company sought to identify and develop options for structural cost improvements to appropriately position the fixed cost base for the post-Covid operating environment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||Grasim Industries net profit jumps to Rs 2,152.33 cr in Q3||Aditya Birla Group firm Grasim Industries on Friday reported an over two-fold jump in its consolidated net profit to Rs 2,152.33 crore for the third quarter ended December 31. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 1,039.82 crore during the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal, Grasim Industries said in a regulatory filing. Revenue from operations during October-December 2020 rose 12.72 per cent to Rs 20,986.35 crore from Rs 18,616.76 crore a year ago. “Key businesses outperform pre-Covid-19 operational levels, leveraging the synergy of a conglomerate and the energy of focused businesses,” said Grasim Industries in its earning statement. The firm’s total expenses were at Rs 18,278.75 crore in the third quarter of 2020-21, up 4.81 per cent against Rs 17,439.19 crore a year ago. Revenue of Grasim Industries from viscose-pulp, viscose staple fibre and filament yarn segments was down 2.20 per cent to Rs 2,145.14 crore, against Rs 2,193.55 crore. Bosch net declines Auto component major Bosch’s consolidated net profit declined by 3.24 per cent to Rs 184.15 crore for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 190.33 crore in the October-December period of 2019-20. Revenue from operations increased to Rs 3,029.64 crore against Rs 2,536.64 crore in the year-ago period. “The sales figure for the festive season in the last quarter was better than anticipated, especially in the tractor and passenger automotive segments. However, the volatilities in the supply chain continued to disrupt growth,” Bosch Ltd managing director Soumitra Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||Bengal sets target to double state's textile industry to Rs 70,000 in five years||Bengal finance and industries minister Amit Mitra on Friday estimated Bengal’s textile sector potential at Rs 70,000 crore over the next five years from Rs 35,000 crore now. The minister also estimated the state’s export potential at 10 per cent of national exports, significantly higher than the current level of 2.7 per cent. The growth can be supported through a combination of infrastructure in the form of textile parks — both existing and upcoming projects at Nungi and Budge Budge — and through state support in the form of interest subvention and marketing. Addressing a session on the textile sector supported by industry body Ficci, Mitra said Bengal has core competencies in five areas — hosiery, handloom, ready made garments, powerlooms and silk. He added that the industry department was also exploring whether a continuous polymerisation plant can be set up in Bengal. “Potential in exports is much more than what we have achieved so far. Our export is relatively small at 2.7 per cent share of India’s export. This is because we produce a lot but for the domestic market. Can we set a target of 10 per cent in next 3-5 years?” Mitra said. He added that the textile sector in the state was valued at Rs 35,000 crore. “I am setting a target of a minimum of Rs 65,000 crore to Rs 70,000 crore within the next 3-5 years,” he said. On the hosiery industry, Mitra said that the state has 2,500 knitting machines and employs around 2 lakh people. This can go up to 10,000 knitting machines. “You need to tell us where you want us to invest. You want promotional work, we can do that. You want us to network with the countries, we are ready to do that,” Mitra said. On readymade garments Mitra said that the number of manufacturing hubs can be scaled up from 30 to 60 and production and employment can be doubled. The state has 3 lakh handlooms and employs around 7 lakh people. There was a need for a design centre inclusive of handloom products that can penetrate the global markets. The state has also offered 4 per cent interest subvention for 1 lakh handloom weavers and there is potential to double the numbers, Mitra said. WBIDC chairman Rajiva Sinha said the private sector has to play a crucial role along with the government to achieve the proposed targets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||Former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar gets bail in money laundering case||Chanda Kochhar, the former CEO and MD of ICICI Bank, was on Friday granted bail by a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court here in connection with the ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case. The special court for PMLA had last month summoned Kochhar, her husband Deepak Kochhar, Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot and others accused in the case after taking cognisance of the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) chargesheet. Accordingly, Chanda Kochhar appeared before special court judge A. A. Nandgoankar. After her appearance, her lawyer Vijay Agarwal filed her bail application. A PTI report said the court allowed the same on a bond of Rs 5 lakh. The ED had arrested her husband Deepak Kochhar in September 2020 after it filed a criminal case for money laundering against the Kochhars, Dhoot and others. Earlier this month, the special court had held that the material submitted by the ED is sufficient to proceed with a trial for money laundering against Chanda Kochhar and others. “After going through the submissions, it appears that Chanda Kochhar had misused her official position in granting loan to accused Dhoot and/or Videocon group companies.... And (it appears) she got illegal gratification through her husband through various companies for siphoning off money,” the judge had said. The ED had earlier alleged that Rs 64 crore out of a loan of Rs 300 crore sanctioned by a committee of ICICI Bank headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Ltd was transferred to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd by Videocon on September 8, 2009, a day after the disbursement of loan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||Future moves NCLT for approval to hold shareholders meeting||The Future group has moved an application in the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) seeking its approval to hold a meeting of its shareholders on the proposed deal with Reliance Retail. At a hearing on Monday, the NCLT reserved the order on the application even as it asked the Future group and Amazon to file their submissions. The development comes after a division bench of the Delhi high court stayed the operation, implementation and execution of a February 2 ad interim status quo order given by a single judge bench till the next date of its hearing. Amazon had challenged the order of the division bench in the Supreme Court. In its special leave petition, which is expected to come up for hearing on Monday, Amazon has said the division bench order had been passed “hastily” and was “unsustainable in law” since it did not even wait for the verdict of an order from the single judge of the same court that was reserved on February 2. The Future group has filed the application with the NCLT under Section 230-232 of the Companies Act, 2013 seeking its approval to hold the shareholders meet for a scheme of amalgamation. The Reliance group has also reportedly filed  an application seeking the NCLT’s green signal to the deal. Amazon has objected to the NCLT application and said cases were pending in the Delhi high court and the Supreme Court. Last month, Amazon had approached the Delhi high court seeking the enforcement of an interim order of the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) that restrained Future Retail from going ahead with the deal with Reliance. The US e-commerce giant had earlier dragged Future Group to arbitration at the SIAC arguing the latter had violated their contract by entering into a deal with rival Reliance. In August 2020, the Future group had agreed to sell its retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing units to Reliance Retail for Rs 24,713 crore. Amazon Pantry Amazon will merge two sections catering to the daily needs of customers in its online ordering platform to provide a seamless offering to customers at a faster clip, intensifying battle with other online grocers such as Bigbasket and Grofers. The Pantry section, catering to dry grocery items and a range of daily need products within the FMCG basket, will be rolled into the Fresh platform, which offers fruits, vegetables, meat and other perishable food items, in four cities to begin with. It will be subsequently rolled out in all the cities where Amazon operates the Fresh segment, including Calcutta. Customers of Bangalore, Delhi, Ahmedabad and Mysore will experience the new merged platform which promises delivery in two hours. Under the Fresh platform, customers can opt for 2-hour delivery or choose a convenient 2-hour slots from 6AM to midnight. All customers get free scheduled 2-hour delivery on all orders over Rs 600. Orders below this threshold attract a delivery fee of Rs 29, which compares favourably with Rs 40 of Bigbasket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||Industrial production grows 1 per cent in December ||Industrial production grew 1 per cent in December, entering the positive territory after a month’s gap, mainly because of better performance of the manufacturing sector, official data showed on Friday. The manufacturing sector — which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the index of industrial production (IIP) — recorded a growth of 1.6 per cent in December 2020, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Mining sector output declined by 4.8 per cent in December 2020. However, power generation grew 5.1 per cent. The index had grown by 0.4 per cent in December 2019. The industrial production had plunged 18.7 per cent in March last year following the Covid-19 outbreak and remained in the negative zone till August 2020. With the resumption of economic activities, factory output posted growth of 1 per cent in September. The IIP had grown by 4.2 per cent in October. In November 2020, the factory output contracted by 2.1 per cent, a tad higher than the provisional estimates of 1.9 per cent decline. The government had imposed a lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 infections on March 25, 2020. With the gradual relaxation of restrictions, there has been a relative improvement in the economic activities by varying degrees as well as in data reporting, the ministry of statistics and programme implementation had said in a statement issued in November. The ministry had also given a disclaimer that it may not be appropriate to compare the IIP in the post-pandemic months with the data for the months preceding the Covid-19 outbreak. The manufacturing sector had recorded a contraction of 0.3 per cent in December 2019. Mining sector output increased by 5.7 per cent, but electricity generation shrank by 0.1 per cent in December 2019. The output of capital goods, which is a barometer of investment, rose by 0.6 per cent in December 2020 against a contraction of 18.3 per cent. Consumer durables output surged by 4.9 per cent, compared to 5.6 per cent contraction in December 2019. Consumer non-durable goods production grew by 2 per cent compared with a contraction of 3.2 per cent a year ago. The IIP for the April-December period has contracted by 13.5 per cent, according to the data. It had registered a flat growth of 0.3 per cent during the same period last fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||Inflation slows to 16-month low of 4.06 per cent in January||Retail inflation eased to a 16-month low of 4.06 per cent in January mainly on account of softening of food and vegetable prices, government data showed on Friday. It is for the second consecutive month that retail inflation based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) has remained within the target range of the RBI, which is 4 per cent (+/-2 per cent). Retail inflation stood at 4.59 per cent in December 2020 and 7.59 per cent in January 2020. The previous low for retail inflation was in September 2019 at 4 per cent. The rate of price rise in the food basket was 1.89 per cent in January this year, significantly down from 3.41 per cent in December, revealed the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). “Driven by a fairly broad-based moderation in the food inflation, the CPI inflation in January 2021 softened appreciably to a 16-month low... “Food prices have displayed a mixed trend so far in February 2021. The rise in onion prices as well as higher crude oil prices and their transmission into retail fuel prices are areas of concern that need to be monitored,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist, ICRA. Vegetable prices declined further during the month with a negative inflation print of 15.84 per cent, while that of pulses and products eased to 13.39 per cent. Inflation in vegetable was (-)10.41 per cent and pulses and products at 15.98 per cent in the preceding month (December 2020). Likewise, protein rich 'meat and fish', eggs and 'milk and products' witnessed softening of inflation at 12.54 per cent, 12.85 per cent and 2.73 per cent, respectively. The rate of price rise in 'fuel and light' category, however, picked up to 3.87 per cent as against 2.99 per cent. Nayar also said in an uncomfortable trend, many of the non-food categories recorded a rise in inflation in January 2021, with inflation expected to resume an uptrend in February-March 2021. “We do not think that today's softer-than-anticipated print creates the room for an imminent rate cut. If the pace of growth in Q4 FY2021 exceeds the prevailing tepid expectations, the stance may be revised to neutral in the June 2021 MPC review,” she opined. Earlier this month, the Reserve Bank lowered the retail inflation projection for the ongoing quarter of this fiscal at 5.2 per cent, saying it has returned within the “tolerance band”. The regulator expects retail inflation to be around 5.2-5 per cent in the first half of next fiscal year before easing further to 4.3 per cent in Q3 FY22. “The inflation rate has come well below the RBI's threshold rate, and this actually gives some relief to the markets on the immediate trajectory of interest rates. However, core inflation is perched at 5.70 per cent, something that may take more time to move down,” said Joseph Thomas, Head of Research - Emkay Wealth Management. Deepak Agarwal, co-founder, Moneyboxx Finance Ltd, said with inflation falling for the second consecutive month and hovering within the RBI range, the softer rate regime would continue in the near future. This will help in faster and sustained economic recovery, he added. Sreejith Balasubramanian, Economist - Fund Management, IDFC AMC, said going forward, the base effect which helped recent lower prints will wane in February and March and the magnitude of disinflation in vegetables would also most likely ease, while the price movement in pulses and vegetable oils needs to be watched closely. The RBI mainly factors in the retail inflation while arriving at its monetary policy. The government has mandated the central bank to ensure the inflation remains at 4 per cent, with a margin of 2 per cent on either side. Price data are collected from selected towns and selected villages by the Field Operations Division of NSO, Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
13-02-2021||Business||PM Kisan allocation reduced as one state govt failed to provide beneficiary list to Centre: Nirmala Sitharaman||A nettled finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday launched a blistering attack against the criticism of her budget but threw up some absurd claims during her long-winded expostulations, even suggesting that the Rs 10,000-crore reduction in the PM Kisan Saman Nidhi scheme was because “one state (read Bengal)” failed to provide a list of the beneficiaries to the Centre. “Approximately 69 lakh estimated farmers from West Bengal have not received any benefits under this scheme,” Sitharaman said as she tried to make out that the entire reduction of Rs 10,000 crore was on that account alone. “When the provision could not be utilised because their list was not even given to us, obviously, in the RE (revised estimate) the number will be different and the provisioning that we will make for the next year will also be dependent on it,” Sitharaman said in her reply to the budget discussion in the Rajya Sabha on Friday. She said Bengal had not shared the list of beneficiaries yet, which led to farmers in the state not getting covered under the scheme. The minister said Rs 1.15 lakh crore had been transferred to the bank accounts of 10.75 crore farmer families under the scheme since its inception in 2019-20. However, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has accused the Centre of not disbursing funds under the PM-Kisan scheme to peasants in the state despite the TMC administration having sent the verified names of farmers to it. The chief minister earlier this week informed the Bengal assembly that out of 6 lakh applications of farmers sent by the Centre for verification, the state government has returned 2.5 lakh names following necessary work. Amid tension in the borders with China and the Covid-19 pandemic, the focus was on the allocation to defence and health that came under sharp scrutiny from the Opposition benches. She said spending on defence has increased both on the revenue and capital side and there was a decline only in the provision for pensions under the one-rank-one-pension (OROP) scheme. “The allocation for defence pension is Rs 1,15,850 crore which is a fall from last year. This is because last year's number had a huge addition because of arrears, arising from court cases or queries on pension arrears which had been paid, which is one-time and that has got rationalised now.” Sitharaman justified including water and sanitation under the health budget that led to allocation under the head ballooning more than two-fold. She said the WHO had mandated that sanitisation be brought under healthcare. Actual allocation to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has gone up 9.6 per cent for next year and Ayush (alternative medicine) ministry by 40 per cent. Sitharaman said the budget has provided the highest capex growth of 34.5 per cent by providing more money to railways, roads and defence. Former finance secretary S.C. Garg in his blog has commented that the “increase in the capex provisions for FY20-21 is an optical illusion and for FY21-22 excessively optimistic and proforma.” “A closer scrutiny of capital expenditure of Railways for FY 2020-21 reveals large revenue expenditure disguised as capital expenditure which creates the optical illusion of higher capital expenditure in FY2020-21,”Garg added. The finance minister pointed to the transparency exercise in the budget. “We have brought everything on to the budgetary accounting mechanism. What you get as Budget is what is there in it; no pushing things under the carpet.” She said the fiscal deficit numbers — 6.8 per cent of GDP for the current fiscal and 9.5 per cent for next fiscal — are “what it is”. “We have not even hurried to say, ‘Okay, next year, we will quickly get the deficit number to something which all of us would like to see’. Not at all. We are going to be careful about how we are going to come down that path without affecting or creating any hurdle in the growth path of this country.” MNREGA under Congress was a "mess" with utilisation far less than budget provision, she said. The Modi government "removed ills out of the scheme and effectively utilised it". "I want a less emotional but more factual debate on MNREGA," she said, adding her government spent more than budgeted in the last six years. In the current 2020-21 fiscal that ends on March 31, Rs 61,500 crore was provided in the Budget but the provision was increased to Rs 90,469 crore in view of the support needed to help those in distress during the pandemic. The actual spending till now is Rs 90,469 crore, she said, adding for the next fiscal Rs 73,000 crore has been provided. While replying to the discussion on the Budget 2021-22, the minister also attacked former finance minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram for suspecting the Budget numbers. She, however, did not mention his name. Referring to Chidambaram's remark that major numbers are suspect in the Budget presented by her on February 1, Sitharaman said it was the Congress finance minister who had artificially increased capex numbers during 2007-08 when UPA was ruling the country. She said bonds were issued to oil marketing companies and fertilizer manufactures in lieu of cash subsidy to "make balance sheet attractive…..Fake narratives were created... Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not depend on fudging." “We have brought everything on to the budgetary accounting mechanism. What you get as Budget is what is there in it; no pushing things under the carpet,”Sitharaman said. Admittedly, the fiscal deficit number (projected at 9.5 per cent in 2020-21 and 6.8 per cent in 2021-22) is what it is. We have not even hurried to say, "Okay, next year, we will quickly get the deficit number to something which all of us would like to see. Not at all. We are going to be careful about how we are going to come down that path without affecting or creating any hurdle in the growth path of this country,” she said. Sitharaman said her Budget for 2021-22 has provided the highest capex growth of 34.5 per cent by providing more money to railways, roads and defence, and not Chidambaram’s. Former finance secretary SC Garg in his blog has commented that the “increase in the capex provisions for FY20-21 is optical illusion and for FY21-22 excessively optimistic and proforma.” Sitharaman in her budget speech, said a massive increase of 34.5 per cent in the capital expenditure budget estimates of year 2021-22 (BE21-22) to Rs. 5.54 lakh crore from Rs. 4.12 lakh crore in the budget estimates of 2020-21 (BE20-21). The revised estimates (RE20-21) of capital expenditure for the FY20-21 have also gone up to Rs. 4.39 lakh crore, recoding an increase of 6.55 per cent. In his detailed analysis he said provision for capital expenditure, in excess of Rs. 500 crore, has been made in the RE20-21 for 18 Ministries and Departments. Provision, in excess of Rs. 5,000 crore, has been made for 10 Ministries and Departments and, in excess of Rs. 50,000 crore for 3 Ministries and Departments. The three demands, Capital Outlay on Defence Services (Rs. 134,510 crore), Ministry of Railways (Rs. 108,398 crore) and Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (Rs. 92,053 crore) account for Rs. 334,961 crore of the capital expenditure, which is 76.3% of the total RE provision of Rs. 439,163 crore. “A closer scrutiny of capital expenditure of Railways for FY 2020-21, however, reveals large revenue expenditure disguised as capital expenditure which creates the optical illusion of higher capital expenditure in FY2020-21,”Garg added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
13-02-2021||India||FM is harmful for Indian economy: Adhir||The Congress on Saturday alleged that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was harmful for the economy of the country and had pulled down the economic indicators while profiting a few capitalists. Reacting to the FM’s reply to the Union Budget discussions in the Lok Sabha on Saturday, Congress leader in the Lower House Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also said that the FM, instead of answering queries, kept hurling “derogatory remarks at Rahul Gandhi”. “Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is harmful for the economy of the country. How does she explain Oxfam report revelations which said the lockdown made India’s billionaires 35 per cent richer, while 84 per cent of households’ support income suffered a loss and 1.7 lakh people lost their jobs every hour in April, 2020 alone,” Chowdhury said. The Congress leader asked how does the FM explain that income increase for India’s top 100 billionaires since March 2020, which is enough to give each of the 13.8 crore poorest people a cheque of over Rs 94,000 each. “The finance minister’s misplaced priorities include tax concession for corporate in financial year 2019-20 that amounted over Rs 1.4 lakh crores. Instead of creating jobs, they used the money for trimming up their balance sheets,” alleged Chowdhury, asking how does she explain reducing the outlay for agriculture. He said the budget for agriculture had been reduced from Rs 1.54 lakh crore in the previous budget to 1.48 lakh crores in this budget, a cut of 6 per cent. “It has been reduced from 5.1 pc to 4.3 pc of overall budget. What could be the possible explanation for slashing the MGNREGA fund in her budget? The allocation to MGNREGA has been cut from Rs 1.66 lakh crores this year to Rs 96,773 crores in 2021, a cut of around 42 per cent,” Chowdhury said, attacking the FM for petroleum subsidy which, he said, had hit everyone. The Congress leader said that instead of answering their queries, the FM “kept hurling derogatory remarks at Rahul Gandhi”. “This is the government which does not honour the leaders and workers of the opposition party. By riding roughshod over the opposition, they have been trampling each and every demand of our party,” said Chowdhury. Asked about whether Rahul Gandhi would visit the LAC if a related proposal of the parliamentary standing committee on defence goes through, Chowdhury said when the opposition wanted to visit Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370, they were not allowed. “When we sought that the government send an all-party delegation to J&K after the abrogation of Article 370 we were not allowed to go. But the government allowed European Union leaders under an orchestrated visit. Even later they kept sending ambassadors of other countries to Kashmir for picnics but did not allow their own MPs to go,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
13-02-2021||India||Morcha demands judicial probe into ‘false cases’ slapped on protesters||Protesting farmer unions on Saturday demanded a high-level judicial inquiry into the violence that took place during the tractor rally in Delhi on January 26 and the alleged 'false" cases slapped on the farmers. Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border, Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders asked farmers who are getting police notices not to appear before the force directly and, instead, approach the legal cell constituted by the unions for any assistance. Kuldeep Singh, a member of SKM's legal cell, alleged that a retired judge of the Supreme Court or high court should probe the incidents to unravel the "conspiracy" behind the January 26 violence and the alleged "false cases" against the farmers. According to SKM leaders, 16 farmers who had participated in the tractor parade are still untraceable. Another leader Ravinder Singh said that 122 farmers had been arrested by Delhi Police in connection with 14 of the 44 FIRs, adding that SKM will provide legal and financial aid to all the arrested farmers. The Morcha leaders claimed that "false" cases were being slapped on farmers charging them with serious offences like dacoity and attempt to murder to "harass" them. Singh said that the Morcha will provide Rs 2,000 to every arrested farmer for spending in prison canteen. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points, demanding a repeal of the three agri laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
13-02-2021||India||Hole drilled in Tapovan tunnel to locate trapped persons||Security personnel drilled a hole on their way to a possible location of over 30 people trapped inside the sludge-choked Tapovan tunnel, making headway at last in the prolonged rescue efforts. However, efforts were afoot on Saturday to widen the hole so that a camera could be inserted into the tunnel to get a clue of the trapped men, officials said. Drilling of a 12-metre-long hole of 75 mm diameter in the intake adit tunnel to its inside has been successful, National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) Tapovan, General Manager, R P Ahirwal said. "This is a good sign as there is no water or slush pressure observed in the silt-flushing tunnel," he said in a release. "However, the camera could not be inserted due to the presence of slush. Drilling of a larger diameter hole has been planned now. Meanwhile mucking from the intake adit tunnel is in progress. The diameter of borehole shall be 250-300 mm," he said. The marathon rescue operations at the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project which suffered heavy damages in the Rishi Ganga avalanche entered the seventh day on Saturday. So far, 38 bodies have been recovered from the affected areas while 166 people are still missing. As many as 25-35 people are believed to be trapped inside the Tapovan tunnel. The State Emergency Operation Centre here said scientists of the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing during an aerial survey of Rishiganga found that the glacial lake formed due to the avalanche over it has begun to release water which reduces chances of its breaching or causing a flash flood. The lake, which has formed over Rishiganga after the flash flood, had increased the concern of experts on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
13-02-2021||India|| Bombay HC judge who sparked controversies takes oath for one more year||The Bombay High Court's judge Justice Pushpa Ganediwala, who had delivered two controversial verdicts in sexual assault cases, on Saturday took oath as the high court's additional judge for one more year. Justice Ganediwala's earlier tenure as an additional judge of the Bombay High Court ended on Friday. Justice Nitin Jamdar, the senior-most judge at the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court, administered the oath of office to her. The oath-taking ceremony was attended virtually by the Bombay High Court's Chief Justice Dipankar Datta. Last month, the Supreme Court collegium had withdrawn its approval to a proposal for the appointment of Justice Ganediwala as a permanent judge of the court following her two controversial verdicts. The collegium had recommended that she be given a fresh term as an additional judge for two years. However, the government issued a notification on Friday saying she has been given a fresh term as an additional judge for one year. Additional judges are usually appointed for two years before being elevated as permanent judges. The decision was taken after the judge faced flak for her interpretation of sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Justice Ganediwala had recently acquitted a man accused of groping a 12-year-old girl's breast because he did not make any "skin-to-skin contact" with the minor and days earlier, ruled that holding the hands of a five-year-old girl and unzipping the trousers do not amount to "sexual assault" under the POCSO Act. On January 27, the Supreme Court stayed the Bombay High Court order acquitting the man after Attorney General K K Venugopal said the order would set a dangerous precedent. The collegium headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, at a meeting held on January 20, had okayed the proposal for making Justice Ganediwala a permanent judge. Besides the CJI, justices N V Ramana and R F Nariman are part of the three-member collegium, which takes decisions with regard to high court judges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
13-02-2021||India||PM looking to hand over agriculture sector to his two friends, alleges Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to "hand over" the entire agriculture business to his "two friends". Addressing farmers at Rupangarh in Rajasthan, he said 40 per cent people of the country are stakeholders of the farming business. "It is the business of 40 per cent people, which includes farmers, small and medium businessmen, traders, labourers. Narendra Modi wants to give this entire business to his two friends. This is the objective of the farm laws," he claimed but did not name anyone. "Narendra Modi said that he is giving options but the options are: hunger, unemployment and suicide," he alleged. Gandhi, wearing a Rajasthani safa or turban, reached the rally venue driving a tractor with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotsra sitting with him on both sides. The former Congress chief spoke while standing on a platform made of two tractor trolleys while the farmers sat or stood on tractor trolleys around the platform. AICC general secretary Ajay Maken and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot were also present with Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
13-02-2021||India||Government has done more for J&K than its previous rulers, says Shah||The Modi government has done more for Jammu and Kashmir since Article 370 was scrapped in August 2019 than those who ruled it for generations, Union Home Minister Amit Shah asserted in the Lok Sabha on Saturday He reeled out statistics to assert that the Union Territory’s development has been the government's top priority. Replying to a discussion on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, he also slammed some opposition members for their claim that the proposed law negates the hopes of the region getting back its erstwhile statehood. This legislation has nothing to do with statehood, and Jammu and Kashmir will be accorded the status at an appropriate time, Shah said. He said the region's union territory status is temporary and then took a swipe at the Congress and other parties -- which had backed Article 370 of the Constitution that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir -- saying this was a temporary provision but they continued with it for over 70 years before the Modi government annulled it in August 2019. Jammu and Kashmir has been a top priority for the current government since it took power in 2014, he said. Decentralisation and devolution of power have taken place in the union territory following the revocation of Article 370, Shah said, noting that panchayat elections saw over 51 per cent voting. Panchayats have been given administrative and financial powers for local development, something they lacked earlier, he added. Now people chosen by the masses will rule Jammu and Kashmir, not those born to "kings and queens", he said, attacking dynastic parties in the region. Even our rivals could not allege any wrongdoing in these polls which were conducted fairly and peacefully, he said. Work on two AIIMS in the region has begun, and the Kashmir Valley will be connected to the railways by 2022, the minister said. He also gave the assurance to the people of Jammu and Kashmir that "no one will lose their land". The government has sufficient land for development works, Shah said. The bill seeks to replace the ordinance to merge the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) cadre of civil services officers with the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre. Shah said the government expects that around 25,000 government jobs will be created in Jammu and Kashmir by 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
13-02-2021||India||Right-wing outfit to moot 'Mata-Pita' puja against Valentine's Day||Right-wing outfit Shri Ram Sene on Saturday said it would counter Valentine's day by observing 'Mata-Pita' puja on February 14. The organisation would deploy its members in various parts of Karnataka, where there would be chances of 'vulgarity' in public places, in the name of Valentine's day celebrations. "Every year we organise the 'Mata-Pita' pooja across the state. We would organise the event at 50 to 60 places," the outfit chief Pramod Muthalik told PTI. The fringe outfit President said there will be volunteers of the organisations at the probable places such as pubs, bars, malls, ice cream parlours and parks to ensure that there is no vulgarity in public places. He, however, pointed out that the members of the outfit will not take law into their hands but would work in tandem with the police to prevent such incidents. In a press release, the Hubballi unit of Shri Ram Sena said, "The western culture is trying to attract the youth towards it, which has an adverse effect on our invaluable heritage and leads to unacceptable drugs, sex and love jihad. Valentine's day is a clear example of it." Meanwhile, Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said, "We will not allow anyone to take law into their hands." "If anyone has any grievances, let them come to us," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||Nirmala takes a dig at Rahul, terms him 'doomsday man'||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday hit out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying he is becoming a "doomsday man" for India by constantly insulting constitutional functionaries and creating fake narratives on various issues. Replying to the general discussion on Budget in Lok Sabha, she said the former Congress chief was creating fake narratives but does not have the patience to listen to replies to allegations levelled against the government. "We need to recognise these two tendencies of the Congress party... this makes it clear that their belief in a democratically elected Parliamentary system is completely finished," Sitharaman said. Responding to Rahul Gandhi's speech on Thursday, during which he talked about farm laws but declined to speak on the Budget, she said, "he is probably becoming a doomsday man for India." The Minister further said that Gandhi laid the "foundation" but did not speak about the Budget during the discussion on it. Sitharaman said she wanted Gandhi to speak on 10 issues but was disappointed as the Congress leader made no mention of them. "I wanted to know from the Congress why it took a U-turn on the farm laws but no reply came," she said, adding that Gandhi did not tell the House why Congress governments in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh did not waive farm loans promised in their manifesto. Sitharaman further said Gandhi did not talk about the farmers issue in Punjab where Congress is in power and the steps being taken by the government with regard to stubble burning. Gandhi also did not refer to any clause in three agri bills which was against the farmers, she said. Congress party is only concerned about "Hum Do and Hamare Do," Sitharaman said adding that she expected Gandhi to return the land which "Damadji" had taken from farmers at a pittance. Also, she added, Gandhi did not say anything about the statement of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh who had advocated reform of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC). She also accused Gandhi of insulting constitutional authorities recalling the incidence when the Congress leader tore an ordinance promulgated by its own government led by the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Regretting that the Congress has joined the break India fringe group and continuously creating a false narrative to demean India, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||Editors Guild of India’s webinar called off amid disruptions by unknown persons||The Editors Guild of India on Saturday said its virtual webinar on reporting challenges from Naxal areas was subjected to relentless attacks and disruptions by unknown persons. Calling the incident shocking, the Guild said it had organised the webinar as part of its series 'Unheard Voices: Reporting from Conflict Zones' and its speakers included some of the most seasoned Indian journalists who have been reporting from Naxal areas. Within a few minutes since the start of the webinar, some of the participants started posting frivolous song videos, the Guild said in a statement. "The meeting host tried shutting down the window of each such guest, but the number of such disruptors kept on increasing. Soon, some of them started posting obscene messages on group chat as well as shared screens with pornographic content and abusive language. Eventually, the meeting had to be ended without even one of the guest speakers getting a chance to speak," it said. Calling it a blatant attack on the freedom of speech, the Guild demanded that the Cyber Crime Cell investigate this violation. "The Guild is shocked and disturbed by this unprecedented attack by those who clearly did not want the speakers' voices to be heard. Naxal infested areas have been subjected to some of the most horrifying and gruesome instances of state excesses. The webinar speakers have been at the forefront of chronicling the conflict and the human rights abuses over the last few decades," it noted. The Guild said it sees this as a blatant attack on the freedom of speech. It demanded that the Cyber Crime Cell investigate this attack on free speech and book the guilty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||Deep Sidhu taken to Red Fort to recreate R-Day vandalism scene||The Delhi Police's Crime Branch on Saturday took actor-activist Deep Sidhu and another accused Iqbal Singh to Red Fort to recreate the scene of events that unfolded at the historic monument on Republic Day during the farmer's tractor parade, a police officer said. Sidhu, according to police, was a "prominent player" behind the January 26 violence and vandalism at the Red Fort. He was arrested from Karnal bypass in Haryana on Monday night by a team of Delhi Police's Special Cell. On Tuesday, Sidhu was sent to seven-day police custody by a city court here. A senior police officer said Sidhu and another accused arrested in the case Iqbal Singh were taken to the Red Fort by a crime branch team to recreate the scene of events that unfolded on Republic Day at the monument. The team probing the case will inspect the spot to ascertain and corroborate the route taken by them, their activities at the Red Fort and how things unfolded at the monument on Republic Day when the violence broke out, the officer added. Iqbal Singh, who was carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest, was nabbed from Hoshiarpur in Punjab on Tuesday night by the northern range of Delhi Police's Special Cell. The Delhi police had announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information that can lead to the arrest of actor Sidhu, Jugraj Singh, Gurjot Singh and Gurjant Singh who hoisted flags at the Red Fort or were involved in the act. A cash reward of Rs 50,000 each was also announced for Buta Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Jajbir Singh and Iqbal Singh for allegedly instigating protesters. Of them, Sidhu, Iqbal Singh and Sukhdev Singh have been arrested. Police said raids are being conducted to nab the other accused. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agriculture laws had clashed with the police during their tractor parade on January 26. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled on Independence Day. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protestor died on that day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||Right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere, says SC||The right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere, the Supreme Court said as it dismissed a plea seeking review of its verdict passed last year in which it had held the occupation of public ways during the anti-CAA protests at Shaheen Bagh here was not acceptable. The top court said there may be some spontaneous protests but in case of prolonged dissent or protest, there cannot be continued occupation of public place affecting the rights of others. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Kirshna Murari said, We have perused the review petition and record of the civil appeal and are convinced that the order of which review has been sought, does not suffer from any error apparent warranting its reconsideration. The bench, which has passed the order recently, said it has considered the earlier judicial pronouncements and recorded its opinion that the Constitutional scheme comes with a right to protest and express dissent but with an obligation to have certain duties. The right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere. There may be some spontaneous protests but in case of prolonged dissent or protest, there cannot be continued occupation of public place affecting rights of others , the bench said, while dismissing a plea by one Shaheen Bagh resident Kaniz Fatima and others seeking review of last year's verdict of October 7. The top court, which considered the matter in the judges' chambers also rejected the prayer for open court hearing in the matter. The apex court had on October 7, last year held that public spaces cannot be occupied indefinitely and demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone. It had said the occupation of public ways in the anti-CAA protests at Shaheen Bagh locality here was not acceptable. Observing that democracy and dissent go hand in hand, the apex court had said constitutional scheme comes with the right to protest and express dissent, but with an obligation towards certain duties. It had said the mode and manner of dissent against colonial rule during India's freedom struggle cannot be equated with dissent in a self-ruled democracy. However, while appreciating the existence of the right to peaceful protest against legislation...we have to make it unequivocally clear that public ways and public spaces cannot be occupied in such a manner and that too indefinitely, the top court had said. The apex court's verdict had come on a plea by lawyer Amit Sahni against blockade of a road in Shaheen Bagh area by those protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which aimed to provide Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. It had held that the protest at Shaheen Bagh was a blockage of a public way which caused grave inconvenience to commuters. The top court had said such kind of occupation of public ways, whether at the site in question or anywhere else for protests, is not acceptable and the administration ought to take action to keep the areas clear of encroachments or obstructions. Democracy and dissent go hand in hand, but then the demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone, it had said, adding, We cannot accept the plea of the applicants that an indeterminable number of people can assemble whenever they choose to protest. Restrictions were imposed on the Kaindi Kunj-Shaheen Bagh stretch and the Okhla underpass, which were closed on December 15, 2019, due to the protests. Later, due to COVID-19 pandemic, the area was cleared.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||India logs more than 12,000 fresh Covid cases, 103 casualties in a day||India's tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 1,08,92,746 with 12,143 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries crossed 1.06 crore, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll increased to 1,55,550 with 103 daily new fatalities, data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,00,625, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.32 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total number of active COVID-19 cases remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,36,571 active cases of COVID-19 in the country, which comprises 1.25 per cent of the total number of cases, data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The 103 new fatalities include 36 from Maharashtra, 18 from Kerala and 8 each from Punjab and Karnataka. A total of 1,55,550 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 51,451 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,408 from Tamil Nadu, 12,259 from Karnataka, 10,889 from Delhi, 10,229 from West Bengal, 8,698 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,162 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||Dense fog engulfs Delhi||A thick blanket of fog enveloped Delhi on Saturday morning, with the visibility dropping to 50 metres at Safdarjung and 250 metres at Palam at 8.30 am, MeT officials said. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 10.8 degrees Celsius, they said. The air quality in the national capital was recorded in the "very poor" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 331 at 9 am, real-time data of the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) showed. Relative humidity was 100 per cent at 8.30 am, they said, adding that the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 27 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||External affairs minister urged to not let Russia force Indian students to return||The BJP MP from Ranchi, Sanjay Seth, on Friday requested external affairs minister S. Jaishankar to urge the Russian government to ensure that Indian students studying in that country are not “forced” to return to their respective institutions as the spread of coronavirus has not stopped. “There are about 6,000 Indian students, including 200 from my state, who study mostly medicine at various institutions in Russia,” Seth wrote in a letter that he handed over after meeting the minister in New Delhi on Friday. During the pandemic, the government had brought back these students from Russia, Seth said, adding that their institutions, through various channels like their Indian agents, were now asking them to return. “These students were attending online classes,” the letter said, adding that the students as well as their guardians are now worried that their institutions were telling their wards must return to Russia now. “The students are not coming out openly against such a decision (of their institutions) as they are afraid this might put their career at stake and affect their future,” Seth further said. The students said that the family of one of them had to spend a huge amount of money to bring back his body when he died in Russia during the pandemic, Seth said. He added that the students had to face many other difficulties in that country. In the letter, copies of which have been shared with a section of media, Seth urged Jaishankar to take up the matter with the Russian government so that these students are not “forced” to return at this stage. That will bring relief to both the students and their guardians and will also protect their future, Seth added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||DRDO to tie up with IIT Bhubaneswar on research  ||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is keen to tie up with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bhubaneswar to take up various kinds of research in the field of defence and turn the institution into a centre of excellence. It has asked the prestigious institute to come out with innovative plans to develop long-term partnership with DRDO. Addressing the students of the IIT, Bhubaneswar on its 13th Foundation Day in the virtual mode on Friday, chairman, DRDO and scientific advisor to defence minister Dr G. Satheesh Reddy said: “We need to promote research, put up start-ups and have a synchronisation with the industries to make the country prosperous.” Reddy said: “The DRDO wants to actively make partnership with IIT, , in many specific research areas. We want to develop it as a centre of excellence in the field of defence research like other prominent organisations like IIT Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. It would support their innovation by giving funds to make it a reality.” The head of the country’s premier defence research organisation said, “DRDO is releasing funds under Technological Development Funds up to Rs 10 crore to promote start-ups. Besides we have a plan to give Rs 1 crore to the passing out students to set up start-ups if they come up with a plan that is feasible. We are ready to promote such start-ups in large numbers. Lots of youngsters are entering the defence research field.” The DRDO chairman said, “ With the collaboration of the Ministry of Higher Education, the DRDO plans to involve more and more students from the reputed institutes in various fields of research. We need to decentralize. We are generally technology followers. Now we have to change the trend and have to be the frontrunners in the field of technology. If the country has to prosper, we have to be technologically advanced. Lots of research and innovation work is to be done. The academic institution should do the fundamental research and then only specialised institutions will take it further.” He said DRDO is working with around 295 academic institutions on different research projects and more than Rs 10,000 crore is involved in these projects. Stating that India has matured and become self- reliant in many areas of defence like making ballistics of inter-continental range, radar, sonar technology, tanks, fighter planes and even space technology, Reddy said, “The Prime Minister will soon dedicate a newer version of Arjun tank.” Director IIT, Prof R.V. Raja Kumar said: “Covid-19 has thrown up many challenges. We need to rise to the occasion. We have decided to open courses on bio-engineering and generate human resources on bio engineering.” Expressing serious concern on the flash flood disaster in Uttarakhand, Raja Kumar said, “There is a serious gap in the field of disaster studies.” Commenting on the current education system, Raja Kumar said, “The coaching system that we subject our children to in order to achieve success in various entrance exams like JEE is not healthy for the nation. Students miss out on a lot of things in their most formative years. Now we are planning to offer them things like sporting activities that they miss once they enter the IITs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||Malayalam cinema professionals design face mask to show support for farmers||When the masks of many an icon have come off, some Malayalam cinema professionals have taken recourse to the humble face shield to express solidarity with farmers. Several of those associated with films in Kerala have pitched in with a range of initiatives from reciting poetry to something as simple as designing a face mask to show their support for the farmers braving adversities in the fight for their rights. A group that includes a noted actor on Friday released the first look of the mask that would be launching on Monday. Conceived by actor and playwright Joy Mathew, known for his powerful character roles on screen and outspoken comments off it, the mask features an image of ready-to-be-harvested crops and the message “In solidarity with the Indian farmers” emblazoned on it. “I thought it’s a great idea to convey the message across through the discernible since wearing a mask is mandatory because of the Covid pandemic,” Mathew told The  Telegraph on Friday. While top stars are yet to speak publicly on the issue, some actors have been vocal with their support for the farmers. “I always stand by the farmers. But the question of how much of support they need emerged after celebrities like Akshay Kumar and Sachin Tendulkar spoke out against those commenting (on the farmers’ protest) from abroad. Even some of our top stars have been silent,” Mathew said. It is the same idea that’s often on display in football dugouts where coaches and players wear masks bearing their team logo. “So I thought why not have a message for the farmers on the mask itself? That’s how the idea was born and quickly taken to the next phase,” said Mathew, who wrote and directed Shutter, a celebrated film that has been remade in several languages. With more masks under production, Mathew and his friends plan to launch it at a farmers’ solidarity event on Monday at Kodungallur in Thrissur district. “We are not forcing the masks on anyone. Those who are interested can buy them for Rs 15 apiece, which leaves a margin of Rs 3 (against the production cost of Rs 12) that we will donate to the protesting farmers,” the actor said. “Now I don’t know if donating to farmers would be construed as anti-national,” Mathew guffawed, referring to the attempts to discredit the peasants’ movement and the trend of maligning those speaking up against the government. He insisted that his group did not back any particular political party. “As a free Left group, we have always taken up all kinds of causes,” Mathew said. The group had protested, among others, seeking justice for a nun allegedly raped by a bishop in Kerala, against the Centre’s proposed citizenship matrix, in solidarity with the rape victim of Kathua and two minor siblings raped in Walayar, Palakkad, and against the cold-blooded political murders at Periya in Kasaragod where alleged CPM activists had hacked to death two Congress workers. The masks will be distributed through Silence Books, a publishing house in Kozhikode. “We are a group of likeminded individuals with theatre and literary background and have always raised our collective voice in matters concerning the society,” said P.C. Jossy, who runs the publishing house. Although big names in the Malayalam film industry have been silent, there are those like critically acclaimed actors Parvathy Thiruvothu and Manikandan Achari who have not minced words. “I am with the farmers in every sense. There are no two ways about it,” Parvathy told a channel recently. “The cut, copy, paste reactions from celebrities is very disgusting behaviour,” she said, taking a swipe at Bollywood bigwigs and cricket icons siding with the government and tweeting identical messages after its handling of the farmers’ crisis received international condemnation. “When they use the ‘India against propaganda’ hashtag they need to realise what they are doing is the real propaganda,” Parvathy said, referring to the pro-establishment celebrities. Achari, who rose from humble beginnings to grab the attention of top-notch filmmakers in Kerala, has recited a strongly worded Malayalam poem in support of the farmers. “With the soil, with the farmers. Let the farmers win this fight and win their rights,” he said, declaring his solidarity after the minute-long recital of poet Kureeppuzha Sreekumar’s lines that reminds how the downtrodden are always the ones who toil on the land, sow seeds, endure the hot sun, go to bed hungry and yet have nothing to bank on. Music composer Bijibal and lyricist B.K. Harinarayanan had last month released a video titled “Vith (Seed) — With the farmers”. A tribute to the farmers fighting for their rights, the duo had recited lines that roughly translates to: “The yield from the farms belong to the farmers and their determination cannot be drained off by the hammer of power”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||India-China clash: Demilitarised buffer zone in eastern Ladakh rattles veterans ||Military veterans on Friday questioned the government’s “concessions” in agreeing to create a 10km-wide, demilitarised buffer zone within India-claimed territory in eastern Ladakh as part of the agreement with China to disengage troops from the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks. They said India had committed a “big blunder” by not forcing China to agree to simultaneous disengagement from the Depsang Plains, which is operationally critical for the Indian Army and where the Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines. Their expressions of concern came on a day Rahul Gandhi accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ceding Indian land to the Chinese — an allegation a defence ministry statement denied without naming anyone. During the bilateral disengagement from the Galwan Valley last summer, too, veterans had expressed dismay at India agreeing to retreat from held positions to create a buffer zone within territory it claims. “India agreeing to retreat from Pangong Lake areas and create a buffer zone within its territory has serious implications,” a former lieutenant general told The Telegraph. “This is a big blunder, considering the buffer zone has been created without restoring the April 2020 status on the Depsang Plains. Does that mean we are giving legitimacy to China’s claim over the Pangong Lake areas?” Retired Colonel Ajai Shukla tweeted: “Indian, Chinese troops start disengaging in Ladakh’s Pangong sector. A buffer zone separates the two sides — a 10-km stretch between Finger 3 and Finger 8. Indian Army has patrolled this area since the 1962 Sino-Indian war but now cannot enter the zone.” India claims territory till Finger 8 on the Pangong Lake’s north bank but the Chinese have advanced 8km up to Finger 4 from their erstwhile position at Finger 8. Under the disengagement agreement, the Chinese would return to the east of Finger 8 and the Indian troops will reciprocate by pulling back to their permanent base near Finger 3. Neither side will patrol the buffer zone till all the modalities are worked out at operational and diplomatic levels. The government has not given details of the disengagement process relating to the lake’s south bank, where India had captured key heights — the Kailash Range — last September. The Congress has accused the government of agreeing to withdraw troops from their vantage position on the Kailash Range that overlooks the Pangong Lake’s south bank. Friday’s defence ministry statement did not comment on this charge. Sources in the security establishment said that during the nine rounds of military talks, China had been adamant about not proceeding with the disengagement talks until India had agreed to vacate the Kailash Range. There’s no clarity on disengagement from the Depsang Plains and other friction points, such as Gogra and Hot Springs where the Chinese have occupied India-claimed territory. Shukla contrasted India’s firm stand against Pakistan over Siachen with its capitulation to China. “When Pak said: ‘Lets demilitarise Siachen now, we can keep discussing Kashmir later’, India rightly said no! Siachen is a part of the Kashmir dispute,” he tweeted. “But when China said: ‘Lets demilitarise Pangong now, we can discuss Depsang & Gogra later’, India has blundered in accepting.” Shukla added: “Delhi’s errors: 1. Vacating Kailash Range — our best bargaining chip — in the 1st settlement. Having got what it wanted right at the outset, China has zero interest in further talks. 2. Not forcing China to include Depsang — our biggest vulnerability — in the 1st settlement.” Friday’s defence ministry statement said “outstanding issues” like the Depsang Plains, Gogra and Hot Springs “are to be taken up within 48 hrs of the completion of the Pangong Tso disengagement”. But a former army commander stressed that the Depsang Plains were too important to be held back for later. “It’s incomprehensible that India entered into an agreement with China without finalising the disengagement process from the Depsang Plains. Why the tearing hurry?” he said. He said that control of Depsang would allow China to threaten the Indian strategic airfield at Daulat Beg Oldie, located at an altitude over 16,000 feet. “The DBO airstrip was built after the 1962 war to check Chinese incursions,” he said. The airstrip lies near the newly built and strategic Darbuk-Shyok-DBO Road that runs parallel to the LAC, meandering through elevations between 14,000 feet and 16,000 feet. The road connects Leh with the DBO at the base of the Karakoram Pass, which separates China’s Xinjiang Autonomous Region from Ladakh. China wants to dominate the road, which India’s army uses to support its soldiers deployed on the LAC. Another veteran said the disengagement agreement might be based on some kind of “give and take”, given that defence minister Rajnath Singh had mentioned not a word about the LAC status quo being restored to what it was before the May 2020 Chinese incursion. He added: “The partial disengagement seems to have been necessitated by the harsh climate, with the temperature falling to minus 40 degrees in the higher altitudes where troops of both countries are deployed.” The veteran said that both sides might be keen to diminish their troop presence and pull back some heavy weaponry considering the hostile weather. “Disengagement is a long-drawn process. The real test will come in the summer. We have to watch what the Chinese army’s response is over the next few months. They can always return to the no-man’s land between Finger 3 and Finger 8,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Below-50 Covid vaccine criteria on the table||The criteria to determine who below 50 years would be eligible for Covid-19 vaccines first will prioritise those with advanced or combinations of chronic health disorders over those with disorders under control, according to doctors familiar with the norms. A panel of experts drawn from multiple specialities has submitted its report to the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC) suggesting criteria for disorders involving the brain, endocrine system, heart, lungs, liver, kidneys and other organs, the doctors said. “The carefully calibrated criteria prioritise those expected to be at the highest risk of severe coronavirus disease,” said a senior doctor who was not authorised to reveal the details. People below 50 with combinations of disorders such as both kidney disease and heart failure, or those with both hypertension and diabetes or a history of stroke, would be prioritised over those with health disorders under control, the doctor said. Patients with coronary heart disease, those who have already had coronary stents or undergone coronary bypass surgeries, or those who have had strokes are obvious candidates for the vaccines, another doctor associated with the exercise said. “There will be no screening for this; people might use their existing clinical records,” the doctor said. The eligibility criteria are expected to include certain quantitative measures, such as specific thresholds for hypertension and blood sugar and other blood biochemistry markers for kidney or liver disease. “One obvious high-risk category would be all the people on dialysis,” said Vivekanand Jha, a nephrologist and executive director at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, who is not a member of the expert panel. Among an estimated 200,000 people on dialysis across the country, he said, around 40 per cent would be under 50. “People undergoing dialysis have low immunity and need to be prioritised for the Covid-19 vaccines,” Jha said. The Union health ministry, relying on recommendations from the expert panel and the NEGVAC, is expected to make public within days to weeks the eligibility criteria for people below 50 and the process through which those eligible can register for vaccines. India’s vaccination campaign is seeking to immunise nearly 30 million healthcare and frontline workers, to be followed by a second phase to vaccinate around 270 million people who are either aged above 50 or have chronic health disorders. The campaign had till Friday vaccinated over 5.8 million healthcare workers and 1.9 million frontline workers. The expert panel includes specialists in cancer, cardiovascular disorders, kidney disease, respiratory medicine and other chronic health conditions. Sources said the criteria in India for people with cardiovascular diseases (CVD) would be “broadly similar” to what the American College of Cardiology has proposed in the US — the prioritisation of all patients with advanced CVD over those with well-controlled CVD. The ACC has recommended, for instance, that patients with poorly controlled hypertension, insulin-dependent diabetes or diabetes with vascular (blood vessel) complications should be considered at higher risk than patients with optimal medical parameters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Bihar farmer hangs himeslf over electricity bill||A Bihar farmer who received an electricity bill for around Rs 50,000 in December and paid Rs 25,000 after taking loans hanged himself on Thursday after power officials insisted on full payment, his family said. Family members of 48-year-old Dinesh Singh of Naugai village, Rohtas district, said the bill — for the connection to a borewell on his small patch of farmland — was an inflated one. Officials of the state-run South Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited (SBPDCL) said the bill was correct. They said Dinesh had never been billed since he had taken the connection in October 2010, and that the December 4, 2020, bill covered the entire period since then — along with interest. Key points that emerged from conversations with the farmer’s family and power officials: No staggering: SBPDCL general manager (revenue) Arvind Kumar said: “Sometimes a consumer does not get billed. When it’s detected, his power consumption is traced through our system and he is billed accordingly. One or two such cases happen.” Couldn’t the bill amount have been staggered over a few months, since it was not Dinesh’s fault that he was never billed before? “There is no provision for sending bills in a staggered manner,” Kumar said. Bill high, says relative: Younger brother Ramesh Singh agreed that Dinesh had never been billed for the borewell connection, which he had secured “a few years ago” for his 10-cottah (half a bigha or one-fourth an acre) farmland. He said the borewell was run only twice a year — during the rabi (winter) and kharif (monsoon) crop seasons — and just for a few days, that too only if the rainfall was deficient. “There’s no way the bill could be so high,” Ramesh said. “He (Dinesh) was extremely perturbed after receiving the bill in early December. He visited the nearest electricity office many times to get the bill rectified but ended up harassed and frustrated.” The bill: The bill amount was Rs 49,453, if paid by the due date of December 19. It included dues of Rs 48,471.23, and Rs 984.68 for the latest month (November), with a Rs 3.78 rebate for timely payment. If unpaid by December 29, the amount rose to Rs 49,818. The bill shows actual dues of Rs 28,620.70 and accumulated interest of Rs 19,850.53. However, it gives the consumption figures for only the last 11 months and not a complete break-up from 2010, which means it does not explain the amount charged. Kumar had no answer why this had happened. Unmetered connection: The borewell connection was unmetered, as the bill showed and electricity department executive engineer Prem Kumar Praveen confirmed. Asked how such connections are meant to be billed, power officials said they were billed for a fixed number of monthly units, determined in advance on the basis of the presumed needs of the farmer. Kumar, the SBPDCL general manager, expressed surprise that Dinesh’s connection was an unmetered one. “Such connections were stopped way back in 2005,” he said. He agreed this was a lapse on his department’s part. The maths: Agriculture-related connections are billed at 65 paise per unit, power officials said. Since Dinesh’s actual dues were Rs 28,620.70, he would have consumed 44,030 units. Assuming he had incurred this bill between October 2010 and November 2020, he would have had to consume 44,030/122 or about 360 units a month. The bill shows a flat 275-unit consumption per month for the past 11 months. Since the consumption is fixed in advance for unmetered connections, the gap of 85 units a month remains unexplained. “There’s no way a motor-pump could have used up such a huge amount of electricity drawing water from the borewell,” Ramesh said, referring to the figure of 275 units a month. He iterated that the pump remained switched off most of the year. Dinesh leaves behind his wife and six daughters, four of whom are unmarried. Ramesh said Dinesh had submitted two applications to rectify the inflated bill. “He was worried about losing the power connection. He borrowed money and paid Rs 25,000 in the hope of a compromise, but the officials kept asking him to pay the full amount. He finally gave up his life without telling us,” Ramesh said. Praveen, the executive engineer, told reporters: “Dinesh paid Rs 20,000 on December 28, 2020, and Rs 5,000 on February 6, 2021. We probed his application to rectify the bill but there was no error in it.” Naugai mukhia (headman) Ramashray Singh said: “The bill made an illegal demand of money from Dinesh and the electricity officials just made him run around and harassed him.” Ramesh said the family had not filed a case against anybody in connection with the suicide. “We don’t even know who was responsible for the inflated bill or who harassed him and made him run around so much. How can we lodge a case?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Artistes issue statement of support for Munawar Faruqui||Creative personalities from several countries on Friday issued a statement of support for comedian Munawar Faruqui, who was granted bail by the Supreme Court last week after spending more than a month in jail on the charge of hurting religious sentiments. Faruqui had been arrested in Indore before he could get on stage for a stand-up act, prompting many to draw a parallel with the Orwellian concept of Thoughtcrime. The 110 signatories include historian Rajmohan Gandhi, dancer Mallika Sarabhai, actors Swara Bhaskar, Pooja Bhatt and Kalki Koechlin, film directors Shonali Bose, Anand Patwardhan and Canada’s John Greyson, comedians Kunal Kamra and Sanjay Rajoura, authors Amitava Kumar and Arundhati Roy, UK-based architect Sofia Karim and Brazilian feminist activist Sonia Corrêa. They said in a statement: “The superintendent of police reportedly said Munawar was going to insult Hindu gods, and even praised the vigilantes! Munawar faces criminal charges of ‘uttering words with deliberate intent to wound religious feelings’… among other sections of India’s penal code, for jokes he never cracked, in a performance that did not take place.” In George Orwell’s novel 1984, Thoughtcrime is a criminal offence that covers politically unorthodox thoughts, unspoken beliefs and even doubts that contradict Ingsoc, the ideology of the rulers of Oceania. The signatories said: “Munawar’s bail applications were rejected by the magistrate, sessions and high court of Madhya Pradesh, and he had to go all the way to the Supreme Court of India just for interim bail, which was his legal right. He has now been released on bail, but the charges against him in the states of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh remain. We call for the dropping or dismissal of these trumped-up charges for all six individuals (the accused in the case).” They added: “We are well aware that Munawar’s performance pieces include contemporary politics and society. Munawar took risks that all artistes take. But the stakes are higher for him. He comes from a humble background.” “His family lost their home during the large-scale 2002 violence in Gujarat, and moved to Mumbai where Munawar sold utensils and did other odd jobs during the day and studied at night. He started stand-up comedy just two years ago, quickly garnering some success. “As artistes and concerned individuals, we are alarmed that in a country that claims to be the world’s largest democracy, a stand-up artiste was imprisoned for over a month, and faces serious criminal charges, for no crime.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Supreme Court bins FIR against inter-caste couple||The Supreme Court has quashed an FIR against a highly educated inter-caste couple, saying such marriages are the way forward for reducing rising caste and communal tensions in the country. The court slammed Karnataka police for threatening to implicate the newly weds in criminal cases. While the girl hails from Karnataka, the boy is from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. Karnataka police had travelled all the way to Uttar Pradesh to threaten the couple, according to the complaint. “Educated young boys and girls are choosing their life partners which, in turn, is a departure from the earlier norms of society where caste and community played a major role,” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, who authored the judgment, said. “Possibly, this is the way forward where caste and community tensions will reduce by such inter-marriage but in the meantime these youngsters face threats from the elders, and the courts have been coming to the aid of these youngsters…. “We are fortified in our view by earlier judicial pronouncements of this court elucidating that the consent of the family or the community or the clan is not necessary once the two adults agree to enter into wedlock… and that their consent has to be piously given primacy,” Justice Kaul wrote.The bench, which also had Justice Hrishikesh Roy, passed the recent verdict while allowing the petition filed by the college teacher couple, Laxmibai Chandaragi and Santosh Singh Yadav, complaining that although they were adults, Karnataka police had come to Uttar Pradesh and were harassing the girl to record her statement at Murgod police station in the southern state’s Belagavi district. The cops had registered the FIR on the basis of a missing person’s complaint registered against the husband by the father of the girl, Basappa Chandaragi.Despite Laxmibai sending her marriage certificate to the parents on October 15, 2020, Karnataka police insisted that she record her statement at Murgod police station, failing which cases of theft of jewellery would be registered against her husband, who would be arrested and left without a job. The apex court noted that while Santosh was an MTech from an NIT in Tiruchirapalli, Laxmibai had MA and BEd degrees. Santosh worked as an assistant professor at Jain College of Engineering, Belagavi, and Laxmibai as a lecturer at Karnataka Lingayat Education Society Pre-University College, Bailhongal, when they met and fell in love. Subsequently they shifted to Uttar Pradesh and got married, following which the girl’s parents lodged the missing person’s complaint. Citing its earlier judgment in the Shafin Jahan Vs Asokan case, 2018, in which the court had approved the marriage of a Hindu girl with a Muslim youth, Justice Kaul said: “…The choice of an individual is an inextricable part of dignity, for dignity cannot be thought of where there is erosion of choice. Such a right or choice is not expected to succumb to the concept of ‘class honour’ or group thinking’.” The bench added: “…Intimacies of marriage lie within a core zone of privacy, which is inviolable and even matters of faith would have the least effect on them.” The court questioned the manner in which the investigating officer of Karnataka police had conducted himself by threatening the couple instead of filing a closure report. “The intervention of this court would really not have been required in the given facts of the case if the IO had conducted himself more responsibly in closing the complaint, and if he really wanted to record the statement of petitioner No. 1 (Laxmibai), he should have informed that he would visit her and record the statement instead of putting her under threat of action against petitioner No. 2 (Santosh) to come to the police station,” the judgment said. “The way forward for the police authorities is to not only counsel the current IOs but device a training programme to deal with such cases for the benefit of the police personnel. “We expect the police authorities to take action… in the next eight weeks to lay down some guidelines and training programmes how to handle such socially sensitive cases,” the bench said. “The proceedings in pursuance to the FIR… registered at Murgod police station… are quashed with the hope that the parents of petitioner No. 1 will have a better sense to accept the marriage and re-establish social interaction not only with petitioner No. 1 but even with petitioner No. 2. “That, in our view, is the only way forward. Under the garb of caste and community to alienate the child and the son-in-law will hardly be a desirable social exercise,” the court added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Money-laundering reports malicious says NewsClick||News website NewsClick on Friday described as “misleading and malicious” media reports that alleged money-laundering on its part. The Enforcement Directorate’s continuing search at the Delhi home of 73-year-old editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha and author Githa Hariharan crossed 85 hours at 9pm on Friday. The ED is yet to respond to queries from this newspaper but a former chief commissioner of income tax, who was also chief election commissioner, said it was rare for anyone to be detained so long. Asked about precedents of long raids by the Union finance ministry’s agencies, T.S. Krishnamurthy told The Telegraph: “Among the very long raids was that on the Jaipur Royal family…. I do not know the facts of this (NewsClick) case but we normally don’t have the power to detain people for so long.” Purkayastha suffers from hypertension, diabetes and asthma. Hariharan, 67, has a heart ailment. They have not tested their health parameters since the raid began. A source who has witnessed the raid at their home said both have been experiencing insomnia, and Purkayastha is showing signs of severe fatigue. The ED has raided seven other locations linked to NewsClick, a news website known for its coverage of the farmers’ movement and investigative reports on big business. After the raid on his home ends, Purkayastha is expected to be summoned to the ED office to have his statement recorded. In 1975, tax officials had raided Jaipur’s palaces and forts for a fortnight and reported finding more than 800kg of undeclared gold after days of search with a metal detector. In 2013, Patna High Court had ruled that subjecting a person to a continuous income-tax raid for 36 hours amounted to violation of human rights. Such long “searches” have, however, continued. The ED is yet to reveal what information it has recovered so far from the mobiles, laptops, email caches and bank documents of several NewsClick shareholders and employees that sources said it had seized.A newspaper on Friday quoted unnamed ED sources who claimed that NewsClick had received Rs 30.51 crore from foreign companies to publish news on its sister concern, Peoples Dispatch, an international news site run in collaboration with several global news outlets. This, even if true, is not in itself illegal. The ED is mandated with enforcing the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. NewsClick said in a statement: “Communication devices of directors and senior management have also been seized, which has, therefore, limited their ability to return to work or indeed, respond to queries of the media. Despite this harassment, NewsClick has cooperated fully with the authorities, and will continue to do so. “We are, however, disturbed to note reports in various media outlets based on information allegedly provided by senior officials of the Enforcement Directorate. The selective leak of misleading facts is nothing but a malicious attempt to smear the image of Newsclick and discredit our journalism.” Sources told this newspaper that in addition to questionnaires on financial transactions, tangential queries had been made on the proximity of NewsClick employees to the CPM, the farmers’ agitation and the influence of Gautam Navlakha, who had been associated with NewsClick as a contributor and as one of its initial shareholders. Rights activist Navlakha is in a Navi Mumbai prison facing trial in connection with the alleged Elgar Parishad Maoist plot. Co-accused Rona Wilson has submitted a data forensics report by an American firm that says key purported evidence in the case was planted on his computer through Internet malware. Purkayastha, a CPM member, was jailed during the Emergency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Govt denies ceding land to China, silent on Kailash||India has not ceded any territory to China as part of the ongoing disengagement process at the Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh, the defence ministry said in a statement on Friday. The reiteration came after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ceding territory to China. “The effective safeguarding of our national interest and territory in the eastern Ladakh sector has taken place because the government has reposed full faith in the capabilities of the armed forces,” the ministry said. “Those who doubt the achievements made possible by the sacrifices of our military personnel are actually disrespecting them.” Defence minister Rajnath Singh had on Thursday told Parliament that India and China had begun disengaging troops from the Pangong Lake’s north bank under an agreement that stipulated that neither would patrol its traditional areas till the modalities had been worked out at the operational and diplomatic levels. On Friday, the defence ministry said it had taken note of “some misinformed and misleading comments being amplified in the media and on social media regarding the disengagement currently under way at Pangong Tso”. “The assertion that Indian territory is up to Finger 4 is categorically false. The territory of India is as depicted by the map of India and includes more than 43,000sqkm currently under illegal occupation of China since 1962,” the statement said. “Even the Line of Actual Control (LAC), as per the Indian perception, is at Finger 8, not at Finger 4. That is why India has persistently maintained the right to patrol up to Finger 8, including in the current understanding with China.” Under the disengagement agreement, the Chinese troops will return east of Finger 8 on the lake’s north bank. Reciprocally, Indian troops will pull back to their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3. “Permanent posts of both sides at the north bank of Pangong Tso are longstanding and well-established. On the Indian side, it is Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 and on the Chinese side, east of Finger 8. The current agreement provides for cessation of forward deployment by both sides and continued deployment at these permanent posts,” the statement said. “India has not conceded any territory as a result of this agreement. On the contrary, it has enforced observance and respect for LAC and prevented any unilateral change in the status quo.” On the other friction points, the ministry said, Rajnath’s statement had made it clear that there were outstanding problems to be addressed, including those relating to Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. “The outstanding issues are to be taken up within 48 hrs of the completion of the Pangong Tso disengagement,” the statement said. However, the statement was silent on the Congress allegation that the government had agreed to withdraw troops also from their vantage position on the Kailash Range overlooking the Pangong Lake’s south bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi calls Narendra Modi a 'coward' for failing to stand up to China||The India-China agreement on disengagement from the Pangong Lake’s banks has led Rahul Gandhi to accuse Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ceding a piece of “Bharat Mata” to China and call him “a coward who cannot stand up to the Chinese”. “Why has Modi given Indian territory to China? It is absolute 100 per cent cowardice, nothing else. The Prime Minister is a coward who cannot stand up to the Chinese,” the former Congress president said at an early morning news conference on Friday. Military veterans too have expressed concern that the agreement commits India to stop patrolling territory it claims and controls — saying this means giving up more territory — and questioned the government’s silence on the restoration of status quo ante.Rahul has consistently been querying Modi’s silence on the Chinese intrusion and alleging the Prime Minister is afraid. “The defence minister (Rajnath Singh) sheepishly made the statement (about the disengagement agreement) in both Houses of Parliament (on Thursday). Why doesn’t the Prime Minister say, ‘I have given India’s territory to the Chinese?’ This is a question that needs to be answered,” Rahul said. “Our forces worked hard to occupy the Kailash ranges. Why have Indian troops been asked to move back? What has India got in return? Why are Chinese troops not vacating Depsang, Gogra-Hot Springs?” India claims territory till Finger 8 but the Chinese have advanced 8km up to Finger 4 from their erstwhile position at Finger 8. Rajnath has now told Parliament the Chinese will return east of Finger 8 and the Indian troops will go back to Finger 3 from Finger 4. Rahul flagged the government’s decision to move back troops to Finger 3 despite Finger 4 being India-claimed territory. “It is crystal clear that Modi has bowed to China. He has surrendered,” he said. “I’m surprised the press is behaving like it is. This is absolutely absurd. You have a responsibility to raise these things. People should be enraged. The Prime Minister has given Indian territory to the Chinese.”Asked about the government’s argument of give and take, he said: “The ‘give’ is clear. We have given up Finger 4. The ‘give’ is clear — they are allowed to sit in Depsang. The ‘give’ is clear — they are in Gogra-Hot Springs. What is the ‘take’? You have fallen silent because the reason is clear. There is no ‘take’.” Rahul later told two farmer rallies in Rajasthan that Modi lacked the guts to confront China and could only raise walls to stop the protesting farmers and use force against them.“The defence minister yesterday said in Parliament an agreement had been reached with China. What is the agreement? That Modi has decided to give up the land grabbed by Chinese troops,” he said. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala later issued a statement responding to the defence ministry’s clarification that no territory had been ceded to China. “The government’s unpardonable, blatant and brazen compromise of national security and India’s territorial integrity stands exposed and the Prime Minister and defence minister have undermined the astounding valour and insurmountable grit of our armed forces,” the statement said. “The statement of the defence ministry, issued as part of ‘Operation Cover-up’, has uncovered the conspiratorial mask of a weak-kneed leadership that India does not deserve. The gaping holes in the statement are writ large. The statement made yesterday and the defence ministry’s statement today completely omit the fact that the government has agreed to withdraw Indian armed forces from dominant positions in ‘Kailash Ranges’ (southern bank, Pangong Tso lake area), where the Chinese are at a disadvantage, without any quid pro quo by China. Why has the government committed this unpardonable compromise with our national security?” Surjewala added: “Why is the government withdrawing from Finger 4 to Finger 3 on the northern bank of Pangong Tso lake area? One of the most strategic and provocative incursions into the Indian territory by the Chinese is on the Depsang Plains. “The Chinese have occupied our territory 18 kilometres inside the LAC up to Y-Junction (bottleneck). This has also jeopardised the... strategically placed Daulat Beg Oldi airstrip. “Why is the defence ministry undermining India’s territorial integrity by describing Depsang as ‘outstanding problem’, while in reality ‘Depsang Plains’ is India’s territory? Why did the defence ministry describe even ‘Gogra and Hot Springs’ as an outstanding problem?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Supreme Court of India issues notice to Centre and Twitter||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notices to the Centre and Twitter India on BJP leader Vinit Goenka’s petition seeking the formation of a regulatory mechanism to check advertisements and paid content that may be hateful, inciting or seditious. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde tagged the petition along with other PILs in which petitioners had sought a leash on mainstream and social media from promoting hate and seditious propaganda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Chauri Chaura violence and its run-up||Chauri Chaura is a small town not far from Gorakhpur in eastern Uttar Pradesh. But for a violent incident 99 years ago during the Non-Cooperation Movement, this place which was then a village would probably have remained unknown. On February 4, 1922, a mob of 3,000 freedom fighters set fire to the police station in Chauri Chaura killing 26 policemen, including an inspector. This was the third instance of violence during the movement launched by Mahatma Gandhi a year previously, after two smaller incidents had been reported from Bombay and Madras. The Chauri Chaura violence was the last straw for the apostle of non-violence. He immediately summoned a meeting of those Congress Working Committee members who were not in jail and asked them to pass a resolution suspending the movement. This sudden suspension was deeply resented by many in the Congress, especially the younger leadership. Jawaharlal Nehru, then 32 years old and imprisoned in Allahabad along with his father Motilal Nehru, received the news with “amazement and consternation”. “We were angry when we learnt of the stoppage of our struggle at a time when we seemed to be consolidating our position and advancing on all fronts,” Jawaharlal wrote in his autobiography. Subhas Chandra Bose wrote: “To sound the order of retreat just when public enthusiasm was reaching the boiling point was nothing short of calamity. The principal lieutenants of the Mahatma, Deshbandhu (Chittaranjan) Das, Pandit Motilal Nehru and Lala Lajpat Rai, who were all in prison, shared the popular resentment.” The withdrawal of the movement and the differences among the top leaders of the Congress misled the imperial government into thinking that the Mahatma’s influence was on the wane and that it was time to act against him. Gandhi was arrested on the charge of sedition and sentenced to six years’ imprisonment. But the importance of Chauri Chaura can only be understood if we recall the events that led to it. The brutal Jallianwala Bagh massacre of 1919 and the findings of the Hunter Committee that looked into the incident had shattered Gandhi’s faith in the British sense of justice. Besides, the end of the First World War had witnessed the dismemberment of the Khilafat (Caliphate). The Mahatma prevailed on the Congress to adopt as India’s national demands the redress of the triple wrong of the Rowlatt Bills (which allowed indefinite imprisonment without trial, among other things), Jallianwala Bagh and Khilafat. He concluded that the old methods had to be given up and decided to launch the Non-Cooperation Movement. A special session of the Congress was called in Calcutta in September 1920 and was presided over by Lala Lajpat Rai, who had recently returned from the United States. Here, the Mahatma himself moved the resolution on non-cooperation. He was opposed by not only Rai but other stalwarts like Bipin Chandra Pal, Chittaranjan Das and Madan Mohan Malaviya. Motilal Nehru not only supported Gandhi but mobilised support for the resolution among the delegates. After a long and heated discussion, the resolution on “non-violent non-cooperation” was adopted. It asked for the surrender of titles, resignation from nominated seats in the local bodies, and boycott of the law courts, government schools and colleges and all official functions. Further, the people were asked to boycott foreign goods, promote swadeshi (goods made in India) and work for the establishment of swaraj (self-government). This opened a new chapter in the nation’s history. The days of “prayer, petition and protests” were over, according to Acharya Kripalani, an early associate and biographer of Gandhi, who would become Congress president on the eve of Independence. The resolution on non-cooperation and constructive work passed by the special session had to be ratified at a regular plenary session that was held in Nagpur three months later. Here the top leaders of the Congress who had opposed Gandhi in Calcutta fell in line and fully supported him: the resolution was moved by Das and seconded by Rai. The Nagpur session was a turning point in the history of the freedom struggle, with the Mahatma emerging as the unquestioned leader of the independence movement. Motilal, who had renounced his lucrative legal practice immediately after the Calcutta session, was now joined by Das who too gave up his huge practice at the Bar. They inspired many others to give up their comfortable lifestyles and adopt austerity, simplicity and khadi. The people’s response throughout the country was overwhelming. Lawyers gave up their practice; teachers and students left government schools and colleges. Many new national schools, colleges and vidyapeeths opened in urban and rural areas. A Tilak Swaraj Fund was set up in memory of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak, who had died on the eve of the Calcutta session, with the objective of raising Rs 1 crore, a huge sum those days. The target was exceeded. The enthusiastic popular response caused a jittery government to resort to a policy of extreme repression. When the Prince of Wales arrived in India in November 1921 and was greeted by a complete hartal and bonfires of foreign clothes, the government retaliated by arresting all the key leaders. Nearly 20,000 civil resisters were in jail by the end of the year. The atmosphere in the country was tense but the people were ready for any sacrifice. The Mahatma was preparing to launch a mass civil disobedience programme in Bardoli, Gujarat, when reports of the Chauri Chaura violence reached him. The leaders who had criticised Gandhi for suspending the movement later realised that he had taken the right decision. Jawaharlal wrote a decade later: “There is little doubt if the movement had continued there would have been growing sporadic violence in many places. This would have been crushed by the government in a bloody manner and a reign of terror established which would have thoroughly demoralised the people. These were probably the reasons and influences that worked in Gandhiji’s mind, and granting his premises and the desirability of carrying on with the technique of non-violence, his decision was right.” As a result of the Non-cooperation Movement, the Congress became a mass movement that created an awakening among millions of people to become participants in the struggle for independence regardless of the torturous road ahead. It is therefore not Chauri Chaura but the whole Non-cooperation Movement that needs to be celebrated. It was this movement that set us on the right path to freedom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier blast: Families of trapped NTPC workers gherao officials||Relatives of the 30-odd engineers and workers of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) who are feared trapped inside a sludge-choked tunnel following the flash flood in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday gheraoed NTPC and administrative officials at the rescue spot on Friday. The relatives alleged that the relief and rescue operation had been “shoddy” and said their patience was being tested. “We are here since Sunday evening. Since then the officials have been telling us that they would be able to reach the trapped people within a day. There is no water, no food and no hope for those who could still be alive and hearing the voices of the machines deployed to clean the tunnel,” said Dina Nath, whose nephew Ranjan Kumar is among those feared trapped. “Six days is a very long time for those trapped. We fail to understand why we are technologically so backward that we are not able to clean a tunnel to save so many lives,” Dina Nath added. “We are crying and begging the whole day with officials and politicians to do something, but those coming here look so detached from the crisis. We gheraoed some officials today but they deployed police and the CISF to keep us at bay,” he told reporters. Shouting slogans against the state government and the NTPC, the protesting group, consisting mostly of women, said the NTPC hydel power project was a “curse” for the people of the area. “First we lost our fields and now we are losing our men. The project is a curse on us. It is the sixth day and sludge has not been cleared up to even 100 metres inside the tunnel,” one of the protesters, Deveshwari Devi, said. The CISF and police personnel at the project site stopped the protesting kin 100 metres from the mouth of the tunnel where a massive effort was underway by a combined team of the army, state disaster response force, National Disaster Response Force and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police to reach those stuck inside. Tapovan’s former pradhan Dharmpal Bajwal, who led the protesters, said four people from his village were missing and their kin were now losing patience. Since Wednesday, the rescue teams have been able to clear sludge up to around 100 metres inside the tunnel, according to announcements from the government’s emergency control room. The NTPC employees are believed to be trapped around 180 metres inside the tunnel, where they had been working when the flash flood struck. The rescue work had to be stopped on Wednesday when sludge began to flow back. The rescue effort witnessed another setback on Thursday when black-coloured ice water mixed with mud and sludge came hurtling down the Nanda Devi mountain and raised the water level in the Rishi Ganga river, on whose bank the tunnel’s mouth is located. When work resumed four hours later, the teams hit a roadblock in the form of a thick mesh of wires and a concrete structure. “We had no option but to deploy the police at the rescue site when the relatives of those feared began protesting on Friday,” said a local government official on the condition of anonymity. Two more bodies were recovered from the flash flood-hit areas of Chamoli on Friday, taking the toll in the calamity to 38. One body was found amid the rubble at the demolished Rishi Ganga Hydel Project in Raini and the other from Maithana, district administration officials said. Ashok Kumar, the director-general of police of Uttarakhand, said: “We have recovered 38 bodies and 166 people are still missing. We have not been able to progress much inside the tunnel. Now, we are deploying a machine to drill the tunnel from above.” The tunnel is located 20 metres below a barrage. Residents of Raini, the village most affected by the calamity, complained that the rescue teams were yet to start searching for those who had been working on the barrage when it collapsed under the force of water and ice on Sunday. Ravindra Thapaliyal, a resident, said: “The government’s focus is on those trapped in the tunnel at Tapovan village. Two members of my family were on the barrage when the flash flood struck. They are still missing. There are bloodstains on the barrage. The rescue teams should also look for those missing from the barrage area.” DGP Kumar said rescue teams had been sent to look for bodies that might be buried along the banks of the river, where the flash flood deposited large amounts of sludge and debris. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said: “We have got information that a (glacial) lake has formed near Raini village. While there is nothing to worry, we need to be alert. Experts are working on it.” An eight-member team of scientists from the Geological Survey of India has been formed to inspect the lake, Chamoli district magistrate Swati S. Bhadauria said. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
13-02-2021||India||Trudeau commended farmer talks: Govt||The Centre has confirmed that Canadian Premier Justin Trudeau had discussed the farmers’ protests with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday but said this was to commend the “efforts of the government of India to choose the path of dialogue as befitting in democracy….” Foreign ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava was asked about the Canadian readout of the conversation stating that the leaders “discussed Canada and India’s commitment to democratic principles, recent protests, and the importance of resolving issues through dialogue’’. There was no mention of this in the Indian readout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah misleading Matuas with citizenship promise, says Abhishek||Claiming that it would take 10 years to complete the Covid-19 vaccination process in the country, senior Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday accused Union Home Minister Amit Shah of misleading members of the Matua community on providing citizenship to them. Shah attacked the Mamata Banerjee government for opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at public meetings in Bengal on Thursday, and asserted that the contentious citizenship law would be enforced after the completion of the coronavirus inoculation programme. Referring to TMC leader Dinesh Trivedi's resignation from Rajya Sabha on Friday months before the assembly polls, Abhishek Banerjee who is the youth wing president of the party and a Lok Sabha MP, said, "Trivedi said he was feeling suffocated. Let him go and get admitted to the BJP's ICU. "Shah said that the CAA will be implemented once the Covid vaccination work is completed in the country. It will take 10 years to complete the vaccination process in the entire country. He is misleading the Matuas, Banerjee said while addressing a public meeting at Kulpi in South 24 Parganas district. Matuas, originally from East Pakistan, are a weaker section of Hindus who migrated to India during the Partition and after the creation of Bangladesh. Many of them have been accorded Indian citizenship but a sizable section of the population has not got it. The Matua community, with an estimated population of three million in the state, can tilt the scales in favour of a political party in at least four Lok Sabha seats, more than 30 assembly seats in Nadia, and North and South 24 Parganas districts. It once stood behind the TMC but had supported the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Now, both the BJP and the TMC are wooing the Matua people ahead of the assembly election due in April-May. On Shah's statement that the TMC will be uprooted from Bengal in the assembly polls, he said that the TMC is not a cutout which one can uproot. "It is a grassroots party.The more you cut it, the more it will grow." Claiming that the only poll plank of the BJP is 'Jai Shri Ram' and it has no development agenda, the TMC leader alleged that the saffron party does not know to give respect to women. "They say Jai Shri Ram and not Jai Siya Ram. This is because they don't know to give respect to women", the nephew of Mamata Banerjee said. 'Jai Siya Ram' means 'glory to Sita and Lord Ram' while 'Jai Shri Ram' denotes 'hail Lord Ram'. "See the way the BJP showed disrespect to Mamata Banerjee at the birth anniversary celebrations of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at the Victoria Memorial Hall in Kolkata," he said. Mamata Banerjee, state chief minister and the TMC supremo, on January 23 refused to speak at the event attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi after "Jai Shri Ram" slogans were raised by a section of the audience just before she was to start her address. The Diamond Harbour MP also alleged that women are tortured in BJP-ruled states like Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. Abhishek Banerjee claimed that the TMC will get more than 250 seats in the assembly polls while the saffron party will find it difficult to cross the double-digit mark. Countering the BJP's claim of coming to power in the state by winning over 200 seats in the election to the 294- member assembly, he said, "Bengal will elect Mamata Banerjee as the chief minister for the third time." The saffron party's clamour for a double-engine government (same party rule in the Centre as well as state) in Bengal will fall flat before the single-engine power of Mamata Banerjee, he said adding that the TMC will be in power for 50 years. He claimed that BJP leaders coming from north India are a "bunch of outsiders" who are not aware of the culture of Bengal, and spreading fake news to confuse people. The TMC MP alleged that the BJP is trying to impose north Indian culture on Bengal. "Let me say our chief minister Mamata Banerjee will stand there like Maa Durga to fight against the BJP which has weapons like CBI and ED", he said. Banerjee claimed that the saffron party is trying to influence farmers of the state by promising to provide Rs 18,000 in their accounts, if elected to power, but "Bengal will never sell its spine to the BJP". The BJP has been saying that if voted to power in the state, it will ensure that each farmer of the state gets Rs 18,000 in arrears under the PM-KISAN scheme. "The BJP should first think of Gujarat, UP and other states. No need to worry about Bengal. Outsiders will not rule Bengal," the TMC leader said. Later, Banerjee conducted a roadshow from Kamalgazi to Sonarpur in South 24 Parganas, a stretch of around 4 kilometres, atop a blue coloured bus named 'Didir doot' (agent of Didi).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Push for two new municipalities in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar||The Mamata Banerjee government came up with notifications announcing constitution of two new civic bodies — at Maynaguri in Jalpaiguri district and Falakata in the neighbouring district of Alipurduar — on Thursday and specified the rural areas which would be brought under the new municipalities. The move, Trinamul insiders believe, will give a major boost to the party in both these districts as long standing demands of the residents of Maynaguri and Falakata — most of them had sided with the saffron camp in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls — have been met. On Thursday, the notification issued by the state mentioned that the Madhabdanga-I and Maynaguri panchayats, along with portions of Khagrabari-I and Domohoni-I panchayats of Maynaguri block. “Around 45,000 people dwell in the proposed area, with a population density of around 7,000 people. Among them, 80 per cent are not associated with the agricultural sector,” said an official in the district administration. It may be mentioned that in Bengal, an area can be declared a civic body if it has a population of at least 30,000 people, a population density of 750 people (living per square kilometre) and half or more of the adult population is not associated with agriculture. “Now that the notification has been made, a board of council would be formed that will hold a meeting after three months. After the meeting, a final notification would be made where the number of wards, along with reservation of seats, would be announced,” said an official. Similarly in Falakata, another locality where residents have been demanding the “the formal urban tag” or announcement of a municipality, the new civic body will cover two panchayats and parts of two other panchayats of Falakata block. These are Falakata-I & II, Parengerpar and Guabarnagar. Altogether, around 55,000 people reside in these areas which would be demarcated as municipal wards in due course. Once the civic body comes into existence, it will be the second municipality in Alipurduar district. In north Bengal, the only other district that has a single civic body is Kalimpong. “The chief minister had made the announcement on December 5 and has kept her promise. We have been raising the demand for years now and it is Mamata Banerjee who has met it. We are confident that people will stand with us not and not with BJP,” said Subhash Roy, the Trinamul president of Falakata block. In 2016, Trinamul had managed to win both Falakata and Maynaguri Assembly seats. However, in the 2019 Parliament elections, BJP had secured leads in both these Assembly segments. “It is yet another major move by Mamata Banerjee to draw support from people of these two seats as well as from adjoining areas,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Coal mining case: High Court stays rider for CBI probe||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Friday stayed the order of the court’s single bench that had allowed the CBI to continue its probe against Anup Majhi alias Lala and others in an illegal coal mining case only after taking the approval of the state government. Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya had in his order on February 3 said the CBI would have to take prior permission of the Bengal government to conduct any probe against any person beyond the railway jurisdiction of Asansol. Justice Bhattacharya had issued the order in response to Majhi’s plea challenging the CBI’s power to investigate affairs beyond the railway jurisdiction of Asansol. Since the order of the high court’s single bench had forced the CBI to restrict its proceedings, the CBI had moved the division bench against the verdict. The division bench comprising Justice Rajesh Dindal and Justice Aniruddha Roy stayed the order of the single bench and ruled that the CBI would have liberty to initiate proceedings against any person beyond the railway jurisdiction of Asansol without obtaining approval from the state government. The CBI had issued summons against Majhi, a coal trader of Asansol, accusing him of his involvement in the coal smuggling case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee government waives road tax for two quarters ||The Mamata Banerjee government has waived the road tax that commercial transport owners need to pay in every quarter to run their vehicles in view of the Covid 19-pandemic and the resultant lockdown that affected their business for many weeks. In a notification issued by the state transport on February 10, it was mentioned that the tax for two consecutive quarters — from January 1 to June 30 this year — has been waived. For the past few months, transporters in Siliguri and surrounding areas time and again raised a number of demands, including waiver of the tax and penalties for delay in the payment of such taxes and most importantly, revision of fares. In Siliguri as well as in the Darjeeling hills, the fares charged from passengers by thousands of light vehicles — both on share basis and reserve basis — have not been revised since 2008. Recently, owners and drivers of around 1,300 taxis, most of which ply from Bagdogra airport, observed a strike over these demands. “We thank the state government for waiving the tax for two quarters. It has come as a relief for us. Last year, our vehicles had been lying idle for four to five months. We would also urge the government to waive the penalty we have to pay if there is delay in clearing the taxes,” said Siraj Bhomik, the president of the Bagdogra Airport Taxi Association. A person can save Rs 8,000 to Rs 9,000 against a vehicle on account of the waiver, he said. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, who was instrumental in flagging the transporters’ issue before the state government, said their demand for fare revision would be addressed soon. “The department will soon take appropriate initiatives in this regard. We are in touch with officials and hope the fares would be revised soon,” the minister said. Although he declined further comments, sources said there were indications that the fares would be increased to a considerable level. “We have heard that the fares of luxury taxis which operate on different hill routes would be increased by around 35 per cent while those of the non-luxury cars would be increased by 40 per cent or so,” said a transporter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung: BJP interested only in photo sessions, not in delivering promises||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung on Friday said the BJP was only interested in photo sessions and not in delivering promises if one went by the saffron camp’s past deeds. Gurung had been an ally of the BJP from 2009 until last year when he dumped the NDA and joined hands with the Trinamul Congress. “The BJP is good at using social media and publicity. They are only interested in photo sessions but not in delivering promises. One example is the way Darjeeling municipality councillors were treated,” Gurung said at a party workers’ meet at Tukvar. The 17 councillors had moved a no-confidence motion in May 2019 against the then chairman, Prativa Rai Tamang, who was in the Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha. The motion was moved soon after the Gurung-BJP-GNLF alliance had won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha and Assembly seats. “I was displaced (was on the run from Bengal police) and to save them, I asked them to join the BJP. The BJP did a photo session but precious little afterwards even though they were in a majority and could have formed a board. They suffered a lot for nine months,” said Gurung. The Bengal government soon dissolved the Darjeeling civic board and the vote of no-confidence could not be held. Some of the councillors also returned to the Tamang camp later. Gurung’s statement comes at a time many of his associates in the Morcha, like Kalyan Dewan, Swaraj Thapa, B.P. Bagjain and Trilok Chand Roka, have joined the BJP. In his address, Gurung also stressed that the issue of “displaced workers (those who were on the run with Gurung)” and “un-displaced (those at the ground zero)” must end in the party and it was time to move together. “I have to deliver (in this election),” said Gurung and hinted that he would continue to focus on the Terai and the Dooars as of now. “After the Kurseong meeting on February 15, I was thinking of staying there for two-three days. I, however, decided to go to the Terai. I might also delay my public meeting at Mirik (which is in the hills),” said Gurung. Despite joining hands with Trinamul, which is against the demand of Gorkhaland, Gurung said he was the only hill leader “who could and will continue to” raise the Gorkhaland slogan. The Morcha leader, however, said he would not fight with the (state) government as an earlier fight (the 2017 agitation) had forced him to be on the run. “People said that they would lay their lives for Gorkhaland but in the jungles, I was all alone,” Gurung claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Dinesh Trivedi quits Rajya Sabha and Trinamul Congress||Trinamul Congress MP Dinesh Trivedi on Friday sprang a surprise on the floor of the Rajya Sabha by announcing his resignation from the Upper House, saying he could no longer stay silent when violence was allegedly rocking Bengal. The businessman-turned-parliamentarian later announced his resignation from Trinamul which had lost several leaders to the BJP in recent months. Originally from Gujarat, Trivedi was the railways minister for a brief period in the UPA 2 government. He made the announcement during a debate on the Union Budget in the Rajya Sabha. “If one sits here in silence and can’t do anything, then it is better that one resigns from this place, goes to the land of Bengal and stays with the people…. What I mean is the way violence has been taking place in our state… sitting here, I feel baffled, as to what I should do,” said Trivedi in the Rajya Sabha, shortly before handing over his resignation to Vice-president M. Venkaiah Naidu, the chairman of the Upper House. Trivedi explained to the Naidu that he resigned on his own without fear or favour. “I am grateful to my party, for it sent me here. But now, I feel a little suffocated,” he added. “We are incapable of acting and there are atrocities being committed…. My inner voice of conscience is telling me something Swami Vivekananda used to say: “Arise, awake, and stop not till the goal is reached”.” The septuagenarian with three Rajya Sabha and two Lok Sabha terms under his belt is yet to announce plans. But given that his statements in the House and outside were a virtual echo of Trinamul office-bearers who defected to the BJP in recent memory, few would be surprised if he joins the ruling party at the Centre. Irrespective of the dismissive tone of statements from Trinamul, Trivedi’s exit would be significant to Mamata Banerjee, with whom he has shared an association of over two decades. In his multiple media interactions through the day, Trivedi said Mamata had lost control of the party and it was being taken over by poll consultant Prashant Kishor (whom he did not name). “When the party goes into the hands of a corporate professional, he is running the party, no one has time to listen. Somebody doesn’t know the ABC of politics, he is becoming my neta (leader). So what can people do in such a situation?” he asked. Trivedi said his party was allegedly pestering him to abuse Prime Minister Narendra Modi daily, which he claimed was not part of his value system. He did sound off-tune on several occasions in the past — especially after being removed as Union minister by Mamata in 2012 as she disagreed with his railway budget — but was not deemed a likely candidate for defection. “She (Mamata) sacrificed Arjun Singh, who wanted the Barrackpore Lok Sabha candidature, to stand by Dinesh… who contested and lost to Arjun, the BJP candidate. After that, she sent him to the Rajya Sabha again last year. This is how he pays her back,” said Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee. A Trinamul insider said Trivedi, known for his proximity to both the BJP and the Congress high-commands, was all set to board the saffron bandwagon. Trinamul’s deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said Trivedi was “ungrateful” and accused him of having betrayed the trust of millions. “For decades, he did not utter a word within the party. With weeks or months left for the Assembly polls, he feels suffocated. Such well-timed suffocation and claustrophobia are a worrying sign for his health,” Roy added . Trinamul vice-president and veteran parliamentarian Saugata Roy said people like Trivedi should have flagged his concerns within the party first and not leave just before the polls, having enjoyed years of power. Among the first in the BJP to welcome Trivedi was Arjun Singh. The BJP’s national general-secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said: “Anyone who wishes to work for the people of Bengal cannot be part of Trinamul anymore.” “I believe Dineshji delayed all this by a year, because a year ago, he had met me at the airport and said he was not being able to work in Trinamul…. If he wants to come, we will welcome him,” he added. The Left Front mocked Trivedi and Trinamul in equal measure. “This isn’t anything new. It’s just a part of the long line. Trinamul has been reduced to a railway platform from where people are either boarding a train or getting off it,” said CPM general-secretary Sitaram Yechury. “Everyday, people are quitting Trinamul. However, given the track record of the alliance between the two parties (Trinamul and the BJP), it doesn’t make much of a difference if you’re here or there,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Cattle and coal smuggling cases: ED searches Trinamul leader’s houses ||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday sear­ch­ed at least two Calcutta addresses of Trinamul Congress youth wing leader Vinay Mi­shra in cattle and coal smuggling cases in Bengal. Accompanied by CRPF personnel, two separate teams of the central investigating agency from Delhi carried out searches at Mishra’s residences in south Calcutta to find out whether he had transferred money from several banks to the alleged beneficiaries of the smuggling racket. “Unlike the CBI, our focus in this particular case is on whether Mishra was involved in money laundering,” said a senior ED official. The CBI, which is probing the alleged smuggling of cattle and coal across Bengal, had conducted searches at Mis­hra’s three residences in Calcutta on December 31. The businessman-turned-politician had not been found at any of the three addresses. On January 27, the CBI special court in Asansol issued an arrest warrant against Mishra, who the central agencies believe, is possibly in the Gulf. The CBI has issued a lookout notice against Mishra. Senior ED officers said Friday’s searches were aimed at trying to trace alleged beneficiaries of the racket. The CBI had earlier claimed that Mis­hra had maintained a list which included several politicians who had received money from the dealings. Till late on Friday evening, officials remained tight-lipped about the findings from the search operations. The BJP has called Mishra a “power broker” and its Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvarg­i­ya sought to link the CBI se­arches in December to chief mi­nister Mamata Banerjee and her nephew and MP Abh­ishek. Trinamul said the searches were politically motivated ahead of the Assembly polls. NIA and Naihati blast The National Investigation Ag­ency has recommended punitive action against North 24-Parganas district magistrate Chaitali Chakrabarti, Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Verma and Pranab Naskar of the district industries centre for their alleged dereliction of duty in the wake of the blast at Naihati in January last year. Five people, including two women, were killed and several others were injured. The NIA submitted its chargesheet in the case on Thursday. A letter recommending punitive ac­­t­ion against the three re­ached Nabanna on Friday, sources said. The state government is yet to decide whether to act on the recommendation. Several senior officials said the recommendation was not binding on them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Protest against lathicharge: SFI members gift roses to police personnel||Members of the CPM-backed SFI gifted roses to at least 20 police personnel in Burdwan town on Friday while observing a 12-hour strike called to protest police lathicharge on supporters of Left student and youth organisations during their march to Nabanna in Calcutta on Thursday. “We thanked them with roses for hitting us with batons and firing tear gas shells at youths who were marching to Nabanna to demand jobs. We told the cops that their batons had boosted our morale for a bigger fight,” said Anirban Roy Chowdhury, the SFI district committee secretary in East Burdwan. Members of the SFI, along with other senior CPM leaders, started picketing on GT Road in front of Curzon Gate in Burdwan after they took out a rally in the town and requested shopkeepers to close down their outlets in support of the strike. When police came to lift the blockade, the protesters offered the cops roses “in recognition of their act of beating students and youths in Calcutta on Thursday”. In West Burdwan’s Durgapur, a group of CPM leaders went a step ahead when they offered police personnel Trinamul flags along with chocolate for “beating protesters”. The police, however, refused to accept the flags of the ruling party. “We offered Trinamul flags to the cops and asked them to work for the ruling party. Their brutal act in Calcutta on Thursday was no different from what Trinamul workers usually do,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a CPM district secretariat member in West Burdwan. Apart from East Burdwan and West Burdwan, Left Front leaders ,along with members of the students and youth organisations, blocked state and national highways across south Bengal. However, the strike had a partial impact at most places. However, in districts of Birbhum, Purulia and Bankura, private buses did not ply because of the bandh. In north Bengal, the strike had minimal effect as it only led to the closure of marketplaces, some private establishments and banks. A section of private transport went off the roads but otherwise, normal life remained largely unaffected. The strike did not have any impact in tea estates and in the Darjeeling  hills. The schools, which reopened on Friday after almost 10 months, remained open. No major violence has been reported from across the region. Drama unfolded at the Siliguri’s Girls’ High School as a group of strikers entered the premises, shouting slogans. This made the headmistress of the school Atuhya Bagchi step out of her room and admonish the strikers for shouting slogans on the school premise. The demonstrators fumbled and tried to pacify her by saying that they had come to the school to urge students so that they support the strike. Bagchi, however, asked them to leave the premises, which they did. “This is not a place for sloganeering. The girls are back to school after several weeks and now these people want us to close down the institution for the day. The manner in which they entered the school shouting slogans is not expected from a students’ organisation. That is why I asked them to leave the school,” Bagchi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah’s CAA rollout promise a bluff: Joint Forum Against NRC||The Joint Forum Against NRC, a conglomerate of organisations protesting against the citizenship tripod, on Friday said Union home minister Amit Shah was bluffing when he told the Matua community that the Citizenship Amendment Act would be implemented after the completion of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. “There is a disconnect between the demand from the Matuas and the provisions contained in the law that the Parliament passed. The Matuas want unconditional citizenship while the law doesn’t include such a provision. Union home minister is bluffing the Matuas by saying that citizenship would be offered after the completion of the vaccination,” said Prasenjit Bose, convenor of the forum. According to him, the law makes it clear that “certificate of naturalisation” or “certificate of registration” — which are likely to resolve the citizenship issue of the immigrant community from Bangladesh — would be issued only after one files an application and meets certain conditions. “If these are the provisions in the law, how can the rules, which are not yet framed, offer unconditional citizenship?)” asked Bose, while adding that this disconnect was the reason behind the Centre delaying the framing of rules of the CAA. To buttress his argument, Bose rolled out the example of the two farm bills that the Centre passed on September 20, 2020. “The rules were notified on October 20 and 21 respectively... If the government can frame the rules for farm laws in a month, why does it take them more than 14 months to frame the rules of CAA?” he asked. Bose and his colleagues in the forum have decided to organise a Citizenship Secure Yatra between February 26 and March 5 through the Matua-dominated areas in Nadia and North 24-Parganas to spread awareness of the “inconsistencies” in the claims of the Centre. “Ordinary gullible people are fooled in the name of citizenship... We will try to convince them that they are being taken for granted by the BJP,” he said. According to him, the Atal Behari Vajpayee government created the biggest problem for refugees in 2003 by amending the original citizenship act of 1955 as the concept of “doubtful citizen” got woven into the act. “The amendment changed the status of refugees as they became infiltrators... It’s an irony that the party that brought this change is dangling the citizenship carrot today,” he said, demanding the repeal of the 2003 amended act and the CAA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Tea Board of India comes up with new dates to start plucking of leaves and production||The Tea Board of India has come up with new dates to start the plucking of leaves and production in Bengal, Sikkim and Bihar this year. P.K. Sahoo, the deputy chairman of the board, issued an order on February 8, mentioning that plucking of tea leaves and tea production at factories would commence on February 15 in the Dooars, Terai and Bihar. February 22 is the date on which the plucking and production would start in the Darjeeling hills and Sikkim. Since 2018, the board has been announcing dates for growers to start and end the plucking and production in different regions of the country. “The dates are announced to discourage the production of tea of inferior quality during the winter or the lean season when leaves stop growing,” said a planter in Siliguri. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, the president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista), has said: “We welcome the decision and look forward to a better season than last year when the industry had to face losses because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown. We also hope that prices would be steady this year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 188 infections||Bengal on Friday logged 264 Covid-19 recoveries, 188 infections and four deaths, including three in the city. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 4,233, having improved by 88.61 per cent. The state recorded the drop for the 109th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. Bengal now has over 5.72 lakh total Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported on March 17 last year, including more than 5.57 lakh recoveries and 10,229 deaths. Since October 26, the state reported over 2.47 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.18 lakh infections detected. In this window of 109 days, the state logged 3,683 deaths. The recovery rate rose for 112 consecutive days to touch 97.47 per cent. The national rate now is 97.3. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.93 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 84 days. On Friday, the state reported 24,110 tests, taking the total past 82.56 lakh, at 91,735 tests per million people. Of the total death toll, 8,587 (83.9 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
13-02-2021||Opinion||Waiting in the wings||Three subjects dominated the headlines in the calendar year, 2020. These were the threat posed by the pandemic, the perilous state of the economy, and the border conflict with China. The media in India, and Indians in general, are obsessed with politics, but in 2020, politics mostly took a back seat to health, economics, and defence. Nonetheless, there was one major development in Indian politics last year, a development that might have profound — and disturbing — consequences for the future of our Republic. This was the emergence of the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh as the coming man in India’s most important political party. At the endof 2019, it seemed that the Union home minister, Amit Shah, was the most likely person to succeed Narendra Modi as prime minister were the Bharatiya Janata Party to win a third general election in a row in 2024. Shah had been Modi’s fixer and enforcer for almost two decades; by piloting both the abrogation of Article 370 and the passing of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, he appeared to be positioning himself as his boss’s successor — apparently with the boss’s approval. The conventional wisdom when 2020 began was that Amit Shah was in pole position to succeed Narendra Modi. A year later, that seems much less likely. Yogi Adityanath is the person to look out for and look up to in the party as the BJP’s senior-most leaders themselves recognize. Consider the alacrity with which Shivraj Singh Chouhan and B.S. Yediyurappa have rushed to mimic the UP chief minister in seeking to have laws against Hindu-Muslim marriages passed in their own states. Chouhan and Yediyurappa were once a throwback to the Vajpayee years, seen as soft and accommodating compared to hardliners like Shah or Modi. Now, they have hitched their future to Adityanath’s wagon in the belief that political survival lies in abandoning uncertain moderation for outright bigotry. When, back in 2012-13, Narendra Modi made his prime ministerial ambitions known, he spoke of a ‘Gujarat Model’, which he wished to implement all over the country. Modi claimed that this Gujarat Model represented a progressive, outward-looking economic and social vision, although his critics pointed to a darker side to his record as chief minister with regard to the marginalization of Muslims and the intolerance of dissent. Adityanath has not, so far, made similarly explicit claims on behalf of a ‘UP Model’ that he shall take across India. However, on the basis of what he has done in his state thus far, we can get a fair sense of what it might represent. There are, of course, notable similarities between Modi and Adityanath. Both are textbook examples of the authoritarian personality. Both seek to impose their will on all those around them, whether cabinet colleagues, the legislature, bureaucrats, scientific experts, the press, or the public at large. Both are also imbued with a certain megalomania — all credit for achievements, real and imaginary, must accrue to them alone. Nonetheless, there are also important differences. Compared to Modi, Adityanath is openly and nakedly majoritarian. Modi will sometimes speak of being on the side of everyone regardless of religious affiliation (‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’). He will occasionally seek a photo-op by travelling with Muslims in a Metro. Adityanath will have no part in such equivocation. In his words and through his actions, he makes it clear that he believes that Hindus are superior to Indians of other faiths, particularly to Muslims. As chief minister, Modi used the police and the instruments of the law to suppress and silence critics within Gujarat. Adityanath does that in his own state too, as manifested in his savage repression of the peaceful protests in UP against the CAA. However, he goes even further than Modi did as chief minister, by using his police to attack critics anywhere in India. The spate of first information reports filed in Uttar Pradesh against journalists and satirists working in other states demonstrate that Adityanath is a more thoroughgoing authoritarian than Modi. To be sure, it is the people of his own state who have borne the brunt of Adityanath’s policies of repression and coercion. Thus, as an essay in the excellent website, Article 14, noted, the choice of Adityanath as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh “marked a significant watershed moment in the advance of the BJP in the Indian republic, as it signaled an endorsement of a model of governance that openly and unapologetically targeted Muslim citizens and political dissidents as public enemies.” “From his first days in office,” the article continued, “the chief minister has not hesitated to use the instruments of governance to create and consolidate a state that draws on the concerns of vigilante groups and puts Hindus, especially the advantaged “upper” castes, first, and uses the law and the police to target, punish, defame, imprison and in some cases even kill Muslims and dissenters...” After providing an array of examples of extra-judicial killings and of the targeting of Muslims and activists by the State, the article concluded that “the Adityanath government has unleashed a model of vindictive, majoritarian and repressive governance that crosses boundaries even earlier BJP regimes have hesitated to violate.” Long before he became chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Adityanath had founded a group called the Hindu Yuva Vahini, which describes itself as “a fierce cultural and social organization dedicated to Hindutva and nationalism”. Militant, organized, willing to use violence, this group has faced charges of “inciting riots, murder, and arson” and has been accused “of burning mosques, homes, buses and trains”. The Vahini’s members are utterly loyal to their leader, always ready to follow his command. Adityanath is thus unique in being the only politician in the history of independent India to have founded and run a vigilante group for many years before he assumed office as chief minister of his state. When Modi became chief minister of Gujarat in 2001, the state already had a robust industrial base and a thriving entrepreneurial culture. Before Adityanath became chief minister of Uttar Pradesh in 2017, the state had neither. India’s most populous state was, in economic and social terms, a byword for backwardness, and Adityanath’s policies have done nothing to dispel that image. This, in brief, is the personal and political record of the man being spoken of as a likely successor to Narendra Modi as the top leader of the BJP. If Adityanath does indeed lead his party’s campaign in the next general elections, what sort of ‘Achche Din’ will he promise voters? Back in 2013-14, Modi claimed he would bring young Indians jobs, prosperity, and security. Can the founder of the Hindu Yuva Vahini promise young Indians anything other than the satisfaction of harassing and persecuting people of other faiths? As prime minister, Modi has travelled all over the world, wooing the leaders of other countries (albeit with mixed success). If he ever becomes prime minister, Adityanath is unlikely to care at all about what the world thinks of him or his country. His chief focus will be on consolidating his power in India, especially over those Indians dissimilar to him in their political, philosophical, or spiritual beliefs. Some months ago, in a column on the political styles of prime ministers past and present, I argued that in his instinct for centralization and control, Narendra Modi was “Indira Gandhi on steroids”. Were Adityanath to ever become prime minister, he would most likely be Narendra Modi on steroids. Seven years of the Gujarat Model implemented countrywide have deeply damaged the social and institutional fabric of the Republic. A single term of the UP Model might destroy it altogether.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
13-02-2021||Opinion||Tell the world: Farmers' protest on Trevor Noah show||Sir — It is a relief that the popular television chat show host, Trevor Noah, dedicated a lengthy segment on his show to the farmers’ protests in India. Noah’s show garners high viewership around the world; it is one of the best ways to increase global awareness about the atrocities inflicted by the Indian government on the protesting farmers and all dissenters. The Narendra Modi-led dispensation at the Centre cares greatly about its image, which is why it fears international scrutiny. Public figures around the world must keep amplifying the farmers’ voices. Radhika Mohanty,Bhubaneswar Right time Sir — Given that the West Bengal assembly elections are around the corner, this is indeed the best time for Calcuttans who care about the environment to demand that the government make arrangements for the creation of dedicated cycle bays so that people can use bicycles to safely travel long distances, thereby lowering carbon emission (“Cyclists set up pre-poll test”, Feb 12). Calcutta is a busy city; millions of people travel within it, as well as visit it from other places. As such, thousands of vehicles are plying on different roads throughout the city every day, causing the pollution levels to reach dangerous proportions. The advent of the novel coronavirus made the use of public transport risky, as vehicles such as buses and trains tend to get crowded. As a result, Calcuttans were compelled to ride bicycles in order to commute instead of using motor vehicles. This is a healthy habit to inculcate; not only does cycling make for excellent physical exercise, but it also contributes towards lowering air pollution levels. The demands of the people of the city for cycle bays are justified; they should be heeded by the government for the good of everyone. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — Calcuttans are doing the right thing by demanding that all political parties make the environment a priority in their election manifestos. Successive state governments in Bengal have done little by way of protecting the city’s green cover; the Bharatiya Janata Party, which hopes to win the polls, will do even less, given its damning record on environmental protection at the national level. The people of the city must keep mounting pressure on every political party to make concrete promises about what it intends to do with regard to waste management, segregation and preserving urban green cover; if the next government does not make good on its promises, it must be held accountable. As for now, though, the state dispensation must respond to the calls for creating cycle bays in the city, as that would not only enable more cyclists to come out onto the roads without having to fear accidents, but would also go a long way in bringing down air pollution levels. Sneha Das,Calcutta Wrong call Sir — Like many other states in India — Odisha, Kerala and Maharashtra are a few examples — West Bengal also decided to reopen schools for Classes IX to XII, with classes having resumed yesterday. This is a foolhardy move, as it involves risking the health of teachers and pupils during a pandemic. Merely taking ‘precautions’ will not be enough to fend off a contagion. While other parts of the world continue to strictly restrict student and faculty presence on campus, India has not shown the same wisdom; various state governments have taken the dubious decision to expose students and their teachers to Covid-19 citing reasons such as a learning gap or the impact of a wasted academic year. The inoculation drive among front-line health workers is moving at a snail’s pace as it is; moreover, it seems that educators and officials related to the academic sphere are not a priority in the vaccination drive, although they are now set to be exposed to crowded situations on school campuses. This decision might bring about a deluge of infections in the coming days as people congregate on campus. Satabdi Dutta,Burdwan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
13-02-2021||Opinion||As tears go by: a lachrymal Modi||In a nation where judges believe in the existence of tearful peacocks, a land that has had a fair share of the proverbial crocodiles in public life armed with leaking tear ducts, why should the prime minister not have the right to shed a tear or two? Moved by the imminent departure of a member of the Congress from the upper House, Narendra Modi’s eyes were reported to have welled up, setting tongues wagging. The chatter, however, is not unwarranted. Mr Modi has repeatedly endorsed India to rid itself of the Congress; yet, the Rajya Sabha’s mukti from a Congressman caused him to turn uncharacteristically sentimental. Then there is the bit about Mr Modi’s ability to choke up — but only during his hour of triumph or while recounting sacrifices. India had seen Mr Modi’s tears when the former lauh purush, L.K. Advani, attributed the Bharatiya Janata Party’s electoral triumph in 2014 to the prime minister; his eyes had turned misty, again, while being described as a divine entity. However, a scrutiny of the global history of the politics of tears would provide a more likely explanation of all the excitement. Iron men — Mr Modi and his admirers believe that he is of the ilk — are not known for having misty eyes. In fact, tears can extract a political cost: Britain’s ‘Iron Lady’, Margaret Thatcher, was once roasted for admitting that a bad day at the office would make her cry at home. Conversely, Angela Merkel has been glorified for her stoicity. This denouncement of a perfectly natural response is linked to popular culture’s fallacy of perceiving emotion — the element that separates Man from Beast — as a sign of weakness, a testament to the loss of control over the self, a challenge to android masculinity. Yet, politics remains flooded with Weepy Iron Men. Oliver Cromwell — he had asked for the King’s head — was known for his watery eyes; Winston Churchill was successful in keeping the dreaded Nazis at bay but not his tears; Vladimir Putin has been caught sniffling; Barack Obama was quite a cry-baby. Politicians’ willingness to turn into pulp in public must be read as proof of their ability to understand the shift in society’s relationship with tears. In this Age of Technology, where efficiency is prioritized over emotions, the ability to forge a solidarity with the people is increasingly being determined by sentimentality and compassion. A smile, a tear, a hug have thus been transformed into acts invested with political capital. But there is also a related ethical question. Sentimentality can have a desirable effect when it is accompanied by sincerity. In its absence, a politician wearing his/her heart on the sleeve could be criticized for being a performer, the possessor of — much like Cromwell — a ‘supple conscience’. It is for India to decide whether its prime minister has a conscience of a different constitution. A man unmoved by the deaths of protesting farmers is also the man who weeps on other, sundry matters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
13-02-2021||Opinion||Different celebration: 55th Super Bowl kicks off in Florida||In the strangest of times, marked by a pandemic, the 55th Super Bowl kicked off in Florida, with Tom Brady taking the Tampa Bay Buccaneers to victory against the Kansas City Chiefs. The Super Bowl is one of the most widely viewed televised events and marks the second highest consumption of food in the United States of America after Thanksgiving. Advertisers spend around $5 million to bag a 30-second spot for their commercials. This year, both brands and the National Football League tried to strike the right tone given the country’s current climate — a result of the political divide, racial tensions and Covid-19-induced economic disparity. The NFL, accused of racist practices in the past, made an announcement before the game about its financial commitment towards ending systemic racism. However, many pointed out the NFL’s continued lack of acknowledgement of Colin Kaepernick, who was kicked out of the league for kneeling during the US national anthem as a mark of protest against police brutality. CBS also hosted a video about black players in the NFL. But the real moment came when the game host, James Brown, called the track record of team owners on hiring African-American coaches and front-office management “pitiful”. For the first time in 37 years, Budweiser did not advertise, but said in a statement that it was going to use its $5.5 million to support “critical Covid-19 vaccine awareness” with donations and future ad campaigns. Coca Cola and Pepsi also did not buy any ad space this year. The NFL was also criticized for allowing 25,000 people to attend, who sat alongside 30,000 cardboard cutouts of people in the stadium. Drink up As the US grappled with the coronavirus, items like toilet paper and hand sanitizer flew off the shelves. Another set of items that was scarcely known in early 2020 but has now gained popularity — with an almost 500 per cent rise in sales — is oat milk and its products. We think of oats as a breakfast item, to be used in porridge, but probably not as something that can be made into a milk. According to data from Tastewise this February, consumers showed around 146 per cent more interest in oat milk products in the past year. It is known for its more durable shelf life, milder taste (compared to soy or almond milk) and sustainable methods of production. Oat milk was first introduced to the US by the Swedish company, Oatly, in 2016. It rose to stardom when Starbucks, Dunkin’ Donuts and Trader Joe’s started selling it as well. In fact, celebrities like Natalie Portman, Oprah Winfrey and Jay Z have invested in Oatly. It is now likely to shape up to a $10 billion evaluation and could have its initial public offering this May. This Super Bowl, Oatly put on a $5 million, 30-second commercial with its chief executive officer playing a keyboard and singing about oat milk in an oat field. It got laughed at for just being awful, but Oatly capitalized on the moment by selling t-shirts that read “I totally hated that Oatly commercial”. According to the company, the shirts are now sold out.Love for all This Valentine’s Day people will have to learn to date with a distance of six feet maintained. But while Covid-19 may have hampered many plans, some traditions are still intact. In New York, the Bronx Zoo is again offering its ‘Name a Roach’ programme, where you get to name a hissing Madagascar cockroach after your loved one for a $15 donation and a certificate. This year the zoo has introduced a plushie roach, a scented roach candle and a special Valentine virtual Bronx Zoo Animal Encounter with a live Madagascar hissing cockroach. The El Paso Zoo in Texas is promoting its event, ‘Quit Bugging Me’. Here too, you can also name a Madagascar cockroach, but this one will be named after your former partner because you can then proceed to watch an iguana or a meerkat chomp up the bug. Valentine’s Day is also an occasion for high spending . According to the National Federation Foundation, spending this year is supposed to be $21.8 billion. Many stores are offering fun deals. At Hooters, you can have a picture of your ex shredded to bits by a shredder.  Important lesson Two weeks ago, cable TV and the internet were focused on the stock saga of Gamestop, a dying Fortune 500 company that saw a 1,500 per cent rise in its stock price because of a few amateur investors online who wanted to teach Wall Street a lesson. The video game retail store had been struggling as a business both because game purchases have largely gone digital now, and also because of the pandemic. Institutional hedge funds shorted their Gamestop stock — that is, betted against the company — as a result. To send a message to these short-sellers, a bunch of users on Reddit’s sub-group ‘WallStreetBets’, banded together and started buying Gamestop shares, causing the price to soar. Many Redditors said it was to teach Wall Street a lesson for betting against businesses going through tough times. Others jumped on to the subreddit bandwagon to make money. While the US Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating this matter, it is hard to prosecute. It is examining the Reddit post to sniff out intentional market manipulation as laws bar the dissemination of false or misleading information aimed at manipulating investors into buying or selling securities. The hedge funds who had shorted the stock reported a $19 billion loss. The popular trading app, Robinhood, was criticized for preventing anyone from trading on Gamestop on that day. As many pointed out, the market is only free until rich people lose money. Footnote February 12 was Lunar New Year. The Smithsonian American Art Museum offered a free virtual celebration in partnership with the Chinese Cultural Institute and the Chinese embassy. McDonald’s hosted a virtual mini-concert with the Chinese hip-hop artist, Masiwei. It also created the custom red envelopes traditionally filled with money and given to friends and family for luck and prosperity; the first 888 people who bought from the 88 Rising Night Market that started on February 8 received one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
13-02-2021||Jharkhand||163-feet long chain installed around Lodh Falls for tourist safety||Authorities at the wolf sanctuary of the Mahuadanr range of the Palamau Tiger Reserve have installed a 163-feet long iron chain barricading the Lodh Falls, meant for the safety of visitors. Deputy Director (south) of the Palamu Tiger Reserve Mukesh Kumar said that the Lodh Eco Development Committee has installed the chain to safeguard tourists who tend to go too near the falls, which has pockets of deep waters, giving rise to accidents. President of the committee Sunil Nagesia said, “Our committee spent around Rs 65,000 on chaining the dangerous portion of the Lodh Falls for the safety and security of the tourists here.” He said that the funds were generated from the parking fees that the authorities charge from tourists visiting the spot. The Lodh Falls is also infamous for its sloth bears, against which the authorities keep alerting the tourists. The bears come in search of food near the water body, officials said. The Lodh Falls attract more than 300 students on an average everyday, Mukesh Kumar said. “The footfall peaks during Christmas,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
13-02-2021||Jharkhand||Chatra Police nab five eve teasers after video goes viral||Chatra Police on Saturday arrested five members of a gang, involved in beating up two minor girls, within 24 hours of the video of the incident going viral on Thursday. Confirming the arrest, superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha said they will file the chargesheet against the five in a week to ensure speedy procedure in getting punishment. The police also recovered a country made pistol, live bullets from the accused and two bikes. Days ago, a video showing the men punching the girls’ faces and kicking them mercilessly went viral. According to the police, the girls were going to their coaching classes when members of the gang started misbehaving with them, after which the duo opposed. The accused were even seen threatening the minors with them if they opened their mouths. However, they walked to the local police station, lodging an FIR against five -- Uttam Yadav, Amit Kumar Yadav, Gautam Kumar Singh, Pintu Yadav and Ritesh Yadav. They said Uttam and his associates were creating trouble for long, passing lewd remarks and misbehaving with them. Upon receiving the complaint, Jha immediately formed a team to nab the accused as soon as possible. “We will not spare anyone involved in crime against women,” he said. Locals said it became tough for the girls to go to school or college after the video went viral.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
13-02-2021||Jharkhand||Three seal place in Tokyo Olympics race walking squad ||Two men from Haryana and an Uttar Pradesh woman qualified for this year’s Tokyo Olympics in the race walking event on Saturday after they sealed top slots in the 20km category. They sealed the spots on Day 1 of the two-day 8th National Open and 4th International Race Walking Championship at Ranchi’s Morabadi ground. Two out of the three athletes also set new national records with their unmatched timing. Jharkhand Athletics Association president Madhukant Pathak also said that the trio — Sandeep Kumar and Rahul Kumar of Haryana, and Priyanka Goswami of Uttar Pradesh have also qualified for the 2022 World Athletics Championship slated to be held in the US. “Both male athletes are from the Army Sports Institute. They took the number of Indian race walkers who have made the grade to five, joining top notch KT Irfan and Bhawana Jat,” informed a statement from Athletics Federation of India (AFI). Sandeep Kumar (34), who had competed in the 50km Race Walk in the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, also set a new national record in 20km walk on Saturday by clinching the walk in 1:20:16. The old national record was held by KT Irfan in London, 2012. Rahul Kumar finished second in the 20km category by striking a timing of 1:24:41. “I am happy to have succeeded this time for the Olympics after missing the chance last year. I was also the champion in the meet held in Ranchi last time by clocking 1:21:34 but fell short of the Olympic qualifying standard of 1:21:00. Now, I am tension free and can concentrate to improve my timing to win medals for the country,” said Sandeep. Priyanka Goswami (24), who came second to top seeder Bhawana Jat last year, came first with her timing of 1:28:45, also breaking the 2018 national record of 1:31:29 by Baby Sowmya in Delhi. “I was determined this time to register my berth for the Olympics. I am happy to have succeeded this time,” said the Meerut-based athlete, who is a railway employee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
13-02-2021||Jharkhand||Ishan Kishan to lead Jharkhand in Vijay Hazare Trophy||Dashing southpaw Ishan Kishan will lead an 18-member Jharkhand squad for the 50-over Vijay Hazare Trophy, to be held at different venues from February 20 to March 14. Ishan, who also led the state in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy and had donned Mumbai Indians jerseys in the Indian Premier League at UAE last year, is in an ominous form and is expected to let his bat do the talking. Besides the wicket-keeper, the other members comprise Varun Aaron, Anand Singh, Ashish Kumar, Kumar Deobrat, Kaushal Singh, Pankaj Kishor Kumar, Monu Kumar, Shahbaz Nadeem, Anukul Roy, Rahul Shukla, Sonu Singh, Vivekanand Tiwari, Saurabh Tiwary, Utkarsh Singh, Vikash Singh, Virat Singh and Satya Setu. Just like the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, the 38 participating teams in the Vijay Hazare Trophy have been divided into Elite Groups -- A, B, C, D and E -- and one Plate Group. While the Elite groups have six teams each, the Plate Group consists of eight teams. The Elite Groups will play all their matches at one venue. The league matches for Groups A, B, C, D and E will be held in Surat, Indore, Bangalore, Jaipur and Calcutta respectively, with the Plate Group's matches set to be hosted across multiple venues in Tamil Nadu. Jharkhand, along with Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Andhra Pradesh, is clubbed in Elite Group B. Matches of this group will be played in Indore. Jharkhand will open their campaign against hosts Madhya Pradesh on February 20. All players and support staff will then undergo Covid-19 tests. The league stage will run till March 1. The qualifying teams will then head to the venues for the knockout matches (yet to be finalised) where they will undergo two further Covid-19 tests, on March 2 and 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
13-02-2021||Jharkhand||Four Jharkhand districts are Covid-free, 8 have less than five patients||At least four Jharkhand districts – Pakur, Jamtara, Giridih and Godda – have become Covid-free with zero active cases, while eight other districts are close to achieving the tag with each reporting less than five Covid-19 patients, government data released on Saturday morning highlighted. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), West Singhbhum, Sahebganj, Ramgarh, Palamau, Khunti, Garhwa, Deoghar and Simdega reported less than five active cases of Covid-19 on Saturday morning, indicating a downward trend of infections in primarily rural areas, say experts. Urban areas, however, still account for more than 70 per cent of active cases in Jharkhand. As per a bulletin released by the NHM on Saturday morning, Ranchi accounted for 221 of the 441 active cases in Jharkhand, while 60 patients were battling the viral infection in East Singhbhum. There were 17 active cases in Dhanbad and 18 in Bokaro. The four districts that have zero active cases of infection are mostly rural and have limited urban clusters. The state coordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, said that a stronger immune system of people living in villages as compared to city residents could be one of the reasons for the rapid fall in active cases in some districts. “People living in the rural areas have a stronger immune system. Also, they do not socialise as much as city residents, so the chance of transmission from one person to another is less,” said Singh. On Friday, as many as 36 people were found infected by the virus in Jharkhand while at least 51 patients recovered, stated an NHM bulletin. Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported 13 and eight fresh cases respectively on the day. At least 14 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection, the bulletin further stated. The government on Friday tested swab samples of 12,549 people and not even 1 per cent of them were found infected. Almost 1,400 people were tested in the four Covid-free districts on Friday, but none of them was found infected. Swab samples of 241 people were tested in Giridih, 447 in Jamtara, 540 in Pakur and 145 in Godda, highlights government data. As per government data, as many as 1,19,242 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, and 98.72 per cent of them have recovered. The virus has claimed 1,081 lives in Jharkhand, but the state’s Covid mortality rate was still lower than the national average. As per government records, it would take more than 2197 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand at the current pace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
13-02-2021||Jharkhand||JPSC slashes exam fees, CM says poll promise fulfilled||Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) reduced examination fees on Saturday for both general and reserved category students ahead of the upcoming civil services examination. As per the notification issued by the commission around noon, general category students will now have to pay Rs 100 for an application form vis-à-vis Rs 600. Similarly, the fee for reserved category applicants has been fixed at Rs 50, a reduction of Rs 100 from the existing Rs 150. Announcing the decision, chief minister Hemant Soren said that by reducing the price of JPSC examination forms he was fulfilling an election promise he had made to youths of the state. “We are keeping our promises made in the election manifesto. Therefore, we have finally brought down the application fees of JPSC exams in the interest of thousands of youths and students, who hail from poor families. One by one, all other promises made by us during the elections will be fulfilled too,” he said. On February 8, JPSC announced combined vacancies for civil service examinations of 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 batches. In all, there are 252 vacant posts, including 44 for Jharkhand administrative service, 40 for deputy superintendent of police, 65 for assistant town commissioner and 41 for Jharkhand education services. Out of the total vacancies, 114 are unreserved while others are reserved for scheduled tribes, scheduled caste, backward caste, economically weaker sections and others. Aspirants will be able to submit forms from February 15 till March. Prelims are slated for May 2 while the schedule for mains is yet to be announced. Aspirants welcomed the reduction in fees but said the number of vacancies was too few. “The reduction in exam fees is surely in favour of students who are mostly from economically challenged backgrounds. Especially in times of Covid-19 where many lost their earnings and jobs due to the lockdown, the reduction in fees is a welcome move,” said Suraj Kumar, an aspirant. He, however, noted that there were too few vacancies for which the exams were being held. “After lots of litigation and controversies, JPSC exams are finally happening this year together for the last four year. Hence, one thought that the number of vacancies will increase. On the contrary, 252 posts for which notifications have been issued, are even less than the previous exam,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
13-02-2021||Jharkhand||Kisan mahapanchayat in Ranchi ||The Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvay Samity, an outfit coordinating the agitation against the Centre’s three agriculture laws in the state, has decided to reach out to over 34 lakh farmers to make them aware about the demerits of the acts by organising kisan mahapanchayats at district and block levels, as the movement touches 79 days. Such mahapanchayats have already been organised in Uttar Pradesh with huge participation. The first such kisan mahapanchayat in the state would be held at Rahe in Bundu block of Ranchi district on Saturday and would be followed with similar mahapanchayats in the remaining 23 districts of Jharkhand later this month. This would be followed by panchayats organised across all the 260 blocks in Jharkhand. “We have come to know that people from the ruling party (read BJP) are trying to use social media to spread rumours against the farmers’ agitation at Delhi’s borders. Through the mahapanchayats and farmers, as part of the directive of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions spearheading the movement), we would try to reach out to all the farmers in the state and make them aware that the new laws would prove to be their death knell and there is a need to protest for their repeal,” said the Samity’s state convener, Sufal Mahato, a farmer from Tamar area in Ranchi. The farmers will also be informed about the February 18 rail roko agitation. “During the mahapanchayats and panchayats, the farmers would be asked to come out in large numbers for the February 18 rail roko agitation which would be held across the country against the Union government. We would be inviting farmers, those who would be willing, to be part of our delegation to go to Delhi and sit in agitation along with our fellow farmers,” said Mahato. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been camping at Delhi’s borders seeking the repeal of the three agriculture laws. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. The government, however, has rejected these claims stating that the laws will only give farmers more options to sell their produce. Several kisan panchayats have already been held since February 11 in different blocks of the state to garner support for the mahapanchayats. “We have a target to reach out to nearly 30 lakh farmers in the state by the end of this month and prove those wrong who claim that Jharkhand farmers are not supporting the agitation by coming out and showing that all of us are against the new laws,” said Mahato. During the panchayats, small rallies would also be taken out at district and block levels by the farmers. During the recent chakka jam (road blockade) agitation against the farm laws, more than 20,000 farmers and supporters of the Congress, the JMM, Left parties and the RJD had come out on the streets across Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
