14-02-2021||Calcutta||Twitter: from “emblem of honesty” to “dangerous medium”||Twitter was an “emblem of honesty” as long as the current regime in Delhi could milk the platform but the moment farmers’ protests started getting traction it became “a dangerous medium to promote enmity and polarisation”, a retired civil servant said on Saturday. “They had no problems with Twitter till a few days ago. An army of online trolls used, and continue to use, the medium to abuse any opposing voice. But the moment the farmers’ protests started becoming viral, the government has turned against the platform,” said Jawhar Sircar, who retired as the CEO of Prasar Bharati in 2016. Sircar was one of the speakers at the launch of a book that tracks the “unprecedented amount of fake, hateful and inflammatory information” on Facebook and WhatsApp in India. Twitter had been asked by the government to take down multiple accounts that were allegedly sharing misinformation and provocative content around the ongoing farmers’ agitation. It had also been warned of penal action for non-compliance. There is no clarity, however, in the public domain about what exactly was offensive about those accounts. The micro-blogging platform on Wednesday said it has withheld some of the accounts flagged by the Indian government for blocking “within India only”, but has not blocked handles of civil society activists, politicians and media as “it would violate their fundamental right to free expression” guaranteed under Indian law. The book, Facebook: Mukh O Mukhosh (Face and the mask) has “revisited” the 2019 book, The Real Face of Facebook in India, authored by journalists Cyril Sam and Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, which had taken “a critical look at the working of Facebook and WhatsApp” in the Indian socio-political context. The Bengali book released on Saturday has been co-authored by Sam, Guha Thakurta and Arka Deb, a journalist based in Calcutta. The new book comprises 30 chapters compared to 20 in the original. “Take any riot and or any communal violence in India in the past few years — a Facebook or WhatsApp post has played a key role behind it,” said Guha Thakurta. At Saturday’s launch, the authors and panellists spoke in the same vein on how social media played a key role in the recent flare-ups in Bengal. The authors had toured some of the violence-affected places. The incidents, they said, were projected as if one community was behind all the violence. “Rumours and fake information are key ingredients of any riot. The advent of these social media platforms has made spreading of rumours and fake news much easier than it was,” said Deb. Sircar, who has spent over four decades in the Indian Administrative Service, remembered “being abused by 7,000 people” for one tweet. “The social media platforms have become what port areas used to be when we were growing up. People advised you not to venture into a port area after sundown because you could be robbed, attacked… anything could happen. These mediums have become like the port areas,” he said. Kumar Rana, social scientist and former project director with Pratichi trust, said counter abuse was not the right way to fight the online machinery of the Right-wing ecosystem. “We cannot match them in creating fake content and abuse. But what we can do is try to understand the person in front of us. I cannot discuss lofty issues in JNU-language with a villager. I have to speak a language that he understands,” said Rana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
14-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation links fees charged to regularise buildings raised ||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has linked the fees charged to regularise an illegal structure with the existing circle rate of the area where the structure is built, a step that will increase manifold the amount that has to be paid to regularise unauthorised constructions. The circle rate is unique to places and it is higher for upscale localities. The circle rate of a place is usually determined as an amount per sq ft of an area, civic official said. Under the new system, implemented last month, the regularisation fee will be a percentage of the market value of the size of the unauthorised construction. The market value will be arrived at by multiplying the total size of the illegal construction with the circle rate. The percentage of market value that will be charged has been kept very high to dissuade people from building illegal structures, said CMC officials. The practice of regularising illegal buildings or portions of a building has been there for years. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) Act has the provision that allows the civic body to regularise unauthorised constructions, if it deems fit. Earlier, the civic body used to charge a uniform rate for regularising such illegal structures across the city. Now, there will be different rates for Kasba, Behala and Park Street. “An illegal structure in a place like Park Street was sold at a much higher price after regularisation but the owner paid the same amount to regularise it as someone building an unauthorised portion in Behala,” said a CMC official. That system has changed now. “Once we know the size of the unauthorised construction in sq ft, we will put that on the website of the state inspector general of registration. This will give us the market value of the unauthorised construction. Then we will apply a certain percentage as the regularisation fee,” said the official. The percentage that will be applied to calculate the regularisation fee has also been fixed. Officials said that the owner of a four or five-storey building has to pay 75 per cent of the market value of the unauthorised construction as regularisation fee. Owners of buildings that are six or seven-storey will be charged 85 per cent. Buildings taller than seven-storey will be charged 100 per cent of the market value of the illegally built portion. The regularisation fee for buildings up to three-story has been kept low — 25 per cent. “We have kept a low fee for up to three-storey buildings since the owners themselves usually live in them. But buildings that are four-storey or taller are usually built by real estate developers and sold off,” said the CMC official. Baiswanor Chattopadhyay, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who is in charge of law, said that the objective behind revising the system of charging regularisation fee was done to dissuade developers from building unauthorised portions. “Many developers used to add an extra floor that was not there in the approved building plan and then pay a small amount to regularise the added floor. We have increased the regularisation fee by many times now so that a developer will not be able to make much profit by selling the illegally added portion in the market after paying the hefty regularisation fee,” said Chattopadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
14-02-2021||Calcutta||Higher secondary council comes out with topic-wise marks listed for HS examinees||The state higher secondary council has come out with topic-wise division of marks in each subject, factoring the reduction in the higher secondary syllabus necessitated by the Covid pandemic. The school education department had in November announced that syllabus would be slashed by 30 to 35 per cent as on-campus classes could not be held. An official of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education said it was crucial that topic-wise division of marks was announced so that the examinees could prepare themselves for the theory examinations that would be held from June 15 on the basis of reduced syllabus. The topic-wise division of marks in mathematics announced on Friday states that algebra will have one multiple-choice question, two very-short-answer type questions and eight short-answer type questions. “The portion on 3-D geometry will have two MCQs, one very-short answer type question, one short-answer type question and one long-answer question. This is how we have sorted marks topic-wise in the theory papers that carry 80 marks,” said the official. Chemistry paper will have one MCQ in solid state and one 3-mark question. The topic on solution will have one MCQ, one short answer-type question and one 3-mark question. This is how the distribution of marks in the theory papers that carries 70 marks have been described, the official said. Saugata Basu, the general secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association, said, the topic-wise distribution of marks was a must, considering that although the subjects will carry the same weightage, the syllabus has been reduced. “So the marks distribution that continued over the past few years, will not remain the same this year because of the reduced syllabus. The students needed to get the idea,” said Basu. Schools had remained shut since the third week of March. A council official said since the Classes from IX to XII resumed from February 12, the students now have the time to acclimatise themselves with the question pattern during the in-person classes. “So far the classes were being held online. But students can clear their doubts best during the in-person classes currently underway,” said a council official. The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education on December 10 had announced a “blueprint” that provided details on chapter/topic-wise marks distribution in each subject following the pandemic induced reduction in the syllabus. The council in the first phase has published the marks distribution of 19 subjects. The council offers 49 subjects and question pattern of the remaining subjects would be announced in the subsequent phases. “Please note that, the reduced syllabus and the new question pattern will be valid for 2021 only,” reads the notice signed by the council president Mahua Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
14-02-2021||Calcutta||2021: Saraswati appears in biodegradable avatar||Saraswati is appearing in a biodegradable avatar this year. Idols of the goddess of wisdom have been created by women of a Baruipur village, using a mix of clay and cow dung. “These idols can be immersed at home in a bucket and on being left for a couple of days will completely dissolve in water,” says Bhaswati Basu, a Golpark resident, who has mobilised the women to create the idols. Even if the idols are immersed in ponds, they will pollute the water much less than the clay idols sold in the market. “This is because our idols are mostly left in the natural state, without colour. We only highlight the hair and the ornaments,” points out Basu. Most colours used by idol-makers are high in chemical content and pollute the water on immersion. Another problem with the smaller idols sold mostly for domestic use during Saraswati puja is many are made of burnt clay. “Those do not remain biodegradable any more,” she pointed out. This is not Basu’s first experiment with the clay-and-cowdung mix. Under her environment-friendly employment generating concern Samvab, she trained women of Joynagar how to make pradip last Diwali, using a moulding machine. “Those worked out well. All 25,000 got sold out,” she said. Her next experiment was with the women of Moloya village in Baruipur. “I installed a machine there to let them create tubs for garden plants. Those have proved popular too.” For the idols, she contacted Samir Pal, an idol-maker of Baruipur. “Initially I had refused as it seemed problematic. But when didi (Basu) insisted, I gave it a try. Now I am happy to have done something new,” Pal told Metro. The two ingredients – clay and dung – are used in equal proportions. To that, he mixes a bit of milk, ghee and yoghurt as the idols are being branded as Panchagavya Saraswati. “It takes much longer to create as dung by itself lacks binding capacity. Nor does didi allow us to use a chemical we use otherwise to separate the clay form quickly from the die. So just six-seven idols can be made in a day with this mix, compared to 20 or so of pure clay,” Pal said. He kneads the clay mix himself, filtering out the stone chips, and delivers the lumps at the doors of village women who shape the idols out of plaster of Paris casts. “The labour cost is higher for this as the process is slow. After taking each idol out of the die, they leave it out to dry in the sun for an hour after which it is firm enough to be given the finishing touches. Then it takes two more days to dry it out completely. We made the idols in two sizes — 1 ft and 7 inches,” Pal said. His team made about 50 idols of each size. Once word went round, villagers flocked to his house to see how the “cow dung idols” were shaping up. “Dung is a part of their daily lives but they never thought it could have a role in idol-making. So they liked the novelty of it,” Pal smiled. Basu, a former cricketer who kept wickets for the Bengal team from 1977 to 1983, became a trend-setter of sorts in the Durga puja circuit when she collected used flowers from 72 community puja organisers, from Golf Green to Salt Lake, in 2019 to create compost. This time her target is both saving the waterbodies and helping the villagers. “They make barely Rs 20-25 per idol. By using such alternative ways and materials, the costing is coming up to Rs 300. So they can earn a bit more.” The idols are being sold under the Samvab logo for Rs 450.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
14-02-2021||Calcutta||‘Jealous’ neighbours kidnap biker, arrested in Park Circus||A man riding a motorbike along the Park Circus Connector was kidnapped early on Friday. Two of his neighbours were arrested on Saturday for being involved in the crime, police said. Mohammad Nadim, 28, a resident of Tiljala Lane, was allegedly stopped while he was riding through the Park Circus Connector on his motorbike and dragged into a yellow taxi by some masked men at gunpoint, the police said. Nadim’s family members have told the police that they had to pay Rs 3 lakh to secure his release. The accused apparently thought that Nadim had amassed a fortune because he had recently purchased a motorbike and got his sister married in a relatively lavish way. Police officers said this was an unusual case where a change in a man’s financial condition grabbed the attention of his neighbours who then planned to kidnap him. A few weeks ago, a gang of men had similarly kidnapped a man from the EM Bypass after he had boarded the car thinking it was a shuttle taxi. The man was robbed of his valuables and money. However, in that case, the victim was not known to the gang members. “But this is unusual when  neighbours got jealous of a person’s finances and decided to kidnap him for ransom,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Nadim, who works as a web designer, was released after one of his cousins gave the money to the kidnappers the same evening. Later that night, Nadim lodged a complaint with the Pragati Maidan police station. The police took Nadim to all the spots where he was taken by the kidnappers in the yellow taxi. From the spot where Nadim was kept hostage, police found a CCTV camera the footage from which revealed the number of the yellow taxi. “After we located the owner of the yellow taxi we found that it had been sold to someone else. We then contacted the taxi’s new owner who helped us zero in on the man who was driving the taxi on the day of the crime,” said an officer of Pragati Maidan police station. The accused were found to be two of Nadim’s neighbours, the police said. They have been identified as Sohail Ali Khan alias Aman, 30, of Tiljala Lane and Sheikh Anwar Ali, alias Niyaz, 35, of Tiljala Masjid Bari Lane. Sohail was driving the taxi. Both have been arrested. The police said they were investigating if more people were involved in the crime. The gun used in the crime is yet to be recovered. Setu stunt: youth’s body found The body of 21-year-old Mohammad Zakir Sardar was recovered from Doi Ghat on Saturday, six days after he had jumped off the Vidyasagar Setu into the river Hooghly. He had been recording a stunt video with a friend. Sardar, who was a resident of GJ Khan Road in Tiljala, had been missing since the incident on February 7. His body was identified by his relatives on Saturday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
14-02-2021||Business||Daimler man to be Tata Motors CEO||Tata Motors has appointed Marc Llistosella as its chief executive officer and managing director. He is the former president and CEO of Fuso Truck and Bus Corporation and head of Daimler Trucks in Asia. Llistosella, whose appointment will be with effect from July 1, 2021, will succeed Guenter Butschek, who has expressed his desire to relocate to Germany at the end of the contract for personal reasons, Tata Motors said. “I am delighted to welcome Marc to Tata Motors. Marc is an experienced automotive business leader with deep knowledge and expertise in commercial vehicles over his illustrious career and has extensive operational experience in India,” Tata Motors chairman N. Chandrasekaran said. Marc will bring this experience to take the Tata Motors’ Indian business to even greater heights, he said. Llistosella said, “Having been bonded to India for so many years, a new exciting chapter is now opened. We would jointly awaken the potential of Tata Motors”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
14-02-2021||Business||Oil and Natural Gas Corporation to form gas subsidiary||State-owned ONGC plans to form a subsidiary for the gas business and pick up a 5 per cent stake in Indian Gas Exchange Ltd (IGX) as strategic investment in a bid to tap the potential in the clean energy space. ‘‘The subsidiary is being formed with the objective of sourcing, marketing and trading of natural gas, LNG business, Hydrogen enriched CNG (HCNG), gas to power business, bio-energy/bio-gas/bio methane and other biofuels business,” the company statement said. ONGC said its board has also approved the acquisition of a 5 per cent equity in Indian Gas Exchange Ltd (IGX) as strategic investment. IGX is a subsidiary of IEX, India’s first and leading power exchange. IGX Ltd is at present India’s first and only authorised gas exchange, which provides an automated platform for the trading of natural gas, covering a wide range of products. ‘‘As an important stakeholder in the gas sector, it would be critical for ONGC to participate in the gas exchange for development of the gas sector. ONGC’s interests towards realising maximum value from its gas marketing efforts may be substantiated through this first gas trading platform in India,” it said. The exploration firm reported an over 67 per cent fall in the December quarter net profit on the back of a drop in oil and gas prices. The standalone net profit in the October-December quarter stood at Rs 1,378 crore compared with Rs 4,226 crore in the same quarter a year ago. Turnover was down 28 per cent at Rs 17,024 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
14-02-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea loss narrows down to Rs 4,532.1 crore in third quarter||Vodafone Idea Ltd saw its losses narrowing down to Rs 4,532.1 crore in the third quarter ended December 2020. This came after a one-time gain from the sale of its stake in Indus Towers. The telco had posted a loss of Rs 7,218.2 crore in the preceding quarter and a loss of Rs 6,438.8 crore in the October-December quarter of the previous year. In August last year, Vodafone Idea, along with other parties (Vodafone Group, Bharti Airtel, Indus Towers and Bharti Infratel) had agreed to proceed with the completion of the Indus-Infratel merger. Subsequently, in November, the scheme became effective and the merger of Indus and Infratel was completed. Vodafone Idea said in its notes to accounts that in November, it sold the 11.15 per cent stake in Indus for Rs 3764.2 crore to Bharti Infratel, thereby reporting a gain on sale of Rs 2,118.9 crore. During the quarter, Vodafone Idea saw its revenues rising to Rs 10,894.1 crore on higher 4G additions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
14-02-2021||Business||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman focuses on reforms agenda||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday told the Lok Sabha that the government has been pursuing reforms for sustained long term growth despite the Covid-19 pandemic . “Covid-19 did not deter the government from taking up reforms, which are going to be necessary to sustain long-term goals for this country… reforms are going to lay a path for India to be one of the top economies of the world in the coming decades,” she said replying to the debate on Budget 2021-22 in the Lok Sabha. The finance minister had presented a Rs 34.5-lakh-crore Budget for 2021-22, in the backdrop of the pandemic. The Budget has laid emphasis on increasing capital expenditure, raising allocation for healthcare and development of agriculture infrastructure, which is expected to have a multiplier effect on the economy. She said her Budget for 2021-22 has provided the highest capex growth of 34.4 per cent by providing more money to railways, roads and defence. Sitharaman said the proposed Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess  (AIDC) will be used to improve mandi infrastructure in the country. She clarified that the proposal to collect Rs 30,000 crore through the new agricultural cess will go to states to upgrade the APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) infrastructure. The AIDC “shall be used to finance the improvement of agriculture infrastructure nd other development expenditure”, the memorandum explaining the Finance Bill said. Amid the ongoing agitation by farmers demanding the repeal of three contentious farm laws, the finance minister said not a single APMC has been shut in any state. She added that the budget provides to strengthen such marketplaces for farmers. The finance minister also spoke about the budget allocation for the MGNREGA scheme, which is a rural employment scheme. She said Rs 1.11 lakh crore has been the increased allocation for MGNREGA for the ongoing financial year, but until April it may be utilised only to the extent of Rs 90,000 crore. In the current fiscal that ends on March 31, Rs 61,500 crore was provided in the Budget but the provision was increased to Rs 1.1 lakh crore in view of the support needed to help those in distress during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
14-02-2021||India||Won't let govt sit in peace till our demands met: Rakesh Tikait||Upping the ante against the government, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said they won't let it sit in peace till the farmers' demands are met. Addressing a farmers' "mahapanchayat" at the Indri grain market in the district, Tikait said the 40 leaders spearheading the agitation against the Centre's farm laws will tour the entire country to drum up support for the stir. "Till the time the government does not decide in our favour, talks to the committee (spearheading the agitation) and does not agree to the demands, we won't let it sit in peace," Tikait said, demanding the repeal of the laws. He once again reiterated that the Centre's farm laws "will finish the public distribution system." The laws will not only impact farmers but also small traders, daily wagers and other sections, he said. Questioning the government's intention behind bringing the laws, Tikait said, "Godowns were built first and the laws came later. Don't farmers know these laws are in favour of big corporates? Business on hunger will not be allowed in this country." Tikait reiterated that the panch (leaders spearheading the stir) and the "manch" (stage) will remain the same. "Whatever decisions are taken by the committee are acceptable to all. Farmers of the country stand behind it," Tikait said. Apart from Tikait, farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal and Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni were also present on the occasion. Rajewal said farmers have been protesting for months but the government is not listening to their demands. Pal said over 200 farmers have sacrificed their lives during the agitation said their sacrifice will not go in vain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||Had to fight for something I had never done, says Munawar||Days after his release from jail in a case against him for allegedly insulting Hindu deities, stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui has said that it is never his intention to hurt anyone's feelings through his jokes. Stating that the "herd mentality of fighting on the internet" as well as "someone's politics" can ruin a person's life, Faruqui said he had to suffer for something which he had not done. Faruqui, 32, who was arrested on January 1 in connection with the case and was in Indore Central Jail since January 2, was released from the prison late night on February 6, a day after he was granted interim bail by the Supreme Court. In a YouTube video of over 10 minutes posted late night on Saturday, the comedian said, "How can I hurt someone's feelings? How can I cause heart pain? I apologise four times even if I bump into someone by mistake." "It can never be my intention to hurt someone's feelings through my jokes," he said. He said that the internet debates over worthless topics, abuses and hatred being spread there should stop. "Why have we forgotten that the internet is for entertainment and information?" he asked. "Shall we only keep on fighting on the internet? Anyone can fall prey to this herd mentality, politics. I did not fall prey to it. But I was bruised for something which I had not done," he said. Someone's politics and herd mentality can ruin a person's life, he added. An artist works hard to entertain people, the comedian said, adding that art and entertainment have always united the people. "Some people are spreading hatred online. But why are we making them celebrities? You have to decide whether you want to spread love or hatred on the internet? "I can't give up comedy, I am alive because of it. I will win the hearts of the people who hate me. For this, I have to work harder. Every artist does not get this challenge. I have got it and will win their hearts," he added. Faruqui and four others were arrested on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA's son that objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were passed during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||Modi unveils BPCL’s Rs 6,000 cr petro-chem complex in Kerala||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday dedicated to the nation a Rs 6,000 crore petrochemical complex of oil major Bharat Petroleum here and Ro-Ro vessels of Inland Waterways at Willingdon Islands, asserting these projects would energise India's growth trajectory.  On a brief visit to Kerala, the Prime Minister also inaugurated the Cochin Port Trust's International Cruise Terminal and Cochin Shipyard's Vigyana Sagar, a campus for Marine Engineering Training Institute.  At a function here, he also laid the foundation stone of Cochin Port Trust's South Coal Berth and said these projects covered a wide range of sectors and will energise India's growth trajectory.  Referring to the Propylene Derivative Petrochemical Project (PDPP) located close to its Kochi Refinery that will produce Acrylic Acid, Oxo-Alcohol and Acrylates, which are predominantly imported, at present, he said it would save considerable foreign exchange every year.  Besides, a wide range of industries would gain, and employment opportunities will be generated, he noted.  According to BPCL, these products have applications in paints and coatings, solvents, adhesives, water treatment chemicals, construction industry and super absorbent polymeramong others.  Speaking on the two new Roll-on/Roll-off vessels,deployed between Bolgatty and Willingdon Island on National Waterway-3, Modi said a distance of almost 30 kilometres on road would become 3.5 km through waterways, leading to less congestion and more convenience, commerce and capacity-building.  Asserting that the Centre was undertaking many efforts to improve tourism related infrastructure in Kerala, Modi said the inauguration of Sagarika, the International Cruise Terminal in Kochi is one example of this.  Sagarika Cruise Terminal will cater to over one lakh cruise guests, he said.  The Prime Minister noted the rise in local tourism due to pandemic related restrictions on international travel.  "This is a great opportunity for added livelihood to those in the local tourism industry and deepening of connection between our culture and our youth", he said.  Modi exhorted start-ups to think about innovative tourism related products.  Noting that the tourism sector in India has been growing well in the last five years, he said India has risen from 65th to 34th position in the World Tourism Index ranking.  He said capacity building and future ready infrastructure are two important factors for national development.  "Todays development works of Vigyan Sagar' and reconstruction of the South Coal Berth will contribute to both these factors.  Vigyan Sagar,the new knowledge campus of Cochin Shipyard, will particularly help those wanting to study marine engineering.  South Coal Berth would bring down logistics costs and improve cargo capacities", he said.  The Prime Minister also said the definition and scope of infrastructure today has changed.  "It is beyond only good roads; development works and connectivity between a few urban centres.  Through the National Infrastructure Pipeline, Rs 110 lakh crore is being invested for infra creation," Modi said.  Outlining the countrys plan for development of the Blue Economy, he said "our vision and work in this sector includes more ports, improving infrastructure in current ports, off- shore energy, sustainable coastal development and Coastal connectivity.  Dwelling on the Pradhan Mantri Matasya Samapada Yojna, the Prime Minister pointed out that it caters to diverse requirements of fishermen communities.  "It has provisions for ensuring more credit. Fishermen have been linked with Kisan Credit Cards.Similarly, work is underway to make India a hub for sea-food exports", he said.  Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Union Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, Mansukh L Mandaviya and V Muraleedharan attended the event at nearby Ambalamedu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||Govt has always taken care of Sri Lankan Tamils, says Modi in Chennai||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said his government has always taken care of the welfare of Sri Lankan Tamils and 'consistently' flagged the issue of their rights with the leaders in the island nation. India was always committed to ensuring that the Tamils there lived with equity, equality, justice, peace and dignity, he said here, after launching various government projects in railways and defence sectors. Modi recalled the various welfare initiatives taken by the Centre in the housing and health sectors aimed at benefiting the Lankan Tamils, and said he was the first Indian Prime Minister to visit Jaffna (in 2015) in northern Sri Lanka. "Our government has always taken care of the welfare and aspirations of Tamil brothers and sisters in Sri Lanka. It is my honour to have been the only Indian PM to visit Jaffna. Through development work, we are ensuring the welfare of the Tamil community," he said. India has constructed 50,000 houses for displaced Tamils in north eastern Sri Lanka and another 4,000 in the plantation areas while "we hope to open soon" the Jaffna Culture Centre, he added. "The issue of Tamil rights has also been taken up consistently with Sri Lankan leaders. We are always committed to ensuring that they (Tamils) live with equity, equality, justice, peace and dignity," Modi said. The Sri Lankan Tamils issue has always had an emotional connect in Tamil Nadu and has often dominated the political space here. He pointed to India's efforts in railway projects for Jaffna and Mannar, air connectivity from Chennai to Jaffna and the initiatives in the health sector. Modi also said the country was proud of its security forces, as he paid tributes to the CRPF jawans who were killed in the terror attack in Pulwama district of south Kashmir in February, 2019. "No indian can forget this day. Two years ago, the Pulwama attack happened. We pay homage to all the martyrs. We are proud of our security forces and their bravery will continue to inspire generations," he said at the function. He said the country's armed forces had shown time and again they were fully capable of protecting "our motherland". Forty CRPF personnel were killed in the terrorist attack carried out by Pakistan-based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammad in Pulwama on February 14, 2019. The country's armed forces signify India's ethos of courage, he said. "They have shown time and again that they are fully capable of protecting our motherland. Time and again they have also shown India believes in peace, but India will protect sovereignty at all costs. Sainya shakti and dhairya shakti (strength and courage) of our forces are remarkable," the PM said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||Disengagement in eastern Ladakh is surrender to China, says Antony||Senior Congress leader and former defence minister A K Antony on Sunday alleged that disengagement in both the Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso Lake areas and the creation of a buffer zone was a "surrender" of India's rights. Addressing a press conference, he also said that at a time when India was facing multiple challenges at the border and was facing a two-front war-like situation, the increase in defence budget this year is meagre and insignificant and was a "betrayal" of the country. The government had on Friday emphatically stated that India has not "conceded" any territory following the disengagement agreement with China in Pangong lake areas in eastern Ladakh. Antony said he was sad that the Narendra Modi government was not giving proper priority to national security at a time when China was getting belligerent and Pakistan continued to promote terrorism. He said disengagement was good as it reduced tension but it should not be done at the cost of national security. "Both disengagements in Galwan and Pangong Tso are a surrender," he alleged, adding that it amounted to surrendering of areas traditionally controlled by India. "We are surrendering our rights," he alleged, noting that Galwan Valley as Indian territory was never a disputed land even in 1962. "Disengagement and buffer zone means surrender of our land at the moment," he alleged while warning that the government is not understanding the importance of this disengagement and creation of the buffer zone. He warned that China can play mischief anytime by helping Pakistan in Siachen. "We want to know from this government when there will be status quo ante as on mid-April 2020 in the entire India-China border," he said, asking what was the government's plan in this regard. He also said that the government must take the country and the people into confidence on the restoration of status quo ante at the borders. He said the government always consulted leaders of all political parties before taking such a decision and must keep national security in mind. Antony alleged that the government did not increase the defence budget to "appease" China and to give a message that it did not want to confront them. "To appease China, the government sent a message by not increasing this defence budget that we do not want to confront you. To appease China, we have agreed to disengagement on China's terms," he alleged. When the whole country is facing serious challenges from both China and Pakistan, the senior Congress leader said the armed forces are demanding support and substantial increase in the defence budget. "But compared to last year's revised defence budget, this budget has made a meagre and insufficient increase of only 1.48 per cent. "It is a betrayal of the country. The government has let down our armed forces. The government is not paying proper attention of national security," he further charged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||Congress will not implement CAA, will protect principles of Assam Accord, says Rahul||Accusing the BJP and RSS of dividing Assam, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said that his party will protect every principle of the Assam Accord and will never implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act if voted to power in the state. Addressing his first public rally in Assam's Sibsagar district ahead of the assembly elections due in March-April, Gandhi said that the state needs its "own chief minister" who will listen to the voice of the people and not one who listens only to Nagpur and Delhi. "The Assam Accord has brought peace and it is the protector of the state. I and my party workers will protect each principle of the Accord. There will not be a single deviation from it," he said. Gandhi said illegal immigration is an issue in Assam and exuded confidence that the people of the state have the capability to resolve the issue through dialogue. Alleging that BJP and RSS are trying to divide the state on the issue of Assam Accord, he said, "If Assam is divided, then Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union Home Minister Amit Shah will not be affected, but the people of Assam and the rest of India will be affected." Talking about the controversial CAA, the senior Congress leader said that if his party comes to power in the state, the law will not be implemented under any circumstance. All party leaders, including Gandhi, were seen wearing 'Gamocha' (Assamese scarf), where symbolically the CAA word was crossed, giving a message against the controversial law. Gandhi said Assam needs a chief minister from their "own people" who will listen to their issues and try to resolve them. "Remote control can operate a TV but not a CM. The current CM listens to Nagpur and Delhi. If Assam gets a CM like this again, it will not benefit the people. The youths need a CM who will give jobs to them," he said. Taking a dig at the prime minister, the Union home minister and "businessmen close to them", Gandhi said, "I have devised a new slogan for Assam -- Hum do, humare do; Assam ke liye humare aur do, aur sab kuch loot lo." He alleged that natural resources and PSUs in the state are being "sold off" to two leading businessmen of the country. Gandhi also accused the Modi government of "looting" public money during the Covid-19 pandemic and waiving huge amounts of loans of his "two businessmen friends". He said that the Congress government under the leadership of former chief minister Tarun Gogoi had brought peace to Assam by ending the era of violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||Modi inaugurates metro extension project, lays foundation stone at IIT Madras||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday inaugurated the Chennai Metro Rail Phase-I extension and laid the foundation stone for several other infrastructure projects in different sectors, including railways, in Tamil Nadu, describing them as symbols of innovation and indigenous development. He also said the decade was going to belong to India, adding the entire world was looking at it with positivity. At a grand event at the Nehru Indoor Stadium here, he flagged off the 9.01 km service from Washermanpet to Wimco Nagar in North Chennai, completed at a cost of Rs 3,770 crore. With this extension, the PhaseI covers a total length of 54.05 km and people can travel from the north Chennai locality to the airport in the south using the Metro rail. Modi dedicated to the nation the Chennai BeachAttipattu fourth line and the Railway electrification of Villupuram Cuddalore-Mayiladuturai Thanjavur-Mayiladuthurai-Tiruvarur Single Line Sections. He also laid the foundation stone for the Discovery Campus of IIT Madras, which will be built at nearby Thaiyur at an estimated cost of Rs 1,000 crore in the first phase over an area of 2 lakh sqm and the extension, renovation and modernisation of the Grand Anicut Canal System. In his speech on the occasion, the Prime Minister said the infrastructure projects inaugurated were symbols of innovation and indigenous development. Asserting that this year's union budget showed the government's commitment to reforms, Modi said: "The world is looking at India with great enthusiasm and positivity. This decade is going to be India's because of the hard work of 130 crore Indians." He also highlighted the importance of conservation of water, saying it was not a national issue alone but a global one. "Per drop more crop," he added. Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam and other cabinet members, senior leaders of ruling AIADMK M Thambidurai, K P Munusamy and leaders from alliance parties participated in the event. The venue, the sprawling Nehru Indoor Stadium premises, and the entire Periamet neighbourhood in the heart of the city came under a three-layered security blanket. Traffic diversions and heavy deployment of police personnel were made as part of security measures for the Prime Minister's brief visit to the state this year. Several youngsters at the venue sported T-shirts hailing the chief minister and many raised slogans praising Modi and Palaniswami. Earlier, the Prime Minister arrived at the airport here, and then flew in a chopper to INS Adyar from where he drove to the function venue. All along the way, a good number of supporters and the public turned up to greet the Prime Minister as artistes played traditional musical instruments to welcome him. Modi waved at the people who waited on the kerb to have a glimpse of the leader. At the event, Modi, Palaniswami and Panneerselvam paid floral tributes to the portraits of late chief ministers M G Ramachandran (AIADMK founder) and J Jayalalithaa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||14, including women and a child, dead in Kurnool road accident||Tragedy struck a group of pilgrims on their way to Ajmer Dargah as 14 of them, including eight women and a child, were killed and four injured in a road mishap in Kurnool district in Andhra Pradesh early on Sunday, police said. The accident occurred when a mini-bus in which the victims, all relatives and hailing from Madanapalle in Chittoor district of the state, were travelling collided with a lorry at Madapuram around 4 AM, Kurnool District Superintendent of Police K.Fakirappa said. The passengers were on their way to the Ajmer Sharif Dargah in Rajasthan, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy were among those who expressed sorrow over the loss of lives. Reddy announced an ex-gratia of Rs two lakh each to the kin of the deceased and Rs 1 lakh to the injured. Preliminary investigation suggested the driver apparently lost control and the bus first crashed into the road median, rolled to the other side and hit the lorry, the SP told PTI. Only four children survived the crash and all had been admitted to a hospital where the condition of one of them was stated to be critical, he said. "The accident might have been due to over speeding of the mini bus or its driver might have been drowsy. Fourteen people died on the spot and another four (injured) were shifted to hospital. One of the children is said to be in a critical condition," the Police official added. Kurnool Collector G Veerapandiansaid the administration would also examine if there was any defect in the vehicle. A tweet posted on PMO India handle said: "The road accident in Andhra Pradesh Kurnool district is saddening. In this hour of sadness, my thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones. I hope that the injured recover at the earliest: PM." Expressing sorrow over the loss of lives, the Chief Minister instructed the officials to provide necessary medical help to the injured as he wished them a speedy recovery. He conveyed his condolences to the bereaved families, an official release said. Veldurthi police station sub-inspector Peddaiah Naidu said they received information about the accident from a local person and the personnel immediately rushed to the spot. "Only four children survived and all of them are being treated in hospital," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||Delhi police arrest 21-year-old for sharing farmers’ ‘toolkit’ posted by Thunberg||A 21-year-old climate activist has been arrested from Bengaluru for being allegedly involved in sharing the "toolkit" related to the farmer's protest on social media, police said on Sunday. Disha Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday. She was picked up from her house for questioning and was later arrested for her alleged involvement in formulation and dissemination of the "toolkit Google doc", a senior police officer said. Ravi, who is a graduate in Bachelor of Business Administration from a private college in Bengaluru, is also one of the founding members of a group named 'Fridays For Future India'. "In connection with a case regarding the investigation into the criminal conspiracy related to the toolkit document, Disha Ravi has been arrested from Bengaluru. "She was one of the editors of the toolkit Google Doc and a key conspirator in the document's formulation and dissemination," said Anil Mittal, Additional Public Relations Officer (Delhi Police) in a statement. She was produced before a Delhi court here on Sunday. She has been remanded to police custody for five days, he said, adding that further investigation is in progress. Her laptop and mobile phone has also been seized for further investigation and the police are ascertaining if she was in touch with more people who were involved in the case case. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agri laws had clashed with the police during their tractor parade on January 26. Their parade had dissolved into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. Over 500 police security personnel were injured while one protestors died during the Republic Day violence. Earlier, the Delhi Police had asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email id, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the "toolkit" shared by teen climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers' protest. The Cyber Cell had on February 4 lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the "toolkit" for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the Government of India". The case against unnamed persons was registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code, the police had said. Addressing a press conference earlier, a senior Delhi Police officer had said initial investigation linked the document with a pro-Khalistan group named "Poetic Justice Foundation". According to the police, the "toolkit" has a particular section that mentions "digital strike through hashtags on or before January 26, tweet storms on January 23 onwards, physical action on January 26 and watch-out or join farmers march into Delhi and back to borders". The "toolkit" was aimed at spreading disaffection and ill-will against the government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups, the police had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Covid: India records 12,194 new cases, 92 deaths||India's tally of Covid-19 cases surpassed 1.09 crore with 12,194 new infections, while fresh fatalities were recorded below 100 for the eighth time this month, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The total coronavirus cases rose to 1,09,04,940 and the death toll increased to 1,55,642 with 92 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,11,731 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.31 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,37,567 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.26 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,62,30,512 samples have been tested up to February 13 with 6,97,114 samples being tested on Saturday. The 92 new fatalities include 38 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 5 each from Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,55,642 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,489 from Maharashtra followed by 12,413 from Tamil Nadu, 12,263 from Karnataka, 10,889 from Delhi, 10,230 from Bengal, 8,699 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,162 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Eight more bodies recovered week after Chamoli glacier burst, toll rises to 46||Eight bodies were recovered on Sunday from the flash flood-ravaged hydel project sites in Tapovan and Raini of Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, taking the toll in the calamity to 46, even as search and rescue operations were intensified. Five bodies were recovered from the intake adit tunnel of the NTPC's 520 MW Tapovan-Vishnugad project. These are the first bodies to be recovered from the site where muck-clearing and drilling operations have been underway on a war-footing since last Sunday. Three others were recovered from Raini, where a 13.2 MW hydel project along the Rishiganga was destroyed in the calamity. The recoveries take the toll in the disaster to 46, while 158 people remain missing, officials said. The bodies have been kept at a temporary mortuary built in Tapovan, they added. Two of the bodies have been identified. One hails from Narendra Nagar in Tehri district and another from Kalsi in Dehradun district, Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria said. She said a helicopter has been kept ready at the site to provide medical help to survivors, if any. The NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project had suffered extensive damage in the flash flood, which also demolished the Rishiganga hydel project. Rescue teams continued widening a hole into the Silt Flushing Tunnel at the project site in Tapovan where around 30 people are believed to be trapped. Rescuers had said on Saturday that they were still hopeful of finding survivors, notwithstanding the numerous challenges like the muck and the water from Dhauli Ganga constantly flowing into the tunnels.The river had deviated from its path after the flash floods leaving 166 missing. The State Emergency Operation Centre here had said that scientists of the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing during an aerial survey of the Rishi Ganga found that the glacial lake formed due to the avalanche over it has begun to release water, which reduces chances of it breaching or causing a fresh flash flood during the rescue operations. The lake is at the confluence of Raunthi Gad and Rishi Ganga. According to Central Water Commission (CWC) chairman Saumitra Haldar, it is 400 metres in length, 25 metres wide and 60 metres deep. The CWC is examining possibilities of what can be done if the water rises to a "critical" level. It is conducting simulation studies and also examining the possibility of carrying out a controlled blast to drain out the water. P K Tiwari, Commandant of the National Disaster Response Force, had said that based on their experience, they are optimistic about saving lives and mentioned the possible presence of air ducts and gaps in the tunnel. So far, 20 bodies and 12 human limbs have been cremated after DNA sampling, the DM said. A compensation of Rs 4 lakh each was also paid to the kin of five victims of the calamity from Dehradun, Bageshwar and Haridwar districts of Uttarakhand and Lakhimpur Kheri and Aligarh districts of neighbouring Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi’s barbs hit home, called 'doomsday man for India' by Nirmala Sitharaman||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said Rahul Gandhi “is probably becoming a doomsday man for India”. The finance minister devoted a considerable part of her reply in the Lok Sabha to the general discussion on the budget to responding to the Congress MP, suggesting that Rahul’s barbs had hit home. But the finance minister’s moniker for Rahul raises some fundamental questions. Is the Opposition MP a “doomsday man for India” or was he doing his job by highlighting that the government was not doing its job? The following are some of the issues flagged by Rahul: Demonetisation On November 9, 2016 — a day after the demonetisation — Rahul had said: “Once again Mr Modi shows how little he cares about the ordinary people of this country — farmers, small shopkeepers, housewives — all thrown into utter chaos. The real culprits sit tight on their black money stashed away abroad or in bullion/real estate.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi had steamrollered such opinions. Countless people suffered, at least a hundred died and the economy was dealt a body blow by the ill-planned adventure. The Indian economy never really recovered from that staggering disruption. The government insists the demonetisation was a success. But its key objective — unearthing black money — was not met. Even the grand claims about digitisation are dubious: the value of bank notes currently in circulation is 57 per cent higher at Rs 28.23 lakh crore (as of February 5, 2021) compared with Rs 17.97 lakh crore on November 4, 2016 — four days before Modi announced the demonetisation. Most economists had decried the move. One admirer of the demonetisation had stood out: The Global Times, run by the Chinese communist party’s mouthpiece, praised the note recall. But later the publication called the demonetisation a failure. Covid As early as February 12, 2020, Rahul had warned that “the coronavirus is an extremely serious threat to our people and our economy. My sense is the government is not taking this threat seriously. Timely action is critical.” On February 24, the Namaste Trump event was held in Ahmedabad, where then US President Donald Trump and Modi serenaded each other in front of a huge crowd. On March 3, Modi assured the country: “There is no need to panic. We need to work together, take small yet important measures to ensure self-protection.” Rahul issued warning after warning, culminating in a March 18 appeal: “Quick aggressive action is the answer to tackling the coronavirus. India is going to pay an extremely heavy price for our government’s inability to act decisively.” It took another six days for the announcement to be made of a nationwide lockdown — abrupt, without preparation, and ruthless. A humanitarian tragedy unfolded on Indian roads. It was a man-made, not virus-created, disaster. Migrant crisis Within a few days of the lockdown, Rahul had realised the magnitude of the crisis — something sections of the mainstream media ignored while the government continued to sink its head in the sand. “Out of work and facing an uncertain future, millions of our brothers and sisters across India are struggling to find their way back home. It’s shameful that we’ve allowed any Indian citizen to be treated this way and that the government had no contingency plans in place for this exodus,” Rahul said on March 28 as the highways witnessed an inhuman tragedy on a scale never seen after Partition. Not that the Opposition MP had confined himself to criticising the government. He had offered solid suggestions. “It’s important that we have a strategy to come out of the lockdown. The lockdown allows time and space to put in medical resources: ramp up testing abilities, prepare hospitals, get ventilators…. So, all of India needs to fight this together,” he had said. “The fight against the coronavirus is on two fronts — medical and economic…. Like the Nyay scheme, give money directly to 20 per cent of the poor because they are facing difficulties…. There will be a shortage of food but there’s plenty of storage in the warehouse. Give food to the poor and include those as well who do not have ration cards. Create a way for food safety….” Finance minister Sitharaman did not think twice before declaring in the House on Saturday: “Continuously he created fake narratives.… Gandhi said so many people will die due to Covid-19.…” As on Saturday night, over 1.5 lakh Indians had died of Covid. It is not a negligible count although it may appear low compared with the overall population and the tolls elsewhere. The full cost to life and the living is yet to unfold. Still, the minister thought nothing of reducing the gravest global crisis of our time into a bragging point. China On Saturday, Sitharaman recalled a “border” issue while discussing the budget. “When there was a crisis on the border, instead of talking to us, they were talking to the embassy and inquiring about the border,” she said, presumably referring to China and the Doklam standoff of 2017. Much water has flowed down the ravines of the Ladakh border since then. Many Indian government leaders are terrified of even uttering China’s name in most of their comments on the transgressions and bloodshed committed by the Chinese along the Ladakh border. The Prime Minister is yet to clarify what he had meant when he said there was no intrusion even after 20 Indian soldiers had been killed. Opaqueness has been the hallmark of the Modi government’s China policy. Rahul has been persistent and fearless — as an Opposition MP should be. A sample of Rahul’s observations and questions that are yet to evoke a satisfactory reply from the government: May 29: The government’s silence about the border situation with China is fuelling massive speculation and uncertainty at a time of crisis. GoI must come clean and tell India exactly what’s happening. June 9: Once Raksha Mantri is done commenting on the hand symbol, can he answer: Have the Chinese occupied Indian territory in Ladakh? June 17: How dare China kill our soldiers? How dare they take our land? June 20: PM has surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression. If the land was Chinese: 1. Why were our soldiers killed? 2. Where were they killed? June 21: Narendra Modi Is actually Surender Modi. Farmers The Opposition MP was among the first to gauge the deep resentment among the farmers towards the new farm laws. As early as in October, Rahul had held tractor rallies in Punjab and Haryana. His words of caution were treated with derision by the government. The issue has now snowballed into something Modi has never faced before. Doomsday Man? Sounds more like an Opposition MP trying to do his job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Kashmir BJP chief hands out badges to police graduates||Pictures showing Jammu and Kashmir BJP chief Ravinder Raina awarding badges to fresh police graduates at a passing-out parade have triggered controversy, prompting a former army brigadier to claim these were the “first steps towards neo-fascism”. The photos, showing Raina pinning badges on the uniforms of probationary deputy superintendents and other police officers, come amid allegations about various arms of governance being politicised in the country. A former officer with more than three decades in the Jammu and Kashmir police said no politician had ever before awarded badges to the pass-outs. “Normally, it is done by police officers or relatives (of the graduates) but not politicians because we are expected to be apolitical,” he said. It was the BJP’s official Twitter handle that posted the pictures on Friday evening. “J&K President Sh.@ImRavinderRaina awarded badges to the newly passed out Dy SP & Sub Inspectors at Police Academy, Udhampur,” the tweet read. One of the pictures shows Raina, who does not hold any constitutional post, and another former party MLA posing with more than a dozen pass-outs. Two others show Raina pinning badges on the shoulders of, respectively, a woman police officer and a male officer. The pictures were from an event on Friday at the Sher-e-Kashmir Police Academy in Udhampur, Jammu, where lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and other senior dignitaries were present. Academy director S.D. Singh Jamwal, who is an additional director-general of police, played the incident down, claiming the media was “creating this all” and some people were giving the matter a “twist”. The incident left many incensed, including former Brigadier C.K. Sood who lost his son, Major Anuj Sood, to a gunfight last year in Kashmir. “This is all that the new normal speaks of. First steps towards neo-fascism in India,” Sood, who operates the @Zachaldar handle, tweeted. “Won’t be surprised if HM (home minister) does the honours to IPS officers this year. JKP (Jammu and Kashmir police) is just the start.” Former chief minister Omar Abdullah spoke about challenging Raina’s act in the courts. “Never fails to amaze me how most of the J&K administration, both civil & police, grovels in front of BJP functionaries,” Omar tweeted. “The state president pins badges & ranks in a police passing out parade having no position of authority in J&K what so ever. Shame on this government.” Omar added: “Early next week we will challenge this undemocratic action in the courts of law.” Jamwal said Raina, a former Rajouri MLA, had awarded the badges to a few “relatives or friends” from his erstwhile constituency after the official event had ended. “Some people are giving it a twist. He was one of the spectators. How could he award badges?” Jamwal told The Telegraph. “He did not do it with all the 600 pass-outs, just two or three of them from his constituency, his relatives or friends…. If he had done it with all of them, there could have been some motive.” Jamwal said local MLAs are routinely invited to such events. But the invitees were former MLAs since Jammu and Kashmir has no Assembly now. “When I became ADG I got it (pinning of the badge) done through my father,” Jamwal said. “We all do it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Farmers demand judicial inquiry for R-Day tractor rally violence||Protesting farmer unions on Saturday demanded a high-level judicial inquiry into the violence during the tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day and the allegedly “false” cases slapped on peasants. Addressing a media conference at the Singhu border, Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders asked farmers who are getting police notices not to appear before the force directly and instead approach the legal cell constituted by the unions for any assistance. Kuldeep Singh, a member of the SKM’s legal cell, said a retired judge of the Supreme Court or high court should probe the incidents to unravel the “conspiracy” behind the January 26 violence and the alleged “false cases” against the farmers. According to SKM leaders, 16 farmers who had participated in the tractor parade are still untraceable. During the Republic Day chaos, over 500 police personnel had been injured while a protester died. On January 26, a section of the protesting farmers who had reached ITO clashed with the police. Many farmers drove their tractors to the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was hoisted. At the news conference, another farmer leader, Ravinder Singh, said 122 farmers had so far been arrested by Delhi police in connection with 14 of the 44 FIRs, adding that the SKM would provide legal and financial aid to all the arrested farmers. The SKM leaders claimed that “false” cases were being slapped on farmers, charging them with serious offences such as dacoity and attempt to murder to “harass” them. “Ten farmers have been granted bail so far and five bail applications have been filed. Priority is being given to those farmers who are not booked under Section 307 of the IPC (attempt to murder) or other serious offences,” the SKM said in a statement later. Ravinder Singh said the SKM would provide Rs 2,000 to every arrested farmer to be spent in the prison canteen. An SKM legal team had on Friday visited the Tihar jail where 112 farmers are lodged, he said. The union leaders have requested Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman and senior Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha to ensure that the farmers are kept in one jail. In the statement, the SKM demanded that its legal panel be allowed to meet the arrested farmers without any restrictions and that its monetary help be disbursed among them. “The SKM legal panel has strongly condemned the Delhi government and the police for issuing notice under Section 160 CrPC to the farmers in order to rope them in false cases,” the statement said. Under this section, an investigating officer can through a written order direct any person to present themselves before him or her if it appears that the person is acquainted with the facts and circumstances of a case. “We have not come here as part of any political programme. We have come here today for the farmers, who have fed all of us our whole lives,” the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) quoted Tara Gandhi Bhattacharjee, Mahatma Gandhi’s graddaughter, as saying during her visit to the Ghazipur protest site on Saturday. Delhi police’s crime branch on Saturday took actor-activist Deep Sidhu and another accused, Iqbal Singh, to the Red Fort to recreate the events that had unfolded at the monument on Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor parade, a police officer said. Sidhu, according to the police, was a “prominent player” in the violence and vandalism at the Red Fort.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Latur Zilla Parishad in Maharashtra deducts salary for parent neglect||Latur Zilla Parishad in Maharashtra has started deducting 30 per cent salaries of seven of its employees for not taking care of their parents, its president Rahul Bondre said on Saturday. Six of the 12 employees against whom the complaints were received, are teachers. The deducted amount is transferred in the bank accounts of the parents, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier blast: Rescue teams widen hole to look into Tapovan tunnel||Rescue teams on Saturday began widening a hole drilled into an approach tunnel on the way to the possible location of over 30 people trapped inside a sludge-choked tunnel of the NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project after a flash flood ravaged the area on Sunday. “We are working on a three-pronged strategy to reach those trapped in the tunnel. The hole we drilled yesterday is being widened to 1ft so as to reach a camera and a pipe inside the silt-flushing tunnel where the trapped are said to be located,” general manager of the NTPC project, R.P. Ahirwal, said. A hole with a diameter of 1ft will help send in a camera to ascertain their location and a pipe to flush out accumulated water from the tunnel, Ahirwal said. The other two parts of the strategy are clearing the desilting basin of the NTPC barrage through which muck is constantly flowing into the tunnels and restoring the flow of the Dhauliganga river to the right. The river’s flow has tilted to the left after the flash flood, hampering the sludge-clearing operation, Ahirwal said. Describing the rescue of people as a priority, he said the NTPC had put more than 100 of its scientists on the job. Asked whether an attempt could also be made to send rescue personnel to the possible location of those trapped inside the tunnel through the hole, the GM said it would need to be widened further for that and would be done if the need arose. “More than 100 of our scientists are on the job. They are devising strategies and having them implemented,” Ahirwal said. He said all resources and mechanical equipment required for the operation were available at the project site. However, citing the conditions inside the tunnel, he said: “We can operate only with a few machines at a time. The rest of them have to be kept on standby because our strategy is to keep the operations underway round the clock.” If for some reason an equipment stops working, there are alternatives on standby to ensure that the operations do not stop, he said. Ahirwal said many experienced workers of the project were missing since the calamity and those put on the job were new people. Talking about the biggest challenge being faced by the rescue team, the NTPC official said: “The rescue personnel are going to the tunnel where the men are likely to be trapped. Muck is constantly coming down from the NTPC barrage (above the tunnel) and its desilting basin, hampering the rescue effort. The water of the Dhauliganga too is coming into our tunnels through the desilting basin as it has tilted to the left after the avalanche. Restoring the flow of the Dhauliganga to the right is a big part of our strategy.” The sludge-choked contours and conduits of the barrage’s desilting basin can also be removed more effectively only if the flow is restored to its earlier position. The work on restoring the flow of the Dhauliganga has begun with the help of heavy machines, Ahirwal said. Vijay Rana, a local resident who said he had worked on the construction of the tunnels, said he and some other people were not far from the Rishiganga when the flash flood washed away a hydro-power project at Raini village. “Jeet Singh Thakur, a deputy general manager of the NTPC, had entered the tunnel near the Rishiganga barely two-three minutes before the flash flood in a Mahindra Bolero car,” Rana said. “A crane had also gone inside. We know Thakur for long. He was involved in the construction of the tunnel and he must be aware how to protect himself and the other workers in an emergency. Usually, workers come for work in the morning after having breakfasts. Some of them carry lunch packs. The rescuers have told us that it is possible to survive for seven days without food in case there is enough oxygen to breath. We are hopeful,” Rana added. Relatives of the missing workers on Saturday gheraoed Anil Kumar, the sub-divisional magistrate of Chamoli, a little distance from the rescue site, demanding that the search be expedited. They had surrounded some administrative and NTPC officials on Friday. Sanjay Kumar, a resident whose relative is missing, said: “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said his government will provide every support to the state for the rescue operation. We fail to understand why the state government is still so slow. Why didn’t they use a heavy drill machine on the first day itself?” So far, 38 bodies have been recovered from the affected areas while 166 are still missing. DIG Nilesh Anand Bharne said 11 of the dead had been identified. Eighteen body parts have also been recovered from the flood-hit areas, of which 10 have been cremated after taking their DNA samples, he said. The State Emergency Operation Centre here said scientists of the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing, during an aerial survey of the Rishiganga, had found that a glacial lake formed due to the avalanche over it had begun to release water, which has reduced the chances of it breaching or causing a fresh flash flood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||TMC MP claims of being put under 'surveillance'||Trinamul Congress MP Mahua Moitra on Saturday wrote to the Delhi police commissioner claiming she was being put under “surveillance” after BSF personnel were purportedly deputed outside her residence in Lutyens Delhi. The MP from Krishnagar in Bengal, known for her fiery speeches in Parliament, is facing a privilege motion brought against her in the Lok Sabha by BJP MPs for citing allegations of sexual misconduct against a former Chief Justice of India. While her remarks were expunged from the records, the BJP is seeking her dismissal from Parliament. In her letter Moitra requested commissioner S.N. Shrivastava to “kindly remove the personnel immediately”. She also took to Twitter to post a photo in which three paramilitary forces personnel were seen purportedly outside her residence. “3 BSF men w/assault rifles outside my home. Say they are from Barakhamba Road police station for my ‘protection’. Still outside my home. Am a free citizen of India — people will protect me. Request Honb’le HM @AmitShah ji & @HMOIndia to remove immediately,” Moitra tweeted. Delhi police report to Union home minister Amit Shah. “Don’t waste resources on protecting just me, protect everybody. I don’t need anything special, I don’t take security. If you’re surveilling me, ask me & I’ll tell you. Indian democracy is already under threat, don’t make us feel like we’re living in Russian Gulag,” she said in another tweet. “Our brave young men sign up for the BSF to guard India’s borders — using them for durwan duty outside my home is a bit silly, isn’t it, @CPDelhi, @MHAIndia?” In her letter to the police commissioner, Moitra said the station house officer of Barakhamba Road police station had visited her at her residence around 6.30pm on Friday. She said that soon after, around 10pm, three BSF personnel “armed with assault rifles had been deputed outside my residence”. “The conduct of these armed officers indicate that they are making notes of movements to and from my residence, it appears to me that I am under some sort of surveillance,” Moitra said in her letter. Requesting Delhi police commissioner Shrivastava to withdraw the personnel, the MP said in her letter: “Upon making inquiries, I was informed that the armed officers had been deputed from police station Barakhamba Road for my protection. However, I being an ordinary citizen of this country, did neither ask nor want any such protection.” Contacted, a home ministry spokesperson refused to comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Finance Minister aims ‘doomsday’ gun, Congress MP unfazed by  jibe||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said in Parliament that Rahul Gandhi was probably becoming India’s “doomsday man”, recalling his grim predictions on a range of subjects from Covid to the farm laws. The former Congress president, however, told farmer rallies that he was merely discharging his duty of telling the truth to the country. Sitharaman’s comments came during her reply to the budget debate, and in response to Rahul’s “hum do hamare do” jibe, accusing the government of working for only two crony capitalists. While he did not name anyone, a Union minister named Ambani and Adani. “Why does Rahul Gandhi insult constitutional authorities — President, Prime Minister, former Prime Minister, Speaker? Why does he always create fake narratives, predicting Covid will destroy everything, people will die?” she said. “He will constantly say things which will demean India, insult India, which will show India in poor light. Saying that nothing will go well for India. He will ask their (Chinese) embassy in the midst of border tension what is happening. “Never trust(s) Indian government, always joining the fringe group for doing politics. Dreadful abuse, destructive politics. Probably he is becoming a doomsday man for India. He will say, ‘I will not debate budget’; what role (does) he want to play?” Sitharaman devoted most of her speech to rebutting Rahul’s charge of crony capitalism, suggesting his attack had rattled the government. She argued that the BJP and its parent, the Jana Sangh, had explicitly supported India’s entrepreneurs and businesses unlike the Congress, which swung between socialism and liberalisation. She wondered whether the affordable houses built by the Narendra Modi government, the rural roads and village electrification, were meant for crony capitalists. The finance minister offered a 10-point rebuttal, which included questions about unkept loan-waiver promises in Congress-ruled states.She said the phrase “hum do hamare do” should denote the four Gandhi family members (presumably including Robert Vadra) and wondered whether the “damaad” (son-in-law) would return the land he (allegedly) took from small farmers in Haryana. An unfazed Rahul, however, repeated his accusations at rallies in Rajasthan, saying the Prime Minister was conspiring to hand over the Rs 40 lakh crore agriculture trade to his capitalist friends. “This is not about farmers alone. This is India’s problem; the Prime Minister is snatching what belongs to 40 per cent of India’s population to be given to his cronies. The farmers have realised this; every citizen should understand the nature of the threat and join them,” he said. Rahul participated in a tractor rally along with chief minister Ashok Gehlot and other senior party leaders in Kishangarh. He told a farmers’ meeting in Makrana: “Don’t believe what I say (if you so wish) but it is my duty to tell you the truth. I’m doing my duty. “They made fun of me when I said the coronavirus was going to cause serious damage. Now I’m telling you that Modi is clearing the decks for his capitalist friends to take over the agriculture trade. This will destroy the kisan-mazdoor and snatch the future of the youth.” Rahul recalled that he had refused to discuss the budget in the Lok Sabha and concentrated only on the farmers. “Whenever there is a tragedy, members stand in silence for two minutes to offer condolences. Over 200 farmers died but neither House of Parliament offered condolences,” he said. “I asked Lok Sabha members to stand up for two minutes after I spoke. While the Opposition members stood up, no minister, no BJP member stood up. That was an insult to the farmers. The Speaker told me that I should have given it to him in writing if I wanted condolences for the farmers. “I’m going to give it in writing to both Houses. I’m sure the Lok Sabha Speaker will allow two minutes of condolences for the farmers who lost their lives during the protest.” He asked the farmers: “Did I commit a mistake by standing in silence and asking the members to offer condolences?” As a cry of “No” went up, Rahul said: “Even if that was a mistake, I will commit that again. Let them do whatever they can. Let them throw me out of Parliament. But I will do that again.” Congress Lok Sabha leader Adhir Chowdhury later said: “There is a saying in Hindi, ‘Khisiyani billi khamba noche’ (a reference to someone taking their frustration out on the wrong person)’. Sitharaman is not a finance minister, she is a minister of pique. She, along with the Prime Minister, ruined India’s economy. “How does she explain that 85 per cent of Indians suffered income losses during the lockdown while India’s billionaires became richer by 35 per cent? She gave tax relief to the corporate sector, money that was used in cleaning up their balance sheets. “Why are the prices of petrol and diesel rising? The government gets angry and starts hurling derogatory remarks when we ask uncomfortable questions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||G.N. Saibaba admitted to jail hospital with Covid||G.N. Saibaba, the paraplegic professor serving a life sentence at Nagpur Central Prison for links with the banned CPI (Maoist), has been admitted to the jail hospital to be isolated for Covid-19. The 53-year-old professor, who taught English at Delhi University’s Ram Lal Anand College until his arrest in 2014, is paralysed below his waist due to polio and his family says his arms are getting paralysed because of irregular medical treatment by jail authorities. Maharashtra prisons spokesman Shahu Bibhishan Darade told this newspaper that after testing positive in prison, Saibaba was taken to the Government Medical College for a check-up. “As per government guidelines only those with serious symptoms are admitted to hospital. His condition is not serious, hence he has been shifted from his cell to the prison hospital,” Darade said. Saibaba’s wife and brother on Saturday urged Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to shift him to a private hospital in Nagpur. In the letter, the Delhi-based A.S. Vasantha Kumari and the Hyderabad-based G. Ramadevudu said: “The test was performed at the request of family members as Dr Saibaba informed us over telephone that he was facing severe symptoms of the virus. This is a serious attack on Dr Saibaba, who suffers from 19 health ailments and has serious comorbidities, including heart and kidney issues that can lead to further complications under Covid-19. “Currently, he has a very high fever with low oxygen levels which might drop further if he does not receive treatment or is in stressful environments. He has severe headache, constant breathlessness, frequent bouts of hiccups, blocked nose and throat with severe joint and muscle pain.” Over the past week, several prisoners in Nagpur including don turned politician Arun Gawli have tested positive for the coronavirus and are in the prison hospital. Saibaba’s parole applications have repeatedly been rejected despite him having hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with left ventricular dysfunction. The letter said: “Being 90 per cent physically challenged, Dr Saibaba was assigned two helpers, both of whom have tested negative for Covid. Currently, because of this he has no helpers to take care of daily needs or help him in emergency situations and has been kept in isolation. The Government Medical College Hospital, Nagpur, is not an optimal place to shift him as it is overflowing with patients and may intensify the infection further.” Last year, Saibaba had threatened to go on a hunger strike demanding access to letters, books and medicines. Telugu litterateur Varavara Rao, 80, had to petition Bombay High Court last year to be moved to a private hospital after he caught a urinary tract infection in the jail hospital that had failed to change his urinary catheter for three months. Rao, facing a different case on similar charges, had also got Covid in a Navi Mumbai prison.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
14-02-2021||India||House praise for employment scheme Modi panned||A parliamentary panel has extolled an employment programme that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had six years ago termed a “living monument to (the Congress’s) failures” but which his government had to fall back on last year after the lockdown left millions jobless. The standing committee on labour has praised the role of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme in providing livelihood to unskilled workers, including unemployed migrant labourers who had returned home after the lockdown. It has also recommended an enlargement of the scope for projects under the scheme, which provides for paid unskilled work for up to 100 days a year to every rural household. The recommendation comes amid a cut in funds for the scheme compared with the revised allocation for the last financial year. The panel, headed by Biju Janata Dal member Bhartruhari Mahtab, tabled its report on “social security and welfare measures for inter-state migrant workers” in Parliament on Thursday. “The committee (members) are of the firm opinion that there is no better scheme than the MGNREGS to provide sustainable livelihood to the unskilled workers, including the inter-state migrant labours,” the report says. “In fact, by enacting the MGNREGA law in 2005, the Indian Parliament had set in motion a process that provides for a specific and significant welfare provision, constitutive of the very idea of citizenship.” The NDA government had initially been keen to dilute the scheme and limit its application to 2,500 of the country’s 6,000 blocks. But the proposal did not fructify. When the pandemic-induced lockdown forced millions of suddenly jobless migrant workers to return home early last year, swelling the ranks of the unemployed in the villages, the job scheme was widely acknowledged to have provided succour to a large segment of them. In tacit admission of this, the government had revised the 2020-21 financial year’s allocation for the scheme from Rs 61,500 crore to Rs 111,500 crore. However, the budget for 2021-22 allocates only Rs 73,000 crore for the scheme. The government had told the parliamentary panel that the scheme’s scope encompassed 262 categories of projects related to agriculture and allied sectors. The gram panchayats decide the projects and engage job card holders who have demanded work. The committee has suggested expanding the list of permissible projects. It has suggested the rural development ministry — which oversees the scheme — work in collaboration with other ministries, departments and the state governments to enhance the employment opportunities. The People’s Action for Employment Guarantee, a body of civil society activists and researchers, has demanded the allocation for this financial year be raised to at least Rs 175,000 crore and the permissible days of work from 100 to 150 per family a year. Rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar has denied any plan to increase the permissible days of work. The panel’s report says 10-12.5 crore migrant workers leave their villages and families to work outside. It has sought the creation of a database of migrant workers, echoing a demand voiced by many since the lockdown left these workers in the lurch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
14-02-2021||India||Garment workers fired during lockdown, rehired after protest||More than 1,200 Indian garment workers who were fired by an H&M supplier in Karnataka during the coronavirus lockdown last year are set to be rehired in a rare win for labour unions. Garment manufacturer Gokaldas Exports Limited has agreed to re-employ 1,257 workers — mostly women — who were laid off when it closed a factory near Mysore in Karnataka in June, said two Indian unions and global federation IndustriALL. The organisations said an agreement signed this month with Gokaldas — which has not yet been made public — would also allow the Garment and Textile Workers’ Union (GATWU) to negotiate in any factory where at least 20 per cent of the workers were members. Gokaldas could not be reached for comment. On its website, the company says it is India’s largest manufacturer and exporter of clothing, and hires more than 25,000 people at 20 factories. Swedish retailer H&M — Gokaldas’s biggest buyer — said it was “positive that an agreement has finally been reached” but could not give further details as it was not a signatory to the pact. Jayaram K. Ramaiah, legal advisor for Bangalore-based GATWU, said the agreement could set an example for other manufacturers. “This is not just any win for workers, it is historic,” he said, praising the workers for protesting for several weeks. “We want to take this beyond the present victory... to create a model factory and a harassment-free environment for all workers,” Ramaiah told Reuters over phone. “This is just the beginning.” Under the agreement, the laid-off workers will be rehired in other Gokaldas factories by August, according to the unions. India’s multi-million-dollar garment industry, which employs at least 12 million people, has faced scrutiny for labour rights abuses and advocates fear the Covid-19 pandemic could put more pressure on suppliers and lead to greater worker exploitation. The Gokaldas factory in question was the only one among more than 20 facilities which was unionised, IndustriALL said. Gokaldas said in June that H&M order cancellations led to the factory’s closure yet the brand denied this and stated that it had paid for all products as agreed, according to the union, which criticised the Indian manufacturer for “union-busting”. In several garment-producing countries — from India to Cambodia and Myanmar — activists say factory bosses have used the economic fallout from the pandemic as an excuse to target and fire union members while keeping on non-unionised workers. In response to questions about the Gokaldas factory, a spokesperson for H&M said the retailer would continue to strengthen freedom of association in its supply chain. “We recognise there is a continuous need to address these issues,” she said. The lay-offs were illegal under Indian labour law because Gokaldas’s management had not engaged with the state government before closing the factory, according to a report in December by the Alternative Law Forum — a legal research group. Hundreds of workers at the factory protested for about 50 days after the mass firing, and continued to do so despite threats from bosses at Gokaldas, the three unions said. One of them, 50-year-old Padma — a GATWU member who had worked at the factory for a decade — described the protests as “very tough... the most difficult I have ever been part of”. “But now that our union is being recognised, I hope any future issues will be settled faster and through talks,” the widow and mother of two said over phone. “It should not have to take such a long protest again.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
14-02-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh govt holds polls in disputed Odisha villages||The Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday went ahead with rural polls in some of the disputed villages of Kotia gram panchayat in Odisha’s Koraput district despite stiff opposition from local officials. The government of the neighbouring state also held panchayat polls in some other bordering villages in Malkangiri, Ganjam and Gajapati districts of Odisha. Earlier on Friday, Koraput district collector Abdaal Muhammed Akhtar had written a letter to his Vizianagaram counterpart Dr M. Hari Jawaharlal urging him not to hold the panchayat elections in Kotia as the matter was sub judice. Akhtar had pointed out that following the Odisha government’s petition, the Supreme Court had on Friday posted the matter for hearing on February 19 and issued notice to the Andhra Pradesh government on the issue. “I am to, therefore, request you that considering the sub judice nature of the matter and the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India’s oral observations, you may kindly desist from going ahead with any plan to allegedly conduct elections inside Kotia gram panchayat of Pottangi block in Koraput district,” said Akhtar. Both Odisha and Andhra Pradesh have been entangled in a legal battle since 1968 over the ownership of 21 out of the 28 villages under Kotia gram panchayat. BJP leader and former MP Jayaram Pangi who hails from the area, told reporters: “As the Odisha government did not take any concrete steps to stop the elections, the Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday held elections in seven villages. We did not feel the presence of the Odisha government here. For the first time, Andhra Pradesh was able to hold the election following the process of nomination and later election. The counting process has begun.” All the villagers have dual voter cards and they cast votes in the elections held in both the states, sources said. Though the Pottangi block development officer was seen requesting people not to participate in the polls on Saturday, his pleas fell on deaf ears. Odisha government sources said the Kotia panchayat has 28 villages under it. But the Andhra Pradesh government went ahead with its plan to hold rural polls in seven villages of the panchayat. They have also re-christened three of the major villages under Kotia panchayat. While Tala Ganjeipadar village has been renamed Ganjaibadra, Patu Sineri has become Pattuchennuru and Fagun Sineri has been changed to Pagulchennuru. In order to appease the people and to ensure their loyalty to Odisha, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had last week announced he will visit Kotia panchayat soon and also unveiled developmental projects worth Rs 18 crore for the area. At present, developmental projects worth Rs 150 crore are being implemented in the area..||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
14-02-2021||West Bengal||Large-toothed Burmese ferret badger sighted in Kalimpong||The badger has frequently made its appearance in literature and comics but in real life, the elusive animal was sighted in Kalimpong recently. A Burmese ferret badger, which is also known as the large-toothed ferret badger, was rescued from No 2 Staff Colony of Jhaldhaka Hydel Project near Kalimpong on February 1. Praveen Katwal, forest ranger, Jhaldhaka division, said the animal had later been released at Paren ( a nearby area) by the staff. “When the animal was first spotted, the staff could not immediately identify it,” said Katwal. Even though there are eight different types of badger, the Burmese ferret badger is native to southeast Asia, north eastern states of India and parts of Bengal. However, sighting, rescue and release of the animal are rare in Bengal. Kalimpong divisional forest officer Hari Krishnan said: “Rescue and release are rare as the animal is nocturnal and mostly active at night.” Foresters could not immediately recall if the Burmese ferret badger had been photographed and recorded before release in the wild in Bengal before. Even though the Burmese ferret badger has not yet been classified as a threatened species, various details of the omnivore like its social organisation, reproductive cycle and life history are still unknown. Animal Diversity Web, which describes itself as an online database of animal natural history, distribution, classification and conservation biology at the University of Michigan, says while the Burmese ferret badger has lived 10 years in captivity, “there are no data on the lifespan of Burmese ferret badgers in the wild”. Another research paper available in public domain on the “first ever” sighting of the Burmese ferret badger in Bangladesh in 2008 states that two specimens and one sighting were reported from Jalpaiguri district, referring to notes from as early as 1917. The paper underscores the recorded sighting a rarity in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
14-02-2021||West Bengal||Supporters of a pro-TMC Congress faction demand cancellation of cultural fest at Cooch Behar palace||Around 500 supporters of a pro-Trinamul Congress faction in the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association (GCPA) held a demonstration in front of the royal palace of Cooch Behar on Saturday, demanding the cancellation of a three-day cultural fest scheduled to be held there from Sunday. The fest has been planned by the Union ministry of tourism and culture. The demonstration by the Bangshibadan Burman faction was withdrawn on Saturday night after Cooch Behar district magistrate Pawan Kadyan purportedly assured the protesters that the palace wouldn’t be used for any such event in future. Asked about the programmes lined up for Sunday at the palace, the GCPA said it was up to the organisers to decide on. The GCPA, which had been formed over the demand of separate statehood for Cooch Behar, is divided into two factions. While Burman has lent support to Trinamul, the other faction headed by Ananta Maharaj is with the BJP. “We feel a cultural fest on the premises of the palace will hurt its pride and heritage and also damage the structure and different exhibits at the building. When the Left Front government was in power, we had launched agitation for cancellation of a similar programme,” Girija Shankar Roy, the convener of the GCPA, had said earlier in the day. A few days back, Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar, had announced the fest. Prominent local artists and performers from outside, including singer Kailash Kher, were scheduled to perform at the event. The BJP had questioned the intention of the protesters. “It is evident that some people are trying to stop the event with narrow political interests. The state government should extend support to the Centre so that the fest is held successfully. It is disappointing to see that the state government and the district administration are silent,” said Sanjoy Chakraborty, a district general secretary of BJP in Cooch Behar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
14-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 185 new Covid-19 cases, 257 recoveries||Bengal on Saturday logged 257 Covid-19 recoveries, 185 infections and one death as a drop in total active cases continued for the 110th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 4,160. Bengal now has over 5.72 lakh total Covid-19 cases since the first was reported on March 17 last year. The state has recorded over 5.58 lakh recoveries and 10,230 deaths till now. The lone death recorded on Saturday was not in Calcutta. The recovery rate rose for 113 consecutive days to touch 97.49 per cent. The national rate now is 97.3. The state’s current positive confirmation rate is 6.91 per cent now. It has been falling steadily for 86 days. With 22,055 tests recorded on Saturday, over 82.78 lakh swab samples have been examined in Bengal. Tests per million people are 91,980. Of the total deaths, 8,588 (83.9 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
14-02-2021||West Bengal||Narendra Modi to address Visva-Bharati University convocation virtually on February 19||Prime Minister and chancellor of Visva-Bharati, Narendra Modi, will address the varsity convocation virtually on February 19, which will be his second speech at the institution in two months. Modi had delivered a speech at the varsity on the occasion of its centenary celebration on December 24. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal will come down to Santiniketan for the event where governor Jagdeep Dhankhar is expected to be present. Modi had attended only one convocation at Visva-Bharati in 2018. “We have been informed from Delhi that our Chancellor will address the varsity’s convocation virtually on February 19,” said a senior varsity official. Sources said President and visitor to the varsity, Ram Nath Kovind, had attended the convocation last in November 2019 and Modi had attended only one convocation at the varsity in 2018 when he inaugurated Bangladesh Bhavan, along with his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina. A section of varsity teachers said the Prime Minister was very keen on leaving a positive impression vis-a-vis Rabindranath Tagore and Visva-Bharati in poll-bound Bengal, where the saffron party is trying to grab power. “We expect that the Centre could announce something big for the varsity as the Assembly polls are just two months away. Top brass in Delhi asked us to hold the convocation on February 19,” said an official. Sources said there were allegations that the BJP-led central government had slashed funds. Even vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty admitted in writing that funds from the Centre were being slashed regularly and asked the employees to donate their salaries in one of his missives to them in June last year. BJP insiders said party leaders in Delhi were working hard to prove its connection with Bengali culture and measures would be aimed at showing how the central government had been taking care of Tagore’s legacy. Question papers Three examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate students of Sangit Bhavan have been cancelled after question papers were allegedly stolen or got misplaced from the office of a head of the department this week. Swapan Kumar Ghosh, the principal of Sangit Bhavan, said: “We will soon lodge a complaint with police on the question papers being stolen or have gone missing.” A group of old timers on Saturday accused the VC of trying to “disassociate” them from the varsity. “There is a group of people from Santiniketan who are called Ashramik, or old timers, from the time of Tagore. Here, the VC is trying to disassociate them from the campus. He is attacking every tradition and even the students are suffering. We condemn this,” said Dikshit Sinha, a former varsity teacher. Kuntal Rudra, an alumnus, said they would write to the President and the Prime Minister on how the present administration by VC was trampling the tradition of the varsity. PM visit Within three weeks of his last visit to Bengal, PM Narendra Modi will be in the state on February 22. According to sources, Modi will inaugurate the extension of the Calcutta metro railway from Noapara to Dakshineswar station. Later, he will address a public meeting at Chinsurah in Hooghly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
14-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP leader Firoz Kamal Gazi injured in attack in North 24-Parganas||BJP leader Firoz Kamal Gazi aka Babu Master was attacked by goons who fired bullets and hurled bombs at his vehicle near Minakhan in North 24-Parganas on Saturday evening while he was returning from a public meeting in Basirhat. Sources said Gazi had been gravely injured and admitted to a private hospital in Calcutta. Gazi, a former member of the executive committee of the North 24-Parganas Trinamul Congress, joined the BJP on December 18. He is considered close to Suvendu Adhikari who left Trinamul and joined the BJP. Police sources said Gazi had been injured by splinters of the bombs. His car had been stopped by a speed breaker on the Basanti Highway when the attack happened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
14-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt to implement central plan for soft loan to hawkers||The Mamata Banerjee government is set to implement Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi, a central plan that ensures a soft loan of Rs 10,000 each to hawkers, as the top brass at Nabanna has realised that the scheme could help more than 50,000 such traders in Bengal in the post-lockdown period. After the PM-Kisan scheme, AtmaNirbhar Nidhi would be the second welfare plan by the Union government that the Trinamul Congress dispensation would sign up for after initial resistance. “It has been decided in principle that the Centre’s scheme for hawkers would be implemented in Bengal. The urban development department would do the needful to implement the scheme in the state,” said a senior government official. Sources said the Centre had launched the scheme in July last year with an aim to help street vendors, who suffered a lot during the Covid-19-induced lockdown. “The primary objective of the scheme is to ensure a collateral-free loan to street vendors so that they can start their business again in the post-lockdown period,” said an official. According to sources, hawkers authorised by local bodies like municipal corporations are eligible for the scheme. “But the state government did not implement the scheme. Instead, the chief minister had announced a one-time grant of Rs 2,000 for street vendors in Bengal,” said a source. But just ahead of the Assembly polls, the top brass of the government felt that depriving people of central schemes was not going down well with voters and it was giving an unnecessary handle to the BJP to criticise the ruling party in Bengal, sources said. “During the Duare Sarkar programme, state government officials manning the camps found that people were inquiring about central schemes. That gave a hint that people were not happy with the state government’s decision of not implementing a series of central schemes,” said an official. According to sources, people’s interest in availing themselves of the central schemes was evident after more than 22 lakh farmers applied for PM-Kisan that ensures financial assistance of Rs 6,000 annually to farmers. The state government did not implement the scheme since 2019 when it was launched. “This had put pressure on the state ahead of the polls, particularly when the BJP started criticising Trinamul for not implementing the scheme in the state. Accepting the PM-Kisan scheme was the first step and now it appears the scheme for the street vendors would be the second step to counter the BJP’s criticism,” said a source. In Bengal, more than 50,000 street vendors have identity cards issued by civic bodies, most of whom are from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation area. “The chief minister has already said she does not want to deprive anybody of any benefit. If the scheme helps any of the street vendors, we don’t want to put up any obstacle,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
14-02-2021||Opinion||Stop the damage||Sir — The Uttarakhand tragedy is yet another reminder for mankind to take climate change seriously. But it is also a reminder that it is high time we reconsider the indiscriminate erection of dams across rivers. The argument for dams — that they provide drinking water and water for agriculture — has been scientifically discredited. For independent geologists and hydrologists, dams represent a nightmare, a triumph of engineering over common sense and the natural sciences. Increasingly, it is evident that proponents of dams ignore crucial decision-making data now available on patterns of rainfall, geology and climate change. Dams store millions of tonnes of fresh water in large reservoirs, submerging prime forests, villages, farms and livelihoods. Solving the drinking water crisis does not require giant storage structures; these dams take decades to come up and only a fraction of their output is for the household sector. Instead the water is used to grow crops like sugar cane which are the bane of the agricultural economy as well as harmful to the environment. What is worse, according to the India Water Portal, over 100 dams in India are over a century old, and more than 500 large dams are 50-100 years old, many of which have major defects and need urgent repair. There has never been a greater urgency to review India’s policy on dams and to act on decentralized alternatives that involve water recycling and reuse. The immediate task is to critically review every dam in the country, decommission those that are at end-of-life, stop building new ones and establish sound safety protocols. If this is not done, the time bomb will tick on. Aditya Banerjee, Gurgaon Sir — In these rather grim times, reading about the trials and tribulations of people trying to adapt to technology has become the only source of entertainment. If a Republican Congressman in the United States of America floated upside down during a Zoom meeting, a lawyer appeared before a judge as a distressed kitten owing to a filter which he could not turn off. Instead of taking umbrage at slippages — some organizations have punished employees for such mishaps — these should be taken in one’s stride. They add much levity to life at a time when little good news is forthcoming. S. Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — It is worrying that in a competition between man and machine in China, data scientists managed to produce 196 per cent more strawberries by weight on average compared to traditional farmers. Farmers are already beleaguered owing to a variety of factors such as climate change and associated conditions like water shortage, droughts and so on. To make matters worse, governments are either insensitive to the plight of farmers or wilfully ignore their problems and sacrifice their livelihoods at the altar of large corporates — this is evident in India. If machines now enter the farmers’ domain, then the small and medium farm-holders will be obliterated. But that is not the only worry. With mechanization and the elimination of the human element, the delicate ecological chains that bind agriculture will be destroyed. Nature has already taken a back seat in agricultural production owing to changing consumption patterns. The intrusion of machines will only make a bad situation worse. Moreover, as has happened with mechanization in any field, this is likely to feed into the trend of trying to grow perfect fruits and vegetables, which in turn will increase food wastage. Ratna De, Calcutta Sir — Spring is in the air way ahead of time this year. One can already see the palash trees flowering and hear the koels cooing. This has been one of the hottest winters on record in a long time. Yet, people hardly notice these changes. An awareness about such anomalies can go a long way towards educating people about the changing weather. Rima Roy, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
14-02-2021||Opinion||Oh, suck! Please now, new suckers||The more things don’t change the more they don’t remain the same. I mean TheChaiwala is still around making all sorts of noises but he, it would appear, has forsaken hawking chai and taken to hawking conspiracies; chai pe charcha has become chai pe parcha, and a screaming, flaming parcha it is, just unfurled on a teleprompter near TheChaiwala: KaunIsPiracy!!! Ahem, I mean, kaun is behind this piracy, because I bought the exclusive rights over conspiracy, so get out of the way, all, and let me tell you with all the authority at my disposal as TheChaiwala that we shall not have this any longer. It is chai, tea! And I am the only one to have a high on it, psst, get the joke and get it quick because I won’t crack another in a while. I am high on chai, I meant. And listen to the conspiracy now, hold your breath: They, I mean the conspirators out there, are trying to purloin the chai and the high and are planning to launch something called the High Tea! We shall not have that, I mean, BMKJ, what the hell, let’s have some storm in the teacup. Let’s have low tea, and let’s not have it in a cup at all, let’s be atmanirbhar and have low tea in our own kinda things, you got it, let’s have low tea in a lota. Gotcha! (I learnt that one from you know who, Kemchho, just before he became kimchhi, ha-ha, Gotcha!) We are getting more and more atmanirbhar, read my lips, if you can still see them in all of the lush overgrowth, I mean, someone has to lead by example on the afforestation programme. There are obligations that come with the job. Look at TheChaiwala. Does he leave your side even when you might want him to? Never. He is there, at the throw of the television switch, harnessed live to cause and country, relentlessly serving chai. Correction is required, we need to move. Nothing needs to be replaced with Something. NewIndia’s calling. We must be grateful to have been warned again of the renewed perils that are gnawing away at us and that will one day soon be the end of us if we do not take urgent measures. What would have become of us if we hadn’t been alerted that time to the rife and fatal perils of termites? Nobody bothered warning us all this while what an apocalyptic end termites had been plotting. We are teetering on a hollowed out precipice and nobody told us. Such were the reckless botch-ups of the epoch justly called NothingHappened. All through NothingHappened, termites happened, and they were allowed to continue happening. As their nomenclature vaguely suggests, termites terminate. We were being voraciously had. But since we have given unto ourselves TheBossOfAllThings, he’s given unto us reason to feel secure. He’s let out the war cry: Exterminate before they terminate. This is nothing to scoff at. We should feel indebted we are now sagaciously and ferociously helmed. And now, bhaaiyon-behnon, we have Parasites. Let us be warned. Those that live off us while they squeeze the life out of us, Parjivis, that name has a rig of unutterable horror to it: Parjivis. Ever heard of them? They live off. Off threat of the enemy. Off the peril of invasion. Off the sorrow of dead soldiers. Off the fear that we are in danger, all of us. We are in khatra, the sort of ditch we will never crawl out of, that is called khatra. Termites gnaw. Parasites suck. Together they are, well there isn’t even a word for that yet. Parasites and Termites. They are not a hazard to us alone, they are a global jeopardy. And it was down to one man to flag this menace to humanity. Is there more proof required to confirm we are now blessed with a world-class leader? Doubly blessed be his name, TheBossOfAllThings can do better than merely cry TERMITE! I tell you a tale of fabled might Though it only concerned a mite I swished my sword, I cried out of my sight! For I am the greatest parasite!!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
14-02-2021||Opinion||The Anti-Cupid||No matter what countdown you keep to Valentine’s Day — kiss day, hug day, rose day, his day, her day — truth is there is very little love in the air. So little that lately there have been complaints of unloving leading to suffocation. Veteran politician Dinesh Trivedi said as much last week on the floor of the Rajya Sabha as he announced his resignation. And yes, he also said, reportedly, that he had had enough of his erstwhile party’s unloving towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “There is so much of gali galoch,” he lamented. It is not just Trivedi who felt unloved. In the same august house, on a different day, when the PM expressed his disaffection for a new species that has come to be, the andolanjeevi parjeevi, the protesting farmers took it upon themselves. Others who might have felt unloved, un-embraced and spurned recently would be cricketer Wasim Jaffer, the Matuas of Bengal, human rights activist Rona Wilson. For others such as lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj and activist and priest Stan Swamy, unloving has become a way of life. Sons might have felt unloved and nephews too. Cows too, reportedly. Too little loving or too much too late, can be worse than the unloving. Even worse is when you are overlooked for a greater love. Misplaced affection is problematic. Affection without action won’t sustain. And feigned affection is an insult. Congress’s Rahul Gandhi assured the farmers that he was with them, supported them. He hailed them as annadata. Priyanka Gandhi took a dip in the Sangam on Mauni Amavasya day. The PM shed a tear for Congress’s Ghulam Nabi Azad. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee distributed financial aid worth Rs 83 crore to 8,000 clubs across Bengal. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had thrice the amount deposited in bank accounts of tea-garden workers of poll-bound Assam. Happy, happy Valentine's Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
14-02-2021||Opinion||The one man who silenced angry BJP leaders of Bihar||As soon as the hopes of the seasoned leaders of the Bharatiya JanataParty for getting a place in the Bihar cabinet expansion earlier this week were dashed, the member of legislative assembly, Gyanendra Singh Gyanu, raised the banner of revolt. He criticized the leadership for ignoring several aspects, including the sidelining of experienced and well-educated leaders. Several legislators who missed the bus started rallying behind Gyanu. They vented their ire over the party. It seemed that a rebellion was brewing in the saffron party. But suddenly everything fizzled out and nobody could even hear any murmurs. Senior leaders, who understood that this could have been their last chance to become ministers, also fell quiet. The political observers and mediapersons were also astonished over the way the issue dissipated instead of gathering momentum. After much cajoling, a BJP leader revealed the reason. “RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat arrived in Patna on the same day the cabinet was expanded. He is supposed to spend a week in Bihar. Do you think any BJP leader will have the cheek to denounce the party when he [Bhagwat] is present in the state? Who will want to destroy not only his own political career, but also of his next generation’s? Nobody in the party has the guts to sing a different tune in the presence of the topmost leader of the parent organisation,” the leader said. The former pacer for Team India, S Sreesanth, is playing catch-up for the seven years of cricketing he lost after being barred from playing at any level over an Indian Premier League spot-fixing scandal. Having clawed back into the Kerala team, Sreesanth has apparently not given up on his political leanings either. A losing candidate of the BJP in the 2016 state polls, he slammed Congress “hoodlums” for blackening Sachin Tendulkar’s cutout after the ‘master blaster’ insisted that the farmers’ agitation is an ‘internal’ matter, following expressions of solidarity for the protesting farmers from the pop star, Rihanna, and the climate activist, Greta Thunberg. Sreesanth certainly has his eyes fixed on whatever cricket is left in him. But having failed to feature in the IPL auction shortlist, he is not ready to cast aside his political ambitions either. Crestfallen at not being included by his party in the cabinet of the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, a former minister and senior BJP leader started weeping. People and family members gathered around to console him. Speaking amid sobs, the leader said he now understood what his party stalwarts, Lal Krishna Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, must have felt at being sidelined by the new BJP brass. Another former minister said that he has heard that the top party leadership was working on a blueprint to retire all those who entered politics during the students’ agitation and JP movement in 1974. He had a point, because almost nobody with a distinct record of participation in those agitations is now a member of the state cabinet. Rahul Gandhi may have missed an opportunity to send a conciliatory message to the party veterans by appointing Mallikarjun Kharge as the leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. While the dissenters known as the ‘Group of 23’ in the party hoped that Ghulam Nabi Azad would be retained as the leader by being brought to Rajya Sabha from Kerala, where vacancies will occur in April, the dominant view in the party reportedly was that the more combative Digvijaya Singh or P Chidambaram should have been picked over Kharge. While Singh is a veteran from the Hindi heartland where the real battle against the BJP is fought, Chidambaram’s insight into economy, law as well as politics could have given the party’s parliamentary offensive an additional edge. Kharge, who led the party in the Lok Sabha earlier, earned praise by regularly speaking in Hindi but for many that is not enough. This has caused serious disappointment in the party and the G-23 is bound to feel further alienated. One of them bitterly said, “The new advisers of Rahul Gandhi will ruin the party. They have told Rahul that he need not worry about Hindi heartland as there can’t be a bigger leader from this region than he himself. And from South, Kharge is more of a loyalist than Chidambaram who will be difficult to control.” What is worrying is that the relatively neutral leaders and Rajya Sabha members of parliament also resent the leadership’s tendency to play safe rather than adopting aggressive strategies. Now Sonia Gandhi and Rahul will have to do something else to assuage the discontent of the G-23. That is, if Rahul is at all inclined to go for appeasement. The former Assam chief minister, Tarun Gogoi, and his one-time blue-eyed boy, Himanta Biswa Sarma, never missed an opportunity to have a go at each other till the former passed away last year. However, his son, a sitting MP, Gaurav Gogoi, seems keen to revive the rivalry with Sarma, now a leading light of the BJP in the northeast, with the state polls round the corner. Since last month, he has attacked Sarma twice: first, by challenging Sarma to claim in public that he will never leave the BJP like he left the Congress in 2015; second, while reacting to the prime minister’s recent visit to Dhekiajuli, Gaurav stressed how Sarma and the chief minister, Sarbananda Sonowal, went overboard to please Narendra Modi at a massive public gathering. Both of them seemed to be ‘auditioning’ for the post of the chief minister before Modi, Gaurav said. Sarma has been measured in his reaction, saying Gaurav is still a young boy. However, the ‘young boy’, who is heading the state Congress’s manifesto committee, clearly seems to be a chip off the old block. n A peculiar change comes over some people when they join politics, especially the right wing. Jacob Thomas, a former director-general of police in Kerala, who recently joined the BJP startled even the die-hard among saffronites with his theory to reduce fuel consumption: raising motor fuel prices is the best way to reduce consumption and save the environment. He equated higher prices to higher revenues to build bridges and buy computers for schools. Political rivals say the former cop has landed in the right place to churn out his wisdom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
14-02-2021||Opinion||Caste out: complexities of systematic bias||It is a comment on the times that any positive sign of professional ethics is greeted with relief. An organization based in the United States of America, the Development Data Lab, examined eight crore case records of around 7,000 district and subordinate courts and 80,000 judges between 2010 and 2018 from the Indian government’s eCourt platform. The study detected no bias founded on the judges’ religious or gender identities in the trial courts. For example, women defendants did not get extra consideration from women judges, nor did defendants from the minority community gain any leeway when judges were of the same faith. Gender and religion — the latter particularly in recent years — are two indicators of inequality in Indian society that daily undermine the basis of the non-discriminatory democracy the Constitution delineated. To discover that in-group bias does not work in the lower courts is, therefore, certainly satisfying. Ironically, this empirical study of India’s judicial data exposed other manifestations of these biases. While 48 per cent of Indians are women — they are not quite half the sky partly because gender bias is violent — they comprise only 28 per cent of lower court judges. A similar asymmetry affects Muslim judges: Muslims are 14 per cent of the population, but constitute only 7 per cent of judges in trial courts. In-built bias can be difficult to pin down. The researchers did not use caste or income as variables in the study because they do not have the appropriate algorithms to assess these. But government data for 2019 show that Dalits and Muslims make up the majority of undertrial prisoners in India. Representation now works the other way: scheduled castes are 16.6 per cent of the population, yet they make up 21 per cent of undertrial prisoners. It is the same for tribal people and Muslims. An Indian study from 2016 showed that, of 385 persons on death row at the time, two-thirds were from backward classes or castes or religious minorities, as were all 12 female convicts. These figures are a clue to the complicated nature of systemic biases. Although the Development Data Lab study examined religious and gender biases related to conviction, acquittal and processes such as delay or change of judges, it did not consider the framing of charges, bail practices or severity of punishment. This may partly account for the fact that the religious minority was over-represented among undertrial prisoners in 2019 and on death row in 2016. Besides, caste bias is obviously present at some point in the process, but this cannot be separated fully from financial status and the disadvantages that go with low or uncertain incomes. Education, understanding of rights, social contacts, the ability to pay bail as well as other factors are tied up with caste, tribe and religion. It must also be asked how far local politics plays a part. The US-based study has just touched the tip of a submerged iceberg.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
14-02-2021||Opinion||Jaffer alone||Indian cricket nearly died this week. It was buried in a landslide in the Himalayan foothills. It lies there still, in critical condition, because hundreds of Indian players who could have helped dig it out have determinedly looked the other way. An official of Uttarakhand’s cricket association accused Wasim Jaffer, the provincial team’s coach, of communalism. Jaffer is a Muslim; he was charged with favouring Muslims over Hindus. Given India’s past and present, that is a wicked, career-ending allegation. It has been a storied career. Jaffer is 42 years old. He recently retired from the first-class game, having played as an opening batsman for more than two decades. In that time, he played 31 Tests for India, won eight Ranji Trophy titles for Mumbai, and then moved to Vidarbha and won two more with an unfancied side. He is the most prolific run-scorer in the history of first-class cricket in India. He has scored more runs than any other batsman in the Ranji Trophy, the Duleep Trophy and the Irani Cup. Jaffer’s list of Test teammates reads like a Who’s Who of Indian cricket. He played alongside Sachin Tendulkar, Rahul Dravid, V.V.S. Laxman, Virender Sehwag, Anil Kumble and Sourav Ganguly, who is currently president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India. Two days after he was accused of being communal, only Kumble amongst these storied names had come forward to offer support or solidarity. Kumble didn’t mention the accusation; he simply offered support and praised Jaffer for having done the right thing. (Jaffer had resigned as coach citing interference in matters of selection.) Even this brief message of solidarity echoed in the thickening silence as the other members of Indian cricket’s modern pantheon stayed as mute as a row of waxworks. It was left to Dodda Ganesh, who played for Karnataka and represented India in four Tests, to offer full-throated support. His tweet is worth quoting in full to illustrate what fraternal solidarity reads like: “Dear @WasimJaffer14, you’ve been a great ambassador of the game and represented India with pride. Cannot believe that this could happen to someone like you. You’re a gem of a cricketer and human, brother. Cricket world knows you and your integrity.” There is an innocence about Ganesh’s tweet that makes you want to cry. The ‘cricket world’ clearly doesn’t know Jaffer; it certainly doesn’t give two paise for his integrity, else Tendulkar, Dravid, Laxman, Sehwag and Ganguly might have used up 280 characters to tweet their support for him, as Kumble did. This is what is so baffling, so dismaying about their silence: why couldn’t they do what Kumble did? Just put out a tactful tweet that tells an old comrade that he is not alone, that they are, metaphorically, on his side. Unless they aren’t, of course. Unless the manager who accused Jaffer and the association secretary who backed him up are, in the eyes of these immortals, local avatars of the neta-gods who own Indian cricket and, therefore, not to be crossed. Which makes you wonder: what is the point of being a cricket immortal if you can’t stand up for a teammate publicly accused of bigotry by a petty official? What price your Bharat Ratna if you can’t practise that basic republican virtue, fraternity, within the narrow bounds of your sport? How seriously can we take the well-turned sentences of your Bradman Oration if you can’t spare a dozen words to comfort a beleaguered colleague who you once shared a dressing room with? Why become the president of the BCCI if, on your watch, a cricketer noted for his professionalism and integrity can be defamed by your minions? Jaffer shouldn’t be in the dock, trying to defend himself against defamation. The officials of the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand who defamed him should be suspended for bringing the game into disrepute and asked, in the babu’s menacing jargon — the only language that they understand — to show cause. Contemptible as the behaviour of his national teammates has been, the bigger betrayal of Jaffer and Indian cricket has been the failure of Mumbai cricket to protect its own. For Indian cricket fans who grew up in the 60s and 70s, Mumbai wasn’t just Indian cricket’s regional powerhouse, it was a formidable cricketing culture. Its league cricket nurtured some of India’s greatest players. The Mumbai school of batsmanship, epitomized by Vijay Merchant, Vijay Manjrekar, Dilip Sardesai, Sunil Gavaskar, Dilip Vengsarkar and Sachin Tendulkar, was famous for orthodoxy, stubbornness and the ability to play the long game. The camaraderie engendered by this high-pressure cricket culture was intense and the loyalty of Mumbai’s cricketers toward their own was legendary and, in matters of selection, notorious. Where is that loyalty now? Jaffer is the embodiment of the Mumbai school of batting. He batted for Mumbai for nearly two decades with heroic consistency. Mumbai’s cricketers man the commanding heights of every part of India’s cricketing establishment. Sunil Gavaskar and Sanjay Manjrekar are fixtures in television commentary boxes; Tendulkar is India’s cricketing mascot; Ravi Shastri is the manager of the national team; Rohit Sharma is the vice-captain of India’s ODI side, and Ajinkya Rahane is the vice-captain of India’s Test team. Not one of them has said a word in support of Jaffer. Ajinkya Rahane was asked on the eve of the second Test against England about the Jaffer affair. He refused to comment, saying, “I don’t have an idea regarding this issue...” Rahane was Jaffer’s teammate in Mumbai’s first-class side for years. It’s fair to say that he knows Jaffer. And it’s hard to believe that he doesn’t know that Jaffer’s been accused of communalism. He lives in a bio-secure bubble, not under a rock. Just a week ago, Rahane, Sharma, Kohli, Shastri and Tendulkar, prompted by the powers that be, were tweeting in chorus against foreign commentary on the farmers’ agitation. #IndiaTogether was Rahane’s preferred hashtag. Someone should tell this Mumbai batsman that unity begins at home. This recent sequence of events has been the perfect reveal: on-demand tweeting one moment and deathly silence the next. When Mohammed Siraj was heckled abroad by bigoted Australian spectators, the Indian team’s captain and manager brimmed over with outrage and solidarity. A month later, an awful allegation has been made against Jaffer, who held an impromptu press conference to rebut those charges, item by item. It hasn’t elicited a single word of sympathy or solidarity from his fellows. What is so different now? The answer to that question cannot be that in India, when cricketers who happen to be Muslim are at the receiving end of bigotry, discretion shall be the better part of valour. That would mean that Indian cricket, till recently breathing under that landslide in Uttarakhand, is conclusively dead. We should all hope that over the next few days, Jaffer’s peers, past and present, begin to speak up for him. They could start by reading a Mumbai player who had the decency and the heart to offer a resounding endorsement of Jaffer. Chandrakant Pandit, who had a brief Test career as a wicketkeeper-batsman, wrote: “It is shocking to read that Wasim tried to influence players over religion. I have known Wasim for... very long and worked closely with him during my time at Vidarbha. He was a role model to all the youngsters irrespective of caste or religion. He would only talk about talented players who he thought would benefit the team... He is an out-and-out team man. If any player was deserving, he would talk about him. It didn’t matter what religion he belonged to.” Shishir Hattangadi, who batted for Mumbai for a decade, has, like Pandit, declared his faith in Jaffer. If more cricketers take their cue from Kumble, Ganesh, Manoj Tiwary, Pandit and Hattangadi, we might yet drag Indian cricket, breathing, from under the rubble. If they don’t, we’ll know it’s dead. A team that represents a nation must consist of citizens who play for each other, not clients who service a hectoring State. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
14-02-2021||Jharkhand||Uttarakhand Olympian wins, but fails to find a spot for world meet||Olympian Manish Rawat from Uttarakhand won the inaugural men’s 35km race on the  final day of two-day 8th National Open and 4th International Race Walking Championship in Ranchi’s Morabadi ground on Sunday. He beat Tamil Nadu’s Ganapati Krishnan by a comfortable nine-minute margin but was outside the qualifying standard for next year’s World Athletics Championships in Oregon. The qualifying standard for the 2022 world championship was 2:35:00, which Rawat failed to achieve. Rawat clinched gold with his timing of 2:49:12. Krishnan won silver by finishing the race in 2:58:23 while Delhi’s Vikash settled with bronze clinching the race in 3:08:43. Women’s 35-km event on the other hand couldn’t take place due lack of entries. Against a minimum of three enrolments, only two entries had come, forcing organisers to cancel the event. In the 50km men category, Punjab’s 36-year-old Gurpreet Singh claimed the top spot with a personal best effort over 3:59:42 seconds, becoming the fifth Indian to break the four-hour mark over the distance, read the statement from Athletics Federation of India (AFI). Ram Baboo (Uttar Pradesh) on the other hand won silver clocking the race in 4:05:10 and Sagar Joshi (Gujarat) with his timing of 4:12:06 pocketed bronze. In 10km men under-20, Madhya Pradesh’s Vishvendra Singh (42:14) won gold followed by Uttarakhand's Paramjeet Singh Bishy (42:16) silver and Madhya Pradesh’s Bajrangi Prajapati (44:16) bronze. In the girl’s event in the same category, Uttarakhand's Reshma Patel (49:28) was adjudged first followed by Rajasthan’s Geeta Lohar (49:57) in second spot and Uttar Pradesh’s Munita Prajapati (51:30) in the third. On day one of the event, three athletes — two men hailing from Haryana and a female from Uttar Pradesh have qualified for this year’s Tokyo Olympics in the race walking event after they sealed top slots in the 20km category. Two out of the three athletes had also set new national records with their unmatched timing. The trio—Sandeep Kumar and Rahul Kumar of Haryana and Priyanka Goswami of Uttar Pradesh have also qualified for the 2022 World Athletics Championship slated to be held in the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
14-02-2021||Jharkhand||Little magazine publisher organises contest on lockdown stories||At a time, when the independence of the mainstream media is under question from several quarters, the little magazines -- small periodicals of serious, non commercial literary writing -- are emerging as the flag bearer of independent thoughts, simmering among the common masses. Going with the flow, Dipak Kumar Sen, a retired mathematics professor, had established the oldest little magazine of Dhanbad Aami Ananya in 1977. The magazine recently organised a competition on stories based on the lockdown, highlighting issues like literacy environment, disparity, national integrity, science, human index, and economics. Sen on Sunday told The Telegraph Online that they had selected 21 entries out of the 127, and would be sending honorary letters to the winners by the first week of March. “We have received some magnificent and thought provoking  compositions as part of the competition, one of which emotionally portrays the love between humans and animals. We have already started publishing the stories, and three to four award-winning pieces will be published in subsequent editions,” he said. Sen has also been conducting a little magazine fair in Dhanbad since 2016, to promote them. “In 2016, 56 little magazines from across the country and abroad took part in the fair,” he added. “The variety and quality of stories points out the fact that the society is full of independent thinkers and writers who need to be promoted,” he said. “Through their thought provoking articles, little magazines act as agents stirring society out of its inertia,” said Sen. The retired professor however complained about the lack of financial aid that little magazine publishers face.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
14-02-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren govt activates plan for model schools in each district||The Hemant Soren government has already taken definitive steps towards providing quality education and converting government schools into model schools in keeping with the promise made by the chief minister. The state government has already floated tenders for infrastructure upgradation of 27 identified model schools in each district. The upgrade work is scheduled to be completed by the first quarter of 2022 while refurbishing work of existing structures would be completed in the next few months. "We have identified 27 district schools from across the state that will be developed as model schools in the first phase. All these schools will be affiliated to CBSE after refurbishing the infrastructure within a few months. Moving forward, infrastructure development in 53 more schools will be done and these will also be affiliated to CBSE by the first quarter of 2022,” director of higher education Shailesh Kumar Chourasia told The Telegraph Online. He said in the second phase, 500 schools would be developed as a school of excellence under the Adarsh Vidyalaya Scheme’. “In the third phase, the state government plans to have model schools in each panchayat," added Chourasia, who is also director of Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC). The target was to benefit lakhs of children in the coming future, he explained. The state government wants to make Adarsh Vidyalaya Scheme to be its flagship endeavour so that government schools are at par with national and international standards in terms of accessibility, equality and quality education. "Model Schools will cater to students from the pre-primary level to class 12. There is a plan to admit 1,000 to 1,200 students to the proposed schools. Admission into these schools will be on merit through tests. For admission into the initial classes, the government plans to give priority to the children living near the school area," said an official in the chief minister's office. The state government has plans to start “Aao Padhein Khoob Padhein”, a campaign to motivate students to read textbooks. Textbooks, story books, articles, etc, will be used as reading material for students to practice pronunciation and improve reading ability. The state will also seek the help of various organisations working in the field of education, like NCERT, NEIP, to improve the English speaking ability of students. A dedicated language lab will also be operated in model schools to improve learning outcomes and it will also be used as a review mechanism tool. "With the help of premier institutes of the country such as IIM, XLRI, NCERT, NEIP, principals and teachers deputed in model schools will be given focused training as per the national and international standards. We are looking to hone their administration skills. We have already started training the trainer exercise of selected teachers from February," Chourasia added. To ensure student-centered teaching, subject-wise training will be provided to teachers. NCERT and DIETs will be made effective for training teachers. Besides, capacity development will be done through a continuous system of evaluation of teachers, improvement in the quality of schools through Rajya Shikshak Parivartan Dal (State Teacher Transformation Team), motivation camps and other programmes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
14-02-2021||Jharkhand||Flights may double by April with focus on tier-2 cities||The number of flights taking off from Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi is likely to double by April with focus on connecting the Jharkhand capital to tier-2 cities like Lucknow, Guwahati and Trivandrum, officials from the transport department said on Sunday. “We want to add new flights to tier two cities in the summer schedule. We are in talks with some airlines and hopeful that air connectivity will increase in the summer,” said state transport secretary K. Ravi Kumar, who recently met Airports Authority of India officials and Ranchi airport director. Currently, around 17 flights take off from and land in Ranchi every day. The number, airport officials said, is likely to go up at 32 in April once new flights are added. An official, talking on behalf of the airport director Vinod Sharma, who was not on duty on Sunday, said that Ranchi is likely to get direct flights to Jaipur, Lucknow, Trivandrum and some other tier-2 cities from April. The state government recently lifted flight restrictions on the Birsa Munda Airport and gave its nod to increase the number of flights to and from Ranchi. The only operational airport in Jharkhand is well connected to metro cities across India. Ranchi already has direct flights to New Delhi, Kolkata, Bangalore, Mumbai and Hyderabad. In the past couple of months, Indigo Airlines also started flights to Pune and Ahmedabad from the city. The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) has also been pressing for new flight services from Ranchi. The trade body had also expressed displeasure over the delay in construction of the Deoghar airport, which once ready, will be the second largest airport in Jharkhand after Ranchi. The airport in Deoghar is likely to be ready by March and flight services from there may begin in April, the transport secretary said. However, travelers to Bihar are yet to get direct flights to Patna. Also, there are no flights to Raipur and Bhubaneswar from Ranchi. Passenger footfall at the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi has tripled since June, the AAI stated in December. However, the passenger footfall here was still less than half of what it used to be in pre-Covid times, local airport officials said. The AAI stated that the passenger traffic at the Ranchi airport had dropped to 57,749 in June 2020, when travel restrictions were relaxed. The passenger traffic shot up to 1,41,268 in November when more flights were allowed to ply, the AAI stated, lauding the airport staff here for their dedication.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
14-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jeweller sustains grievous injuries after bikers fire at him||A jewellery shop owner was grievously injured when two bike-riding persons shot at him at Uliyan in the Kadma Police Station area late on Saturday night when he was closing the store. Ganesh Chandra (38) was rescued by some local residents and was rushed to Tata Main Hospital. He has sustained injury in the abdomen and the single pellet which trapped inside was taken out after he was operated upon early on Sunday morning. Chandra was turned around when the two accused fired two shots from close range, one of which hit his abdomen. The other was a misfire. The attackers had shawls wrapped around themselves, while also covering their faces.They had sped away towards Anil Sure Path after the attack. A police team reached the spot within 10 minutes of the incident. Kadma Police Station OC Manoj Thakur said that the reason behind the attack was not clear yet. "Though the victim is out of danger now, he is not in a condition to speak. We will be able to get an idea behind the gun-shot attack on him after getting a statement from him,” he told The Telegraph Online on Sunday. He said the reason behind the attack might be extortion or a family affair. "We tried to get CCTV footage of the incident, but there were no surveillance cameras nearby. We could not get clear footage from a camera which is installed at a little distance away from the spot," said the OC, adding that they are hopeful of detecting the case soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
14-02-2021||Jharkhand||15 injured as bus collides head-on with truck in Koderma||A Hazaribagh bound bus collided head-on with a truck on Ranchi-Patna Highway near Koderma Bazar injuring 15 passengers on early Sunday morning. The bus named Hemkunt was going to Hazaribagh from Patna when the accident took place. One passenger was referred to RIMS, Ranchi and the rest of the injured were provided treatment at Koderma Sadar hospital. Police officials said the bus with the registration number-JH02Q/6862 was on the way to Hazaribagh when it hit a truck (CG04JO/8494) at around 4 am. Police informed the accident occurred due to high speed. “But we have to find out whether the bus driver or the truck driver was responsible for this mishap,” added the officials. Koderma police station officer-in-charge Dwarika Ram reached the spot and started the relief work after being informed about the accident. The injured were pulled out from the mangled bus and were sent to hospitals. One Chandrakant Prasad, resident of Nawada in Bihar, sustained grievous injures and was rushed to RIMS, Ranchi. A 24-year-old Ankit Kumar of Rohtas district said all passengers were sleeping when the collision took place. As the crash happened, the injured passengers started shouting for help. There were many who escaped unhurt or with minor injuries. Ram said they had seized both the truck and the bus and lodged an FIR against the drivers for negligent driving.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
14-02-2021||Jharkhand||1,960 health workers get second Covishield jab in state||As many as 1,960 healthcare workers were administered the second dose of the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Saturday, 28 days after they were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus for the first time, the National Health Mission (NHM) stated in a report. West Singhbhum, Latehar, Koderma and Jamtara achieved more than 100 per cent of its vaccination target for the second dose on Saturday. While West Singhbhum 73 people against 60 registered beneficiaries, at least 128 people were administered the second jab of Covishield in Latehar against the 119 registered beneficiaries. As many as 57 people were administered the jab in Jamtara, while 43 healthcare workers got the shots in Koderma. Palamu administered the second dose of Covishield vaccine to 133 beneficiaries on the day – the highest among all 24 districts in Jharkhand. Only 54 of the 100 registered beneficiaries were administered the second dose of vaccine jabs in Ranchi. The state achieved 77 per cent of the vaccination target for the second dose of immunisation on Saturday as only 1,960 of the 2555 registered beneficiaries turned up at the vaccination centres, government data highlighted. Meanwhile, the number of beneficiaries inoculated against Covid-19 in the state crossed the 2 lakh mark on Saturday. Jharkhand achieved only 46 per cent of its vaccination target for beneficiaries who got the first dose of the vaccine on the day. As per government data, as many as 14,111 of the 30,576 registered healthcare workers and frontline workers were inoculated in Jharkhand on Saturday. While 2,279 people were vaccinated in Ranchi, the district achieved only 53 per cent of its target for the day. Jamtara achieved 89 per cent of its target on the day – the highest among Jharkhand districts. As many as 432 beneficiaries were inoculated there. So far, 216970 people have been vaccinated in Jharkhand and the state has achieved 56 per cent of its vaccination target, reveals government data. As many as three Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) cases were reported in the state on Saturday, taking the total AEFI cases reported in Jharkhand so far to 264. Two cases were reported in Koderma and one in Bokaro district. Meanwhile, Jharkhand reported 41 fresh cases of Covid-19 against 29 recoveries on Saturday, which took the number of active cases in the state to 452, stated a bulletin released by NHM. A resident of Dhanbad died of the infection on the day, taking the toll to 1,082, the bulletin further stated. As per government data, as many as 1,19,283 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, and 98.71 per cent of them have recovered. At the current rate, it would take more than 2,173 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
