15-02-2021||Calcutta||An island of quiet: The Sant Kutiya Gurdwara ||Avtar Singh is taking us on a tour of Sant Kutiya Gurdwara on Harish Mukherjee Road. The five marble floors of the gurdwara rise serene and white against a February afternoon, like an island of quiet in fidgety Bhowanipore. Singh leads us into the spacious prayer hall, the Darbar Sahib, on the first floor, and gestures, gently and respectfully, towards the golden canopy in front of us, under which rests the Guru Granth Sahib, the sacred book of the Sikh faith. It is considered the living, the eternal guru, says Singh, the general secretary of the gurdwara. He is 59. The Guru Granth Sahib contains words and hymns of Sikh gurus, and each copy has 1,430 pages. “The gurdwara is the doorway (dwar) to the guru,” explains Singh. In Sikhism, God is the Oneness that permeates eternity and entirety. Akal, meaning timeless, is a word integral to Sikh faith and religion. The words of the gurus describe God. This is Singh’s third term as the general secretary of the gurdwara. But Singh, a lean, brisk man, who was in the transport business earlier, would much rather speak about the gurdwara than about himself. He was born and brought up in Calcutta. He studied at Birla High School and Bhowanipore Education Society. But his life seems to be here, at the gurdwara. Floor by floor, he takes us through the gurdwara, to the Nishan Sahib on the top, the sword-imprinted flag that proclaims a gurdwara. It is like an ascent, through the idea of Sikhism, its practices and its elaborate symbolism. It also perhaps gives a glimpse into how faith holds up a mass of people elsewhere in the country, out in the cold, pitted against the powers of the state. “The Guru Granth Sahib not only contains the hymns of the Sikh gurus, but also that of 13 Hindu Bhakti movement poets, including Jayadeva, who was from this part of the country, and two Sufi Pirs,” he says. The book is written in Gurumukhi script, but in many languages, such as Brajbhasha. The Sikh religion incorporates elements from many religions and the gurdwara is open to visitors from all religions and communities, says Singh. It preaches peace, harmony and tolerance. The afternoon light has filled the prayer hall. Every day people congregate here to listen to the readings from the Guru Granth Sahib. Men sit on one side of the floor, women on the other. “Everyone sits at the same level. The Sikh religion believes in equality, including that of gender,” says Singh. The community has dwindled in Calcutta. Once a thriving population that dominated the transport business in the city and also was present in the hotel business, now it has come down to a few thousands. Many among the younger generation have gone abroad. Singh’s three children have left for Canada. Singh, a widower, lives alone. Fewer people come to the gurdwara now, but the gurdwara, like the other gurdwaras in the city and elsewhere, remains waiting. And keeps the community together. The two floors above the two-level Darbar Sahib are used for langar, the meal served free to any visitor. The floors are strewn with giant pots that are used to cook food on special days. On other days the amount cooked is not huge. Langar is a simple vegetarian meal, meant for the needy and the hungry. It is a seva, selfless service, a defining feature of Sikhism, says Singh. In Sikh lore, the practice of langar goes back to the first guru, Guru Nanak, says Singh. Guru Nanak’s father had given him Rs 20 for a business. With that money, Guru Nanak fed the hungry. “It was sachcha sauda (true business),” says Singh. The practice also conveys the message of equality: everyone eats together, sitting on the floor. It is said that on the suggestion of Guru Amardas, the third Sikh guru, emperor Akbar had langar. That it has the power to sustain even a movement is evident at the farmers’ protest in Delhi. The kindness of food can go a long way and embrace everyone, including policemen posted at the protest site. “Seva and simran,” says Singh, are the two pillars of Sikhism: service and remembrance of God. On top of the gurdwara stands the Nishan Sahib, a triangular flag with the composite emblem of the two-edged sword khanda, a chakkar, a circular shape, and two single swords flanking the khanda and the chakkar. On the left is the sword called Piri and on the right is the Miri, representing spiritual and temporal sovereignties. “It is not right to call the farmers’ protest a Sikh protest,” says Singh. “Because it is a national protest.” But at the same time he cannot not talk about what the Sikhs, or the people from Punjab, have contributed to the nation and brought to the protest. “The Green Revolution happened in Punjab. And we are in the Army too.” How can farmers’ interests not be looked at by the state? There is a proverb that says uttam kheti, madhyam vyapar, nikhad chakri (the best occupation is farming, then comes business and the last is working for someone else),” says Singh. “The protest will not stop. The Sikhs are a very determined lot,” says Singh. “What we have to do, we do. Jo bole so nihaal, Sat Sri Akal. One who says the words, feels fulfilled; true is the Timeless Lord. The word and its accomplishment are simultaneous, as are the spiritual and temporal sovereignties.” But one day, feels Singh, he has to leave Calcutta. When he is old and has to be taken care of, he will leave the city to stay with his children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
15-02-2021||Calcutta||Waste powered electricity to light up New Town streets||A biogas plant will convert waste collected from houses, restaurants and office complexes in New Town into power that will light up some of its streets. Electricity generated from the plant near Balaka Abasan in Action Area I of New Town will power street lights on a 2-km stretch on either side of the housing complex. “The street lights are now lit with the power drawn from the regular electrical grid in New Town. Once the biogas plant starts generating electricity, the regular power lines will be kept as back-up,” an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. “The plant is likely to be operational towards the end of March. Work to connect the street lights to the plant's electrical outlet has started.” The plant will process wet waste or biodegradable items and has a composting tank. This tank is filled with vegetable peels and fruit pulp collected from offices, houses and restaurants. It will take around a month’s time for the biodegradable waste to break down and produce biogas. “This unit will help us greatly reduce the amount of biodegradable waste that finds its way to landfill sites,” said the official. A biogas plant — described as an anaerobic digester — comprises an airtight tank filled with microorganisms and bacteria that can transform biomass into biogas. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said the plant could process five metric tonnes of wet waste. “As a pilot study, we will use the electricity generated by the plant to power street lights in the vicinity,” Sen said. Vegetable peels, fruit pulp and even maize stalk can be put into the tank to produce biogas. The compost that will be produced, in another unit inside the complex, will be mixed with soil in median dividers where trees have been planted. “After the production increases, we will use the compost at Eco Park and the ‘tall tree nursery’ and other places that have greenery,” another NKDA official said. The composting unit, which officials said will be sealed and odour-less, will be able to produce at least 100kg of compost after every refill. Waste management professionals said the trend across the world was to recycle waste to reduce its volume and produce new products from it. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has started a composting unit in Ward 82 (Chetla), where market waste is treated to generate manure. But there is no biogas generation unit yet in the CMC area. According to Sen, collecting raw materials for the biogas plant and the composting unit would not be a problem since most houses, offices and restaurants in New Town were segregating their waste and handing out biodegradable waste in separate containers to door-to-door collectors. “We started segregation of waste at source and almost all the houses and establishments in New Town have been given colour-coded bins (for separate disposal of biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste). Almost all of them are doing this. Biodegradable waste items such as vegetable peels and fruit pulp will be used to make compost and biogas,” said Sen. The NKDA has also started upcycling e-waste collected from the township and Sector V and making them fit for reuse in an attempt to prevent accumulation of hazardous materials at dumping sites. Metro had reported earlier how old smartphones, personal computers and other electronic gadgets were being collected from homes and offices. These are then repaired and restored so they can be used once more. “The ones that cannot be repaired will be used to make various household items, including decorative pieces,” an NKDA official said. The repaired and refurbished items are put on display at the Zero Waste shop near the New Town bus stand intersection to encourage people not to throw away their electronic gadgets with other household waste.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
15-02-2021||Calcutta||Violence against women is the biggest war on earth: Kamla Bhasin||Violence against women is the biggest war on earth, one which happens inside homes, writer and feminist Kamla Bhasin said while addressing survivors of violence and college students. “There is no war bigger than this (violence against women). It’s sad that this war happens inside our homes,” said Bhasin. She was the keynote speaker at an online programme by One Billion Rising India & Calcutta chapter to celebrate Rising Gardens, Rising Women. One Billion Rising is a mass action to end violence against women. The global campaign started on Valentine’s Day in 2012 as a call to action to rise against violence. “For me every day is a day of love. Not just February 14. Because I don’t believe in hatred, I don’t believe in fighting,” said Bhasin, the south Asia coordinator of One Billion Rising. She said a 2012 report of the World Health Organisation stated that one in three women in the word was a victim of violence. “If you total this number, it comes to 100 crore women…. So we have to mark One Billion Rising to strike, dance and rise. Dance because one need not remain a victim any more but be a survivor and a driver of our lives,” said Bhasin. “Small changes can be brought by a small organisation or a family. But if we have to bring about big changes, we have to have big movements… and this rising 100 crores does not only comprise women… it comprises men, transgender, children. All those who respect and love women.” The two-hour online programme, held on Friday, was organised by 11 NGOs. Organisers and others said the pandemic had only intensified the violence against women. “This year we had to address double the number of cases. The intensity and the frequency of violence both have increased,” said Anuradha Kapoor, the founder and director of Swayam, a women’s rights organisation. Kapoor said that while an increasing number of women wanted to leave home because of violence, they were facing problems related to unavailability of transport and shelter homes. “In March last year we had started with three helplines for women. Now there are 10 helplines…. During a pandemic or any crisis, violence against women increases,” Kapoor said. “Women are locked in houses with their abusers during a pandemic. For men whose mobility has been restricted (by the pandemic) or who have lost jobs, women become easy targets.” During the programme, survivors of violence shared their experiences of coming out of their situations. They faced violence, which has left “permanent scars” on them, not just from in-laws but also in parental homes. The campaign follows a theme that “resonates with every woman,” and this year’s theme is violence on nature. Keeping in mind the connection between nature and mother earth, who receive the harshest of blows, the theme “Rising Garden, calls out for revival, restoration and transformation”. “Let us grow gardens of hope, gardens of love and gardens of loving communities,” said Bhasin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
15-02-2021||Calcutta||Days set  to get warmer in Calcutta: Met office||The Celsius has risen nearly seven degrees in Calcutta in less than a week’s time. On February 9, Tuesday, the Alipore office of the India Meteorology Department had recorded a minimum temperature of 13.2 degrees. On Sunday, the minimum was 19.6 degrees. The maximum temperature has also jumped a few notches to remain in the 30-degree-Celsius range over the past couple of days. The minimum temperature is likely to touch the 20-degree mark over the next couple of days. The days could get hotter, the Met office has said. “The north-westerly winds, which bring chill to Calcutta, have almost stopped, marking the end of winter. The direct insulation from the sun rays is going to make the weather warmer,” said a Met official. The winter chill overstayed in Calcutta this season. At 11.4 degrees, Monday (February 1) was the coldest February day in over a decade and the second coldest this winter. A week ago, many Calcuttans were seen wearing warm clothes in the afternoon. But not any more. The umbrellas are not out yet but the sun has been making its presence felt. On Sunday, people waiting to enter an exhibition on the Rabindra Sadan premises were seen protecting their heads from the sun with newspapers. Ditto for visitors to the Alipore zoo. Fans and air-conditioners are back to on-mode at many homes during the day time. “The evenings and early mornings will still be pleasant for a few more days. The temperature will go up gradually,” the Met official said The only breather — the humidity level is not expected to go up significantly. “The western districts of Bengal could get some thunderstorms on Thursday and Friday. In Calcutta, there is little chance of rain,” the Met official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
15-02-2021||Calcutta||Bengal govt schools sweat over ‘safety gap’ on campus||Government schools are finding it difficult to rearrange tables and benches to ensure physical distancing among students, the heads of several institutions said. The authorities are managing because fewer students are now going to school but once students of more classes are called to the campus, it will be difficult to enforce physical distancing, a key precaution against Covid-19. Schools have reopened for in-person instruction for students of Classes IX to XII following a nod from the state government. The students of five classes can now attend in-person classes because Class X has two batches — one that has just been promoted from Class IX and the other that will write Madhyamik in June. Schools are now trying to seat two students on one bench and one in the next row. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, each bench would seat up to five or six students. Many schools have split a class into smaller sections and assigned separate rooms to each. Some are calling students in batches, while others are conducting classes in halls so more students can be accommodated adhering to the physical distancing norm. At Jadavpur Vidyapith, students are being called in batches. “Depending on the size of the room, we can accommodate 12 to 16 benches that can seat 18 to 24 students. We are calling students in batches because we have to accommodate all of them,” headmaster Parimal Bhattacharya said. Class IX at Krishnachandrapur High School in South 24-Parganas has 560 students - 140 in each section. “We don’t have enough benches to accommodate all students and yet maintain the physical distancing norm,” headmaster Chandan Maity said. “This problem is faced by many schools. To overcome the problem, schools are calling children on alternate days,” said Maity, who is also the secretary general of an organisation of school heads. “We have used up all the benches we had. We are now using halls to conduct classes. Once students of Classes V to VIII start coming, we will possibly run out of benches or rooms,” said Pulak Roy Chowdhury, the headmaster of Kanaknagar SD Institution in Hingalganj, North 24-Parganas. Several heads said the situation was still manageable because the number of students going to school was much less than what they had expected. “That is helping us maintain the physical distance protocol in each classroom,” a headmaster said. “The attendance was never 100 per cent even before the pandemic struck, so we could seat every student who came,” said Sajal Dey, the headmaster of Barajirakpur Tarun Sangha High School (HS) in Basirhat. “Over the last two days, about 37 per cent of the students who were asked to go to school turned up. That helped us maintain adequate distance among them,” Dey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
15-02-2021||Calcutta||250 birds in cages rescued from Babughat bus stand||More than 250 Alexandrine parakeets were seized from a bus near the Babughat bus stand on Sunday morning. Forest department officials said the bus had started from Ranchi and the birds were to be delivered at several places across the city, including Galiff Street in north Calcutta where birds are sold on Sundays. “Trading in indigenous birds is prohibited. Alexandrine parakeets are protected under the wildlife protection act,” a forest department official said. “We were tipped off that a large number of birds were being smuggled in from Ranchi. We had specific information about the bus, on which the cages had been loaded. Our men spread around in the Babughat area. They kept watch and as soon as the cages were unloaded, they surrounded the bus and apprehended the man who was bringing them,” the official said. Toufiq Alam, who allegedly brought the birds to the city, and Narayan Singh, the driver of the bus, have been arrested. The Bankshal court remanded them in judicial custody. “The Alexandrine parakeet is protected under Schedule I of the wildlife protection act,” said a senior forester. Schedule I animals enjoy the highest protection. A person convicted of trading, killing or hunting a Schedule I animal faces at least seven years’ imprisonment, the official said. The website of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) mentions that the Alexandrine parakeet is near endangered and “occurs in moist or semi-evergreen forest in lowlands, hills as well as low lying mountains. It is known for its ability to mimic sounds, including human speech”. “The population is suspected to be in decline owing to trade and to widespread forest destruction, although rates of decline are unlikely to be higher than moderate, as this species is tolerant of secondary and degraded habitats,” the website adds. Samik Dutta, a conservationist working for an NGO, said that despite raids by the forest department, birds protected under the wildlife act are sold on Galiff Street every Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
15-02-2021||Calcutta||Bengal govt sets February Covid vaccine deadline for health-care workers||All health-care workers in Bengal have to be administered the first dose of a Covid vaccine by February 20, the state government has said, prompting hospitals to draw up a list of employees yet to be inoculated. Bengal has so far administered the first dose of Covishield or Covaxin (the two Covid-19 vaccines approved for emergency use in India) to 495,845 people, the vast majority of whom are health-care workers, health department officials said. “Around 2 lakh health-care workers are yet to be given the first dose. Close to 6.8 lakh health-care workers in the state have been registered for Covid-19 inoculation,” an official said. “We have set February 20 as the deadline for administering the first jab to all health-care workers. This is part of the plan to move forward with vaccination,” the official said. The Centre has informed the health department that vaccination of people above 50 and those suffering from comorbidities would start after March 6. “During an online meeting with us, officials of the Centre told us to remain ready so that vaccination of the general population can start after March 6. But no date was mentioned. We expect the date will be announced this week,” another official of the health department said. “Since we have to begin vaccination of people above 50, we cannot carry on vaccinating health-care workers for an endless period. There has to be a deadline.” Various vaccination sites in the city – private and government hospitals, as well as ward clinics run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation – have started identifying health-care workers who are yet to be inoculated and are informing them about the deadline. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said on Sunday that about 95 per cent of the hospital’s health-care workers have been inoculated. “The state health department has informed us about the February 20 deadline. We have asked the heads of all departments at our hospital to inform the health-care workers in their respective departments who have not yet received their first dose about the deadline,” he said. “We are identifying the health-care workers in our hospital who have not yet been vaccinated.” Jyotirmoy Pal, a professor at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital who is actively involved in the inoculation programme at the hospital, said repeated WhatsApp messages were being circulated in the groups of doctors and other health-care workers of the hospital, informing them about the deadline. “The majority of the health-care workers at our hospital have got the first dose of a Covid vaccine,” he said. Indranil Biswas, the medical superintendent of the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, said they, too, were spreading the message through WhatsApp and word of mouth. “Taking the vaccine is voluntary. We cannot force anyone to take it, but we can spread the information about the deadline so that no one who is willing to take the jab misses out,” said Biswas. The state health department has also planned to conduct a mop-up operation between February 21 and 25, but what will be done during the period is still not clear. “It could be that the  health-care workers who are not registered to get the vaccine will get a last chance to do so. In that case, they may be asked to receive the first dose by February 25,” said an official. Many private practitioners, who are not associated with any hospital or nursing home, are still to be vaccinated, he added. Vaccination of frontline workers such as police personnel and municipal workers started about 10 days ago. It will continue for some more time. The state has about 2.8 lakh frontline workers, close to 1 lakh of whom are from Calcutta. The administration of the second dose of Covid vaccines began in the state on Saturday. The health-care workers who had received their first dose on January 16 got the second dose on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
15-02-2021||Business||Sensex soars past 52,000 to close on a record high ||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 610 points to finish above the 52,000-mark for the first time on Monday, tracking significant gains in financial stocks amid a positive trend in global markets. After touching a record high of 52,235.97 during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 609.83 points or 1.18 per cent up at 52,154.13. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty soared 151.40 points or 1 per cent to finish at a record high of 15,314.70. It touched an intra-day peak of 15,340.15. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, climbing around 6 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance, SBI, IndusInd Bank, HDFC and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's TCS, Tech Mahindra, HUL and Asian Paints were among the laggards. "Indian market opened on a positive following upbeat peers in Asia as Nikkei 225 crossed 30,000 for first time in more than three decades with Japan's economy growing 12.7 per cent on an annualised basis in October to December last year," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. During the afternoon session, markets continued to trade higher as CPI data released during the weekend added to the positive sentiments, he said. Retail inflation during the month of December 2020 was at 4.59 per cent, the second consecutive month the CPI data has come within the Reserve Bank of India's upper margin of 6 per cent. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul ended with strong gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.30 per cent higher at USD 63.24 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
15-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points to fresh peak||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points to scale its fresh lifetime high in opening trade on Monday tracking gains in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 515.40 points or 1 per cent higher at 52,059.70. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 135.90 points or 0.90 per cent up at 15,299.20. It touched a record of 15,314.30 in early trade. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, HDFC, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Kotak Bank and SBI. On the other hand, ONGC, Tech Mahindra, NTPC, Sun Pharma and TCS were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 12.78 points or 0.02 per cent higher at its new closing record of 51,544.30, while Nifty slipped 10 points or 0.07 per cent to 15,163.30. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 37.33 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, CPI inflation for January at 4.06 per cent, and the rebound in IIP are positive news for the market. The Nifty Bank Index is up by 15.5 per cent this year compensating for the relatively poor performance in 2020, he noted. The important takeaway from this and other important data pertaining to credit growth, IIP, electricity consumption, e-way bills, GST collections and sales of commodities like cement and autos is that the growth recovery is gaining momentum. If this trend is sustained, corporate profits will surprise on the upside in FY 22, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.79 per cent higher at USD 63.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
15-02-2021||Business||Pledge to save||We are in the early days of a new year. Many have financial tasks such as tax-saving investments and insurance purchases to complete. Some are still trying to understand where to begin with their money plans and how to get better at savings. Savings are the bedrock of your finances. They pave the way for everything else — be it investments, insurance purchases or the fulfilment of aspirations. Here are some tips to get you thinking. Set budgets Budgeting involves setting your financial priorities for the year and allocating your income towards the financing of those priorities. Budgeting would also help you identify areas where you need to spend more or spend less. You can do this by going through your bank statements to understand where your money went and what changes you’d like to make this year. For example, you may find your food ordering needs to be reined in. Be goal-oriented Pick a target and aim to hit it by the end of 2021. For example, it could be saving three times your monthly income for emergencies, or saving 20 per cent of your income every month without fail. Automate your payments Use digital tools that complete financial tasks on your behalf. A recurring deposit or a mutual fund SIP will divert a fixed amount from your bank every month to a savings plan of your choice. Compulsory monthly savings is one of the best ways to improve savings. Also, automate your bills with netbanking or a payments app. Late payment penalties avoided are also savings. What’s left in your bank after mandatory savings and expenses is yours to enjoy. Look beyond savings account Too little money in your savings account is a problem. So is too much money. If you’re left with too little after your savings and spends, you could dip into your savings. If you’re left with too much, you aren’t saving enough. Use a sweep-in fixed deposit to park excess liquidity and earn higher interest returns. Divert your savings into your provident fund. Start a systematic investment plan. Your options for earning higher returns are many. Exit high-interest debts Loans that attract high interest should be attacked consistently. Credit card dues can spiral into a debt trap. Get rid of unpaid card dues on priority. This will free up your income for higher savings. Pre-payment on large borrowings such as home loans will also help you get out of debt faster, as will refinancing to a loan with lower interest. You could also seek consolidation to merge multiple high-interest loans into a single low-interest loan. Be ruthless Be ruthless when it comes to cutting down discretionary spends. The fewer your spend, the more you’re likely to save. For example, cancel the online streaming services or subscriptions you no longer use. If you’re on a tight budget, buy used goods. Split costs with friends and family. Look beyond brands. Your local chaiwala is cheaper than multinational coffee chains. Check your impulse Use the 30-day rule to avoid impulsive spends. If you fancy something which could stretch your finances, wait for 30 days. After the wait, if you still want it, go ahead. But it’s also likely your impulse will subside, and you’ll avoid wasting your money. Borrow carefully When it comes to lifestyle and consumption, live within your means. Control what you borrow in this regard. Credit card-fuelled consumption will hurt your ability to save. Savouring life is important; to do it within one’s financial capacity, even more so. Also, compare your financing options across different loan products and lenders to find the deal with the best repayment terms. Be strategic with spends Maximise the benefits available to you. Hunt the web for free coupons and vouchers. Redeem the reward points you get against debit or credit card spends. Get a card that provides you the lifestyle you need. For example, if you love shopping online, get a card that provides extra cashback or accelerated reward points on your preferred online spends. Challenge yourself It’s important to not just save but get better at saving. If you’re already saving 10 per cent of your income, push yourself to save 20 per cent. If you’re at 20 per cent, aim for 30 per cent. This would continually require you to rebalance your priorities, which will bring you back to smart budgeting, goal setting and planning. Protect your finances Lastly, throw a protective ring around your savings. You don’t want them to disappear due to unplanned events such as a hospitalisation. Buy health and life insurance so that you and your family’s finances can stay strong against life’s vagaries. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||Business||Tata Steel charts separate road map for UK, Netherlands||Tata Steel will pursue different paths for the two European businesses in the Netherlands and the UK with a focus on making each of them self-sustaining and accountable individually, Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and chief financial officer of Tata Steel Limited, tells the author. Tata Steel would look at the Centre’s privatisation drive closely and take a call as and when it happens, he adds. How do you analyse your latest quarter performance, including managing the debt ? In the December quarter, Tata Steel delivered one of the best financial performances with the highest consolidated EBITDA of Rs 9,540 crore and free cash flows of over Rs 12,000 crore on the back of a strong operating performance of the India business, sharp focus on capital allocation and working capital management. All our operating hubs in India have performed exceptionally well with the stand alone EBIDTA margin at 37.5 per cent. Our key subsidiaries Tata Steel BSL and Tata Steel Long Products have also reported the highest profitability in recent years. Our debt management continues to be on target. After reducing net debt by Rs 8,285 crore in the first half, we continued to aggressively cut the net debt by Rs 10,325 crore and gross debt by Rs 5,640 crore during the quarter, taking the nine-month reduction in net debt by Rs 18,609 crore and gross debt by Rs 7,649 crore. How do you see the way forward for the European business and how to make it sustainable ? There are actions underway at multiple levels. First, the separation of the UK and the Netherlands business is giving us a good sense of the cost takeouts we are targeting to make it a more competitive cost structure. The organisation structure will also be simplified and de-layered which will help in driving higher site accountability. Second, we are working on the transformation of the businesses across many functions all of which is to make the the entity cash flow self sufficient. Finally, we will pursue different strategic paths for the two businesses in the future. For now we are focused on internal transformation actions and execute them well to make the businesses sustainable. Tata Steel has been seeking financial assistance from the UK and the Netherlands government. But we have not seen much progress so far. Can you give us an update? We have been in discussions with the UK government in exploring several options and what it means to the different stakeholders. In the Netherlands, our engagement with the government is on the long-term decarbonisation plan and how to ensure that there is a sustainable pathway for transition to the decarbonisation agenda set by the Dutch government. I think all stakeholders realise that we have to work together in this journey as it involves technology choices for the transition, especially on hydrogen. This is an ongoing dialogue and we have a decarbonisation plan to reduce CO2 in the Netherlands in the next decade. Back home, the Centre has announced a massive disinvestment programme and companies such as SAIL, RINL would be on the block. Will Tata Steel bid for any of them? For us, growth in India has always been a core strategy and we have grown both organically and in organically in the last decade. Once the assets or business fits our strategy and the risk and opportunities are identified, the decision to allocate capital for the acquisition becomes fundamentally clear. So, we will look at the assets that may be available but similar lens will apply. It’s too early to talk about anything specific on the subject now. What is the update on the Kalinganagar expansion ? How much capex will be earmarked for the next fiscal? A substantial part of the enabling work and engineering has been completed and we were pacing the execution in a phased manner with emphasis on two facilities — the pellet plant and the cold rolling mill. The disruptions due to the pandemic slowed down the project and we had also reduced our capital allocation for the project during the first three quarters of the current fiscal. We are now restarting the project and the capex allocation for 2021-22 will be much higher than 2020-21. The 6-million-tonne per annum pellet plant and the cold rolling mill will get completed in about 12-15 months. Will additional debt be required for the capex? Where will the net debt number be at the end of March 31? The future debt levels will primarily depend on the financial framework we have in place. The capital allocation priority is clear — we will continue to de-leverage, allocate capital to complete our planned projects and keep the appetite in the balance sheet for future growth. We will continue to reduce the gross debt in the fourth quarter by more than Rs 12,000 crore and we are on target.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||Business||Bosch ensured healthy balance sheet and cash flow during pandemic: Managing Director||Bosch has ensured a healthy balance sheet and cash flow during the pandemic by following a “very tight working capital and cost management”, said managing director Soumitra Bhattacharya, who is also the president of the Bosch India group. Over 2,000 blue collar workers have taken voluntary retirement from the company in 2020-21. Bosch now has 7,500 associates against 10,000 earlier. The company, Bhattacharya said, has offered the retiring associates the best packages for which it had set aside Rs 1,400 crore. On the third-quarter results, Bhattacharya told The Telegraph: “We are neither in euphoria nor in great depression. It is better to look at how we are getting ready.” He said the mobility market was up 17 per cent during the quarter and Bosch Mobility was up 35 per cent. Operating profit EBIT at Rs 261 crore is 24 per cent over the previous year, which Bhattacharya said was decent. “We have been doing a 3R strategy of restructuring, reskilling,  and redeployment and other transformational projects. To support this, an additional amount of Rs 146.6 crores has been provided and disclosed as an exceptional item for the quarter ended December 31, 2020. Last quarter was the final tranche of exceptional items of this Rs 147 crore. On the industry recovery, Bhattacharya said: “It’s been a mixed bag. Passenger cars had its peak in 2018-19 at 4 million plus. We thought in May it would be 2 million this fiscal, while it is 2.9 million. So, it’s a good recovery but we are not yet there at 2018-19 figures.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||Business||IBM bullish on growth prospects of enterprise server demand in India||IBM is bullish on the growth prospects of enterprise server demand in India in 2021 with companies and institutions getting back on track after the Covid-19 pandemic disrupted businesses in 2020. IBM saw a shift in priority among its clients during the pandemic with the focus on strengthening the IT infrastructure to handle core workloads and disaster recovery. “We saw a good amount of spotlight that came into core workloads which run the businesses. Organisations across industries could not always get their people into the data centres because of the lockdown. So a big requirement was the need to have ample capacity to run workloads. We saw many of our clients focus on disaster recovery. Capacity addition also happened because a lot of things have started happening online,” said Ravi Jain, systems leader, India & South Asia, IBM. Jain said the growth of the server market is directly correlated to the growth in workload. “We expect the overall market to grow across industries. Banking and financial services, telecom, retail and healthcare are segments that will see a lot of growth,” he said. “In the regulated industry, such as banks and financial services, they need to have higher availability of capacity and disaster recovery. There will be continued investment in those sectors. Just before the pandemic, there was focus on digital transformation using AI to bring in more efficiency and intelligence in decision making. Some of those digital transformation initiatives is going to drive growth in 2021,” Jain said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||Business||Ministry of labour and employment finalises rules under four labour codes||The ministry of labour and employment has finalised rules under the four labour codes, paving the way to make reforms a reality by notifying those for implementation soon. The four broad codes on wages, industrial relations, social security and occupational safety, health and working conditions (OSH) have already been notified after getting the President’s assent. But to implement these four codes, the rules need to be notified. Now the ministry has completed the process of consultation on draft rules on the four codes and firmed up those for notification. Labour secretary Apurva Chandra said, “We have finalised the rules under the four codes which are required to implement the four labour codes. We are ready to notify these rules. The states are doing their work to firm up rules under the four codes.” The four broad codes would ultimately rationalise 44 central labour laws. The Code on Wages was passed by Parliament in 2019 while the three other codes got clearance from both the Houses in 2020. After the firming up of the rules, now four codes can be notified in one go. Earlier, on February 8, 2021, Chandra had said in a press conference, “Rule-making process is already underway and likely to be completed in the coming week. All stakeholders are also consulted in the framing of rules. This ministry would soon be in a position to bring into force the four codes.” As labour is a concurrent subject, certain rules would also be framed by the states under the four codes. The states are also in the process of notifying draft rules and holding tripartite consultations to firm up those for implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||Business||Star Cement plans to expand in the North East||Star Cement plans to expand in the North East with the Centre pushing for the development of infrastructure and affordable housing in the region. The company has recently commissioned a grinding unit in Bengal at an investment of Rs 450 crore, taking its overall capacity to a little over 6 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) with a clinker capacity of 2.8 million tonnes. Assam and Meghalaya are the two states where the company is present along with Bengal. The company’s chairman, Sajjan Bhajanka, said there was a potential for additional clinker capacity of around 2 million tonnes and another grinding unit of similar capacity. The cumulative investment in both the projects could be around Rs 1,400 crore. The expansion of the cement capacity would follow the scaling up of clinker capacity. “By the time we comission another plant, we would be in a surplus position. The demand in North East and Bengal will also grow,” said Bhajanka. “After North East, the next natural expansion for the company was in Bengal and that too north Bengal. For us expansion in North Bengal was a low hanging fruit because it is nearer to our plants and we would be incurring less transportation cost,” said Bhajanka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||Business||AUM of India’s mutual fund industry forecast to increase to Rs 100 lakh crore||The assets under management (AUM) of India’s mutual fund industry are forecast to increase to Rs 100 lakh crore over nine years on the back of greater penetration and the trend of  growing one’s savings beyond conventional modes. While AUM is the total market value of the investments that a fund house is holding on behalf of its investors, data show that it took almost 50 years to add Rs 10 lakh crore. However, after 2014, there has been rapid  growth and the trend is only expected to continue. Analysts at ICICI Securities said in a note that key regulations such as discouraging mis-selling, removal of entry load, introduction of direct schemes and additional commission for distribution in the smaller cities have helped. The brokerage forecasts that AUM is likely to grow to Rs 45 lakh crore  by 2025 and Rs 100 lakh crore by 2030. This is assuming a nominal GDP growth of 9 per cent over the next decade, a net inflow of 1.1 per cent of GDP into mutual funds and an average performance of 8 per cent. “The absolute growth of Rs 24  lakh crore (in AUM between 2011-20) was equally contributed through flows and performance. We expect the theme of financialisation of savings to continue hereon because of lower returns offered by other asset classes such as bank fixed deposits and real estate. Our macro model suggests that the Indian mutual fundAUM is expected to grow at 15 per cent CAGR (compounded annual growth rate)  between 2019-20 and 2029-30,” the brokerage added. It added that the mutual fund penetration ratio (AUM to GDP) is significantly lower at 11 per cent compared with a global average of 55 per cent, which leaves enough opportunity for strong growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||Business||McNally Sayaji Engineering Ltd to face bankruptcy||McNally Sayaji Engineering Ltd is going to face bankruptcy, the first casualty of the financial turmoil at Williamson Magor Group. The company is an unlisted subsidiary of McNally Bharat Engineering Ltd, which is at the heart of the woes in the group. The Calcutta bench of the National Company Law Tribunal admitted McNally Sayaji for the corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) at the behest of ICICI Bank. McNally Bharat managing director Srinivas Singh said the company was examining the order. “The next course of action will be decided based on the legal counsel.” Further, the NCLT appointed an interim resolution process to carry out the CIRP process and declared a moratorium on new cases against the company under Section 14 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. McNally Sayaji owes a little more than Rs 75 crore to ICICI Bank, including principal and interest, court document shows. The company cumulatively owes Rs 213.18 crore in secured and unsecured loans, excluding outstanding interest and default in paying interest, as on March 31, 2020. ICICI Bank had moved an application seeking CIRP before the court in January 2020. However, the matter could not be heard because of the lockdown in March. The matter was listed again in November. The order passed on February 12 noted that the McNally Sayaji counsel sought to impress upon the fact that the promoters had been pursuing several debt restructuring initiatives. An investor named ANGCC Capital Management, Iceland, had submitted a proposal but it was not possible to follow it through because of the pandemic. A revised plan was submitted by the foreign investor in August. However, the consortium of lenders, including ICICI Bank, asked the company to revise the plan further. Rishav Banerjee, who appeared on behalf of ICICI Bank, submitted before the court that the proposed resolution plan did not in any manner curtail or limit the financial creditor in its individual capacity to enforce its rights against the corporate debtor as McNally Sayaji has not disputed either the default or the debt on the same. The court agreed to the submission noting the default has taken place, triggering insolvency. “In these circumstances, we have no hesitation in admitting the application and in ordering initiation of CIRP against the corporate debtor,” the order read. McNally Bharat, which is a listed entity, holds an 81.86 per cent stake in the subsidiary with a part of it pledged with the lenders. ICICI Bank had invoked around 18 per cent of the pledged stake in November 2020. Close ties The parent had a close tie with the subsidiary which supplied machinery for the EPC contract McNally Bharat was executing but dependency has come down substantially. McNally Sayaji has four plants at Kumardubi (Jharkhand), Asansol, Bangalore and Vadodara employing close to 1,000. It manufactures metallurgical machinery such as crushing and screening plants, and material handling and conveyor plants. During the last fiscal, the company had a total income of Rs 186.68 crore and a net loss of Rs 6.51 crore on a consolidated basis compared with a Rs 259.97-crore income and a Rs 37.76-crore net loss in 2018-19. McNally Sayaji has a subsidiary, MBE Coal & Mineral Technology India Pvt Ltd. Impact on the group At least two group firms, bulk tea producer McLeod Russel India Ltd and investment arm Williamson & Magor Co Ltd have been taken to court for loan default but none of them has been admitted for CIRP. To cover the losses in McNally, the promoters borrowed heavily on the balance sheet of stronger companies such as McLeod and battery maker Eveready Industries. In return, they pledged promoters’ shares to creditors as collateral. As McNally defaulted in payment, a cascading ripple effect was witnessed on the two otherwise strong companies. While McLeod also defaulted in debt payment obligation, Eveready witnessed the invocation of promoters’ stake and sale in the market. Singh said he didn’t expect any significant impact on McNally Bharat. “They are two independent companies. It has got a good business, order book is strong. There may be a little confusion in the market place initially because of the McNally name. We have to sensitise the customers,” he explained. He also informed that the proposal by the overseas investor is still in play for both the companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||India||Twitter deletes Anil Vij’s tweet on Disha Ravi, restores later||Amid the ongoing controversy surrounding the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi in connection with a toolkit case, micro-blogging platform Twitter on Monday said a tweet by Haryana’s home minister Anil Vij, in which he had posted about arrested Ravi, has been investigated and "is not subject to removal" under rules governing extreme speech online. In his tweet, Vij says those with "seeds of anti-nationalism...should be destroyed... whether Disha Ravi or anyone else". Hourse arlier Twitter issued a notice to Vij, saying it had deleted the tweet based on a complaint from a user in Germany. The complaint was under Germany'sNetwork Enforcement Act, which obliges social network providers to delete unlawful content within a short time frame.His full tweet (inHindi) has been translated as: "If seeds of anti nationalism have been sown in somebody's thought process, he/she should be destroyed from roots...whether she is Disha Ravi or anyone else. In the screenshot shared by the home minister, a message from Twitter reads: "Twitter is required by German law to provide notice to users who are reported by people from Germanyvia the Network Enforcement Act reporting flow... We have investigated the reported content and have found that it is not subject to removal under theTwitter rules. "Ravi was arrested on Sunday in connection with a "toolkit" - later also tweeted by teen climate activist Greta Thunberg - relating to the farmers' protest against the new agriculture laws.The police alleged Ravi was a key conspirator and, in an attempt to revive a Khalistani group, prepared and spread a document that is meant to "spread disaffection against the Indian state". They have also named Nikita Jacob, a lawyer, and Shantanu Muluk, an activist, in this case. They said all three created the document and then passed it to others for editing.Ravi's arrest triggered outrage after it emerged Delhi Police did not get permission from a local court, as is the legal precedent. It also emerged that she did not have her own lawyer when she was produced in court on charges of sedition and conspiracy and sent to five days' police custody.Ravi, who argued her own case, told the court: "I did not make the Toolkit. We wanted to support the farmers.I edited two lines on February 3. "Jairam Ramesh, a former minister and lawmaker for the opposition Congress party, called her arrest and detention "completely atrocious" and "unwarranted harassment and intimidation". The chief ministers of both Bengal and Delhi have also expressed outrage. Mamata Banerjee condemned the centre for arresting those protesting against its policies and Arvind Kejriwal called Ravi's arrest an "unprecedented attack on democracy". Last week the Supreme Court issued Twitter and the centre a notice on a petition asking for a mechanism to check fake news, hate messages and incendiary content on its platform. Social media accounts were used by political parties to "tarnish the image of opponents'', particularly during elections, the BJP's Vinit Goenka, who filed the petition, said. This comes at a time the centre is demanding the deletion of 1,000 accounts and posts that it says are spreading provocative content linked to the farmers' protests. Twitter said the content was not blocked because the centre's orders were not in line with Indian laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
15-02-2021||India||Kanhaiya meets Nitish aide, sets off speculations in NDA||Many eyebrows were raised in Bihar on Monday as news broke of a meeting between CPI's rising star Kanhaiya Kumar and Ashok Choudhary, a minister and key aide of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. A fiery former JNU student leader, Kanhaiya has been soft toward Nitish Kumar despite their parties rarely getting on the same page on most issues. Kanhaiya met Choudhary on Sunday. During his failed bid for the Lok Sabha in 2019, the former student leader had avoided attacking Kumar. Kumar had come out in support of Kanhaiya when the JNU controversy erupted in 2016. The JD(U) was then not a part of the BJP-led NDA. The two retained the soft spot for each other even after Nitish Kumar returned to the NDA in 2017. Choudhary had headed the state unit of the JD(U) during the assembly elections and played an instrumental role recently in enlisting the support of the sole BSP MLA Zama Khan and independent legislator Sumit Singh, both of whom were inducted into the cabinet last week. He had also caused jitters in the LJP, an ally turned adversary, by inviting its sole MLA Raj Kumar Singh to his residence for a book launch function a few weeks back. Choudhary's meeting with Kanhaiya, a staunch communist, came at a time when the charismatic young politician is said to have been left mortified by a censure motion that the CPI recently passed against him. The party action had followed alleged manhandling of a key CPI official attached to the state headquarters here. Earlier, there had been tensions between the aspiring leader and his party during the Lok Sabha elections when the CPI reportedly insisted that he share a part of money he had raised through crowd-funding. Kanhaiya had fought from his home constituency Begusarai, where he lost to Union minister and BJP leader Giriraj Singh by a massive margin. Nonetheless, the contest had created a lot of buzz and brought many celebrities from far-off places to the dusty town in support of the young leader who has been slapped with a sedition case for allegedly raising anti-national slogans at JNU. Sources close to Kanhaiya as well as Choudhary insisted that it was a "non-political" meeting and that both have known each other for long. It has, nonetheless, evoked reactions from those holding strong views on nationalism and against the so-called "tukde tukde gang". Subhash Singh, a state minister from the BJP quota, called the former JNUSU president a "lunatic" (paagal) and said his meeting with a senior leader of an alliance partner was "not appropriate" (theek nahin hai). Ajay Alok, a JD(U) spokesman, reacted "Kahaiya shall be welcome into our party if he chooses to give up his perverse (vikrit) ideology. Kanhaiya is also understood to have been disappointed with his party's decision to side with the RJD, which had queered the pitch for him in the Lok Sabha polls by fielding its candidate, and acknowledge Tejashwi Yadav as undisputed leader of the five-party Grand Alliance. Yadav, who has for all practical purposes inherited the legacy of his father and RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, is said to be wary of the former student leader who is of the same age but exhibits superior oratorical skills and grasp of issues. Some in the ruling alliance said on condition of anonymity that the meeting could have been yet another attempt by the JD(U) to raise its stock after its unsatisfactory performance in the assembly elections. A few hours after Kanhaiya's meeting with Choudhary, Chandan Kumar Singh, an LJP MP, called on Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad latched on the development to berate the LJP, saying "Chirag Paswan has been alleging that his constituency of Jamui has been neglected and there has been no progress in Bihar at all. The meeting between his party MP and the chief minister is a rebuff to his brand of politics". The LJP sought to downplay the significance of the meeting. "Our respected MP must have met the chief minister with regard to development works in his constituency. We wonder what is there to be so excited about," LJP spokesman Ashraf Ansari said in a video statement. Paswan had pulled out of the NDA ahead of the assembly polls, vowing to decimate the JD(U) and help the BJP seize power. He fielded candidates against all JD(U) nominees, many of them rebels from the saffron party, a strategy that cost Nitish Kumar's party dear and reduced it to the status of a junior partner to the BJP in the state for the first time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
15-02-2021||India||Opposition attacks Centre over climate activist's arrest||The action taken by the Delhi Police on an FIR related to a toolkit shared by climate campaigner Greta Thunberg in support of the ongoing farmer protests has triggered a war of words between the opposition and the ruling BJP. Accusing the government of "murdering democracy" by using force against a 21-year-old, the opposition on Monday said the voice of India cannot be silenced even as the BJP defended the action, saying a crime is a crime no matter at what age. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi led the opposition offensive following the arrest of 21-year-old Disha Ravi in the case and said the country will not be silenced. "Your lips are free to speak. Say that the truth is still alive. They are scared, not the country," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "India will not be silenced," he added. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, "Arrest of 21-year-old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime." RJD leader Manoj Jha said democracy is under threat. "I am worried about democracy, as it is passing through the most difficult times," he said. Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tweeted: "If age is the criteria then Param Veer Chakra Second Lt Arun Khetarpal, martyred at 21 is who I am proud of. Not some toolkit propagandists." BJP general secretary B L Santosh tweeted: "21 year old...environment activist...student...Are these credentials for becoming a part of breaking India forces? How does she get the access for editing tool kit...? Why she is part of anti-national WhatsApp groups...? Many questions...But only one answer...21 year old." "Bengaluru, Greta Thunberg, Vegan, sole bread winner, student, 21 year old, passionate activist...so many attempts to white wash a sin...!! Not one anarchist ready to answer the question...How 21 year old student got access to edit Toolkit," he asked. Former Union ministers P Chidambaram and Jairam Ramesh have also come out strongly against the police action in the case, accusing the government of running an authoritarian regime as it was threatened by a student. "I strongly condemn the arrest of Disha Ravi and urge all students and youth to raise their voices to protest against the authoritarian regime," Chidambaram said. "The Indian state must be standing on very shaky foundations if Disha Ravi, a 22 year old student of Mount Carmel college and a climate activist, has become a threat to the nation. "A 'took kit' to support the farmers' protest is more dangerous than the intrusion by Chinese troops into Indian territory. India is becoming the theatre of the absurd and it is sad that the Delhi Police has become a tool of the oppressors," he said in a series of tweets. Ramesh said, "Delhi Police on the rampage. After Disha Ravi, it is now the turn of another young woman, Nikita Jacob. More will no doubt follow...." "This is Tanashaahi in New India called Amit Shahi," he said. "The arrest and the manner of arrest of green activist Disha Ravi shows clearly the intensifying Murder Of Democracy in India. But the young in India cannot be silenced. More power to them," the former environment minister added. In a tweet in Hindi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "The ones with guns are afraid of an unarmed girl. The flames of courage from an unarmed girl have spread." She also used hashtags "ReleaseDishaRavi" and "IndiaBeingSilenced". Congress leader Rajeev Gowda said an activist who stands up for farmers, fights for the planet is arrested on flimsy grounds. "Has the government lost its balance? Will not such trumped-up charges, seeing conspiracy in regular social media mobilisation, do more damage to democracy?" he asked. Reacting to the Opposition charges, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said, "A criminal is a criminal, gender and age are immaterial if not a juvenile. Just for your knowledge, Kasab was 21 when he attacked Mumbai." "Supporting 'farmers' is not a crime but conspiring against India and inciting others surely is," he said. BJP's IT cell in-charge Amit Malviya said, "The Left has been using young impressionable minds as cannon fodder for their deranged politics for a long time. From JNU to Jamia, AMU to Nadwa and now Disha Ravi, are all part of their sinister plot...Unfortunately they are abandoned soon after they have served their purpose." The Delhi Police said non-bailable warrants have been issued against two people for allegedly sharing the "toolkit" related to farmers' protests on social media, two days after it arrested climate activist Ravi in connection with the case. The 21-year-old activist was arrested from Bengaluru on Saturday and sent to five days' police remand by a Delhi court on Sunday. The two suspects against whom the non-bailable warrants have been issued are Nikita Jacob and Shantanu, the police said, adding that the duo was allegedly involved in preparing the document and was in direct touch with pro-Khalistani elements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||Farmers ridiculed in Parliament, ministers called them traitors: Priyanka Gandhi||Accusing the Narendra Modi-led Union government of insulting farmers, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday said the men who protect the country's borders are sons of farmers. Addressing a "kisan panchayat" in UP's Bijnore, the Congress leader said farmers were ridiculed in Parliament and dubbed as traitors by ministers. "The farmer who is standing on your door, his son is standing at the border of the country. The farmer whom you are insulting, his son is safeguarding the country's border,” she said referring to the protest against the farm laws at the Delhi borders. They were given a new name 'aandolanjivi' and 'parijivi'. All of you know the meaning of 'parijivi'. Your ministers called the farmers traitors, she said. Priyanka also criticised Haryana minister J P Dalal, who had stoked a controversy on Saturday saying the farmers who died during the course of the agitation would have passed away even if they had stayed back home. Stressing that martyrdom is a significant thing, she said, "No one has the right to raise a finger on a person who has attained martyrdom while protesting for his rights, be it the prime minister or any other minister." Attacking the prime minister, the Congress leader alleged that the central laws are not for farmers but for his capitalist friends. The country is not blind and every citizen is watching as to what is happening in the country for the past seven years. His capitalist friends are running the entire media, his capitalist friends run his elections, she said. All big industries set up in the past 75 years have been sold and plans are afoot to sell the unsold ones. What will such a government do for you," Priyanka Gandhi Vadra asked. Further lashing out at the PM, she said, "The prime minister can go to the US, hold a gathering for Trump (ex-US president), visit China and Pakistan, and there is no country which he has not visited. And you could not go two-three kilometres from your house and meet the farmers who are saying please come and talk to us." "There are two types of leaders. There are some leaders who have a lot of arrogance and they forget as to who gave them power. In the history of the country, whenever a leader has become arrogant, the people of the country have taught him a lesson, and he feels ashamed. Then he understands what his religion is. His religion is not to divide people but to work for their development. Top priority should be given to the public and you (leader) should be behind them," she said. After the Congress leader ended her speech, a two-minute silence was observed for the farmers who died during the course of the protest. The farmer unions protesting against the centre's farm laws have claimed that over 200 farmers have died during the course of the agitation that started in November last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||'Toolkit' created by Disha, Nikita and Shantanu, claims Delhi police||The Delhi Police on Monday alleged that climate activist Disha Ravi along with two other suspects Nikita Jacob and Shantanu created the "toolkit" document related to the farmers' protest and shared in on social media. The police claimed Disha, who was arrested by the force on Saturday from Bengaluru, sent the "toolkit" to teen climate activist Greta Thunberg via Telegram app. Addressing a press conference, Joint Commissioner of Police (Cyber) Prem Nath claimed that Disha deleted a WhatsApp group she created to spread the "toolkit". The Delhi Police earlier today issued non-bailable warrants against Nikita Jacob and Shantanu for allegedly sharing the "toolkit" related to the farmers' protest on social media, two days after it arrested climate activist Disha Ravi in connection with the case. The police said that the trio was allegedly involved in preparing the document and was in direct touch with pro-Khalistani elements. The police have been conducting raids in Mumbai and other places to nab the duo. The Delhi Police had on Sunday claimed that Ravi was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and "key conspirator" in the document's formulation and dissemination. Thunberg, a teen climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the three agri laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest. The toolkit has been cited by some critics as a "proof" of her conspiracy to fuel protests in India. The police on Sunday told the court that Ravi's custody was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. Police also alleged that Ravi and others "collaborated with pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State." "She was the one who shared the toolkit doc with Greta Thunberg," the Delhi Police claimed in a tweet. Nath claimed that Nikita and Shantanu attended a zoom meeting organised by 'pro-khalistani' group Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) and added that Jacob was also one of the editors of "toolkit" document. "Disha, Shantanu and Nikita created and edited the toolkit. Disha sent the toolkit to Greta Thunberg through the Telegram app. Disha deleted a WhatsApp group which she created to spread the toolkit. Due procedure was followed during Dishal's arrest," he said. Ravi was sent to five days police remand on Sunday by a Delhi court here. Thunberg had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the three farm reform laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agri laws had clashed with the police during their tractor parade on January 26. Over 500 police security personnel were injured while one protestor died during the Republic Day violence. Earlier, the Delhi Police had asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about e-mail id, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the "toolkit" shared by Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers' protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||WhatsApp and Centre get SC notice over lower privacy standards for Indians users||The Supreme Court Monday asked the Centre and WhatsApp to reply to a fresh plea alleging lower standards of privacy for Indians in comparison to European users saying it is the duty of the judiciary to protect citizens' privacy. People have grave apprehensions that they will lose their privacy and it is our duty to protect them, the top court said. "You may be two or three trillion companies but people value their privacy more than money," a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde told WhatsApp even as it sought to argue that Europe has special data protection laws which India doesn't. The apex court issued notice to the government and the Facebook-owned app on an interim application filed by Karmanya Singh Sareen in a pending petition of 2017. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for the petitioner, argued that the messaging app was applying lower standards of privacy for Indians and they be barred from sharing data with Facebook. The bench observed, "We are impressed by Mr. Divan's argument that it was proposed before us that a data protection law would be brought into force. "Now under this policy you will share data of Indians." Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp, contended that Europe has a special law (General Data Protection Regulation) and it will follow law if the Parliament makes a similar law here. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said that citizens have great apprehension about loss of their privacy and they think that their data and chats being shared with others and it has to be looked into. The Centre told the apex court that the social media apps cannot share data of users and data must be protected. The petitioner challenged privacy policy alleging that there is huge metadata of users which is being shared for profit. The top court had in 2017 referred social media platform WhatsApp's privacy policy matter to a Constitution bench saying it concerns the larger issue of privacy and right to personal liberty. The appeal filed in the apex court by Karmanya Singh Sareen and Shreya Sethi assailed the Delhi high court verdict on the ground that no relief was granted for data shared by users post-September 25, 2016, and it amounted to an infringement of fundamental rights under Article 19 (Freedom of Speech and Expression) and 21 (Right to Life) of the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||Vijay Rupani tests positive for Coronavirus||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has tested positive for coronavirus, said a hospital where the CM is admitted after he fainted in a rally. He has mild symptoms and his condition is stable, the Ahmedabad-based medical facility said on Monday. On Sunday, Rupani, 64, fainted on stage while addressing a rally in Vadodara for the upcoming civic polls in the state, following which he was flown to Ahmedabad and admitted to the U N Mehta Heart Hospital here. Rupani's sample was collected on Sunday night and sent for RT-PCR test which has come out positive for coronavirus, said a health bulletin issued by the hospital on Monday. "His symptoms are mild and his condition is stable," it said. The hospital also said the chief minister fainted on Sunday due to "tiredness and physical weakness". His ECG, blood test and other examinations were conducted and their results are normal, it said. State Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel told reporters that on Sunday night it was decided to keep Rupani under observation for 24 hours. "After his test report came out positive for coronavirus, he is being treated for the infection as per the course and protocol," said Patel, who also holds charge of the health department. It has been decided not to allow any visitors to meet Rupani, he said. Rupani had mild fever since the last couple of days and was taking medicine for the same, Patel said, adding the CM does not have any co-morbid condition like diabetes or blood pressure. The CM will undergo regular medical checkup and will be given treatment as per the requirement. He will be discharged as per the decision of doctors, Patel said. He said Rupani fainted during the rally on Sunday due to "exhaustion and sleeplessness" caused due to his very busy schedule since the last one week. Rupani addressed rallies in Bhavnagar, Jamnagar and Vadodara in the last two days. He was regularly attending meetings of the BJP's state parliamentary board and also giving interviews to TV channels in the wake of the upcoming local body polls, he said. Patel also informed that BJP's MP from Kutch Vinod Chavda and state party general secretary Bhikhu Dalsania had also tested positive for coronavirus a few days back. Both of them are undergoing treatment at the U N Mehta Heart Hospital, he added. Elections to six municipal corporations, including Vadodara, will be held on February 21, while those for various other municipalities, districts and taluka panchayats will be held on February 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||SC grants 5-day bail to arrested Kerala scribe to visit ailing mother||The Supreme Court Monday granted 5-day bail to journalist Siddique Kappan, arrested on his way to Hathras where a young Dalit woman had died after being allegedly gang-raped, to visit his ailing mother for five days. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, however, said that during his visit he shall not give any interview to the media, including social media. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said that Siddique will not meet members of the public except his relatives and doctors concerned. It said Siddique will be escorted by a team of Uttar Pradesh police officers and police at Kerala will cooperate with them. Kappan was arrested on October 5, 2020 while he was on his way to Hathras, home to the 19-year-old Dalit woman who died after being allegedly gang-raped by four upper-caste men on September 14. Her cremation at night by the authorities, allegedly without the parents' consent, had triggered widespread outrage. The police had said it has arrested four people having alleged links with the PFI in Mathura and identified the arrested persons as Siddique from Malappuram, Atiq-ur Rehman from Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmed from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||Three more bodies recovered, toll rises to 53 in Uttarakhand glacier burst||Three more bodies were recovered on Monday from the flood-ravaged Tapovan tunnel, taking the toll in the glacial disaster in Uttarakhand to 53. The bodies were recovered this morning from the Adit tunnel at the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad project site, Chamoli District Magistrate, Swati S Bhadauria, told PTI. Rescue efforts are now underway at the Silt Flushing Tunnel (SFT) only with the help of excavators as a camera or a pipe cannot be inserted due to mounds of sludge and water choking it, the district magistrate said. "The SFT at Tapovan where drilling was completed on Saturday night in the hope of inserting a camera to locate those believed to be trapped inside is also badly choked with slush and water," she said. "Rescue or recovery is possible only with the help of excavators now," she said. Officials said over 150 people still remain missing after the February 7 devastation, possibly triggered by an avalanche in the upper reaches of the Alaknanda river system. A surge of water in Dhauliganga and Rishiganga rivers had ripped through two hydel projects. Asked about the chances of survival of those missing or trapped, the district magistrate said, "We must always try to be hopeful when the circumstances are adverse." Around 30 people, who were at work inside the tunnel when the flashflood occurred, are believed to be trapped inside the SFT at Tapovan. The last rites of those pulled out dead after DNA sampling and other formalities have also been going on and compensation cheques are also being distributed among the next of kin of the deceased. Families of those from outside Chamoli district killed in the tragedy are being paid compensation of Rs 4 lakh each through bankers cheques by the concerned district administration. Over 500 ration kits carrying foodgrains and essentials have already been distributed among residents of over a dozen villages that were cut off from the district headquarters following the disaster that struck a week ago. Electricity supply has been restored in all affected villages except Pang where solar lanterns have been provided to residents for the time being, she said. The agencies involved in the Tapovan rescue work include the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the National Disaster Response Force and the State Disaster Response Force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||After Disha Ravi, non-bailable arrest warrants issued against two activists in toolkit document case||Non-bailable warrants have been issued against two people for allegedly sharing the "toolkit" related to the farmers' protest on social media, the Delhi Police said on Monday, two days after it arrested climate activist Disha Ravi in connection with the case. The 21-year-old activist was arrested on Saturday from Bengaluru and sent to five days police remand on Sunday by a Delhi court here. The two suspects against whom the non-bailable warrants have been issued include Nikita Jacob and Shantanu, police said, adding that the duo was allegedly involved in preparing the document and was in direct touch with pro-Khalistani elements. "Non-bailable warrants have been issued against Nikita Jacob and Shantanu. The two are wanted in connection with the toolkit case. They are suspected to be involved in preparing the documents and were also in direct interaction with pro-Khalistani elements," a senior police officer said. The police are conducting raids in Mumbai and other places to nab the duo. The Delhi Police had on Sunday claimed that Ravi was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and "key conspirator" in the document's formulation and dissemination. Police also alleged that Ravi and others "collaborated with pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State." "She was the one who shared the toolkit doc with Greta Thunberg," the Delhi Police claimed in a tweet. Thunberg, a teen climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the three agri laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest. The toolkit has been cited by some critics as a "proof" of her conspiracy to fuel protests in India. The police on Sunday told the court that her custody was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has called Ravi's arrest unprecedented attack on democracy while the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is leading the farmers' protest at Delhi's borders, too condemned the activist's arrest and demanded her immediate release. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agri laws had clashed with the police during their tractor parade on January 26. Over 500 police security personnel were injured while one protestor died during the Republic Day violence. Earlier, the Delhi Police had asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about e-mail id, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the "toolkit" shared by Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers' protest. Nikita Jacob on Monday approached the Bombay High Court seeking transit anticipatory bail. Jacob's plea seeking urgent hearing was mentioned before the Bombay High Court's single bench of Justice P D Naik on Monday. The high court said it would hear the plea on Tuesday. Jacob in her plea sought transit anticipatory bail for a period of four weeks so that she can approach the court concerned in Delhi to apply for pre-arrest bail. The advocate in her plea said she is unaware whether she is named as an accused or witness in the case. "However, the applicant (Jacob) fears that she may be arrested due to political vendetta and media trial," her application said. It further said the FIR registered in the case was "false and baseless" and Jacob has already cooperated with the cyber cell of the Delhi police and recorded her statement. "Some entity named Legal Rights Observatory appears to have filed a false and baseless complaint with the Delhi police and seeks to pin the blame for violence on January 26, 2021 upon the applicant as well," the plea said. As per the application, on February 11, a team of Delhi police came to Jacob's house in Goregaon area of Mumbai with a search warrant and seized documents and electronic gadgets. "The applicant has no religious, political or financial motive or agenda for researching, discussing, editing and circulating communication packs/toolkits for raising awareness, let alone to incite violence, riots and/or cause any other physical harm," the application said. It said Jacob was a practising advocate in the Bombay High Court who volunteers for environmental causes. "The applicant was deeply concerned about the recent farm laws and villainising of farmers," the application said. It said Jacob's personal information and details are being circulated on social media. The application further said that absolute lies are being spread to incite hate and violence against Jacob by claiming she has ties with political parties like the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||Fifteen killed as truck overturns in Maharashtra||Fifteen people were killed and five others injured after a truck carrying labourers overturned and fell into a roadside pit in Maharashtra's Jalgaon district in the wee hours of Monday, police said. The accident took place near a temple in Kingaon village around 1 am when the papaya-laden truck was on its way to Yawal tehsil in Jalgaon from Dhule, an official from Yawal police station said. The deceased included two children, aged 3 and 5 years, and a 15-year-old girl. The labourers belonged to Abhoda, Vivra, Kerhala villages and Raver tehsil in the district, the official said. After the accident, police and some locals rushed to the spot and the truck was brought out of the pit with the help of a JCB machine, he said. Fifteen people were killed and five others, including the truck driver, received injuries, the official said. The injured people have been admitted to Jalgaon Civil Hospital where two of them are reported to be in a serious condition, he said. Jalgaon's Additional Superintendent of Police Chandrakant Gavli told PTI that the accident may have taken place due to a technical fault in the vehicle. "But, we have asked the regional transport office (RTO) to submit a report. A case has been registered against the truck driver under Indian Penal Code Section 304-II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder)," he said. The deceased have been identified as Hussain Muslim Maniyar (30), Sarfaraz Tadvi (32), Digambar Sapkale (55), Narendra Wagh (25), Dildar Tadvi (20), Ashok Wagh (40), Durgabai Adakmol (20), Ganesh More (5), Sagar Wagh (3), Sharda Ramesh More (15), Sangeeta Ashok Wagh (35), Yamunabai Ingle (45), Kamlabai More (45), Sabnoor Tadvi (53) and Sandip Bhalerao (25), another official said.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday expressed grief at the loss of lives, and conveyed their condolences to the bereaved families. "Heart-wrenching truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest," Modi said in a tweet posted by his office.  Kovind said he was deeply distressed by the loss of lives in a road accident in Maharashtra's Jagaon. "Deeply distressed to learn that a truck carrying labourers, women and children overturned near Jalgaon in Maharashtra resulting in deaths of many. My thoughts and prayers are with their families and wish an early recovery for the injured," Kovind said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||India logs 11,649 fresh Covid cases, 90 casualties in a day||India's tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 1,09,16,589 with 11,649 new infections, while fresh fatalities were recorded below 100 for the ninth time this month, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,55,732 with 90 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,21,220 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.29 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total COVID-19 active cases remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,39,637 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.28 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,67,16,634 samples have been tested up to February 14 with 4,86,122 samples being tested on Sunday. The 90 new fatalities include 40 from Maharashtra and 15 from Kerala, 6 from Tamil Nadu and 5 from Madhya Pradesh. A total of 1,55,732 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,529 from Maharashtra followed by 12,419 from Tamil Nadu, 12,265 from Karnataka, 10,891 from Delhi, 10,232 from West Bengal, 8,702 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,162 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||For IIT, Abdul Kalam’s BC Roy  is Narendra Modi’s SP Mookerjee||On Saturday night, IIT Kharagpur director V.K. Tewari made a Facebook post on the upcoming convocation on February 23: “The Prime Minister will also inaugurate (virtually) Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, IIT Kharagpur.” Fourteen years ago, on May 17, 2007, while laying the foundation stone for the project, A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, the then President, had said: “I am very happy that this multi-speciality research centre is named after the great personality of India, Dr B.C. Roy, who was a freedom fighter and a professional doctor.” Between the foundation stone-laying and the inauguration, the name of the institute has undergone a metamorphosis that reflects the change the country, too, has undergone. Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee — founder of the Jana Sangh, the precursor to the BJP — appears to have elbowed out Dr B.C. Roy, the maker of modern Bengal. This newspaper sent text messages to the director asking whether Prime Minister Modi would be inaugurating the same facility that was initially named after B.C. Roy, but there was no response till 10pm. Repeated calls to the mobile number of the director went unanswered. Registrar Tamal Nath said he had no information whether the facility renamed after Mookerjee would be inaugurated by the Prime Minister. Sources said the hospital for which Kalam had laid the foundation stone and the one proposed to be opened on February 23 were the same. The super-speciality hospital at Balarampur outside the campus is part of the IIT’s plans to start its own medical college and has come up on an 18-acre plot belonging to the institute. The sources said the decision to rename the hospital after Mookerjee, who was not a medical doctor, was taken last December at a meeting of all the heads of departments at IIT Kharagpur and teachers. But the first known official word on the subject came only on Saturday night when Tewari, the IIT director, uploaded the Facebook post. The post made no mention of either the original name of the project or what President Kalam had said then. According to the government’s website on the former President, Kalam had gone on to say in his address on May 17, 2007, at Kharagpur: “He (B.C. Roy) has done so much to the country in medical and political system. Dr B.C. Roy believed that Swaraj would remain a dream unless the people were healthy and strong in mind and body. He made contributions to the organisation of medical education, established hospitals, medical college, and centre for training women in nursing and social work. I am sure this name will be ringing in the minds of all the students and faculty members and the tradition of service set by Dr. B.C. Roy will be followed.” Campus sources said that B.C. Roy’s name had been proposed by Ajay Kumar Roy, then head of the school of medical science and research, IIT Kharagpur. He had sent the name to the IIT’s board of governors and the board had approved the name. “It was named after B.C. Roy because of his contributions to the field of medical science,” an official said. A teacher said that many in the faculty had been stunned by the renaming but could not speak out as the authorities had issued a gag order in June barring teachers from “making adverse criticism of any current policy and action of the institute” in public. “We are so terrified that we don’t oppose any policy in private, either. When the director said the Prime Minister himself would be inaugurating the facility, we realised that there was no point protesting,” said a teacher who did not want to be named. Sabyasachi Sengupta, a former professor of electrical engineering at IIT Kharagpur, said: “It will be quite a spectacle at IIT Kharagpur that the small hospital on the campus will continue to be known as BC Roy Technology Hospital and the super-speciality one would be renamed after someone who has nothing to do with medicine.” The IIT now provides indoor and outdoor medical facilities for common ailments at the BC Roy Technology Hospital, located in the heart of the campus. An official said the director did not want both facilities to be named after B.C. Roy, so the super-speciality hospital had been renamed after Mookerjee. Last year, Prime Minister Modi had renamed Kolkata Port Trust after Syama Prasad Mookerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||Climate activist arrested, cry of ‘witch-hunt’ of youths||Delhi police have arrested a 22-year-old climate activist from Bangalore on sedition charges, accusing her of being an “editor (of) and key conspirator” behind a social media “toolkit” on the farmers’ agitation that Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg had tweeted early this month. The Delhi police’s long silence on Disha Ravi’s arrest and a haze on whether transit remand was obtained before she was taken to Delhi have prompted activists to call the police action “sinister” and an “extra-judicial abduction”. According to Delhi police, the toolkit — which allegedly provided advice on how to participate in the January 26 Kisan Parade — was part of an international conspiracy, with Khalistani involvement, to wage war against India. Bangalore police were tight-lipped but sources said Delhi police officers had taken Disha into custody from her north Bangalore home on Saturday, seized her laptop and mobile phone, and flown her to Delhi the same night. While Delhi police report to the BJP-run Centre, Karnataka has a government headed by the party. Disha broke down during her production at Delhi’s Patiala House courts on Sunday, denied the conspiracy charge and said she was only supporting the farmers’ protest. She has been remanded in police custody for five days. A business administration graduate from the Mount Carmel College in Bangalore, Disha is part of the Thunberg-initiated Fridays For Future global movement that encourages schoolchildren to skip classes on Fridays to demonstrate for action to prevent climate change. An unsigned media release from a group of “youth-based environmental collectives” that condemned Disha’s arrest described her as the sole earning member of the family. A friend said Disha worked for a company that made “vegan products”. The group accused the government of targeting dissenting youths and urged it to stop the “witch-hunt” and “start treating citizens of this country with greater humility and respect”. A Delhi police tweet said on Sunday, tagging the offices of the Prime Minister and the home minister: “Disha Ravi, arrested by Delhi police, is an editor of the toolkit Google Doc & key conspirator in document’s formulation & dissemination.” The police added: “She started WhatsApp group & collaborated to make the toolkit doc. She worked closely with them to draft the Doc. In this process, they all collaborated with the pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State. She was the one who shared the toolkit Doc with Greta Thunberg. “Later, she asked Greta to remove the main Doc after its incriminating details accidentally got into public domain. This is many times more than the 2 lines editing that she claims.” Thunberg had on February 3 night shared an old toolkit that expressed support for the Republic Day tractor rally and provided details of the upcoming online and street protests. She then realised her mistake and on February 4 uploaded an updated toolkit that offered tips on how to join the farmers’ ground protests, express support on social media, sign petitions and demonstrate near Indian missions abroad. While the police were not very forthcoming, it appears the charges are related largely to the older toolkit. On February 4, Delhi police had registered an FIR against the unnamed creators of the toolkit, alleging an international conspiracy to defame the country and wage “social, cultural and economic war against India” by instigating the farmers’ protest. Charges were slapped under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between groups), 153 (provocation with intent to cause riot) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). A statement from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is leading the farmers’ protest, said: “SKM condemns the arrest of young climate change activist Disha Ravi, who stood in support of the farmers. We also demand her immediate unconditional release.” The statement from the “youth-based environmental collectives” said: “We are extremely distressed to find out that a daughter of a single mother, an avid animal lover, sole earning member of the family was whisked away forcefully by members of Delhi police. “To imply that toolkits are some conspiracy gizmos used by foreign forces to destabilise India is as stupid as the ‘Cow was abducted by aliens’ rubbish that was aired by some mainstream media channels that are now airing this nonsense. “We know Ms Disha to be a member of this vast collective network. We know her to be a person of immense integrity who has nothing but the best interests at heart. She, like us, is invested in this work that we do because she knows and understands the severity and seriousness of the climate crisis all of us find ourselves in.” It added: “We are sure that her social media and personal equipment that have been confiscated will reflect nothing other than the immense concern that she, like us, has for this world…. We are... extremely worried about her safety and well being.” The group demanded that Disha be “released immediately, her records (be) expunged and she (be) escorted safely back to her home and to her family”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||50-year-old farmer commits suicide over inflated bill in Uttar Pradesh ||A 50-year-old farmer in Uttar Pradesh hanged himself allegedly after he was handed an inflated electricity bill of Rs 1.5 lakh and slapped by officials when he said he did not have the money to pay it. In protest, people placed Ramji Lal’s body in front of the local electricity department office and refused to proceed with the last rites until a case is filed against the sub-divisional officer and junior engineer, who had allegedly had gone to the farmer’s house and slapped him in front of his family members. Police assured the protesters that action would be taken after necessary procedures. The victim’s nephew, Ramcharan, and other family members lodged a police complaint that the amount of Rs 1,500 had erroneously been shown as Rs 1.5 lakh in the bill. The incident took place at Sunaira village in Aligarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||NewsClick: Raid ends after 113 hours||The Enforcement Directorate’s NewsClick-related searches ended after 113 hours at the home of its 73-year-old editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha on Sunday around 1.30am. Raids on the investigative news site, that faces a Rs 100-crore defamation suit by the Adani group and has extensively covered the farmers’ protests, started at several locations in the capital on Tuesday morning. Eight officers wound up the raid at the South Delhi apartment where Purkayastha lives with 67-year-old author Githa Hariharan. After the officials left, Purkayastha thanked civil society and journalists for their support. He told reporters waiting outside: “We are not interested in being the news, we want to cover what is happening, what the news is. And this (the raid) is something that we will take the way it is meant to be taken. This will not stop us. We will continue to do what a news organisation should do, which is cover people’s issues and take positions.” The ED is yet to explain why the raid took so long or why  the two senior citizens were confined. Their two sons, who live elsewhere in the capital, were allowed to visit under the supervision of the ED. Hariharan was allowed to attend an online literature festival on Saturday. The ED is also yet to publicly reveal its findings and charges, if any. Purkayastha said: “It is one of the longest raids that I know of by the ED. Basically, it seems to be that I have a lot of emails. I am an old email user, since 2005, of gmail. It seems I had too much for them to take down quickly.” A source confirmed that the officials had largely been copying email and other electronic data from devices at the home since Thursday. Purkayastha is expected to be called to the ED headquarters this week. Some NewsClick shareholders and their families whose homes were searched have also faced tangential remarks or queries on their links to the CPM, the farmers’ protests, and jailed rights activist Gautam Navlakha who was associated with the website. Several of them, like Purkayastha who was jailed during the Emergency, are members of the party. On Friday, NewsClick described news reports of alleged illegitimate financial transactions as a “selective leak of misleading facts”. “Nothing but a malicious attempt to smear the image of Newsclick and discredit our journalism.” The Left and the Congress had condemned the raids. On Saturday, former Union minister Yashwant Sinha tweeted: “Raid on NewsClick Editor’s house has gone on for 80 hours. Can there be a worst example of govt’s attempt to gag the media. Yet even the media is quiet. Are you afraid your turn will come sooner than later? Stand up and be counted.” Congress MP Karti Chidambaram also tweeted: “How many will this @BJP4India regime try to silence & intimidate via it’s favourite agency @dir_ed? Where is the collective outrage among the media fraternity? The media won’t even stand up for one of its own?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||A.K. Antony accuses Modi government of “appeasing” Beijing||Former defence minister A.K. Antony has described the terms of disengagement with China as “surrender”, accusing the Narendra Modi government of “appeasing” Beijing by compromising on India’s territorial integrity. “It’s surrender. Decreasing tension on the border is good. But on what terms? At what cost? At the cost of national security? On terms dictated by China? This is a compromise with India’s territorial integrity,” the former defence minister, who knows the nature of border disputes with China, declared on Sunday. “They (the government) agreed to disengagement on Chinese terms. Then to appease China, they sent a message that they don’t want to confront China by not increasing the defence budget (sizeably),” the former defence minister said. Antony explained: “Last year’s revised estimate for defence was Rs 4.71 lakh crore. This year’s allocation is Rs 4.78 lakh crore. An increase of a mere 1.48 per cent. Meagre. Insignificant. This is betrayal. The government has let the forces down. “We are facing almost a two-front war situation. Pakistan, as usual, is creating trouble. They are still encouraging terrorism. China has become more belligerent. We see troops mobilisation and infrastructure development all across India’s borders with China. Then this message to China through the budget.” The BJP has used the word “appeasement” for decades to torment the Congress for its policies towards minorities. Now the ruling party has to confront this charge in the context of China — an accusation that is bound to cut deep as Modi has built his persona on a projection of robust leadership. After Rahul Gandhi’s blunt attack on Modi’s handling of the Chinese intrusion as “one hundred per cent cowardice”, Antony’s charge of appeasing China and compromising on India’s territorial integrity too takes aim at the Prime Minister’s carefully crafted image. Antony said: “Areas traditionally under Indian control have been given up. We have ceded our land to create a buffer zone inside Indian territory. Our forces used to patrol till Finger 8. The Chinese came to Finger 4. The area between Finger 4 and Finger 8 was disputed. Scuffles occurred occasionally but we never accepted the Chinese claim. India had a post at Finger 4. But we have now agreed to be stationed at Finger 3, the permanent headquarters there. The Chinese have clearly gained. We have surrendered.” Cautioning the country against adverse fallouts, the former defence minister said: “If this pattern goes like that in Arunachal, Depsang, Gogra, Hot Springs, what will happen? The government is not realising the dangers. It is creating a wrong precedent. In 2017, China agreed on the status quo in Doklam but they are still there. The government must tell the nation what plan it has to restore status quo ante April 2020. The LAC cannot be redrawn.” Pointing out that the Galwan Valley was never a point of dispute, Antony said: “We should understand the importance of the Galwan Valley. If China wants to play mischief, it can help Pakistan capture Siachen. I don’t know how our brave soldiers took control of the Kailash ranges. That was miraculous. We could have used that as a bargaining counter. But we agreed to withdraw from there. Why are we ceding our national interests? We lost 20 soldiers… we thought the government would honour their sacrifice. It is sad that the Modi government is not giving proper priority to national security.” Ironically, the charge has come on the anniversary of the day 40 CRPF personnel were killed in Pulwama in 2019, a tragedy that changed the course of the last general election. Many Congress leaders recalled the Pulwama incident, wondering about the security and intelligence failures that led to the massacre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||Kashmir: Three former chief ministers allege detention at homes||Three former chief ministers and their families were allegedly confined in their homes on Sunday, the second anniversary of the Pulwama terror attack that killed 40 CRPF personnel, prompting Omar Abdullah to take a swipe at “new” Kashmir. Police neither acknowledged nor denied the allegation but said the trio — Omar, father Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti — had been informed in advance not to travel on Sunday in the light of adverse intelligence inputs. Omar denied the police had issued any such advisory. “This is the ‘naya/new J&K’ after Aug 2019. We get locked up in our homes with no explanation. It’s bad enough they’ve locked my father (a sitting MP) & me in our home, they’ve locked my sister & her kids in their home as well,” Omar tweeted. No restrictions were placed on the movement of politicians in Jammu, however, despite the police claiming to have seized 6.5kg of improvised explosive devices near the Jammu bus stand and averted a terror attack on the anniversary. The February 14, 2019, Pulwama attack had brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war and helped the Narendra Modi government make terrorism, Pakistan and a muscular nationalism its main campaign planks for the April-May general election, which it won. During the Pulwama attack’s first anniversary last year, the three former chief ministers were in the middle of months of detention that had begun when the government abrogated Article 370 provisions on August 5, 2019. A People’s Democratic Party spokesperson said Mehbooba and her family too had been confined in their home. Omar, Farooq and Mehbooba live in Srinagar’s Gupkar neighbourhood. Following Omar’s allegation, the police claimed that VIP movement had been “discouraged” on Sunday. “Today is 2nd anniversary of dreaded Lethpora (Pulwama) terror incident. There shall be no ROP on ground. Due to adverse inputs, movement of VIPs/ protected persons has been discouraged and all concerned were informed in advance not to plan a tour today,” the Srinagar police tweeted. “ROP” stands for “road-opening party” — a group of personnel who secure a road before movement by the security forces or any VVIP. Omar suggested the police claim was untrue. “Please share the written communication address to me & acknowledged by me (or my office) informing us in advance of these restrictions. Surely this anniversary didn’t come as a surprise to the administration,” he said. On Saturday, Mehbooba had been prevented from visiting the family of Athar Mushtaq, a 17-year-old student killed on December 30 along with two others in an alleged gunfight. The police claim the trio were militants but their families have denied the allegation. The police recently lodged an FIR against Mushtaq’s father and relatives for demanding his body. The three were buried 150km from their homes as part of a government strategy not to hand over militants’ bodies to their families. Mehbooba has uploaded a video on her Twitter handle, in which she seeks an explanation why she is not being allowed to visit Mushtaq’s family. Jammu police chief Mukesh Singh said two men — Suhail, a Kashmiri studying nursing in Chandigarh, and Qazi — had been detained in connection with the explosives haul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||Crony capital will exploit farmer, and consumer too: Ratan Khasnabis||While the US and western Europe, bastions of capitalism, massively subsidise their farm sector, the pro-market and pro-capital Narendra Modi is not ready to grant a legal guaranteed even to the minimum support price (MSP). Why? What is the difference between advanced western capitalism and crony Indian capitalism? Ratan Khasnabis, the eminent Marxian professor of economics, explores this contradiction in an interview with the author, a professor of human sciences. Q: Our country’s ruling dispensation has been described as a Rightwing conservative government devoted to the principles and practice of market economy. If true, why isn’t the NDA following the market principles of the US and western Europe and subsidising the farm sector heavily? Khasnabis: There is a basic and big difference between advanced capitalism in the West and crony capitalism in the developing world. Advanced capitalism knows very well that capitalism cannot survive without subsidising agriculture which, because of its nature of production, has to remain less capital-intensive. In fact, the same amount of invested capital will generate less surplus in agriculture compared to non-agriculture. Hence, you cannot attract capital to agriculture unless you ensure a higher rate of profit in this area. This provides the rationale for subsidising agriculture, corn production in particular, in a framework of capitalist production with the provision for free mobility of capital from one sector to the other. The hard truth is that unless you provide subsidy, capital will move away from agriculture. In a closed economy, on the other hand, corn prices will go up, wages will increase and industrial profit will decline. In short, by not subsidising agriculture, you may thus kill your industry. Corn import may be suggested as a way out but no advanced country finds it prudent to do so because it may endanger food security, the political cost of which is very high. Capital in advanced countries is aware of this logic. No wonder then that US farmers got more than $22 billion in government payments in 2019, the highest level of farm subsidies in the last 14 years, and the corporate sector paid for it. In NDA’s India, however, there has developed a political dispensation that addresses the issue of agricultural reforms from the perspective of a very tiny section of capital, the section which wants to grab agriculture without paying its dues. In other words, that capitalism where the political dispensation is designed to serve the interest of a very tiny section of capital is crony capitalism. Here lies the difference between advanced capitalism in the West and crony capitalism in India. Crony capitalism in India and in the developing world establishes a smooth and steady relationship with the political power in dispensation, and they act together for mutual benefit. This tiny slice of crony capitalism supports the political power financially and the political power, in turn, bends laws and rules to suit their purpose. Q: How does crony capitalism operate and function? Let’s take a specific example of a specific product, say, rice or wheat? Khasnabis: Crony capital would target a double exploitation. It would pay less than the minimum support price to the producers. This is likely to happen because the corn market will now be under monopsony (many sellers and one or only a few buyers) without any MSP obligations. This is one aspect of exploitation — exploiting the producers by denying the MSP. The other aspect is that the consumers would have to pay more because the PDS (public distribution system) is likely to be undermined as mandi (regulated wholesale market) procurement is expected to reduce first and then stop eventually. In this situation, rice and atta will come in the market under various brand names, each having a higher price tag. For a section of Indians, accessibility to food would therefore be denied. The middle class or the upper class, not covered under the Food Security Act, would also have to pay more. Indeed, in this context, crony capital would find a market for super-exploitation. The middleman or phorey or dalal will very much remain present in the procurement process. The crony is unlikely to develop an alternative procurement machinery covering remote villages because that will be highly expensive. The commission that the middlemen get will be added to the overall cost and transferred to the buyers. The cronies, to be bitterly candid, will pay nothing. Q: This implies that the hated and criticised middlemen will continue to operate even after the implementation of the three farm laws? Khasnabis: Yes. They will get a new jersey. Their physiognomy will change but they will be very much present and active as the middlemen of the big companies, linking the latter with the actual producers. One needs to state very clearly here that capitalism, advanced or crony, cannot operate without dalals. So, (the idea that) phoreys will vanish once the farm laws are implemented is nothing more than a pipe dream. Q: The government has not given an official undertaking on a permanent legal guarantee for the MSP. In contrast, the big brothers — the US and western Europe — buy directly from the farmers and build their butter and cheese mountains. Even the prices of farm products at the retail and wholesale levels are controlled by the capitalist government. In short, not the principle of capitalisation but well-worked-out welfare measures are adopted to sustain the farm sector in the advanced West. Khasnabis: I explained why capitalism needs a subsidised agriculture. I would add that the advanced capitalist countries have added a crucial welfare dimension to it. Gone are the days of the Irish famine. But then, such measures too serve capital. Capital gets a healthy workforce that contributes to total productivity and growth as a result of these welfare measures. Q: The advanced and capitalist First World fulfils the preconditions of food security religiously. It doesn’t rush blindly into the cultivation of cash crops. Here, however, food security is being threatened and already hints are being dropped on the need to import basic foodstuff. That means our “capitalist” government is not following the principles of the big brothers even in this sphere. Why? Khasnabis: One of the three new laws for the farm sector creates a legal provision for contract farming. Under contract farming, large areas under food crop (cultivation) will be converted into cash crop (fields) and the products will target the international market, particularly the markets in western Europe where tropical fruits and vegetables are in high demand. As a result, all the four pillars of food security — availability, access, utilisation and stability — will be threatened, as has happened in Burkina Faso (in sub-Saharan Africa), which exports strawberries but has to import wheat. This grossly unequal trade-off is being allowed under the new political dispensation that confines its interests to serving a limited section of capital. Advanced countries never face such a situation because they have carefully developed a system where a tiny section of capital can never optimise its interests at the cost of the interests of capital at large.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||Writers, activists and academics condemn Delhi police’s “sinister” arrest of young climate activist||A group of 80 writers, activists and academics on Sunday condemned Delhi police’s “sinister” arrest of young climate activist Disha Ravi from Bangalore as an “extra-judicial abduction” and demanded her immediate release. “The government’s heavy-handedness is clearly focused on terrorising and traumatising these brave young people for speaking truth to power, and amounts to teaching them a lesson,” the statement said. The signatories include environmentalist Ashish Kothari, Carnatic vocalist and rights activist T.M. Krishna, writer Nityanand Jayaraman, Leo Saldanha of the Bangalore-based Environmental Support Group, and Kavita Krishnan of the All India Progressive Women’s Association. “A confident government must appreciate this resilience of our youth and hold open dialogues with them across the country. The current actions of the Indian government, instead, amount to gagging democracy itself,” the statement said. “India should count itself fortunate that conscientious young Indians are actively engaged with shaping their futures in the face of ecological catastrophes. Aware that the government policies are hurting millions and harming the environment, these youngsters are exercising their constitutional rights and performing their fundamental duties by systematically holding the government accountable.” Police have accused Disha of being an “editor” and “key conspirator” behind a Google Doc toolkit that allegedly provided advice on how to participate in the January 26 Kisan Parade and was shared early this month by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg. Disha faces sedition and other charges, with the police alleging the toolkit was part of an international conspiracy to defame and wage war against India. The activists’ statement castigated the Delhi police for their “secretive operation” that violated the “due process of law” and betrayed their “disregard for the rule of law”. “Delhi police’s actions are all the more sinister because the 21-year-old was taken to Delhi from Bengaluru with no disclosure about her whereabouts, not even to her parents, an action that can be termed extra-judicial abduction,” the statement said. The Delhi police have stated Disha’s age as 22 years, and an unsigned media release from a “youth-based environmental collective” that condemned the arrest described her as the “daughter of a single mother”. The activists’ statement said the manner in which Disha was taken away to Delhi was a violation of the due process of law. “Delhi police’s disregard for the rule of law is no secret. However, this action against an individual without following the due process of law, and in clear violation of norms for arrests and detentions laid down by the Supreme Court, reflects absolute contempt for constitutional principles,” it said. “The act of criminalising young people for extending solidarity to a struggle that resonates with their own aspirations for a healthy and secure future, strikes as a new low.” Several Congress leaders too criticised the arrest, Jairam Ramesh calling it “harassment and intimidation”. “Custodial interrogation of a young woman without any criminal antecedents cannot be justified,” Anand Sharma tweeted. Former home minister P. Chidambaram said: “The Indian State must be standing on very shaky foundations if Disha Ravi... has become a threat to the nation. A ‘tool kit’ to support the farmers’ protest is more dangerous than the intrusion by Chinese troops into Indian territory! India is becoming the theatre of the absurd and it is sad that the Delhi police have become a tool of the oppressors.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||Narendra Modi faces Twitter barrage from critics ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi faced a Twitter barrage from critics in Kerala and Tamil Nadu as he visited the two states on Sunday. While Tamil Nadu netizens revived the hashtag “GoBackModi”, also used during earlier visits, their Kerala counterparts dusted off the “PoMoneModi” hashtag from 2016, when the state had erupted against the Prime Minister’s comparison of its tribal infant mortality rate with Somalia’s. “Po Mone Modi” is derived from a film punch line and effectively means “Get lost, Modi”. Modi was in Tamil Nadu to lay the foundation stones for a few development projects and hand over the Arjun Main Battle Tank to the army. He later flew to Kochi, where he inaugurated a petro-chemical project. #PoMoneModi and #GoBackModi were among the top trending hashtags on Twitter since Saturday night. Many from either state used both hashtags. One of them, Mohan Gandhi, tweeted: “Divided by language, united by feelings, say no to Sanghis.” Dhivya Marunthiah wrote: “The biggest victory of this hashtag is that they don’t need paid bots to make it trending. This is pure emotion of our people. Hey Hindia that’s #Tamilnadu & #Kerala for you.” “Hindia” is a sarcastic coinage against Hindi chauvinism. The reference to “bots” — software applications that run automated tasks over the Internet and are used widely to multiply social media “likes” — was an obvious dig at the BJP’s IT cell. A tweeter from Kerala, Rofl Republic, posted this comment: “Kerala, never forget how PM Modi compared Kerala to Somalia and insulted Keralites. Never ever forget!” Modi had in the run-up to the 2016 Kerala elections told a campaign rally that infant mortality among the state’s scheduled tribes was worse than Somalia’s. While Somalia has one of the highest rates of child malnutrition and infant mortality in the world, Kerala has the lowest infant mortality rate in India. “Kerala is against fascism, Kerala is against CAA, Kerala is against BJP, Kerala is with farmers,” tweeted Silpa. People from other states too joined in, Kamran from Bangalore tweeting: “He lied about 50 days, he lied about ending terrorism, he lied about ending corruption, he lied about ending counterfeit currency, he lied about demonetisation, and many many more…. This is the face of lies.” After the November 2016 demonetisation, Modi had said: “Give me 50 days, burn me alive if I’m wrong.” Many netizens tweeted news clippings of that comment. Some contrasted Modi’s security-cocooned travels with Rahul Gandhi’s knack for wading into crowds. “Rahul Gandhi walking on the roads & greeting common people, will Modi ever have guts to walk on any TN road and greet common people?” Madhu tweeted, posting pictures of the Congress leader mingling with huge crowds in Tamil Nadu. A Prime Minister’s security protocol discourages any impromptu mixing with crowds. Some seemed to enjoy egging netizens from the two states on to outdo each other. “Normally the BJP IT cell gets into a hashtag war with other parties. Today, the hashtag contest is actually between Tamizh (Tamil) & Malayali folks. Nobody can beat #GoBackModi on a Tamil (vere level) global scale. But Malayalis can hold their fort on #PoMoneModi. Game on folks!” tweeted Suby. “Vere” means “another”. Visits by Union home minister Amit Shah too have faced similar Twitter rage in Tamil Nadu and Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand disaster: Five bodies found in tunnel, toll 50||Rescue teams on Sunday recovered 12 more bodies, including five brought out from the sludge-choked Tapovan power project tunnel where about 30 people were feared trapped after the flash flood in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand on February 7. Six bodies were found from Raini upstream and one from the riverbank in Rudraprayag.  The number of those confirmed dead now stands at 50. Officials said 154 people still remain missing. Rescuers had so far failed to reach anyone — dead or alive — in the tunnel network at the National Thermal Power Corporation’s 520MW Tapovan-Vishnugad project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||Munawar Faruqui shocks fans by announcing upcoming video on YouTube channel  ||Comedian Munawar Faruqui, who was granted bail by the Supreme Court last week, had left fans shocked by announcing an upcoming video titled “Munawar Faruqui Leaving Comedy” on his YouTube channel. It was his latest joke, as the 32-year-old admitted in the video uploaded on Saturday night, saying the title should have been spelt “Munawar Faruqui Living Comedy”. The stand-up comedian had spent more than a month in an Indore prison on the charge of hurting religious sentiments. His defence was that he had been arrested before he could get on stage and was being prosecuted for things he did not say. He said in the video: “I can’t give up comedy; I am alive because of it. I will win the hearts of the people who hate me. For this, I have to work harder. Every artiste does not get this challenge. I have got it and will win their hearts.” The Mumbai-based comedian added: “There are some who are spreading hate. What do you want to do? To spread hate or ignore them and use the Internet in the right way?… Abuse is not content; it is just hatred. “If we want to ban something, why don’t we ban hate on the Internet? Without thinking, people argue about things for hours, hurl abuses. Why can’t we use the Internet properly? The herd mentality, this politics, anyone can become a victim. “I am not even a victim. I have just received a few scratches for something I didn’t even do. The politics and herd mentality of some people can actually ruin lives.” “I don’t want people against me, I want people to stand with me…. Comedy has kept me alive, how can I quit it?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
15-02-2021||India||Row over Jagannath temple bylaw changes in Odisha||The Centre’s attempts to bring about changes in important laws without due consultation and without taking into account the ground realities has resulted in embarrassment for the NDA government time and again. The latest example is the way the Union ministry of culture was forced to withdraw the draft heritage bylaws of the National Monuments Authority (NMA) for the Jagannath temple in Puri following protests by sevayats (servitors) and the temple administration. However, the culture ministry seems not to have learnt any lessons from the Puri fiasco and is now facing fresh protests over its draft notification to bring about amendments in the heritage by laws governing the 11th century Lingaraj temple and other important shrines in Bhubaneswar. On Saturday, BJD MPs met Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi in New Delhi and demanded that the proposed bylaws relating to the Lingaraj temple and some other important shrines be withdrawn. On Friday evening, chief minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted: “Central Govt should immediately withdraw the National Monuments Authority Draft Bylaws on Ananta Basudev & Brahmeswar Temple of #EkamraKshetra. It would have been appropriate for the Central agencies to take the State into confidence on sensitive religious issues.” On Tuesday, the Odisha government wrote to the Centre for the withdrawal of the notification about changes in the bylaws for the Lingaraj temple and other shrines of the state. The main objection is that if the bylaws are implemented there would be no construction in the first 100-metre radius of these structures which will be declared as a prohibited area. Similarly, the next 200 metres will also be a no-construction zone as it would be declared as a regulated zone. For any construction work in the regulated zone, permission of the authorities would be needed. The issue has triggered resentment among various sections of people in the state. “Babus are drafting laws without doing any homework. They are drafting them sitting in AC rooms. As they remain ignorant about the sentiments of the people, there are protests over several laws passed by the NDA government recently,” said lawyer Bana Bihari Mohanty. Social activist Sudharsan Das said: “In a democratic country, Parliament formulates laws. But stakeholders must be consulted. The emphasis on dialogue is missing now. In the case of the controversial farm laws, adequate consultation was not done with the farmers. “Similarly, in case of the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple there had been no consultation with the temple servitors, the main stakeholders. Now we want to know whether the stakeholders have been consulted while formulating the bylaws for the Lingaraj temple.” Intellectuals, too, have expressed displeasure at the present trend of laws being framed without due consultation. “These days bureaucrats are taking advantage of the ignorance of ministers which creates problems,” said Amareshawar Mishra, professor of political science, Utkal University. The situation arising out of the dispute has left the state BJP leaders embarrassed. Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi’s silence on the issue of bylaws for the Lingraj temple in the Ekamra Kshetra, as the old town area is known, has raised eyebrows. Even posters questioning her silence on the issue have appeared in Bhubaneswar. Ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) leader and minister Ashok Panda, who hails from the area, said: “The silence of Bhubaneswar MP on the issue raises many questions. She should raise the issue in Parliament.” Aparajita told The Telegraph: “I am in Delhi because Parliament is in session. I will be back in Bhubaneswar on February 15. I will look into the matter of the NMA and take appropriate steps after talking to all and visiting the area.” Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who had earlier protested on the heritage bylaws for the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple, tweeted: “The chief minister has not been properly briefed on the applicability of the bylaws framed by the NMA.” The minister assured that the Centre is committed to address all the objections of Odisha government through dialogue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
15-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP IT cell spreading rumours, making fake calls to profs: Mamata||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday accused the BJP IT cell of calling up people by posing as ruling party workers and spreading misinformation, Hinddustan Times reported. “Some professors at Kolkata’s Jadavpur University were called up by people who identified themselves as Trinamool Congress (TMC) members and wanted to know who the professors would vote for in the coming elections. The callers gave a lot of misinformation and made insulting remarks before hanging up,” Banerjee told the media at the state secretariat. “When the professors checked the numbers it was found that these are not linked to the TMC. This is the dirty work of the BJP IT cell. I am asking the police to start a probe immediately. I urge people not to receive calls from suspicious numbers and lodge police complaints if they are contacted. Strong action will be taken. The BJP’s IT cell is proficient in spreading fake news. Amit Shah had once said his party can make anything viral through thousands of WhatsApp groups,” said Banerjee. Bengal BJP vice-president Ritesh Tiwari countered Banerjee’s allegation by calling her a “habitual liar”. “Banerjee is a habitual liar and people of Bengal know that by now. She is making up these stories to secure the sympathy of the teaching community. Why doesn’t she make public the records of those alleged calls and audio recording of the conversations that she claims have taken place. I challenge her. Let her prove the involvement of the BJP IT cell if she can,” Tiwari said. The chief minister also accused the Centre of failing to control the prices of petrol and cooking gas. “The prices go down before elections and go up again. I urge the Centre to take steps,” she said. She made the remarks after virtually inaugurating a large number of projects, ranging from a subsidized cooked food chain for common people to a training facility for Indian Civil Service aspirants. The latter has been named after freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose who had resigned from the civil service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
15-02-2021||West Bengal||DYFI activist injured in a clash with police while on a march towards Nabanna dies||A DYFI activist who was injured in a clash with the police during the Left parties' march to West Bengal secretariat Nabanna on February 11 succumbed to his injuries on Monday morning, igniting a political row in the state. The CPI (M) has termed its youth wing cadre's death a "murder" by the TMC government, while the ruling party in the state called it a "suicide". Maidul Islam Midda, a resident of Kotulpur in Bankura district, was critically injured and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in south Kolkata, a health official said. His condition continued to deteriorate and he died in the morning due to excessive blood loss, hospital authorities said. An FIR was registered with the Shakespeare Sarani police station in connection with Midda's death, a senior officer of Calcutta Police said. "We are thoroughly probing the matter. A post-mortem examination will be conducted during the day," he said. The CPI (M) has held the TMC government responsible for his death. "This is nothing but murder. The way the students were lathi-charged during the march shows that the TMC government is scared and worried. The state administration is solely responsible for Midda's death," CPI (M) leader Sujan Chakraborty said. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh also mourned Midda's death and lashed out at the TMC government. "This is an unfortunate incident. It shows that the TMC government has lost control over everything. Whatever is happening in West Bengal is not correct," he said. Senior TMC leader and state Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee said, "Any death is unfortunate. But that day the police was very sensible. I think this is nothing but suicide." Student and youth wings of Left parties had clashed with the police during the rally, leading to injuries on both sides. The police had resorted to lathi-charge, burst tear gas shells and used water cannons to disperse the activists. The Left Front had called a 12-hour state-wide bandh on February 12 in protest against the police action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal allocates plot for Cooch Behar varsity, Centre holds fest to woo Rajbanshis||Bengal government handed over a 13-acre plot to the Cooch Behar Panchanan Barma University to set up the second campus at Khalishamari in the Mathabhanga subdivision on Sunday, a day when a cultural festival organised by the centre was inaugurated at the palace of the erstwhile royals here. The university named after the greatest icon of Rajbanshis and the festival at the Cooch Behar palace have become instruments in the hands of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP, respectively, in their endeavour to woo the community that can influence electoral outcome in close to half of 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal. The land for the second campus was handed over to the varsity authorities at Khalishamari by north Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh. “The date is significant as February 14 is the birth anniversary of Panchanan Barma, the most revered social reformer of the community while Khalishamari was his birthplace,” pointed out a political observer. On the premises of the palace, known as Rajbari among local people, hundreds assembled to witness the gala inauguration of the 11th edition of the three-day Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav hosted by the Union ministry of tourism and culture. Union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel and Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar were present at the event, along with Cooch Behar BJP MP Nisith Pramanik. “The palace is an emblem of pride and rich heritage of Cooch Behar. We have chosen the palace as the venue of the cultural extravaganza to showcase the site as well as the district before the national and international audience. Prominent artists will congregate here for cultural exchange in the next two days,” Patel said in his speech. Supporters of the Bangshibadan Burman faction of the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association had demonstrated in front of the palace on Saturday, demanding that the venue of the fest be shifted somewhere else. Their grouse was that the festival would damage the palace preserved by the Archaeological Survey of India. Obliquely referring to the protest, Patel said in his address: “Some people here have a misconception....There should be no difference of opinion when it comes to cultural issues.”  The previous editions of the festival had been organised at other towns in India. Bengal minister Ghosh paid homage to Panchanan Barma at the programme where the land was transferred to the university. “We received the plot today (Sunday) and the chief minister will virtually lay the foundation stone of the second campus from Nabanna tomorrow (Monday). She will also unveil a statue of Panchanan Barma on the varsity’s premises in Cooch Behar,” vice-chancellor Debkumar Mukherjee said. The state government had already taken a number of decisions for the uplift of Rajbanshis. Union home minister Amit Shah had on February 11 made a series of announcements, including a battalion in central paramilitary forces in the name of Narayani Sena, which was the troop of the Cooch Behar royals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 262 cured, two die in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday logged 262 Covid-19 recoveries, 190 infections and two deaths, including one in the city, as total active cases dropped for the 111th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 4,086, back almost to where it was 254 days ago, on June 5 last year. Of total 10,232 deaths, 8,589 (83.9 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. “With this spell of turnaround, we have also managed to lower the daily death toll drastically,” said a Bengal minister. “In half of February so far, we logged just 53 deaths. Over the past one month (January 14-February 14), there were 222 deaths, compared to 910 just before that (December 14-January 14), 1,490 in the month prior to that (November 14-December 14) and 1,808 before that (October 14-November 14),” he added. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent. The recovery rate rose for 114 consecutive days to touch 97.5 per cent. The national rate now is 97.27. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.9 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 87 days. On Sunday, the state reported 22,204 tests, taking the total past 83 lakh, at 92,226 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal seeks undertakings on vaccine refusal ||The Bengal government has made it mandatory for health workers unwilling to take Covid-19 jabs to give a written undertaking to the health department that they are reluctant to take the vaccine. Sources said only 56 per cent of over seven lakh health and frontline workers had been vaccinated across Bengal till February 10. They added only 50 per cent of the target group had taken the vaccine in a few districts. In a video conference on Thursday evening, the top brass of the state health department asked district health officials to finish the vaccination of health workers by February 20 and of frontline workers by 25th. “Despite repeated appeals, a large number of health workers are skipping vaccination. Our officials have approached all reluctant candidates personally. We can’t wait forever. So, those unwilling to take the vaccination will need to give a written undertaking about their refusal,” said a senior health official. The government has prepared a format for the undertaking that includes the name, designation, place of posting and contact number of the employee unwilling to take the jab. Health officials in the districts said there were two categories of health workers refusing vaccination — a section that is not sure about the efficacy of the jab and is scared of adverse reaction and then there are auxiliary nurse midwives who want the government to settle their financial demands before they are inoculated. “We could convince around 20 per cent of auxiliary nurse midwives to take vaccine but the large section of them was refusing. In our district, we have already circulated the format to all block level medical officers and requested them to send copies of undertakings duly signed by those unwilling within three days,” said a senior health official in Birbhum. Pranab Roy, the chief medical officer of health in East Burdwan, said: “The undertaking in the prescribed format has been circulated among unwilling candidates across the district. We will start collecting the undertakings and our officials have informed them that they will have no right in future to demand free vaccine if they refuse it now.” Sources in the state health department said vaccination at most places in Bengal had started on January 16. Sources said the department would also take similar undertakings from frontline workers and others who would be unwilling to take the vaccine. “Frontline workers unwilling to take the jab will also have to give it in writing. The government wants to complete the vaccination process at the earliest so that the process to vaccinate elderly citizens could be started,” said a health official. The state health department on Friday asked districts to be prepared to start the second dose of vaccination for those who have taken the vaccine 28 days ago. The process of a second dose of vaccination will start soon, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Rural road repair target surpassed in Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has reconstructed 14,416.25km of rural roads under Pathasree, the programme launched on October 1 last year by the chief minister, surpassing its initial target of 12,557km and giving connectivity a new lease of life to nearly 7,300 habitations across Bengal. “The state had set a target of reconstructing 12,557km of rural roads under the programme initially. Within four months of the programme’s launch, the state has achieved its primary target. This is a huge achievement in terms of better connectivity in the state,” said a senior state government official. Reconstructing or repairing over 14,000km of rural roads mainly of concrete or upgrading 7,309 roads in villages is significant in terms of better rural connectivity and jobs for thousands in the backdrop of pandemic that drastically slashed job opportunities. According to a booklet, to be soon released by the state government to showcase its success, four departments — panchayat and rural development, PWD, urban development and municipal affairs and irrigation — shouldered the responsibility. Of them, the panchayat department has reconstructed 14,064.07km of roads, urban development and municipal affairs department reconstructed 255.54km. The PWD reconstructed 93.05km of roads and the irrigation department 3.60km of roads. The booklet suggests that emphasis was given to restore rural roads in all 22 districts in the state and the figures gave a clear indication that all districts got their roads repaired. “If 454.49km of roads were repaired in Cooch Behar, 829.58km roads were repaired in Birbhum. The difference (in numbers) could be because of the total area of a district and the number of roads in bad shape (which varies from district to district). But no district would be able to complain that it was deprived,” said a senior government official. Trinamul insiders said the success of the programme would help the ruling party ahead of the 2021 state polls. “Voters in rural areas are very sensitive about the condition of roads in their villages. In the past we have seen people boycotting polls over bad roads. This time, we won’t face uncomfortable questions when we visit rural areas during our campaign,” said a Trinamul MLA. Sources in the state administration said that the chief minister knew the direct link between the condition of rural roads and elections. “This is the reason she launched the programme much ahead (of polls) so that the ruling party does not face questions ahead of polls. Not only this, she allotted funds in this year’s budget to take up the restoration of 46,000km of rural reads in next five years,” said a senior official. Some officials said the success of the programme would be evaluated only after a few months as it remains to be seen if quality was maintained while reconstructing roads. “It has often observed that the local bodies don’t carry out work properly....I hope quality control was an integral part of the programme,” said a senior bureaucrat. However, taking a cue from the success of the programme, the state government has extended its target of reconstructing 17,333.86km of roads under the programme from its initial target of 12,557km.nm“Another 2,917.61km of roads have already been taken up for reconstruction under the programme and it is expected that the work would be completed soon,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress campaign on wheels||The Trinamul Congress has rolled out over two dozen buses, with Didir Doot (Didi’s ambassador) emblazoned on them for road rallies. The buses have already been fielded in various districts. Trinamul’s campaign on wheels was inaugurated on Saturday at Canning in South 24-Parganas, where Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Trinamul heir-apparent Abhishek was present. Sources said this was aimed at countering the BJP’s ongoing rath yatra of five buses touring many of Bengal districts as part of the saffron party’s Parivartan Yatra to widen its reach ahead of the Assembly polls. Trinamul’s blue buses with yellow outlines are painted with the Trinamul symbol and the smiling face of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The tagline below the image reads Banglar Gorbo Mamata (Bengal’s pride, Mamata). Sources said the buses were similar to those in the BJP’s yatra: air-conditioned and with a few seats and the option to get to the vehicle’s roof on a ladder. Senior Trinamul leaders from Calcutta are slated to hold street-corners or roadshows on these buses with local MLAs and senior leaders. Sources said the buses have QR codes and anyone can download the Didir Doot mobile application by scanning the code. The application was launched earlier this month to connect the people of Bengal with the chief minister, a concept designed by poll strategist Prashant Kishor. BJP leaders have criticised Trinamul for “copying” their idea. Trinamul leaders, however, said their buses were unlike the BJP’s as the latter’s vision was “polarisation”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Murder bid cry as truck hits Bengal BJP MP’s car||A speeding truck reportedly rammed into BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar’s vehicle on NH12 on Saturday night, prompting accusations from the party that it was a “Trinamul conspiracy” to kill him. The hit reportedly left Sarkar unharmed but his driver injured and the car damaged. Barasat police sources said the truck driver, reportedly driving without a licence, was arrested on BJP youth wing leader Koushik Majumder’s complaint. On Sunday, BJP supporters blocked NH12 in Nadia. Sarkar filed a complaint with Santipur police, reportedly claiming it was a “planned attack”. Trinamul’s Naihati MLA Partha Bhowmik dismissed the allegations. However, Sarkar said: There are obvious reasons to believe that Saturday night’s incident was not an accident. We all watched that truck chasing us suspiciously for a while. I was lucky to escape unhurt only because of the driver’s alertness, who at the last moment drove beyond the edge of the road to save my life. However, he (the driver) suffered injuries as the truck rammed into his side of the vehicle before trying to escape.” The BJP MP added that Trinamul had been rattled since he won the Lok Sabha election in 2019. “The ruling party has since been trying to harass me, implicating me in several cases by levelling fake charges that include the murder of MLA Satyajit Biswas. But so far it has been unsuccessful. Now it appears that the party is trying to kill me to stop me politically, but it failed,” he said. Police sources said prima facie that around 10.30pm, the truck was speeding towards Krishnagar, and in a bid to overtake the MP’s black Scorpio near Hela-Battala area in Barasat town rammed into it. Sarkar had been returning home to Santipur from Calcutta airport. A senior police official from the Barasat police district said the incident was “prima facie an accident”. “Nevertheless, we are examining all possible aspects,” he said. In a separate incident, BJP supporters blocked the Minakha-Basanti highway in North 24-Parganas on Sunday morning condemning the murderous attack on BJP leader Feroz Kamal Gazi, popularly known as Babu Master, on Saturday night. Party workers staged demonstrations in front of all police stations under Basirhat subdivision. Some persons had hurled bombs at Gaji’s car on Basanti highway around 9 pm on Saturday near Lauhati when he was travelling to Calcutta. Gazi, who joined the BJP barely two months ago, and his driver were badly wounded. BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh joined the protest in Basirhat on Sunday and later met additional police super Chandan Ghosh. Sources said Singh handed police a list of 12 suspects. Both police and Singh refused to disclose the names.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Still no job for kin by state govt: Pulwama martyr's family||Family members of Sudip Biswas, a CRPF jawan who was killed in the Pulwama attack two years earlier on February 14, have accused the Mamata Banerjee government of not yet offering a job to his sister only because of a “misconception” created by some in the ruling party that they were BJP supporters. Biswas’s family alleged that while the state government supported many families of slain personnel of military and paramilitary forces with jobs, they remained outside the state largesse because of the “baseless political prejudice”. Biswas, a constable attached to the 98th Battalion of CRPF, died in the Pulwama blast on February 14, 2019, along with 39 colleagues, when an alleged suicide bomber driving a car packed with explosives rammed into a vehicle ferrying them on the Jammu-Srinagar highway. The state government immediately handed the family a cheque of Rs 5 lakh through the Nadia district administration and promised a job for his sister, who takes care of the parents Sannyasi and Mamata Biswas. A road in Tehatta was also to be named after Biswas by the state government. The parents were given around Rs 1 crore as compensation and other benefits by the Centre, and received cash from various private organisations and individuals. “For two years now, we have been living off the money given to us by the governments and organisations. Our married daughter has been living with us to look after us. We are old and ailing. Money received after my son’s death is running out. My daughter’s job could help us meet recurring expenses,” said the 64-year-old father. Biswas’s sister Jhuma said state officials had promised her a job and advised her to submit an application, which she did. “I also visited the local administration office on a number of occasions. But the officials ignored me repeatedly. I came to know that the wife of another Pulwama victim from Howrah has got a state government job. It appears that I am being deprived of a job only because of our alleged proximity to BJP workers, who are mostly our neighbours,” she alleged. Jhuma’s husband Samapta Biswas, who runs a small hardware shop, also alleged that local Trinamul leaders suspect the family of being BJP supporters, but it was “incorrect”. BJP’s Nadia (north) organising district secretary Arjun Biswas said: “The family has become a victim of Trinamul’s politics. The party leadership misled the administration to deny (Biswas’s sister) the job.” Local Trinamul MLA Tapas Saha rubbished the allegations. “We are in touch with the family. I visited them last month and told her sister to submit a fresh application. The matter will be taken care of according to the rules,” said the MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari takes jibe at Mamata Banerjee government||Trinamul turncoat and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, here on Sunday, tried to belittle the Mamata Banerjee government’s efforts in north Bengal, saying the state had simply obeyed central policy. “There is a central policy that each district has to have a medical college and hospital and a university, funds are allotted for them. The state government acted according to the policy...that is why the medical college and university are coming up here,” he said. Suvendu was speaking at the meeting held by his new party in Baburhat on Alipurduar town outskirts to welcome the party’s “Parivartan Yatra” from Cooch Behar. In the past few years, the Trinamul government announced and developed a number of new medical colleges and universities in north Bengal in Cooch Behar, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling, North and South Dinajpurs and Malda. Suvendu also referred to the Centre’s recent allocation of Rs 1,000 crore for the development of the tea population, particularly women and children, of Bengal and Assam. “This indicates that the central government is concerned about tea workers of north Bengal. The state government, on the other hand, has failed to create job opportunities in this region and across Bengal as a whole. These days, the government is busy distributing eyeglasses,” he said. On Sunday, Trinamul leader and state labour minister Moloy Ghatak, along with district Trinamul leaders, held a public meeting in Kalchini of Alipurduar district. “On February 16, the Birpara tea estate will reopen. During the Left rule, 40 tea gardens were closed and we have managed to reopen most of these gardens,” said Ghatak. He also pointed out that in 2011, the daily tea wage was Rs 67 which has increased to Rs 202 in the past 10 years. “The BJP only makes empty promises. It is the state government that has revised the wages, reopened closed gardens and has floated an array of welfare schemes for the tea population,” the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress onboards Alok Chakraborty in Terai ||Trinamul leaders in the plains of Darjeeling district seeking to cement their support base in the tea belt of Terai — Siliguri subdivision and Islampur subdivision (in neighbouring North Dinajpur) — received a boost by getting Alok Chakraborty, a veteran Intuc leader, on board. Siliguri-based Chakraborty, associated with Congress’ trade union front Intuc for decades, is known to have clout among Terai’s tea population. On February 2, he left the Congress and joined Mamata Banerjee’s party in Calcutta. Party secretary-general and state education minister Partha Chatterjee inducted him into Trinamul in the presence of Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul chief Ranjan Sarkar. On Sunday, the trade union leader returned to Siliguri. At Bagdogra airport, he was welcomed by Trinamul supporters who held a bike rally as his car rolled out of the airport. “He is a senior trade union leader and a known face in the tea gardens of north Bengal. When he joined Trinamul, many Intuc members followed suit. We are confident that his presence will boost Trinamul’s support base in the Assembly seats of Matigara-Naxalbari, Phansidewa and even in the Chopra seat of the neighbouring district (North Dinajpur),” said Pratul Chakraborty, who chairs Trinamul’s Darjeeling district committee (plains). In all these three Assembly seats, votes of the tea population decide the results. According to party insiders, despite having committees at different tiers in the Terai, Trinamul suffered without a prominent trade unionist in the region unlike the Left and the Congress. Back in 2013, Chakraborty joined Trinamul briefly and returned to Congress after a few months. The trade union leader was the president of Intuc backed National Union of Plantation Workers and also Intuc’s Darjeeling district president. He was also a national committee member of Intuc. “That he has a considerable support base in Terai was evident in 2006 when he backed Hamidul Rehman to contest as an Intuc-backed Independent candidate when the state Congress did not give Rehman a ticket, and secured Rehman’s win. Also, it was because of him that the Congress could win the Phansidewa seat in 2016. He was also instrumental in securing some seats for Congress at the three-tier panchayat elections of Siliguri subdivision in 2015,” said a source. Trinamul sources said a few weeks back, Chakraborty expressed his desire to join Trinamul again. Accordingly, he held talks with party leader and MP Abhishek Banerjee and also with chief minister Mamata Banerjee. At these meetings, he elaborated how he could help Trinamul secure support in the tea gardens of Terai and even the Dooars. “This is why it seems he was inducted into the party again,” said a source. The senior trade union leader, when asked about his decision, said he felt the need to stand with Trinamul to counter the BJP. “Congress and the Left have joined hands for the upcoming elections but their political stand is vague. They will have to make it clear who their number one political enemy in the state is. Owing to this confusion, I felt it necessary as a trade unionist and political worker to join Trinamul,” Chakraborty said. On his plan, he said his focus would be on four Assembly seats of Siliguri, Matigara-Naxalbari, Phansidewa and Dabgram-Fulbari (the seat of state tourism minister Gautam Deb). “Along with the district leadership, I will devote my time to secure Trinamul’s win in these four seats,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Police station launch near Balurghat today||The state home department has issued a notification for a new police station in Patiram, South Dinajpur, on the outskirts of district headquarters Balurghat. “The state government issued the notification on Saturday. Accordingly, the existing Patiram investigation centre under Balurghat police station will be upgraded into a full-fledged police station and will be inaugurated on Monday on the same premises....Infrastructure work, which include posting additional personnel, would be done,” South Dinajpur SP Debarshi Dutta said. Areas under Patiram, Bolla, Najirpur and Gopalbati panchayats, under Balurghat police station and Batun panchayat area of Kumarganj police station, will now fall under the ambit of this new police station. The decision was welcomed by residents in and around Patiram for whom this was a longstanding demand. On Saturday, residents celebrated the news by bursting crackers and distributing sweets. On Sunday, social outfit Patiram Nagarik O Yuba Samaj offered people sweets. They said that till 1911, Patiram had a full-fledged police station but eventually it was reduced to an investigation centre or outpost. Biswajit Pramanik of the outfit thanked the state government. Acting on a tip-off, the police of Kaliaganj of North Dinajpur along with some NGO representatives rescued seven camels from Kaludangi area of Kaliaganj on Saturday night. Police sources said the camels were brought from Rajasthan and were meant to be smuggled to Bangladesh. “Those who bought the camels fled the spot. The camels would be sent back to a rehabilitation centre in Sirohi, Rajasthan,” said a police officer. Recently, the police had recovered three camels from Malgaon, also in Kaliaganj block. Malda: A mob in Jhaljhalia caught a youth accused of stealing a stone idol from a shop and beat him for over an hour on Sunday till police rescued him. His condition is critical. In another incident, a man along with four others tried to kidnap his wife. The woman said her husband was a drug addict. The husband and his four aides have been arrested. SOUMYA DE SARKAR||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
15-02-2021||North East||Plea for new BJP chief by February-end in Nagaland||Infighting within the Nagaland BJP unit has resurfaced after the lull of a few months with nine of the 14 district unit presidents threatening to resign if the state unit chief Temjen Imna Along Longkumer was not removed by February-end. In a letter to BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Friday, the nine district presidents have stated that “failure to urgently intervene into the crisis within BJP Nagaland by the end of February 2021 will compel us to put in our resignations from our posts even though we will remain loyal party karyakartas (workers) in the future too”. The nine signatories represent Phek, Wokha, Aboi (organisational district), Peren, Mon, Noklak, Tuensang, Kohima and Kiphire districts. A copy of the letter, accessed by The Telegraph, has also been marked to B.L. Santhosh, BJP national general secretary (organisation) and Nalin Kohli, party’s national spokesperson and in-charge of Nagaland. The three paragraph letter was an “urgent reminder” to Nadda about the seven petitions the district presidents had submitted last year to the party leaders, including him, about the problems plaguing the state BJP unit. The problem between the district presidents and Longkumer started after the latter removed the Phek unit chief on June 23 last year. Besides petitioning the leadership, they had last year even carried out a poster campaign in their districts seeking Longkumer’s removal. Though Longkumer could not be contacted, sources close to him said they were surprised over the development, claiming everything appeared fine on the surface after Kohli had brokered peace between the two groups at Hotel Japfu in Kohima besides assuring to convey their problems to the central leadership. As part of the deal, Longkumer was told to rehabilitate the three district chiefs he had removed. A BJP office-bearer told this newspaper that they have not heard from the central leadership after the cordial meeting with Kohli, a reason why they have revived their demand for the replacement of Longkumer in the greater interest of the state unit. BJP is part of the ruling alliance in Nagaland led by the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party. Six of its 12 MLAs are ministers in the Neiphiu Rio-led council of ministers. The nine district presidents had first petitioned Ram Madhav, the then BJP national general secretary on June 25, 2020, “for replacement/change” of Longkumer, who was re-elected as state unit chief in January last year. Four petitions, dated July 19, August 20, August 28 and September 5, were then sent to Nadda to intervene and resolve the problems within the Nagaland BJP unit. The district presidents had sent two more petitions, one each to Dilip Saikia, BJP national general secretary, on October 12 and to Kohli on December 3 with similar pleas. They said all their petitions listed out the “arbitrary” functioning of Longkumer and “his henchmen who were resorting to undemocratic practices at all levels of our party organisation to cover up his mismanagement and failings which is bogging down the functioning of our party at the organisational level and damaging the good image of our party in the state as a whole”. The nine district presidents also touched upon their plea for implementation of the “one man, one post” principle in Nagaland as Longkumer was also a minister with many important portfolios to look after and as such “cannot” provide time to party karyakartas from all levels. They also reminded the national leadership of their warning about the BJP’s tally dropping to “single digit” from the 12 MLAs they have in the present 60-member Assembly, if the party were to face the state polls under Longkumer. They claimed their warnings came true “to a degree” in the November 3 bypolls to Pungro constituency where the party finished a distant third, behind an Independent, adding that as loyal karyakartas, “rather than damage our party we are prepared to resign from our posts as we are, more than anything, concerned about the glorious image of our party”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-23
15-02-2021||North East||Assam: Rahul Gandhi promises no-CAA, tea workers' wage hike||Rahul Gandhi on Sunday made two categorical promises to the people of poll-bound Assam: the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) would not be allowed under any circumstances and a daily minimum wage of Rs 365 to tea garden workers. Addressing a pre-poll rally at Sivasagar’s Boarding Field in Upper Assam,  where the Opposition Congress has rapidly lost ground since the BJP-led alliance comprehensively won the 2016 state elections, a combative Rahul Gandhi went all out against the ruling dispensation. He flagged issues such as demonetisation, the pandemic management, privatisation, the CAA and unemployment. The Congress MP’s blistering attack on the BJP during his first such rally in the region suggested he was unperturbed by the tag of “doomsday man” bestowed on him on Saturday by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Rahul not only raised the same issues but also continued with his  “hum do, hamare do” barb. The first commitment the Congress MP  made was on maintaining the sanctity of the 1985 Assam Accord, which most in Assam  feel has been diluted with the imposition of the CAA under the BJP-led Centre despite widespread protests in the state. “The Assam Accord is Assam’s protector, it protects you.… First thing I want to say to you all on the Assam Accord,  me and all Congress leaders will defend and protect the Assam Accord, will not move back an inch on the Assam Accord.… Influx is an  issue and it can be resolved through talks,” Rahul said. He then showed the Gamucha (the traditional Assamese scarf) with which he was greeted and was worn by all Congress leaders on the dais. “I have worn this Gamucha with CAA written on it and over which we have put a cross. We have all worn it. This means, whatever happens, the CAA will not happen. Hum do, hamare do, acchi tarah se sun lo, (CAA) nahi hoga, kabhi nahi hoga,” he declared. Under the contentious legislation,   non-Muslims who have entered the country till December 2014 from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan can acquire Indian citizenship. The CAA is seen as a threat to Assamese culture and identity. On the other hand, the 1985 pact has fixed March 24, 1971, as the cut-off date for detecting and deporting illegal foreigners. Rahul reached out to the influential tea community and its long-pending demand for a minimum daily wage. The BJP-led state government has committed to increase the daily wage from Rs 167 to  Rs 351 a day this month. “Our tea workers get Rs 167 a day while Gujarat traders get tea gardens. What do you get for Rs 167? This is why they want to divide Assam. They know if they want to steal from Assam, they will have to divide Assam. Therefore, our brothers from tea gardens, please listen carefully: you get Rs 167 and we will put another Rs 200 minus two in your pockets. Everyday you will get Rs 365 a day.  You will now ask where will we get this Rs 200 from.… We will get it from traders from Gujarat because they are snatching it from you.” He said India was being run by four persons, “hum do, hamare do, and if we extend it to Assam it will be hum do, hamare do, aur hamare do”,  alluding to state chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. The rally was high on symbolism with the Congress trying to convey that the party represented the interests of Assam. PCC leaders presented Rahul Gandhi with traditional Ahom attire complete with a hengdang (traditional Ahom sword). They played the state anthem O Mur Apunar Dex. PCC chief Ripun Bora and CLP leader Debabrata Saikia laid stress on the sacrifices and steps taken by the party to protect and keep Assam united. Rahul started his speech by chanting “Jai Aai Ahom (glory to Mother Assam)”, a popular slogan during the six-year-old Assam Agitation which culminated in the signing of the 1985 Assam Accord. He also felicitated Uma Kanta Baruah, grandson of 1830 martyr Swahid Jiuram Dulia Baruah. The meeting ended with the “aami CAA nemanu (we won’t accept CAA)” song. Sivasagar is a Ahom-dominated constituency, playing a decisive role in state polls just like the tea community. Prime minister Narendra Modi too had addressed his first poll rally at Sivasagar's Jerenga Pathar, about 4 km from Boarding Field. Modi will be visiting the state for the third time on February 22. Rahul said he had raised only a two to three Assam specific issues but there were a lot more which he would focus on in due course because we want this state to make rapid progress and generate jobs for its youths. He said the state should not be run by remote control from “Nagpur and Delhi”.  He is expected to attend at least six rallies. Congress workers and leaders are hoping Rahul’s visit will galvanise the party at the grassroots as they are up against a well-entrenched ruling dispensation.  Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal had on Saturday said in the Assembly that the BJP would retain power because of the good work done by it since 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-23
15-02-2021||Opinion||Clear the air: fossil fuel deaths||Pollution is a multi-pronged problem; among its many sources is the use of fossil fuel. This was evident from the startling findings of a recent study by scientists that revealed that air pollution caused by fossil fuel use is responsible for nearly nine million deaths worldwide. India is among the top two worst performers on this count; the loss of lives owing to fossil fuel usage amounts to almost 31 per cent of the nation’s total deaths. The picture is particularly grim when it comes to Bengal: in 2018, the state reported the third highest number of fatalities caused by exposure to emissions from coal, petroleum and other fossil fuels. The problem is aggravated by the dogged unwillingness of global leaders to acknowledge the crisis. Donald Trump fast-tracked dozens of fossil-fuel projects as president. India is still heavily reliant on coal. Not only did the Narendra Modi government seek to boost the domestic coal mining sector with a series of commercial auctions in 2020, but it has also delayed the implementation of pollution regulations for coal plants. The Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana — the government’s flagship scheme under which free liquefied petroleum gas connections are given to poor families — was touted to have almost 98 per cent coverage in India. Yet, the latest National Family Health Survey found that the usage of LPG cylinders remains low: this could mean that dependence on coal and wood fire for domestic consumption is yet to wane. Countering the problem within India would involve effecting a massive shift among coal-based industries as well as expediting the transition to energy-efficient, non-polluting household cooking systems. These internal interventions must be complemented at the global level by developed nations leading the charge to replace polluting sources of power with greener alternatives and extending meaningful assistance to developing economies to make a similar switch by transferring funds and technology. Hopefully, the US — it has rejoined the Paris pact — and China along with India would use climate talks to further this agenda. The threat posed by fossil fuel use can only be neutralized by collective, participatory action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
15-02-2021||Opinion||Great minds: Gandhi and Tagore||Sir — The article, “Dream collaborators” (Feb 8), by A. Raghuramaraju makes for enlightening reading. Perhaps the only Indian leader who understood M.K. Gandhi’s doctrines and philosophy fully was Rabindranath Tagore; between 1915 and 1941, Tagore and Gandhi exchanged a series of letters which were compiled in a book titled The Mahatma and the Poet: Letters and Debates Between Gandhi and Tagore 1915-1941. These epistolary exchanges serve as frank and intimate portraits of two contemporaries who were friends as well as intellectual rivals, but who seldom differed on the matters regarding India’s freedom from the clutches of the British. Ironically, it was an Englishman, Charles Freer Andrews, who was the link between the two men and arranged their first-ever meeting at Santiniketan in March 1915. But there already existed a great sense of respect and admiration between the two. Youngsters must explore and discuss the differences and similarities between Tagore and Gandhi and revisit their ideas and actions that shaped modern India and inspired people around the world. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Breeding distrust Sir — The Union home ministry’s call to citizens to become ‘cyber volunteers’ and identify, flag and report illegal, unlawful and ‘anti-national’ online content is perhaps the most brazen and dangerous sign yet of an attempt to turn our democratic and free society into a surveillance State. Vigilantism against the minorities and those who oppose the government in power at the Centre is already on the rise. The State has ignored, even patronized, this. But such an overt call to vigilantism was unexpected. This will have dangerous consequences for citizens’ rights and freedom. The Gestapo had civil informants and the Stalinist State, too, had a network of informers. Trust among citizens will be broken and we will live in fear of each other. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Risky behaviour Sir — Denmark’s top court is hearing an appeal to decide if coughing at someone while shouting “corona” constitutes threatening behaviour. In India, where civic sense is rarer than common sense, coughing and sneezing at people is par for the course. The pandemic has done nothing to change that. Instead, people can be seen removing their mask, sneezing and then putting the mask back on. Beat that. Roshni Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
15-02-2021||Opinion||Open secrets: shocking data forensics report in Bhima Koregaon case||When a character in a play says that something is rotten in the state of Denmark, he is expressing, unknowingly, the discomfort of people in many states at different times. One source of discomfort is suspicion, a nagging sense of enveloping falsity. The discomfort sharpens when these suspicions appear to have been well-founded. For example, in 2018, suspicions that lynching in the name of cow protection had the silent support of the Centre would have been confirmed by the spectacle of a Union minister of state garlanding eight men convicted of this crime. In such situations, even one revelation can have strong confirmatory force. Another example would be the release of purported exchanges between the director of a stridently pro-government television channel and the former head of the Broadcast Audience Research Council. If found to be authentic, this series of WhatsApp messages would confirm suspicions not only of falsified TRP ratings but also of the channel chief’s amazing access to classified information and obvious inwardness with those in power. Perhaps fewer people will be surprised that an overseas digital forensics company has found that malware was deliberately introduced into the computer of Rona Wilson, a rights activist arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon violence. Mr Wilson was among those accused of having made speeches inciting hatred at the Elgaar Parishad meet the day before the occurrence. The malware reportedly planted a ‘hidden’ file with documents that the police later retrieved to show that Mr Wilson and other activists were connected with a banned Maoist organization and were conspiring to assassinate the prime minister. These men and women, some seriously ill, remain in jail and more are being added to their number. Those who had felt that they were being detained for contrived reasons may not be too surprised at the revelation itself, but the scale, technical expertise and careful planning behind the purported planting of evidence are mind-boggling. Mr Wilson was reportedly induced to open a file by making it appear to have come from an activist colleague, Varavara Rao, also arrested. The filename referred to a place in Andhra Pradesh where the police had killed two alleged Maoists who local people insisted were innocent villagers. If the charge of false evidence is established, all its layers should be analysed. Funnily enough, some of the documents from the ‘hidden’ file that form the police’s evidence are in versions of programmes allegedly unsupported by Mr Wilson’s computer. Funnier still, the malware supposedly started operating months before the Bhima-Koregaon violence. The National Investigation Agency has rejected these findings, calling it a “distortion of facts”. The distortion is undeniable; the courts will decide which facts have been distorted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
15-02-2021||Opinion||A love so pure||No pair can be hotter than Amitabh and Rekha on the big screen. “Main aur meri tanhai...” says Amitabh, and Rekha appears. He woke up and found her true. I always wonder, though, why she should be called tanhai — she looks nothing like that — but before anything else happens they set the screen on fire. On Valentine’s Day, such songs are particularly poignant in a life so starved of love as mine. So I was listening to the song on loop, and feeling bad, but also good because I was capable of generating so much self-pity and abjection, and a certain tragic air about myself, when the penny dropped and hit me hard on my head. I have someone in my life. I have had that someone for many years now. I just did not see. I am talking about my Amazon account. Me and my Amazon, main aur meri tanhai. You, my Amazon, have always been there for me, more than anyone, anything that I can think of, in the last five years or so, or for even longer maybe. You have given me everything that I could ever want. Whenever I wanted. So many times have I just looked at you, in silence. You have known its meaning. You have known what I have had in mind. You have never questioned my choices. On the contrary, you have gently nudged me towards more. You have heard my sighs. I have sung songs and you did not object. I have felt inadequate. But you didn’t let me feel that for long. You have dazzled me with even more. You made me want you more and more. Sometimes I have not been able to take my eyes off you for hours — or my hands. You are desire itself. You always give enough, I feel, only to show me that you have more. At any time, any hour, you are always there. I have woken up in the middle of the night to find you waiting, and I have gone right back into you, exploring, exploring... Main aur meri tanhai, you have competition. Stop sizzling. I have the real tanhai. I always know that I am on your mind. All through the day, you keep sending me messages, tempting me, provoking me. I cannot but respond. You have always been sensitive. You have never made me feel old. With your support, I have been able to pick up whatever I felt I would look good in, and no eyebrows raised whatsoever. You have never made me feel fat. You have always organized different sizes. If something I liked was not available in a larger size, you have quickly shown me something else that was. You have never let anyone know anything. What is a little affair without its bit of secrecy, pleasure and guilt? With your help, I have acquired little stashes of things that are hidden away. I even have an Issey Miyake bottle lying on top of the heap. You were wonderful especially during the lockdown. When the world receded, when I was alone and crouching in a corner, when I was tired of washing dishes, when the mop handle snapped into two, and when the virus was raging outside, you, Amazon, I turned to you. I just ordered stuff from you, things I absolutely did not need, from a one kilogramme jar of crunchy peanut butter to mountains of Himalayan pink salt — and a set of three floor mops with handles. True, you charge me for everything. But then everything comes with a price, relationships included. In fact, other relationships come with a hidden cost, but you are so absolutely upfront about payment and accept credit cards. Thank you. When old age shall this generation waste, thou shalt remain, in midst of other woe than ours, a friend to man, to whom thou say’st, “Buying is truth, truth buying, — that is all ye know on earth, and all ye need to know.” Buying cures everything. And you have taught me that. Heart emoji heart emoji heart emoji.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
15-02-2021||Opinion||When the real met reel: no Padma awards for film personalities ||Perhaps for the first time in decades, not a single film personality was honoured with the Padma awards this year. The one name — as consolation? — on the list was that of the Late S.P. Balasubrahmanyam. But he was recognized posthumously for his contributions in the field of art. There is also the perception that the Padma awards are generally bestowed upon those who are close to the seat of power. The anomalies in the dispensation of such awards have led to whispers of political leanings being a determinant of national honour. Lata Mangeshkar has been rightly honoured with the Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award. But Mohammed Rafi has been ignored. The dearth of regional artists in the award list is also discernible. M.G. Ramachandran has been a recipient of the Bharat Ratna, but it can be argued that the honour was linked to the political compulsions of the Congress. Interestingly, the omission of film artists from the Padma awards this year has been made all the more conspicuous by the fact that the present regime has used all its might to exploit the reach and charm of a select group in the film fraternity in a bid to promote its ideology. A particular film hero was selected to interview the prime minister even though similar requests from leading print and electronic media journalists have gone unheard for years. What makes the absence of a film personality from the honours list equally intriguing is the fact that ever since the National Democratic Alliance assumed power, the film industry has been divided into different groups. Gone are the days when the film fraternity kept itself at an arm’s length from the ideology of the political party in power. The only exception to this rule had been the film industry based in South India where artists like M.G. Ramachandran and N.T. Rama Rao went on to become chief ministers of their respective states. But that had much to do with the positions both these stalwarts took on linguistic and territorial disputes plaguing the regions at the time. The glamour of their personalities and their larger-than-life image of a benefactor of the deprived people influenced the political choices of the voters. Two contemporary stalwarts, Kamal Haasan and Rajinikanth, have shown an interest to take a plunge into state politics. The untimely illness of the latter has forced him to issue a public statement denying any such action immediately. In the heartland, the Hindi belt or in the North and the West, the relationship of film celebrities with those in power was characterized by mutual dependency and patronage. The reach and respect of cinema has varied dimensions. Its range is inversely or adversely proportionate to the stature of artists, producers, directors or other associates. This stature is also largely determined by the success of these film personalities at the box office. Every party in power has sought to take advantage of this. This nexus had remained largely amorphous. It has become quite clear since 2014. In fact the film industry has been at the receiving end of this association. Several government-run units — the Films Division, Directorate of Film Festivals, National Film Archives of India and the autonomous Children’s Film Society — were merged with the National Film Development Corporation by the Union cabinet last year. These outfits did not form a very big part of the film industry. But in spite of being State-owned agencies, their contribution to the cause of promoting cinema and nurturing fresh talent in their respective domains cannot be denied. It would be interesting to see how the freshly-minted, State-owned film organization functions. The intended vision of the new entity is to ensure balanced and focused development of Indian cinema across genres — feature films, content for OTT platforms, animation, short films, documentaries and content for children. There was a need to discuss the merger. But, just like the contentious agrarian laws, such deliberations have been avoided. This reflects the mindset of those in power. The psyche of the ruling dispensation was also on display at the distasteful incident that took place at a public function — the prime minister was in attendance — to commemorate Subhas Chandra Bose on his 124th birth anniversary where Bengal’s chief minister was heckled. But the way in which a group of artists and film industry representatives got together to protest against the misdemeanour in spite of their political and ideological differences offers a ray of hope that the film fraternity would be able to keep its artistic expressions intact and apolitical. The question is this: are India’s other film industries ready to take a leaf out of the book of their brethren in Bengal?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
15-02-2021||Opinion||Delicate dilemmas||Soon after taking office as the first-ever special presidential envoy for climate of the United States of America, John Kerry compared the scale of the climate crisis to that of the nuclear arms race during the Cold War. As of 1985, the two superpowers had 100,000 nuclear weapons and the two premiers, Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev, started the process of disarmament. Today, each country has only 1,500 warheads. Kerry went on to tell CNN that the US had to reach out to China. The future of humanity and of the planet was at stake. Other countries mattered too, but there was little doubt that along with the US, China mattered the most. Part of this calculus stems from a deeper appreciation of where China stands today vis-à-vis the global environment as much as from the political and economic order. China is grappling with the ecological costs of breakaway growth and the rapid industrialization of a mostly agrarian society. Its post-reform-era economic growth since 1978 has made it the second-largest economy on earth. But it also leads as the single largest emitter of greenhouse gases, such as CO2 and methane, and key pollutants like sulphur dioxide. Its direct impact with timber or oil imports is also considerable. Where China differs from the US is significant. From around 1978, when Deng Xiaoping became a key influence, successive leaders have grappled with the dilemma of environmental protection in the context of rapid economic expansion. From a beginning with the ‘one child policy’, afforestation and the creation of nature reserves, this set of initiatives expanded significantly after the Yangtze floods of 1998. Jim Harkness quotes the phrase by Premier Zhu Rongji: “Now we must coax the forest tiger down from the mountains.” Controls on logging in the catchment area of the Yangtze basin were seen as vital after the devastating floods that claimed over 4,000 lives. The wider penumbra of regulation as well as incentives to afforest the Loess Plateau gained greatly from a modest but important opening up of spaces not only for expertise but also for voluntary organizations. In more recent times, the ban on use of imported shark fins in state banquets, the crackdown in 2017 on ivory smuggling and the support to stop cross-border commerce in tiger parts have all gained from press campaigns, superstar endorsements and a growing middle class. Nature as heritage also fits well with the communist party’s claim as the custodian of the country’s future. But China’s course also has major contrasts with that of the US. In his two terms as president, Ronald Reagan did more than champion free markets vis-à-vis  labour and capital. He began the rollback of environmental regulations that were put in place in the early 1970s. This trend reached its apogee during the four years of the Donald Trump presidency. Even under the Democratic administrations of Bill Clinton and Barack Obama, the Republican-controlled Congress has been hawk-like in allocating funds for protection, repair and renewal of the environment. China, by contrast, made the idea of an ‘Ecological Civilization’ a major part of its party programme in 2007. Eleven years later, under President Xi Jinping, this concept was enshrined in the Constitution. Has China gone green? Certainly. In taking on new and ambitious targets in carbon emission reduction and trying out a range of approaches — from larger State nature reserves to Payments for Ecosystem Services to farmers — China has embarked on vast and ambitious initiatives in its cities, villages, forests and coasts. In a deeply perceptive new book titled China Goes Green, Yifei Li and Judith Shapiro tackle an intriguing question head on. China’s political system is no monolith, but it has demonstrated, time and again, that it can not only do U-turns on policy but also actually achieve results. At a time when democracies such as the US, Japan, India, Brazil, Mexico and those in Europe struggle to balance the drive for growth with the need to protect resources for the future, the Chinese leadership seems to have more room for manoeuvre. The catch is that much of the greening of China is coercive. A new nature reserve on the cards since 2017 is 1,15,000 square kilometres in size. It will involve the displacement of no less than 65,000 people. There is little doubt that once approved such plans will be carried through. Coercion for conservation is not unique to China: America’s famous Yellowstone National Park came into being by excluding American Indians and poor whites. That was in another century and it would be more controversial today. And rightly so. Yifei Li and Shapiro acknowledge the gains for China and the world at large. But rather than the State going green, they contend that the environmental issues are now a way to bolster the State’s legitimacy. The top-down system of Mao Zedong’s time has changed but only in degree. Half-truths abound. Greenpeace estimates that China has added 12.6 gigawatts of power via wind and solar sources since 2014. But this world leader in renewables has also added five times as much in coal-based power plants. The tightening of political controls in the Xi Jinping era makes public criticism more difficult. China is also treading down a path familiar to early industrializers. In the 1970s, Japan imported timber from Indonesia while saving its own forest cover. China follows suit, exporting environmental destruction to poorer countries. The larger question is of how far a political system can meet the challenge of justice beyond immediate human concerns such as wages, profits and jobs. The US, Europe and Japan tried to strike a balance with respect to their own citizens. Citizen action, an open press, the courts and the rights of protest and advocacy have often helped as correctives to government and large economic interests. Such impacts expanded as these societies came to rely less on land to generate wealth and more people lived in town than village. China is a study in contrast. Its urban centres now house the majority of its citizens. It has the world’s largest middle class. But its political system has more in common with the former Soviet Union. Its environmental challenges are in part like those of the US and in part like those of India. In its global ecological footprint, both direct and indirect, it rivals the former. But on issues like urban air pollution, loss of grassland and forest and the flood-drought cycle, it is more like India (with a far more repressive and effective State). The issue goes beyond the old debate of democracy versus authoritarian systems. In that discussion, the issue was posed as one of free will versus regimentation. But we all know the levels of race, gender and income inequity in both systems, with the difference being they could be openly debated in the former. But the question of nature is more complex. Climate change or species and ecosystem extinction will affect the earth for generations to come. Kerry did name India, Mexico and Europe as vital partners, stressing that all of them had to work together. But China matters most. Beijing may not have the answers but will be a key part of the question. The author teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||Tata adventure foundation plans Everest expedition in 2022||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) has planned to send candidates for Mount Everest expedition next year after a three-year hiatus. The premier Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit could not find a suitable candidate for the expedition in 2019 while the Covid-19 pandemic did not allow the journey to go ahead the following year. TSAF is not keen to send any climbers this year too as it needs adequate time for training and preparing them. Sources revealed that the authorities have already zeroed in on Asmita Dorjee for the Everest trip. The 37-year-old is a senior instructor with the TSAF. TSAF's senior manager Hemant Gupta confirmed that the expedition to the 29,029 ft peak has been planned for 2022. "We have already selected Dorjee for the expedition. We have planned the Everest expedition next year. We may select one or two more candidates for the same," he added. Gupta, who scaled the Everest in 2017, added the expedition would not be possible this year since adequate time would be needed to train and prepare the climbers. "The Everest expedition usually takes place in May and we have very less time to train the candidates now. Though Dorjee is there on the expedition list, we have to scout for one or two suitable candidates also. But we would be having ample time at our disposal if we organise the trip next year. We would start training the candidates in due course of time as things have now started opening after the pandemic," he added. According to him, plans are also afoot to organise a Trans-Himalayan expedition later this year. "This expedition would be led by Bachendri Pal. We have plans to conduct the same sometime this year," Gupta added. A TSAF official said on condition of anonymity that Everest-bound candidate (read Dorjee) would also be a part of the Trans-Himalayan expedition. "The Trans-Himalayan expedition would keep Dorjee in good stead from a training point of view. Moreover, she would be under the guidance of Bachendri Pal, who has mentored candidates like Hemant Gupta, amputee Arunima Singh, Swarnalata Dalai, Sandeep Tolia and Poonam Rana to name a few from the TSAF stable," he added. Bachendri Pal, a Padma Bhushan and the first Indian woman to annex the Everest in 1984, scouts, selects and trains the Everest-bound candidates. Expedition to the Everest requires lots of logistical issues and one needs proper preparations for the same. "Usually, we send two-three candidates for the expedition. So far, only one (Dorjee) has been picked. We are looking for suitable candidates to add to the number. So time becomes a vital factor. The Everest expedition has been planned for next year keeping the time factor in mind," another TSAF official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||Woman's body recovered in trolley bag  in Mango||The police on Monday morning recovered a decomposed body of a woman from a trolley bag at the post-mortem house in the Seraikela Sadar Hospital. The police had found the trolley bag from a ditch along NH-33 in Pardih under Chandil thana area in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district near Jamshedpur on Sunday night, confirming a human corpse inside following a rag-picker had discovered it. The Chandil police had recovered the bag and had shifted the trolley bag to the Seraikela Sadar Hospital morgue on Sunday night. On Monday morning, a police party led by Chandil thana OC, Sumesh Kumar Chaudhury had reached the Sadar Hospital morgue to unravel the mystery. "It was the body of a woman stuffed into the trolley bag. We could not determine her age as the body was about 20 days old and badly decomposed. But from a pair of sandals that was inside the bag, we can say the deceased was a young woman," said the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online. Chaudhury said this to be a case of murder. "Someone might have stuffed the body in the bag and dropped it in the ditch at this lonely stretch of NH-33. Moreover, the spot where the trolley bag was found is located just 10 metres away from the Mango thana border which suggests that the assailants must be local having complete knowledge about the jurisdiction of the police stations in East Singhbhum and adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan districts," said Chaudhury. Chaudhury pointed out the stretch of NH-33 along which the trolley bag was found has no CCTV camera, something the assailants must have seen before dropping the bag there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||29 workers stranded at Chamoli back home||All 29 Jharkhand labourers, who were stranded in Chamoli after the glacial burst that triggered an avalanche on February 7, have returned home safely, officials manning the state control room said on Monday, adding that the workers faced financial crisis and logistical challenges during their journey from Uttarakhand. However, none of the 14 state migrants reported missing from the site of the disaster has been found or identified so far. At least nine migrants from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh and one from Bokaro have been untraceable since the incident in Chamoli. While respective district administrations are coordinating with families of the missing labourers, none of the districts have officially reported any casualty in the Chamoli incident so far. Among the over two dozen labourers who returned from Uttarakhand, as many as 10 are from Latehar, seven from Ramgarh, three from Bokaro, seven from Jamtara and two from Hazaribagh, as per the state control room, which has been receiving calls from stranded labourers and coordinating with authorities to ensure the safety of Jharkhand migrants in Uttarakhand since February 8. Officials from concerned district administrations have also contacted employers and contractors who had taken labourers for work to Uttarakhand. Document verification work was still in process and employment agencies have been asked to cooperate with the state in providing information related to the missing labourers. The state control room has also registered eight migrant labourers from other states and has informed the authorities of those states. Two labourers each from Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, one from Uttar Pradesh and three from Karnataka had contacted the state control room for help. All these labourers were stranded in Chamoli and could not contact authorities in their respective states, officials said. Santosh Singh, a Latehar labourer, who was working at a National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) site in Chamoli, reached home on Sunday. He said his employer had booked bus tickets for him and his nine fellow labourers from Chamoli to Haridwar, from where they took a train to Dehri-On-Sone and eventually crossed into Jharkhand on Saturday. “The journey was difficult as we did not have cash in hand, but we managed to reach home. We travelled for more than 48 hours at a stretch to reach Jharkhand from Chamoli,” said Singh. At least 54 people are feared dead and several others missing following a glacial burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district which triggered an avalanche and massive flooding alongside the Alaknanda and Dhauliganga rivers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||Demand for FASTag grows in view of hefty penalty||The demand for FASTag at local stores in the city grew on Monday owing to the Centre’s decision to implement the system of cashless toll tax payment from midnight Monday even though the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has set up on-the-spot FASTag counters at all the toll plazas across Jharkhand., NHAI has ruled that those without FASTag, the electronic system of collecting toll tax based on barcode-embedded stickers that need to be pasted on the windshield of a vehicle, would be charged double as penalty. NHAI’s regional officer (RO) S.K. Mishra said they have been running extensive campaigns to encourage people to use FASTag for the past three months in Jharkhand. But despite the efforts many vehicles were still running without FASTag. “You can still get a FASTag on-the-spot from any of the counters set up at all the toll booths in Jharkhand,” said Mishra, adding that, vehicle owners will now have a choice to either get a FASTag on the spot or pay double toll tax. Local shops offering FASTag services in Ranchi were flooded with applications on Monday. Most of the applicants were local residents who travel to neighbouring districts regularly, shop owners said. Devi Kumar, owner of a FASTag service shop in Kokar, said the demand for FASTag almost doubled on Monday. He had nearly 100 customers at his shop. Besides, there were several enquiries over phone from people who wanted to get a FASTag immediately before leaving for another city by road. “The sale of FASTag had picked up pace in December when the government decided not to allow vehicles to pass toll booths without FASTag. Then the demand dropped once the government decided to allow cash transactions for a few more weeks,” said Devi, adding that the demand has again gone up after the government’s decision of sticking to the deadline of February 15. However, those who can afford to wait for a week to get a FASTag for their vehicle can apply online from the convenience of their home and get the tag delivered to their doorstep, said Rajan Kumar, an employee at HDFC Bank, Ratu Road. “It is a simple process. You can visit our website and apply for FASTag. The tag will be delivered to your registered address within five days,” he said. Other private banks and nationalized banks are also offering FASTag services in Ranchi. However, most private banks are only providing online services in a bid to avoid crowding at branches. “We also have to ensure that people do not overcrowd banks to get FASTag since we are still following Covid-19 precautions,” said an employee at ICICI Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||Brace for rain, thunderstorm across the state from Tuesday||Ranchi Met centre has forecast rain and thunderstorm, accompanied by lightning in isolated pockets of Jharkhand, for the next 72 hours due to an induced cyclonic circulation caused by the impact of a western disturbance. "The cyclonic circulation coupled with a low-pressure trough at the mid-tropospheric level hovering around 5.8km above the mean sea level would result in rain and thunderstorm in Jharkhand between February 16 and 18 (Tuesday to Thursday). An alert has been issued for central, western and southern Jharkhand," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Dry weather prevailed over Jharkhand on Monday with a rising trend in both maximum and minimum temperatures. The lowest minimum temperature of 11.1°C was recorded at Bokaro on Monday, while capital Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 12.8°C. Steel city Jamshedpur was warmer at 14.8 °C while Daltonganj notched a minimum of 12.2 °C. Pakur and Sahibganj experienced minimum readings of around 15 °C. Weather data available from Ranchi Meteorological Centre revealed a rising trend in minimum readings in other districts too. In its forecast issued on Monday afternoon, the Met office predicted a rise in minimum temperatures by two to three degree Celsius in the next three days. The day reading also witnessed a rise across the state for the last two days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand toll plazas ready for FASTag||Toll gates across national highways in Jharkhand are ready to implement FASTag, the electronic toll collection system, from Monday midnight following directives from National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to phase out manual cash transactions across the country. NHAI regional director S.K. Mishra said that all fee lanes at eight toll plazas in the state have been converted into FASTag lanes for seamless movement of vehicles. “As per directives from NHAI, manual toll tickets will be phased out from 12am on Tuesday. If anyone still doesn’t have FASTag or face other technical glitches, they will have to shell out double the earmarked rate of toll tax. But it is advisable to get FASTag at the earliest,” said Mishra. He said all private operators managing toll gates at various locations have been briefed on their roles while district administrations were expected to deploy sufficient security cover at toll plazas for a few days till the entire process was streamlined. Currently, there are eight functional toll plazas of NHAI. They are in Pundag, Ramgarh, Kandra, Adityapur, Giridih, Dumka, Bokaro and GT Road. An official of NHAI said that while vehicles sold from January 2021 come with mandatory FASTag in them, owners of older vehicles would have to install them on their own. “At the toll plazas, we are setting up enough counters where people can now buy FASTag and install them in their windscreens. Simultaneously, one can also procure them from Paytm,” he said, adding that about 65 per cent vehicles in the state had availed of FASTag. “We are trying to create awareness through different modes such as media advisories, billboards and hoardings near toll gates. After it is formally introduced from Monday midnight, those left out will have to come on board to prevent paying double the fixed charges as penalty,” he said. Implementation of FASTag was postponed at least twice in the past. It was to come into force from January 1 this year but was later extended till February 15. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday maintained that the deadline for the implementation of FASTag would not be extended any further. FASTag was first introduced in 2016 to push electronic payment of fees at toll plazas, reduce waiting time and fuel consumption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||One killed in road accident on unlit Tata-Kandra Road ||The Tata-Kandra road, which is devoid of any street lights, claimed the life of a 50-year-old man late on Sunday night, leading the local residents to set up a blockade on the road which was cleared in the wee hours on Monday. The mishap took place near a petrol station in Chhota Gamharia under Gamharia thana area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district about seven km away from here. The victim identified as Salki Tuddu was crossing the road on foot while returning home at around 9.30 pm when he fell victim to two speeding cars. A resident of adjoining Balrampur village in Gamharia said that Tuddu was first hit by a speeding car that was coming from the Kandra end, causing him to get flung apart on the road. As he fell down, another speeding car which was coming from the same direction hit him once again causing him to die on the spot. Both the killer cars had sped away towards Jamshedpur. Soon after the mishap, the family members of the victim and local residents set up the blockade with the body at the mishap spot demanding compensation. The blockade which was set up at about 10 pm on Sunday, was cleared at about 1 am on Sunday after the Gamharia Circle Officer, Dhananjay Rai paid the victim's family members Rs 10,000 as ex-gracia amount. OC, Gamharia thana, Krishna Murari confirmed the man was killed after being dashed by two cars. "The road is unlit. The victim's vision might have got blurred due to the beams of the speeding car while he was crossing the road. We are trying to trace the cars involved in the mishap," said Murari while talking to The Telegraph Online. Father of two sons and as many daughters, Tuddu was busy arranging for the marriage of his elder daughter scheduled to be held on February 17. He was returning home from a relative's house in a sequel to his daughter's marriage as the mishap took place. The 15-km-long Tata-Kandra Road which links Adityapur with the steel city at Bistupur is considered to be the lifelines for the Adityapur industrial area. But this important road, which also links to Seraikela on one side and NH-33 through Kandra-Chowka road on the other hand, remains unlit. As a result of the dark road, the pedestrians and two-wheeler riders find it very difficult to negotiate the unlit road in the face of cars and heavy vehicles' headlight beams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||BJP charges Hemant govt of deceiving farmers||BJP charged the Hemant Soren led-state government of deceiving farmers of Jharkhand by not fulfilling the promises on loan waiver made during assembly elections. Talking to media at Dhanbad on Monday, Pawan Sahu, state president of Bhartiya Janata Party Kisan Morcha, the BJP state unit of farmers also charged the state government with discontinuing the Mukhyamantri Krishi Aashirwad Yojna of the previous BJP government of the state under which grants in aid were provided to small and marginal farmers having maximum of five acres of arable land. Sahu also accused the present state government of failing to provide Rs 182 per quintal as a bonus upon the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1868 per quintal on food grains of the central government, despite making tall claims in this regard. He also announced plans to launch a state-wide agitation against the state government’s anti-farmer approach from the villages to the assembly. “The state government promised Rs 2 lakh loan waiver to each farmer, but in contrast announced Rs 50,000 loan waiver, which is an example of complete falsehood and none of the farmers have received the benefit of loan waiver so far,” charged Sahu. “While the leaders of the ruling government are staging protests in Delhi claiming to be the supporters of farmer’s right they are implementing the anti-farmer agenda in the state. They are even denying the Yellow Card, Pink Card and Green Card to the farmer’s compelling them to make rounds of the Common Service Centres (CSE) without any advantage,” attacked Sahu. Though, Rahul Gandhi made tall promises during assembly election rallies in Jharkhand about the poor and marginalized but the state government failed to fulfil all such promises leading to the loss of jobs of youth in the state. Regarding grants in aid scheme Mukhyamanti Krishi Aashirwad Yojna, Sahu said that the scheme grants an aid worth Rs 5,000 per acres were provided to small and marginal farmers by the Raghubar Das led-previous government but the present state government is not providing the same to farmers. Sahu, however, also termed the farmer’s protest in Delhi as an orchestra by brokers and agents led by Congress leaders. “The Congress ministers, MPs and MLAs are participating in the rallies being staged in Delhi then how can it be a farmer’s protest because the farmers are with the BJP,” claimed Sahu. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi led government is working for the benefit and progress of the farmers and trying to improve the condition of our Anndata. Through the farm laws, the government is trying to make farmer’s free from the shackles of market,” said Sahu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||BIT-Sindri students land plum job offers during placement drives||The lone state-run engineering institute of Jharkhand, BIT-Sindri witnessed a flurry of campus selection drive as the overall placement figure touched 133 out of a total of 750 students. All this, as students across 10 different engineering branches including Electrical, Mechanical, Production, Mechanical, Metallurgical, Chemical, Civil, Electronics, Mining and IT received full-time employment offers from different recruiters, including Schlumberger PITC, Vedanta Resources Limited, Jai Balaji Industries and Deloitte India. Some of the companies visited the campus for the first time. The renowned name in the oil and gas industry, Schlumberger PITC based at Pune conducted its recruitment last week and two B Tech students from BIT were offered the role of software developer after multitudinous rounds of technical and interpersonal interviews. The results of the interviews were announced on Monday. Namrata Kumari of electronics and communication engineering and Shantanu Shubham of information technology bagged the offer for a CTC of 9 lakh per annum. They underwent a written test based on aptitude and coding abilities followed by two technical and two personality and behavioural adaptability rounds. Vedanta Resources Limited - Mumbai, world's leading mining based company, lapped up three final year B Tech students of mining engineering. While conducting recruitment last week, specifically for students of mining engineering, during the second round of selection, after hiring students of the core branches earlier, the firm organised a comprehensive skill assessment process comprising of comprehensive, written aptitude test followed by group discussion and personal interview. After successfully clearing these rounds, the selected candidates were offered the role of a graduate engineer trainee for CTC package of Rs 8 lakh per annum. The selected candidates were Paresh Rathour, Utkarsh Shrivastava and Mrinal Kumar. Additionally, a recruitment drive was organised by Jai Balaji Industries, Durgapur for the passed out batch of 2020 for the position of graduate engineer trainee during which 15 students of different core branches were given job offers with a package of Rs 3.6 lakh per annum. Earlier on February 10, Deloitte (US office) conducted the placement process for the first time in BIT-Sindri and selected altogether 18 students from different circuit branches including information technology, computer science engineering, electrical engineering, and electronics & communication for a pay package of Rs 7.6 lakh per annum. The selected students for Deloitte included five of computer science engineering namely Bablu Kumar, Nutan Sinku, Shivam Ghatak Haarish Khan and Rajesh; six students of information technology namely Shantanu Shubham, Prakhar Srivastava, Shubham Jha, Manpreet Singh, Chandan Pandey and Abhay Kumar; four students of electrical engineering namely Komal Shruti, Pallav Tiriya, Ankita Kumari, Sayan Chaudhary and three students of electronics and communication namely Gaurav Kumar, Priya Mandal and Nidhi. Giving details, head of the Department of Physics of BIT-Sindri, Ghanshyam Rai who is also the training and placement in-charge of BIT-Sindri said, “With the latest placement round, the overall placement figure of 2021 B Tech pass out has crossed 130 and considering the pandemic situation the figure seems to be quite satisfactory as more than a dozen IT as well core sector recruiters are still lined for campus selection for our students.” The selected students in different companies included 16 by Tata Steel for Rs 10.54 LPA, two Hindustan Unilever for Rs 8 LPA, 75 by Tata Consultancy Service for Rs 7 LPA, three by Tata Steel Long products for Rs 3.75 LPA, 16 students by Vedanta Resources Limited for Rs 8 LPA, two students of Schlumberger PITC for Rs 9 LPA, 18 students by Deloitte for Rs 7.6 LPA and one student by Multicoreware for a package of Rs 6.6 LPA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||Fresh Covid cases outnumber recoveries in Jharkhand||Jharkhand achieved only 35 per cent of its vaccination target on Sunday by administering the first dose of Covishield vaccine to 7679 of over 21,000 beneficiaries registered to get the jab on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Meanwhile, nearly 500 people were administered the second dose of the vaccine in the state, taking the total count of those who have completed their course of vaccination to 2405 beneficiaries. The state has achieved 78 per cent of its target in administering the second dose of Covishield to registered beneficiaries. So far, as many as 2,24,828 healthcare workers and frontline workers have been administered the first dose of vaccine jab in Jharkhand, stated a report released by NHM. More than 25,000 of the beneficiaries were residents of Ranchi, while more than 21,000 were from Dhanbad. On Sunday, as many as 902 people were inoculated in Ranchi, while 601 were vaccinated in East Singhbhum. As per government data, the state has achieved 58 per cent of its vaccination target so far and Ranchi has achieved 43 per cent of its target – the lowest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Only one Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) case was reported in Jharkhand on Sunday from Hazaribag, taking the total count of AEFI cases in the state to 265, the NHM stated in the report. As many as 33 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Sunday, while 24 patients recovered, stated a separate bulletin released by NHM. Ranchi reported 14 of the 33 cases and accounted for nine of the 24 recoveries on the day. The number of active cases jumped to 461 on the day despite at least 19 of 24 districts not reporting fresh cases of infection. At least 236 of the 461 patients were residents of Ranchi, while 58 were from East Singhbhum, the bulletin highlighted. The three Covid-free districts – Godda, Giridih and Pakur – did not report fresh cases on the day. As per government data, the growth rate of cases in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.07 per cent. At the current pace, it would take more than 2215 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand, government data reveals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
