16-02-2021||Calcutta||DYFI leader dies in Calcutta, Left blames police action  ||Maidul Islam Middya, a 33-year-old DYFI leader who took part in a protest on Thursday in Calcutta that witnessed clashes between the police and Left supporters, died in a nursing home on Monday morning. A preliminary post-mortem report said no internal injury had been found, according to the police. But the Left and the Congress said Maidul, an auto-rickshaw driver and the sole breadwinner of his family, was beaten up by the police during the foiled Nabanna march last week seeking jobs. When chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s attention was drawn to the death, she said at Nabanna: “Any death is unfortunate. We will have to identify the true cause of the death. If anyone from his family is willing, we will offer a job.” Mamata added that she had spoken to CPM legislator Sujan Chakraborty on the subject. The backlash against the death brought hundreds of Left supporters to the streets in the run-up to the elections. At least one policeman was roughed up and heated exchanges took place. The DYFI and the SFI have given a call to demonstrate in front of all the police stations in the state on Tuesday to protest the death. “The preliminary post-mortem report suggests superficial abrasion on the knee of the deceased person,” a police officer at Lalbazar said. “There were no internal injuries to any organ.” CPM leaders said Maidul, who hailed from Bankura’s Kotulpur, died at the Calcutta nursing home from injuries suffered when the police lathi-charged members of Left student and youth organisations. “The lone breadwinner for a family of six, Maidul was initially admitted to my hospital on Thursday. He was shifted to another hospital on Sunday but he died of injuries suffered during the police lathi-charge,” said CPM leader and doctor Fuad Halim. Halim said Maidul had been referred to another hospital on Sunday because medical tests had shown that his condition had deteriorated. Maidul’s death sparked outrage across the state with Left leaders and supporters coming out on the streets to condemn the “unprovoked brutality of the police on youths demanding jobs”. At Nabanna, Mamata asked why the police station concerned was not informed of the injury. “I heard that his family wasn’t informed until February 13, while the incident took place on February 11. No police complaint has been registered so far,” Mamata added. A large number of DYFI and SFI supporters gathered in front of their organisational headquarters at Entally to pay their last respects to Maidul on Monday. Hours before the body arrived, some Left supporters got into a heated argument with the few policemen who had turned up to manage the crowd. While a policeman managed to run away as tempers rose, another was caught and roughed up. Later, SFI leader Srijan Bhattacharya whisked the cop away to safety. Bhattacharya said the two officers had insulted Maidul’s “sacrifice” and this had angered those who had come to pay their respects to the departed leader. “The policeman should be grateful that we were there. We saved him from the angry mob,” he added. Another heated exchange took place at the Calcutta Police Morgue near College Street. CPM leaders Mohammad Salim and Chakraborty had to intervene to calm the supporters. Left leaders hinted that they would move court. A senior officer at Lalbazar said later in the evening that a case would be started against unknown persons for assaulting policemen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Three hospitals asked to pay compensation for negligence ||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Monday asked Megacity in Duttapukur, North 24-Parganas, and Specialists’ Corner in Salkia, Howrah, to pay Rs 2 lakh each as interim compensation to families of patients who passed away at the nursing homes. The panel found the nursing homes negligent. Megacity did not take necessary steps when a 25-year-old woman’s condition was deteriorating, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said at a news conference on Monday. The woman eventually passed away. The hospital said during Monday’s hearing that they had alerted the doctor who was treating the woman, but he did not turn up. “The hospital’s duty is not just to inform the doctor. As the doctor had not turned up, the hospital should have taken other steps, which they did not do,” Banerjee said. “We have asked the hospital to pay Rs 2 lakh as interim compensation to the family. We have also told the family that they can approach West Bengal Medical Council if they have any complaint against the doctor. If they get a verdict in their favour, the family can approach us again and we will award a final compensation.” The woman was under the doctor’s supervision ever since the early days of her pregnancy, said Banerjee. She was admitted to the hospital in October 2019. Banerjee said the woman gave birth to a baby in the morning. Complications started soon thereafter, but no doctor examined her. She passed away around 5.30pm. At Salkia’s Specialists’ Corner, a 50-year-old woman passed away after developing complications post-surgery, but the doctor who performed the operation did not turn up. Banerjee said that during a hearing in August, the owner of the nursing home, a doctor, had said the surgeon was responsible for the patient’s death. The owner had said the woman’s doctor had admitted her by force and the hospital could do nothing. “The chief medical officer of health (CMOH), Howrah, submitted a report, where it is clear that the patient’s medical details were present in the OT register. Since we found the patient’s details in the register, the nursing home cannot absolve itself of responsibilities,” said Banerjee. “We have asked the nursing home to pay Rs 2 lakh as interim compensation to the woman’s family and also asked the family to approach West Bengal Medical Council. If they get a verdict in their favour, they can come back to us and we will award the final compensation,” said Banerjee. The woman was admitted to Specialists’ Corner in August 2020 for a surgical procedure. She was admitted at 7.30am, underwent surgery at 9am and the complications started after some time. She remained unattended for long and then passed away, said Banerjee. The commission also asked Sarada Seva Sadan to pay a patient Rs 50,000 as compensation and also return the entire bill amount barring the doctor’s consultation fee and medicine charges. The patient developed a severe infection in the arm as a channel made in the arm at the hospital led to complications, said Banerjee. The patient was admitted to the hospital for an orthopaedic intervention. “There was a need to create a channel in one arm. The procedure to do the channel was not done properly because of which his hand had swollen severely,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University to conduct odd semester exams from March 8 to 26 digitally ||Calcutta University will conduct the undergraduate exams of the odd semesters (first, third and fifth) from March 8 to 26 digitally as the campuses are yet to reopen because of the pandemic. The university’s undergraduate board of studies met on Monday to finalise the schedule for the students of the BA, BSc and BCom programmes and the mode of exams, said vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee. The resolution adopted at the meeting says: “According to the UGC guideline dated 24th September, all odd semester examinations will be held during March 8-26 by online/ slash digital mode”. The university will send soft copies of the question papers to the affiliated colleges on the exam days. “The university will also upload questions on its website,” the VC said. Once students get the question paper, they can write the answers on their computer or smartphone and mail them back to a designated address. “Students after downloading the question papers can also write the answers in the pen-and-paper mode. In that case they have to scan the answer copy and mail the scanned copy in the form of a PDF file,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University to conduct 2nd counselling for BTech||Calcutta University will conduct independent counselling for the second time since December to fill 50 of the 237 BTech seats that are still vacant. The second round of independent counselling will take place more than a month after the start of first-year classes. The university had conducted the first round of decentralised counselling in December to fill 89 seats that had remained vacant after the centralised counselling conducted by the state JEE board. The university decided to hold the second round as seats across departments fell vacant after enrolled students left for newer NITs, which offer better infrastructure, a CU official said. “After scrutinising all application forms a list will be published on 19th February evening on our site www.caluniv-ucsta.net. Spot counselling will be done on February 23 at the technology campus Salt Lake,” reads a notice issued by the university. An official said independent counselling by the university to fill BTech seats was not unusual. “What is unusual is the fact that the university has been forced to hold two rounds of counselling in as many months. The BTech programme at CU was considered to be a coveted course, next to Jadavpur University. But now the university struggles to retain students in the course,” an official said. “Several new NITs have come up and CU seems to be conceding ground to these new institutes, which offer better infrastructure. A large number of students are opting for NITs despite the fact that the cost of studying there is way too high compared with CU,” another official said. This was not the situation when the university launched the four-year BTech programme in 2015. Earlier, the BTech course at CU was of three years. ’’Another point of concern is that we will get students lower down the merit list through the second round of decentralised counselling,” he said. The notice has stated that an engineering aspirant intending to take part in this round decentralised counselling for admission to the BTech programme has to be domiciled in Bengal. The domicile clause was introduced when the first round of decentralised counselling was held. Seats have remained vacant in disciplines like electronics and communication engineering, information technology, jute and fibre technology. “The first semester exams are due in March. We don’t know how the freshly enrolled students will prepare themselves for the exams,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Artists from Bangladesh and India mark Vijay Diwas||A mother clasping her child on her right hip, draped in a sari and standing on a bed of bones with two wings on her shoulders, the stature upright and the eyes reflecting a resolve. An acrylic painting by Atin Basak displayed on the Vatika lawns of Fort William on Monday captured the mood of the occasion — the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas to mark India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war that led to the birth of Bangladesh. The 4X5-ft canvas was among several paintings that were on display on the lawns of Fort William, the headquarters of Indian Army’s Eastern Command, where artists from Bangladesh and India shared space to express their thoughts on the event through paintings. The art camp — titled “1971: retrospective through an artist’s eye” — provided an opportunity for painters of the two countries to come together for the first time to showcase the contribution and sacrifices of the Indian Army and the valiant Mukti Jodhas towards the birth of a nation. “The victory of the Indian Army and the formation of Bangladesh marked the liberation of a motherland from the clutches of Pakistan. The wings on the two shoulders of the mother in the painting represents the sense of freedom of a mother that comes with independence,” said Basak. “The mother here represents all mothers of Bangladesh and their collective feeling of freedom at the cost of a war that resulted in several deaths. The bed of bones under her feet represents the death of the soldiers in the liberation war.” A painting by Ahmed Shamsuddoha captures a fighter plane flying over a battleground, which has war wreckage strewn around. Ahmed Shamsuddoha, Jamal Uddin Ahmed and a few others comprise the team of painters from Bangladesh. Subrata Gangopadhyay’s painting shows men from the army in their battle fatigues fighting a war holding on to their guns. At the far left corner is a woman with her hands up in the air and a newborn is floating in the sky. “A mother sacrifices her son to fight war for his country and the son lays down his life so that another mother, the motherland, wins freedom. That is my idea on the canvas about the sacrifices of our men in the 1971 war,” Gangopadhyay said. Vijay Diwas is commemorated on December 16 in India and Bangladesh to mark Bangladesh's liberation from Pakistan. The war also resulted in unilateral and unconditional surrender of Pakistan’s army and subsequent transformation of East Pakistan into an independent Bangladesh. Following their defeat, the chief of the Pakistani forces, General Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi, and 93,000 troops surrendered to the Mukti Bahini and the Indian Army, led by General Jagjit Singh Aurora. India will celebrate the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas on December 16. The art camp was inaugurated by Lt Gen Anil Chauhan, GOC-in-C, Eastern Command. It will continue till Tuesday (from 10am and 1pm). Senior army officers said this was part of year-long celebrations that have been planned as part of Swarnim Vijay Varsh in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Calcutta||At 42%, Covid-19 vaccine score tells a tale||The Covid-19 vaccination campaign in Bengal stepped on its 24th day on Monday but only around 42 per cent of the targeted recipients have been inoculated so far against the disease. Officials in the state health department and several hospitals said there was still reluctance among a section of people to get vaccinated. A health department official said 32,323 people were vaccinated across 719 sites in Bengal on Monday, against a target of 71,310 — around 45 per cent. In 24 days, 5,53,422 people have been administered vaccine doses in the state against a target of 13,32,430 — around 42 per cent. The vaccination campaign started on January 16 but in Bengal doses have been administered on 24 days. Heath-care workers and frontline workers are being inoculated in the current round. Officials said the reluctance was mostly among health-care personnel. “No adverse reaction has been reported for the third consecutive day on Monday. We are expecting this data to remove doubts from the minds of those who are still reluctant to take the first dose of a Covid vaccine. All hospitals and health clinics, government and private, have been requested to do more counselling,” an official said. “The concern is not so much about the second dose because those who have taken the first dose are ready for the next round.” The state government has said all health-care workers have to be administered the first dose of a Covid vaccine by February 20, prompting hospitals to draw up a list of employees yet to be inoculated and start a mop-up operation. “In the initial days of the vaccination, the reluctance was almost 80 per cent. There is still reluctance among our health-care workers, but the percentage has come down to 10 or 15,” said Rupak Barua, the Group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. He said of the 3,200 employees in the three units of the group in Calcutta, around 2,500 have taken the first dose of a vaccine. “Those who have suffered from Covid are unwilling to be vaccinated. They are saying that since they have been infected by the virus and developed antibodies, they do not need to get the jab,” Barua said. At SSKM Hospital, around 2,500 out of the 9,500 health-care personnel, including doctors, medical students, nurses and other employees, are yet to take a dose. “Among those who are yet to be vaccinated are many medical students who are at home. We are asking them to come to the campus and get vaccinated by February 20,” said an official of SSKM. At Peerless Hospital, around 100 of the 2,000-odd health-care personnel have not taken the first dose. “Around 20 per cent have genuine medical reasons like pregnancy and allergies. There are about 80 per cent who need to be counselled,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. He said the most common reason cited by those who are unwilling to be vaccinated is resistance from family members, who are still scared of adverse reactions. “We are constantly counselling them. We are telling them that many recipients have taken their second dose, too. We hope everyone will get the first dose by February 20,” said Mitra. Health department officials said they had informed the Centre that they were ready to start vaccinating people above 50 and those suffering from comorbidities after March 6. According to a state health department official, about 65 per cent of around seven lakh health-care workers have been vaccinated. “If we can’t complete vaccination of health-care and frontline workers by Feb-ruary 20, it would be difficult to start vaccination of the general public,” said an official of the health department. Metro reported on Monday that many vaccination sites in the city had started identifying healthcare workers who are yet to be inoculated and are informing them about the deadline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Women stitch together Saraswati image on cloth, offer puja ||A group of women who learnt tailoring to cope with the financial hardships posed by the Covid pandemic will on Tuesday offer puja to an image of Saraswati they have stitched together on a piece of cloth. At a village in South 24-Parganas, 20 women have created their goddess of learning themselves. All puja-related arrangements have been done by the women and the priest is a woman, too. “This puja is to celebrate our learning and perseverance,” said 30-year-old Minakshi Bhowmik. Perseverance is in pursuing a skill in the face of resistance at home. A woman has to drop her four-year-old daughter at her sister’s house 10km away because her in-laws will not look after the child while she attends training sessions. Perseverance is exemplified in the struggle of a 36-year-old widow who lives alone with her son. She has made use of worn-out clothes and bedsheets to stitch dresses. The puja at their Konchowki village, a few kilometers from Joka, is to celebrate a new beginning and a sense of empowerment the women have achieved from their newly acquired skills. “For us this training is our Saraswati and we hope that with the skill we have acquired, we will be able to fight our circumstances and live a better life,” said 36-year-old Milan Singh, whose son will appear in Madhyamik this year. The group includes 20 women aged 18 to 40 and they have chosen Saraswati puja to showcase the work they have done so far and get a sense of what people think of their creations. Many of these women had never stitched before. The Covid pandemic forced them to “take a plunge” and upskill themselves in a situation where their husbands had lost jobs. The training in stitching, tailoring and embroidery started in November and has been conducted in three phases by the NGO Santoshpur Agantuk. The organisation, which works among women and children, has rented a space at the village where the women can work together. “These women were already financially deprived. The pandemic has only intensified their troubles. Some of them had to fight resistance at home to an extent that they had to forego a few days' training. But they came back,” said Tushu Naskar, the creative head of the NGO. “The idea is to make them independent and arm them with a skill because at the most what they were allowed to do is work as a domestic help.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Petroleum dealers caution customers about water seepage in vehicles' fuel tanks||Petroleum dealers are cautioning customers about water seepage in fuel tanks of their vehicles. The increased presence of ethanol (limit raised from 5 to 10 per cent) in petrol attracts water because of its hygroscopic property, which often stalls cars and creates jerks while vehicles are in motion. In 2019, especially during the monsoon, a number of such complaints had arisen where vehicle owners alleged that fuel pumps were mixing water with the fuel. Auto workshops reported several cases of water-petrol mix in June, July and August. Fuel pump owners are now telling their customers to ensure that no water gets into their fuel tanks because that will mix with ethanol and create layers of impurity in the petrol, leading to engine damage. Ethanol attracts water and creates distinct layers and settles down at the bottom of the fuel tank. Fuel pump owners are also saying that customers will be solely responsible if water is found in their vehicle’s fuel tank. The West Bengal Petroleum Dealers Association is carrying out an awareness drive through social media and hoardings at petrol pumps and also talking to customers coming for refills. “We are carrying out the awareness drive well ahead of the monsoon season, when there are a number of cases where vehicles stall because of this issue,” said Tushar Kanti Sen, the president of the association. “Earlier, when ethanol content in petrol was five per cent, few such cases of petrol-water mix happened. But now since the ethanol content has risen, petrol is prone to getting mixed with water. And since customers are not aware of this, they tend to blame petrol pump owners for having mixed water with petrol.” Vehicle owners tend to wash their vehicles with water, which may lead to water seepage into fuel tanks. “Vehicles should only be wiped and not washed,” said Sandip Banerjee, a manager at a workshop. Recently, at a vintage car rally, a WhatsApp message from the Petroleum Traders Welfare & Legal Service Society was circulated among the participants. The message read: “Motorists are advised to exercise care so that water does not come in contact with petrol. This may happen during routine car washing or during rains…. We, petrol dealers, are taking extreme care in this regard and the same is advised for the motoring public.” The awareness message also advised customers to check the quality of petrol from the nozzle of the dispenser at the retail outlet. It warned: “Water found in the tank of a customer's vehicle is his responsibility.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Symbol of vigil against citizenship regime passes away||A woman who was instrumental in starting one of the longest vigils against the citizenship regime died on Monday. Asmat Jamil, in her early 50s, was synonymous with the sit-in at Park Circus Maidan against the Citizenship Amendment Act, National Register of Citizens and the National Population Register. The vigil, the longest after Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh, was halted by the pandemic after completing 83 days. Jamil was suffering from cancer, said family members and associates. She leaves behind her husband and two daughters. On January 7 this year, a wheelchair-bound Jamil took part in a rally against the new farm laws and the citizenship thrust. “The pandemic has slowed, not stopped, us. I have not given up. There is a lot of fight left in me,” Jamil had told this correspondent that day. On January 7 last year, a small group of women led by Jamil — mostly homemakers in and around Park Circus — started a 24X7 vigil against the citizenship thrust at the Park Circus Maidan. Gradually, the demonstration went on to become the fulcrum of the massive protests against the citizenship regime in Calcutta, inspiring similar protests at several corners of the city. Students, artists and common citizenry from near and far, Park Circus Maidan drew visitors from all walks of life. Jamil and her associates had kept the vigil apolitical till the end. Slogans of amity and communal harmony, rising from the makeshift stage, were audible at every nook and corner of Park Circus every day. From the dadis of Shaheen Bagh to the great-grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, every visitor had hailed the women for the long-standing Calcutta campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur Vidyapith students recreate change at Saraswati Puja||A goddess who is typically adorned by stacks of books and pens will have around her smartphones and computers this time. The classroom reality has changed in the post-pandemic normal and students at Jadavpur Vidyapith have recreated the change at their school Saraswati Puja. Their theme: Sikshar Nabarupayan (the new in education). In-person classes resumed for Classes from IX to XII on February 12, but many schools, like the one in Jadavpur, are continuing with online classes as well. The schools have split each class into smaller sections, which are taking turns in attending in-person and online classes, to avoid crowding. On Monday afternoon, on the eve of Saraswati Puja, Class XII students Anirban Manna and Anjan Madal and several others were busy setting up the makeshift dais for the goddess on the campus of Jadavpur Vidyapith. The goddess contained in a model of a smartphone has two replicas of classroom on either side — one suggesting how it looked like in the pre-pandemic times and the other reflecting the post-pandemic reality. The blackboard of the pre-pandemic classroom bears the date March 18 — the day in-person classes were held for the last time before campuses were shut down as a precaution against Covid-19. There is also a replica of a teacher sitting in front of a desktop addressing students in an online class. “The contrast was necessary to depict how students and teachers have adapted themselves to the changing times in their quest for education. We have gone digital,” said Somsuvra Dasgupta, an assistant teacher of the school who is involved in organising the puja. At the base of the dais there are models of two students, both holding smartphones with earphones plugged into their ears. One student is seated and the other is in a reclining posture. “While attending online classes, we at times recline on a cushion. At other times we remain seated,” said Anirban Manna, a Class XII student of science stream. Classmate Anirban said: “We can relate to the theme as we have lived it and will continue to live it for quite some time.” Masks and a replica of the novel coronavirus have been used as décors. “This will remind the visitors that the pandemic is still on and we have to keep following the safety measures till the threat of the virus is neutralised,” headmaster Parimal Bhattacharya said. A pedestal of lamps has been set up. “This is to suggest that the light of education will continue to burn through the pandemic,” Bhattacharya said. The school has engaged 10 students of Classes XI and XII to set up the models and do other puja-related work. The usual get-together on the campus on the occasion of Saraswati Puja has been cancelled because of the pandemic. Visitors will have to see the idol and the decoration from outside. “Fruits (without being cut into pieces) and 500 pieces of sweets will be distributed. We will try to livestream the puja on digital platforms and share the links with students,” said Mita Bhattacharya, another teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Business||Cairn files case in US to make India pay $1.2 bn in tax dispute case||Cairn Energy has filed a case in a US district court to enforce a $1.2 billion arbitration award it won in a tax dispute against India, a court document showed, ratcheting up pressure on the government to pay its dues. In December, an arbitration body awarded the British firm damages of more than $1.2 billion plus interest and costs. The tribunal ruled India breached an investment treaty with Britain and said New Delhi was liable to pay. Cairn asked the US court to recognise and confirm the award, including payments due since 2014 and interest compounded semi-annually, according to the February 12 filing seen by Reuters. The case marked a first step in Cairn’s efforts towards recovering its dues, potentially by seizing Indian assets, if the government did not pay, a source with knowledge of the arbitration case told Reuters. “If Cairn wins the case, it will be a step towards attaching and seizing Indian assets overseas, especially in the US,” the source said. Reuters reported last month that Cairn was identifying India’s overseas assets, including bank accounts and even Air India planes or Indian ships, that could be seized in the absence of a settlement. Cairn declined to comment but pointed to a February 9 Twitter post where it said chief executive Simon Thomson was looking forward to meeting India’s finance minister in Delhi next week. “We would request, along with others, that the Indian government move swiftly to adhere to the award that has been given,” Thomson said in the video posted on Twitter. “It is important for our shareholders who are global financial institutions and who want to see a positive investment climate in India. I am sure that in working together with the government we can swiftly draw this to conclusion and reassure those investors,” he said. India’s finance and external affairs ministries did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Cairn aims to enforce the award under international arbitration rules, commonly called the New York Convention, and recover losses caused by India’s “unfair and inequitable treatment of their investments”, the filing showed. The firm has registered its claim against India in the Netherlands and France, telling regulators there they may receive court orders to seize Indian assets, and the firm was preparing to do the same in Canada and the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
16-02-2021||Business||Nirmala explains priorities of government to RBI board in first meeting after Budget||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday explained the government's priorities to the Reserve Bank of India's central board during their first meeting after presentation of the Union Budget 2021-22. As per the tradition, the finance minister holds a customary meeting with the board members of the RBI and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) after Budget presentation every year. The finance minister addressed the 587th RBI central board meeting and informed the members about the key initiatives in the Budget and the priorities of the government, RBI said in a statement. "Complimenting the finance minister on the budget, the board members made various suggestions for consideration of the government," it added. At its first meeting after the presentation of the Budget for 2021-22, the central board of directors also reviewed the current economic situation. "The board in its meeting reviewed the current economic situation, global and domestic challenges and various areas of operations of the Reserve Bank, including ways for strengthening grievance redress mechanisms in banks," it said. The meeting on Tuesday was chaired by RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das through video conferencing. The government's nominee directors on the board -- Financial Services Secretary Debasish Panda and Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj -- also attended the meeting. Apart from Sitharaman, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur, Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey and Department of Investment and Public Asset Management Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey were also present. Earlier this month, the finance minister presented a Rs 34.5 lakh crore-budget for 2021-22 in the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic. The budget has laid emphasis on increasing capital expenditure, raising allocation for healthcare capacity building and development of agriculture infrastructure, among others, which are expected to have a multiplier effect on the economy. Hit hard by the pandemic, fiscal deficit -- the excess of government expenditure over its revenues -- is estimated to hit a record high of 9.5 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the current fiscal ending March 31. For the next 2021-22 fiscal, the deficit has been pegged at 6.8 per cent of GDP, which will be further lowered to 4.5 per cent by the fiscal ending March 31, 2026. Earlier this month, Das said the central bank will be able to manage the high quantum of government borrowings at Rs 12 lakh crore for the next fiscal in a "non-disruptive" manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
16-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally lower||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally lower on Tuesday as investors booked profits at higher levels amid a mixed trend in global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 52,516.76 in opening session, the 30-share BSE Sensex settled 49.96 points or 0.10 per cent lower at 52,104.17. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty inched 1.25 points or 0.01 per cent lower to 15,313.45. Axis Bank was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Nestle India, Infosys, SBI and HUL. On the other hand, PowerGrid rallied over 6 per cent. ONGC, NTPC, Kotak Bank and Reliance Industries were also among the gainers. Domestic equities witnessed some amount of pullback after a brisk opening, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. "PSU Banks and Metals remained in focus. However, selling pressure in Financials, IT and FMCG dragged index. Volatility index also surged almost 2 per cent. Notably, midcap and smallcap stocks remained in focus as improved earnings visibility has started attracting investors in this space," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.09 per cent lower at USD 63.24 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
16-02-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points to scale a new record peak in early trade on Tuesday driven by gains in index majors HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and Reliance Industries amid positive trend in global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 52,516.76 in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 322.33 points or 0.62 per cent higher at 52,476.46. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 108.40 points or 0.71 per cent up at 15,423.10. It touched a record of 15,431.75 in early trade. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, PowerGrid, SBI and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 609.83 points or 1.18 per cent up at its new closing peak of 52,154.13, while Nifty soared 151.40 points or 1 per cent to finish at a record 15,314.70. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,234.15 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, "bull markets have an uncanny ability to climb many walls of worries. And, this bull market, in typical style, is consistently climbing many such walls. The bulls are focussed on growth and earnings recovery and the incredibly improving COVID incidence. FPIs feel that India has the best post-COVID rebound story. In such a favourable setting, investors should remain invested with occasional profit booking, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.62 per cent higher at USD 63.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
16-02-2021||Business||Burmans of Dabur link board berth to control||The Burmans of Dabur have made it clear that they would take a board berth in Eveready “if and when” they take control of the company. The Burman family is the largest shareholder on the board of the dry cell battery maker with close to a 20 per cent stake compared with the promoters’ 4.92 per cent stake. However, they are not represented on the board yet. On January 28, Eveready inducted two new members on the board, including Utsav Parekh, who is also a significant minority shareholder in the company. Sources said the promoters of Eveready , the Khaitan family of Calcutta, had invited Parekh to sit on the board. The Burmans said they are “neutral”to the new inductions, but noted that having shareholders’ representation on the board is “good”. Asked why the largest shareholder is not on the board, Mohit Burman, vice-chairman of Dabur India, said: “We will get on the board if and when we take control.” He reiterated that such a scenario would only play out if the Khaitans decide to exit. The stand indicates that the Burmans may not force a change in the management but would not jointly manage/control with the existing promoters of Eveready either. As of now, the Burmans said they were happy to be only a financial investor in the company. “We are a significant financial investor in the company and we’re happy with that... we in any case believe companies should be professionally run,” Burman added. The Burman family bought shares in Eveready via investment companies and not through Dabur. The family has investments in multiple sectors and entities, notably Aviva Life Insurance, Taco Bell and Kings XI Punjab IPL franchisee among many others. All of them are professionally managed, with the Burman family members on board. There has been no indication that the Khaitans have any plans to exit the company, which they acquired in 1993 from Union Carbide. The Calcutta family has the right on the brand name Eveready for India, Nepal and Bhutan. Sources said they would look at every opportunity to claw back or beef up holding. Amritanshu Khaitan is the managing director of the company while his uncle, Aditya Khaitan, is the chairman (non-executive). Parekh joined as a non-executive and non-independent shareholder in the company. He is also the co-owner (minority) of ISL Calcutta franchisee ATK Mohun Bagan with Sanjiv Goenka, chairman of RP-SG Group, which also has interests in FMCG. Goenka’s cousin was married to late Deepak Khaitan, Amritanshu’s father. The Burmans bought into Eveready at an average price of Rs 80-100 per share. The stock closed at Rs 233.50 on the NSE on Monday. They started picking up shares when the promoters’ stake, pledged with creditors, were invoked and sold off in the open market as they defaulted in loan payment obligations. The Burmans holding provided stability to the stock as investors hoped that they would eventually take up control. The company’s performance also added to the shine in a broader buoyant market. Asked if the family would look at exiting after making a killing in a short span of time, Burman said that they are a “patient financial investor”. They first bought into Eveready in March 2019 and scaled their stake up to 19.84 per cent in July 2020, where the holding stands now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
16-02-2021||Business||Hiranandani Group to invest Rs 8,500 crore in Bengal industrial and data centre parks||Mumbai-based Hiranandani Group on Monday said it would invest around Rs 8,500 crore to develop industrial and data centre parks in Bengal. The group has “entered into an MoU in the state of Bengal to set up logistics and hyperscale data center parks in the region”, a company statement said. The Hiranandinis have signed the MoU to acquire an 100-acre land at Uttarpara from Hindustan Motors for an integrated logistics and hyperscale data center park by group companies GreenBase and Yotta. “The combined investment by the group and its customers is estimated to cross Rs 10,000 crore,” the statement said. The spokesperson said the investment by the group would be around Rs 8,500 crore. GreenBase will develop 3 million square feet of industrial and warehousing space, while Yotta, Hiranandani’s data centre division, will build six data centres bringing in 250MW of data centre capacity over the next several years. Darshan Hiranandani, chief executive officer of the group said,“Bengal is the gateway to the East. It is an ideal hub for logistics and industrial development with excellent road, rail and riverine connectivity.” “Simultaneously, the data centre business will benefit from the digitisation revolution, the upcoming Silicon Valley at New Town at Rajarhat and excellent fibre connectivity on land and the new submarine cable coming up at Tajpur.” He said the data centre park would not only serve the customers of the state but also the entire eastern region, including neighbouring countries. “The first facility of the Industrial and Logistics Park will be ready by June 2022 and the First Data Centre building will be ready by 2023,” Hiranandani said. Yotta last year inaugurated a data centre in  Navi Mumbai. It has announced data centres in Greater Noida and Chennai. Blackstone venture Greenbase is a joint venture between Hiranandani Group and global private equity firm Blackstone. It is developing industrial and logistics parks across the Mumbai MMR region, Pune, Nashik, Chennai and Bangalore with a plan to deliver 15 million sq ft of space in the next five years, having an investment outlay of $500 million. As India aims to be a $5 trillion economy by 2025, the logistic sector has an important role to play in connecting producers with consumers. Greenbase Industrial & Logistics Park will not just help manufacturing and warehousing units build last mile connectivity, it will also give a huge boost to development of the logistics sector and create employment opportunities for the region. “This logistics park will be its well-designed infrastructure to support best in class security and facilitate optimisation of logistics and turnaround time by enabling Artificial Intelligence (AI) in customer processes, which is the new norm post the COVID pandemic,” the release added||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
16-02-2021||Business||Jaguar Land Rover’s luxury Jaguar brand will be entirely electric by 2025||Jaguar Land Rover’s luxury Jaguar brand will be entirely electric by 2025 and the car maker will launch e-models of its entire line-up by 2030, it said on Monday. The company will invest £2.5 billion in electrification and connected technologies and will launch six electric vehicles under the Land Rover brand in the next five years. “The first all-electric variant will arrive in 2024,” chief executive officer Thierry Bolloré said. Calling its future programme Reimagine, the Tata-owned company’s strategy comes at a time car groups worldwide accelerate moves towards fleets powered by electric and other green technologies. Jaguar Land Rover’s aim is to achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2039. By the middle of the decade, Jaguar will emerge as a pure electric luxury brand with a new portfolio. Jaguar and Land Rover will offer pure electric power, nameplate by nameplate, by 2030. By this time, in addition to 100 per cent of Jaguar sales, it is anticipated that around 60 per cent of Land Rovers sold will be equipped with zero tailpipe powertrains, said Bollore. N. Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons, Tata Motors and Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc, said, “The Reimagine strategy takes Jaguar Land Rover on a significant path of acceleration in harmony with the vision and sustainability priorities of the wider Tata Group.” As part of this ambition, the company is also preparing for the expected adoption of clean fuel-cell power in line with a maturing of the hydrogen economy. Development is already underway with prototypes arriving on UK roads within the next 12 months as part of the long-term investment programme. Annual commitments of circa £ 2.5bn will include investments in electrification technologies and the development of connected services to enhance the journey and experiences of customers, alongside data-centric technologies that will further improve their ownership ecosystem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||Business||Telcos may not bid high for spectrum||The spectrum auction set to begin from March 1 may not see much competition given the varied priorities of each player and the weak liquidity position of Vodafone Idea, analysts said. “Given the consolidation in the sector over the last decade, we hope telcos will say goodbye to the old irrational and desperate price bidding to acquire the limited available spectrum. We expect low competition intensity as there is sufficient spectrum and different band use and priorities of each player,” Motilal Oswal Institutional Equities said in a report. The sixth round of auction of 2,251.25 megahertz of spectrum worth Rs 3.92 lakh crore at the base price will be in 7 frequency bands between 700 megahertz and 2,500 megahertz. Bharti’s interest may largely be limited to 900MHz, while Jio’s renewal of 800MHz spectrum may not see much interest from the rest of the players. The 1,800MHz and 2,300MHz spectrum may be of high interest to both Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio, which may eye it for their 4G plans and for their 5G requirements going forward. In the 800MHz band, Reliance Jio will see the expiry of 115MHz, which it acquired/shared from R-Com in 19 circles. The same for Bharti and VIL stands at 57MHz in the 1,800MHz band and 37.8MHz/6.2Mhz in the 1,800MHz/900MHz band, respectively. “This would cost Jio Rs 28 billion, Bharti Airtel Rs 129 billion and VIL Rs 83 billion at the reserve price to renew their existing spectrum. Though this is a mere 5-10 per cent of Bharti and VIL’s spectrum, it is significant in the case of Reliance Jio,” it said. The research report said “the earnest money deposit (EMD) indicates that Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio may be interested in spending 2-3x the renewal requirement in other bands. VIL has limited options given its liquidity position.” According to some reports, Jio deposited the highest earnest money of Rs 90 billion, which would allow it to purchase spectrum worth Rs 450-660 billion. Bharti is said to have deposited Rs 30-33 billion, which would allow it to purchase spectrum worth Rs 150-250billion. VIL has deposited a mere Rs 5 billion to buy spectrum worth Rs 25-35 billion. The high EMD will allow Jio to spend Rs 200-250 billon, beyond the R 280 billion that it requires for renewal of its expiring spectrum at the reserve price. Bharti will require Rs 130 billion at the reserve price to renew its expiring 1,800MHz spectrum. Bharti has a strong portfolio of 1,800MHz spectrum, with an average 15MHz in 15 circles and below 10MHz in four circles. In Delhi, it does not have a high proportion of spectrum in 900MHz and largely relies on 2,300MHz for capacity. So, it could be keen to acquire spectrum in 1,800MHz, which could entail an investment of Rs 22 billion for 5MHz at the reserve price. Jio has an average 7MHz in 1,800MHz, so it could spend wherever sufficient 800MHz spectrum is unavailable. In the 2,300MHz band, both Bharti and RJio could look to top up their spectrum capacity. Bharti may choose to fill gaps in the three circles where it does not hold any spectrum. But, with a healthy 2-4 blocks of 10MHz available in 2,300MHz, there could be lesser competition intensity, it said. Meanwhile, rating agency ICRA said telcos expected to dial in next round of tariff hikes over the next one or two quarters which is likely to drive revenue growth in new financial year (2021-22) beginning April one. Tariff hikes and upgradation of subscribers from 2G to 4G is expected to result in improvement in average revenue per user to around Rs 220 in the medium term which will lead to growth in industry revenue by 11 to 13 per cent over the next two years with operating margins expanding to nearly 38 per cent for FY22. It said improvement in cash flow generation coupled with moderation in capex intensity will limit the dependence on incremental external borrowings for operations. However, the addition of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liabilities to debt and the next round of spectrum auctions will act as a dampener. The total industry debt to remain elevated at Rs. 4.7 lakh crore as on March 31, 2022. The improvement in operating metrics is likely to translate into an expansion of the debt coverage indicators, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||Business||Coal India overall expenditure came down 3.3 per cent between April and December 2020||Coal India on Monday said its overall expenditure has come down 3.3 per cent between April and December 2020 on the back of a reduction in manpower. Overall expenditure during the period was Rs 54,241 crore against Rs 56,079 crore during the same period a year ago. The public sector miner said a major reduction was visible in employee benefit expenses which were down by Rs 735 crore. These include salaries of employees, performance-related pay of executives, performance-linked rewards of non-executives and provident fund contributions. During the nine-month period, CIL’s manpower came down by 13,800. Total manpower stood at 2.72 lakh at the start of 2020-21. This was 3.22 lakh four years ago. Coal India said in a statement that the organisation was becoming leaner through superannuation of around 13,000 employees per year and the trend of reduction is expected to continue for a few more years. Employee benefit expenses comprise around 50 per cent of the company’s overall revenue expenditure. Coal India further said  provisioning of stripping activity was also down by Rs 2,894 crore during the nine month period. Stripping activity is the quantity of overburden removed for the required coal produced. Overburden removal is another significant component of expenditure. Reduction in expenditure however has not affected the output and offtake of the public sector miner which also waived performance incentives for power sector consumers estimated at around Rs 703 crore. This incentive is earned on account of increased supply by the miner above the committed contracted quantity of coal. With cash flows of coal users affected in the pandemic, Coal India also did not press for penalty from its consumers for lifting lower quantities of fuel, the company said in its statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||Business||Vedanta Ltd invites bids for sale of natural gas from its Rajasthan block||Mining magnate Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta Ltd on Monday invited bids for the sale of natural gas from its prolific Rajasthan block at rates equivalent to the price of imported LNG from the spot market or Brent oil price. Cairn Oil & Gas, Vedanta’s oil and gas arm, produces about 3.5 million standard cubic metres per day (mscmd) of gas from its largely oil-bearing block in Rajasthan, the firm said in a notice. The output is being ramped up to more than 5 mscmd. “The company invites expressions of interest (EoIs) from interested parties with proven capabilities in the natural gas business to participate in the national competitive e-auction process for the purchase of natural gas produced from our flagship block in Barmer, Rajasthan,” it said. It invited bids for 4.5 mscmd of gas for two years from the RJ-ON-90/1 block. The price of gas will be lower of the previous month’s average of DES West India spot liquefied natural gas prices or 14 per cent of the average Brent crude oil price. “The sales gas price for any month shall not be lower than the government of India declared gas price,” the notice said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||Business||SC  issues notices to WhatsApp and Facebook on data protection policy||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notices to WhatsApp and Facebook which said they shall not apply lower privacy standards on Indian users and apply the same data protection policy applied for users in the European region. The notice was also issued to the ministry of electronics and information technology. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian sought their reply within four weeks while observing “you may be a 2-3 trillion dollar company but people’s privacy is more valuable for them and it is our duty to protect their privacy”. According to the new privacy policy, WhatsApp shares user information globally with various third partners. Such sharing happens internally within the Facebook companies and externally with partners and service providers, besides with all other users who communicate around the world through their medium, an application has alleged. The purported discriminatory policy has been challenged by a Delhi law graduate Karmanya Singh Sareen. Senior counsel Shyam Divan appearing for the petitioner submitted before the bench that WhatsApp was differentiating between Indians and Europeans in terms of privacy standards, which cannot be done by the social media group which has millions of subscribers in India. The CJI pointed out that the media too was regularly reporting about the concerns from various quarters over the latest privacy policy of WhatsApp and Facebook. “We are telling you what we heard and read. People think that if A sends a message to B and B to C. The circuit of messages is revealed to FaceBook,” the CJI said. Arvind Dattar appearing for WhatsApp opposed the petition on the ground that the petitioner had filed an intervention application in the earlier 2016 petition relating to Whatsapp’s privacy policy. It was his argument that the present challenge by the petitioner was to the 2020 privacy policy which can be challenged only by way of a fresh writ petition. “You may be a 2-3 trillion dollar company but people’s privacy is more valuable for them and it is our duty to protect their privacy,” the CJI told senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Further, he argued that since the Delhi High Court was already seized of the matter in another petition, the present application should not be entertained. However, the bench rejected the argument. Sibal argued: “nowadays everything we hear and read may not be right and correct.” According to Sibal, Europe has a special law relating to general data protection regulations which does not apply to India. However, he said the company was willing to comply with any laws made in this regard by Parliament. The CJI the said the companies must say so on oath. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for Union government supported the cause of the petitioner saying “This is the apprehension of the nation.” He submitted that social media companies cannot share data of users and such data must be protected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 610 points, closes above 52000-mark||Benchmark indices were back to setting new  records after a week of consolidation as the Sensex on Monday rallied 610 points to close above the 52000-mark and the Nifty ended above 15300 following positive global cues and optimism of an economic revival back home. Banking and finance stocks led the rally with the Nifty Bank index rising 3.32 per cent to 37306.25, taking its rally to 23 per cent so far this month. Investments from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) also remained strong with net investments of over Rs 1,200 crore in Monday’s trade. The 30-share Sensex began on a higher ground at 51907.75 and breached the 52000-mark to touch a record intra-day high of 52235.97. It later ended ended 609.83 points, or 1.18 per cent, higher at a new closing peak of 52154.13. The broader NSE Nifty also soared 151.40 points, or 1 per cent, to finish at a new high of 15314.70. It had touched an intra-day peak of 1540.15. “Global cues were positive on optimism about the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines and new US fiscal aid. On the domestic side, strong corporate earnings have ignited hopes of a faster economic recovery. Better-than-expected December IIP and January CPI numbers boosted market sentiment,’’ Siddhartha Khemka, head of retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, said. Industrial production recorded a positive growth of 1 per cent in December, while retail inflation cooled to a 16-month low of 4.06 per cent in January, according to data released after market hours on Friday. In the Sensex pack, Axis Bank led the gainers list, climbing 5.88 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance, SBI, IndusInd Bank, HDFC, Bajaj Finserv and HDFC Bank. However, Dr Reddy’s, TCS, Tech Mahindra, HUL, Asian Paints and Titan were among the laggards, sliding up to 1.77 per cent. Sector-wise, BSE bankex, finance, realty, industrials, telecom and healthcare indices rallied up to 3.31 per cent. “The Nifty keeps rising with up-gaps, reflecting pent up buying partly driven by encouraging third-quarter numbers. However, selective buying in sectors means that the overall volumes are measured. The next resistance for the Nifty is 15470 while 15243 could provide support,” said Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities. In Asia, bourses in China and Hong Kong were closed for the Lunar New Year holidays, while Tokyo and Seoul ended with strong gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in a positive territory in mid-session deals on optimism over the Covid vaccination and the proposed $1.9-trillion stimulus in the US. The global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.30 per cent higher at $63.24 per barrel. The rupee gained 7 paise to settle at 72.68 against the dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||Business||RBI tightens NBFC funding norms||The RBI has tightened the norms for investments from grey or blacklisted Financial Action Task Force (FATF) jurisdictions into non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) which could limit investments made by Mauritius-based entities in them. In a notification on Friday, the central bank said investors in NBFCs from countries that do not comply with the FATF regulations should not be allowed to hold a direct or indirect stake of more than 20 per cent in the shadow banks. This limit takes into account potential voting power which arises from instruments convertible into equity. The FATF — an intra-governmental organisation headed by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development — puts out black and grey lists of countries that are not fully co-operating on money laundering and the financing of terrorism. While the blacklist has two nations,  the grey list has 15 countries, including Mauritius. Urban co-op banks The RBI has constituted a panel to draw up a vision document to strengthen urban co-operative banks (UCBs) and explore the potential of consolidation in the sector. The committee will be headed by former RBI deputy governor N.S. Vishwanathan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||Business||RBI announces another 'Operation Twist’||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday announced another “Operation Twist’’ or the simultaneous purchase and sale of government bonds worth Rs 10,000 crore each as it looks to tamp down on the benchmark 10-year paper to feed the Centre’s ravenous appetite for funds. “On a review of current liquidity and financial conditions, the Reserve Bank has decided to conduct simultaneous purchase and sale of Government Securities under Open Market Operations (OMO) for an aggregate amount of Rs 10,000 crore each on February 25, 2021,’’ the apex bank said . The RBI will purchase securities maturing in 2025, 2029 and 2033 — 5.22 per cent Government Security 2025, 6.45 per cent GS 2029 and 6.57 per cent GS 2021 — and sell bonds — 8.79 per cent GS 2021 and 8.20 per cent GS 2022 — maturing in November this year and February 2022. The government will borrow Rs 88,000 crore in the next 45 days and a collosal Rs 12 lakh crore in the next fiscal to help pump-prime an economy felled by the lockdown. Bond yields have climbed after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the government’s massive expenditure plans in the budget. The RBI also did not come up with a calender for open market operations (OMOs) in its monetary policy announced last week, which disappointed the markets. Moreover, the RBI would also restore the cash reserve ratio to 4 per cent in two phases reducing it to 3 per cent during the lockdown to inject liquidity in the system. All these saw yields on the 10-year benchmark bond hitting 6.15 per cent. Since then the RBI has taken steps to soften yields. Market circles said it wanted to keep the benchmark bond below 6 per cent so that the government’s borrowing programme proceeds seamlessly. On Monday, the 10-year bond  closed at 6.02 per cent. It conducted OMO last Wednesday where it left out a bond maturing in 2028 and bought bonds of Rs 2,040 crore (GS 2024) and Rs 3,306 crore (GS 2034). Subsequently, in a special auction, it set a cut-off yield of 5.97 per cent for a 10-year bond. These resulted in yields on the benchmark 10 year bond falling to below 6 per cent. On Monday, it closed at 6.02 per cent. "The RBI is likely to continue with normalising liquidity conditions in line with underlying growth and inflation fundamentals. However, they will make the process as non-disruptive as possible by continuing to keep liquidity in surplus. Yield management by the RBI is likely to continue, however the central bank is likely to be more comfortable with a higher band for yields than 2020, HDFC Bank chief economist Abheek Barua had said in a note following the monetary policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||India||ED attaches Amnesty International India properties worth Rs 17 crore in PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday said it has attached over Rs 17 crore bank deposits in connection with its money laundering case against two entities of Amnesty International (India), the global human rights watchdog. The agency said in a statement that a provisional order has been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) "attaching bank accounts of Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd (AIIPL) and Indians for Amnesty International Trust (IAIT)". It said "both the entities have acquired the proceeds of crime and layered the same in the form of various movable properties. The order involves attachment of movable properties worth Rs 17.66 crore being proceeds of crime". This money laundering case of the ED is based on a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) FIR filed against AIIPL, IAIT, Amnesty International India Foundation Trust (AIIFT) and Amnesty International South Asia Foundation (AISAF) that was filed under various sections of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) and the Indian Penal Code (120-B which denotes criminal conspiracy). "Amnesty International India Foundation Trust (AIIFT) had been granted permission under the FCRA during 2011-12 for receiving foreign contributions from the Amnesty International UK," it said. However, the statement said the same was cancelled on the basis of the "adverse" inputs received. "Since permission/registration has been denied to the said entity on the basis of adverse inputs received from security agencies during the year 2011-12, AIIPL and IAIT were formed in the year 2013-14 and 2012-13, respectively to escape the FCRA route and carried out NGO activities in the guise of service export and FDI," the agency alleged. A probe found, the ED said, that upon cancellation of the FCRA licence by the Union government, Amnesty International India Foundation Trust and Amnesty entities adopted "new method" to receive money from abroad. The agency said Amnesty International, UK sent Rs 51.72 crore to AIIPL in the guise of export of services and the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). "For export proceeds/advances to Amnesty International UK there was no documentary proof, such as invoices and copies of agreement between AIIPL and Amnesty International UK, has been furnished by AIIPL to the authorised dealer (AD) banks." "It is prima facie found that Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd and others have obtained foreign remittances to the tune of Rs 51.72 crore in the guise export of services and the FDI from Amnesty International (UK) whose source is the donations from individual donors," the ED alleged. The agency has earlier attached some properties in this case and the total attachment value now stands at Rs 19.54 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Sedition law can’t be invoked to quieten the disquiet: Delhi court||A Delhi court has said the law of sedition cannot be invoked to quieten the disquiet under the pretence of muzzling miscreants. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana made the observation while granting bail to two persons - Devi Lal Burdak and Swaroop Ram - arrested by Delhi police earlier this month for allegedly committing sedition and spreading rumours by posting fake video on Facebook during ongoing farmers' protest. The court said that the law of sedition was a powerful tool in the hands of the state to maintain peace and order in the society. However, it cannot be invoked to quieten the disquiet under the pretence of muzzling the miscreants. Evidently, law proscribes any act which has a tendency to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence," the judge said in an order passed on February 15. In the absence of any exhortation, call, incitement or instigation to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence or any allusion or oblique remark or even any hint towards this objective, attributable to the accused, I suspect that Section 124 A (sedition) IPC can be validly invoked against the applicant, the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Supreme Court lodges suo motu cognisance against Rajdeep Sardesai for tweets||The Supreme Court has registered a suo motu contempt case against journalist Rajdeep Sardesai for his tweets allegedly scandalising the judiciary. The case was registered following a petition filed by one Aastha Khurana through advocate Om Prakash Parihar under Article 129 of the Constitution to the Chief Justice of India for initiating contempt proceedings against Sardesai. On September 17, 2020, Attorney General K K Venugopal had declined his consent to initiate contempt action against Sardesai. That the present contempt petition under Article 129 of the Constitution of India is being filed by the petitioner against the alleged contemnor/respondent for wilful disobedient comments passed on each and every decision/judgement passed by this court which leads to cause disrespect to the superior court of India in the minds of citizens of India , the plea has said. Article 129,of the Constitution states that the Supreme Court shall be a court of record and shall have all the powers of such a court including the power to punish for contempt of itself. The plea has said that the top court in the past has passed various landmark judgments and on each judgement, the alleged contemnor has passed various disrespectful comments and questioned the fairness and credibility of the court. It referred to a tweet by Sardesai made on August 31, 2020 in respect to the top court verdict imposing a fine of Rs one on advocate Prashant Bhushan for contempt of court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Maharashtra government can impose another lockdown amid rising covid cases: Mumbai mayor||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Tuesday warned that the Maharashtra government could think of imposing a "second lockdown" in light of the rise in COVID-19 cases in the city. Speaking to reporters here, the mayor said COVID-19 cases are rising fast in Mumbai and it has become a matter of concern for the civic body and the state government. Increase in the number of suburban services and resumption of all other activities could be a reason for the surge in COVID-19 cases, she said. The three-point programme of wearing masks, social distancing and sanitising hands regularly is not being followed by most people, she said. Pednekar further said that while the authorities had planned to reopen schools in the city, they are again reviewing the decision. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Health Minister Rajendra Tope have already started holding review meetings to discuss the situation, she said. "We could face another lockdown, but it is in the hands of citizens to avoid it by following the COVID-19 protocol, which they had abided by under the state government's 'My family My Responsibility' programme," the mayor said. Mumbai recorded a single-day spike of 493 fresh COVID-19 cases on Monday, which took the city's tally of infections to 7,05,441, including 19,701 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Court allows Disha Ravi access to lawyer, speak with her family in police custody||A court here on Tuesday directed Delhi Police to hand over to 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi a copy of the FIR and other documents related to her arrest in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media on the farmers' protest and allowed her to speak to her family. Besides the FIR, the court also directed the police to provide her the copies of the arrest memo and remand paper which was placed to seek her custodial interrogation. The court also permitted her to get warm clothes, masks and books. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma allowed Ravi to speak with her family members over phone for 15 minutes a day and meet with her lawyer for 30 minutes a day, while she is in police custody. The court passed the order on an application filed by Ravi through her lawyer. The court had on Sunday sent Ravi to five day police custody after the agency said her custodial interrogation was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. Ravi, arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday, was produced before a court here and police had sought her seven days' custody. While seeking her custody, the police had told the court that the activist had allegedly edited the "toolkit" and many other people were involved in the matter. A "toolkit" is a document created to explain any issue. It also provides information on what one needs to do to address the issue. This might include information about petitions, details about protests and mass movements. Earlier, the Delhi Police had asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email id, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the "toolkit" shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers' protest. The Cyber Cell had lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the "toolkit" for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the government of India". The case against unnamed persons was registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The "toolkit" was aimed at spreading disaffection and ill-will against the government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups, the police had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Activist Shantanu Muluk gets temporary anticipatory bail in ‘toolkit’ case||Environmental activist Shantanu Muluk, a suspect in a case registered by Delhi Police in connection with the toolkit shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg about the ongoing farmers' protest, on Tuesday got temporary anticipatory bail from the Bombay High Court. The high court on Wednesday will pass its order on another suspect, advocate Nikita Jacob's similar plea. Justice Vibha Kankanwadi of the Aurangabad bench of the HC granted Muluk, resident of Beed in central Maharashtra, ten days' transit anticipatory bail to enable him to apply for protection before the appropriate court in Delhi. Muluk and Jacob had on Monday approached the high court separately seeking transit anticipatory bail, after a Delhi court issued non-bailable warrants against them. According to Delhi Police, the duo were involved in preparing the toolkit document and were in direct touch with "pro- Khalistani elements". Jacob's plea for pre-arrest bail was heard by Justice P D Naik at the high court's principal bench in Mumbai which said it would pass the order on Wednesday. Advocate Hiten Venegavkar, appearing for the Delhi police's cyber cell, assured the Mumbai bench that "no prudent officer" would arrest a person when his or her application is pending in court. The Delhi police on Saturday arrested environmental activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru in the case and named Muluk and Jacob as suspects. The case has been lodged under IPC sections 124(a) (sedition), 153 (a) (promoting enmity among different groups) and 120 (b) criminal conspiracy. Senior counsel Mihir Desai, appearing for Jacob, argued that the alleged toolkit was prepared by a number of people and "only spoke of support to the protesting farmers". "It does not talk about any violence or about the January 26 incident at the Red Fort (when a tractor rally by protesters led to violence)," Desai argued. Serious charges of sedition have been invoked against a person like Jacob who is only a young environmental enthusiast, the lawyer said. Advocate Venegavkar, however, claimed that the toolkit was created and authored by Disha Ravi and Jacob along with many others who are part of the Khalistan movement. He also contended that the HC does not have the powers to grant any relief when the matter pertains to another state. Jacob, instead of cooperating with the investigation, absconded from her residence, he alleged. "A team of Delhi police went to Jacob's house on February 11 with a search warrant. She was questioned and her statement was recorded at her residence itself instead of taking her to the local police station," Venegavkar said. "The police team left her house on February 11 since it was after sunset and told her that they would return the next day for further investigation. Since then, Jacob is absconding," he said. To this, Justice Naik said she must have apprehended arrest. Desai said Jacob had indeed left the house as she feared arrest, adding that if granted bail, she would cooperate with the probe agency. Justice Naik, before reserving order, said he would not go into the merits of the case but only consider whether a case was made for the grant of transit anticipatory bail. Jacob and Muluk in their pleas said they were targets of political vendetta. Greta Thunberg, a celebrated climate activist, had shared the `toolkit' to lend support to the farmers' agitation near Delhi borders against the Union government's new agri laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||SC reserves verdict on Patricia Mukhim’s plea against Meghalaya HC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved its verdict on a plea filed by journalist Patricia Mukhim against Meghalaya High Court ruling which refused to quash an FIR against her for allegedly creating communal disharmony through her Facebook post. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Ravindra Bhat heard arguments during which senior advocate Vrinda Grover, appearing for Mukhim, submitted that there was no intention to create disharmony or conflict through the post which referred to an incident of a murderous assault on July 3, 2020. "It has to be seen what was the intent of my post. I am drawing the attention of the Chief Minister and police towards the attack. My aim was to highlight the criminal element present in the society. I am performing my role as a responsible citizen, Grover argued. The counsel for the Meghalaya government told the top court that communal colour was given to the scuffle between minor boys and her post shows it was a communal incident between tribal and non-tribal people. On November 10 last year, the single bench judge of Meghalaya High Court in his ruling found Mukhim guilty of creating communal disharmony, a crime under Section 153 CrPC and refused to quash an FIR filed by the Lawsohtun Dorbar Shnong (a traditional institution). Mukhim had hit out at the Lawsohtun village dorbar (council) on Facebook for failing to identify the murderous elements after five boys were attacked at a basketball court in July this year. Eleven people were picked up and two were arrested in the case. The police complaint was filed against Mukhim by the village council on July 6 for her post on the social media, alleging that her statement incited communal tension and might instigate communal conflict. She was subsequently booked under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc. and other provisions of the IPC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Four returnees test positive for South Africa Covid strain||Four people were detected with the South Africa variant of SARS-CoV-2 in India in January, while one tested positive for the Brazil variant strain in the first week of February, the Centre said on Tuesday. In India, the South Africa strain has been detected in four returnees -- one from Angola, one from Tanzania and two from South Africa in January, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said. All travellers and contacts have been tested and quarantined. "ICMR-NIV is attempting to isolate and culture the South African variant of SARS-CoV-2, while the Brazil variant of SAS-CoV-2 has been isolated and cultured at ICMR-NIV-Pune," ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava told reporters at the health ministry briefing on Covid. According to the ICMR chief, existing vaccines have the potential to neutralise the UK variant and experiments are on to assess the effectiveness of the vaccines against the South African and Brazilian variants. One Brazil returnee has tested positive for the Brazil variant of SARS-CoV-2 in the first week of February. The traveller and contacts have been tested and quarantined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Women's commission asks Delhi police for details on Disha's arrest||The Delhi Commission for Women has sent a notice to the Delhi Police on the arrest of 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi in the 'toolkit' case and sought a report on issues like why she was not provided a lawyer of her choice when produced before a court here. Taking cognisance of media reports, the panel in a statement, issued on Tuesday, also said that Ravi was produced before a court in Delhi without a lawyer of her choice being present there. The activist was arrested from Bengaluru on Saturday by the Delhi Police for allegedly creating and sharing a protest toolkit backing the farmers' agitation against the Centre's new agri laws. Ravi along with Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk created the toolkit and shared it with others to tarnish India's image, the Delhi Police had said on Monday. Police claimed that she had sent the toolkit to teen climate activist Greta Thunberg through the Telegram app, and also "coaxed her to act on it". Non-bailable warrants have been issued against Jacob and Muluk, who are absconding. Citing media reports and claims by activists, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) said Ravi was arrested and taken to Delhi from Bengaluru by police and her whereabouts were not disclosed, not even to her parents. It has also been alleged that police did not present her at a court in Bengaluru for transit remand, before bringing her to Delhi, it said. However, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Tuesday said Ravi was arrested in accordance with the law which "doesn't differentiate between a 22-year-old or a 50-year-old". The DCW has asked the Delhi Police to provide a copy of the FIR registered in the matter, reasons for allegedly not producing Ravi before a local court for transit remand, reasons for allegedly not providing a lawyer of her choice when she was produced before the court here, and a detailed action taken report, the statement said. The commission has asked police to provide the information by Friday, it added. Shrivastava has also said that Ravi has been sent to five-day police custody and the matter was being probed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Bus falls into a canal in Madhya Pradesh, atleast 37 dead ||At least 37 people, including 16 women, died after the bus they were travelling in fell off a bridge into a canal near Patna village in Madhya Pradesh's Sidhi district on Tuesday morning, a senior official said, adding that search operations are still going on. After fishing out 18 bodies initially, rescuers have retrieved 19 more bodies until now, said Rewa Divisional Commissioner Rajesh Jain. "A total of 37 bodies, including 16 women, 20 men and a child, have been fished out of the Bansagar canal until now," he said, adding that a magisterial probe has been ordered. Prima facie, 44 passengers were travelling on the bus at the time of the accident, which occurred around 8:30 AM. "Seven persons managed to swim to the banks of the canal after the incident and 37 bodies have been recovered. The 44 passengers have been identified so far," Jain added. Earlier in the morning, Inspector General (Rewa zone) Joga had confirmed the recovery of 18 bodies from the accident site. The bus landed into the canal near Patna village, around 80 kms away from the Sidhi district headquarter, around 8:30 AM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Contemplating 'some action' on regulating OTT platforms, Centre tells SC||The Centre Tuesday told the Supreme Court that it was contemplating "some action" on the issue of regulating OTT platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, which was initially of the view that the petitioner should approach the government for the remedy, asked the government to file its response within six weeks to the PIL seeking OTT regulation by an autonomous body. At the outset, Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain said the Centre was contemplating some action on the issue of regulating OTT platforms. The CJI sought to know from Jain as to what would be the action from the government and asked him to file the response in six weeks while tagging the matter with the pending petition. The top court had on October 15 last year issued notices to the central government, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and Internet and Mobile Association of India. The plea filed by advocates Shashank Shekhar Jha and Apurva Arhatia also sought a proper board/institution /association for the monitoring and management of content on different OTT/Streaming and digital media platforms. With cinema theatres unlikely to open anytime soon in the country, OTT/Streaming and different digital media platforms have surely given a way out for film makers and artists to release their content without being worried about getting clearance certificates for their films and series from the censor board, the plea said. At present, however, there is no law or autonomous body governing the digital content to monitor and manage these digital contents and it is made available to the public at large without any filter or screening, it said. Lack of legislation governing OTT/Streaming Platforms is becoming evident with each passing day and every new case that is filed on these grounds. The government is facing heat to fill this lacuna with regulations from the public and the Judiciary; still the relevant government departments have not done anything significant to regularise these OTT/Streaming Platforms, the plea said. None of the OTT/Streaming platforms including Netflix, Amazon Prime, Zee5, and Hotstar have signed the self-regulation provided by Ministry of Information and Broadcasting since February 2020, it said. The ministry had earlier told the top court in a separate case that there is a need to regulate digital media and that the court may first appoint a committee of persons as amicus before laying down guidelines with respect to the regulation of hate speech in the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Police custody of Deep Sidhu extended by seven days||A Delhi court on Tuesday extended by seven days the police custody of actor-activist Deep Sidhu in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day during the farmers' tractor parade against the Centre's three new agri laws. Sidhu was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Bhujali after expiry of his police custody in the case. Police sought extension of his custodial interrogation, saying it was required for further investigation and to identify other accused persons in the case. The court had on February 9 sent Sidhu to police custody for seven days after the police alleged he was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at the Red Fort. The police had said there are videos where Sidhu can be allegedly seen at the site of the incident. "He was instigating the crowd. He was also one of the main rioters. Several social media accounts need to be searched to identify the co-conspirators. Also his permanent address is given as Nagpur but several places need to be visited in Punjab and Haryana to unearth further details," the police had alleged. "He can be seen coming out with the person who hoisted the flag and congratulating him. He came out and gave speeches in loud hailers and provoked the crowd there. He was the main instigator. He instigated the crowd due to which violence occurred. Several policemen were injured in the violence," the police alleged. Sidhu's counsel, however, claimed he had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time. Sidhu has been arrested for several offences under the Indian Penal Code including rioting (147 and 148), unlawful assembly (149), attempt to murder (120-B), criminal conspiracy (120-B), assaulting or obstructing public servant (152), dacoity (395), culpable homicide (308) and disobedience to order promulgated by public servant (188). He has also been arrested under sections of the Arms Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act. The police had announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to Sidhu's arrest. Tens of thousands of protesting farmers clashed with the police in the national capital on January 26 during a tractor parade to to highlight their demands. Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protestor died. In the FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, police alleged two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protestors who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Delhi police write to Zoom for details of January 11 meet||The Delhi Police has written to video conferencing platform Zoom seeking details of those who participated in the January 11 meeting organised allegedly by a pro-Khalistani group to prepare a protest "toolkit" backing the farmers' agitation, officials said on Tuesday. Police alleged that Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu were among the around 70 people who had attended the meeting through Zoom app, days before the Republic Day violence in the national capital that left over 500 police personnel injured and one protester dead. "The Delhi Police has written to video conferencing app Zoom seeking details of participants who attended the meeting on January 11," the official said. On Monday, Joint Commissioner of Police (cyber) Prem Nath had alleged that the e-mail account created by Shantanu is the owner of this Google document. "Pro-Khalistani group Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) founder Mo Dhaliwal had contacted them (Jacob and Shantanu) through a Canada-based woman named Punit," Nath had said. "Nikita and Shantanu had on January 11 attended a Zoom meeting organized by PFJ in which modalities were decided to create the 'toolkit' titled 'Global Farmer Strike' and 'Global Day of Action, 26 January'," Nath said.  Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Tuesday said the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi was made in accordance with law which "doesn't differentiate between a 22-year-old or 50-year-old". Talking to reporters at an event here, Shrivastava said it is wrong when people say that there were lapses in the arrest of the 22-year-old activist. "Disha Ravi's arrest has been made in accordance with law which doesn't differentiate between a 22-year-old or a 50-year-old," the Delhi Police chief said. He said Ravi has been sent to five-day police custody and the matter was being probed. Ravi along with Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu created the toolkit and shared it with others to tarnish India's image, the Delhi Police had said on Monday. The data was also deleted, police claimed, adding that Ravi's Telegram account shows many links related to the toolkit had been removed. Non-bailable warrants have been issued against Jacob and Shantanu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Two more bodies recovered from Tapovan tunnel, toll rises to 58||Two more bodies were recovered early Tuesday from the Tapovan tunnel where intense rescue operations were underway for the 10th consecutive day in search of those missing in the Uttarakhand flash floods. "With the recovery of two more bodies, the cumulative toll in Chamoli's glacial disaster has mounted to 58 while 146 are still missing, a police official said. While one body was recovered past midnight, another was recovered around 2 am from the tunnel, the official deputed at a temporary mortuary at Tapovan where the bodies are being kept told PTI. So far eleven bodies have been recovered from the sludge choked intake Adit tunnel of the flash flood ravaged Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project. The multi-agency rescue effort in Chamoli district is focusing on the Tapovan tunnel where about 30 workers were feared trapped. The agencies involved in the Tapovan rescue work include the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the National Disaster Response Force and the State Disaster Response Force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Daily Covid cases below 10,000 for fourth time this month||The daily new Coronavirus infections fell below 10,000 for the fourth time this month taking India's tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,09,25,710, while fresh fatalities remained below 100 for the tenth time this month, according to Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 9,121 new cases were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,55,813 with 81 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,33, 025 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.32 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,36,872 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.25 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 20,73,32,298 samples were tested till February 15 with 6,15,664 samples being tested on Monday. The 81 new fatalities include 23 from Maharashtra, 13 from Kerala and 10 from Punjab. A total of 1,55,813 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,552 from Maharashtra followed by 12,425 from Tamil Nadu, 12,267 from Karnataka, 10,893 from Delhi, 10,233 from West Bengal, 8,704 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,163 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Delhi police name two more in the 'toolkit' sedition case||An arrest warrant has been issued against a young lawyer. An engineer is also facing arrest. Their whereabouts are not known. Disha Ravi, a young climate activist, is already in police custody in what is being referred to as the “toolkit” case. Amid a litany of charges that have been described by sections of civil society as “absurd”, one levelled by Delhi police against the youths stood out: “The main aim of the toolkit was to create misinformation and disaffection against the lawfully enacted government.” The police added that the toolkit sought to amplify fake news and other falsehoods and precipitate “physical action” on Republic Day. Such vague charges can be levelled against almost all groups, not just critics of the government but even supporters who on Monday were using their own toolkit with identical sentences to condemn Disha and other activists. Delhi police’s explanation came as they named two more accused in the “toolkit” sedition case. The police said they had obtained non-bailable arrest warrants against Nikita Jacob, a Bombay High Court lawyer, and Shantanu, a Maharashtra-based engineer, but found they were not at their homes. The police did not mention Shantanu’s surname but some TV channels said it was Muluk. Officers claimed Nikita and Shantanu had prepared the social media toolkit along with Disha, a 21-year-old climate activist arrested by Delhi police from Bangalore on Saturday. The toolkit is a Google document that police say was part of a Khalistani conspiracy to wage war against India by, among other things, instigating violence during the farmers’ Republic Day tractor rally. “A woman named Puneet, based in Canada, connected these people to the pro-Khalistan Poetic Justice Foundation and through them created toolkit Google documents titled ‘Global Farmer Strike’ and ‘Global Day of Action, 26 January’,” Joint commissioner of police (cyber cell) Prem Nath said. He said Nikita had been the first suspect and had named the two others during questioning earlier this month. Nath said Delhi police had on February 4 come across the toolkit on Twitter, and their investigations suggested the Poetic Justice Foundation and people associated with it had created it. The Canada-based, 11-month-old foundation, whose founder has been accused of making a pro-Khalistan statement, says it “challenges structures of oppression and discrimination through intersectional grassroots advocacy”. In any case, even membership of a banned organisation is not an offence in India unless accompanied by violence or incitement to a crime, according to a Supreme Court ruling in 2011. The Centre had sought a review of this ruling in 2016. Nath said the toolkit mentioned, under the head “Prior Action”, programmes such as a “digital strike” through hashtags on January 26 and earlier; a “tweet storm” from January 23 onwards; “physical action” on January 26; and entry into Delhi for the Kisan Parade before returning to the capital’s border. These are standard phrases that youngsters use online to organise protests. “Physical action” need not mean violence and it could signify any democratic form of protest such as a rally or a picket. “The second part of the same document mentions tasks such as disruption of India’s cultural heritage such as ‘yoga’ and ‘tea’ and targeting Indian embassies abroad in various capitals,” Nath said. “Disha, who is associated with the environmental movement called Fridays For Future, sent the toolkit document to Greta Thunberg on Telegram and coaxed her to act on it.” Thunberg, a teenaged Swedish climate activist and global celebrity who had launched Fridays For Future in 2018, tweeted the toolkit on February 3, drawing wide attention to it. “Based on the incriminating evidence collected from Disha’s device and in view of the fact that she had deleted her WhatsApp group, she was arrested,” Nath said. Nath said Nikita and Shantanu had on January 11 “attended a Zoom meeting organised by the Poetic Justice Foundation where the modalities of the (agitating farmers’ and their supporters’) Global Day of Action were worked out”. “Based on the course of action decided at the Zoom meeting, Nikita, Shantanu, Disha and others collaborated to draft the toolkit. The document they drafted had secessionist and pro-Khalistani content embedded into it through links and texts,” Nath alleged. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, in an apparent allusion to the toolkit, recently told an event in tea-growing Assam that there was a conspiracy to defame Indian tea. Nath said: “The time-bound action points and programme given in this toolkit, when viewed in the context of the actual developments in Delhi, clearly showed that the action plan that was formulated in the toolkit document was executed in exactly the same manner.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Protesting farmers support Disha Ravi and NewsClick||The protesting farmers have come out in full-throated support of young climate activist Disha Ravi and the news portal NewsClick, refusing to be cowed into silence by the troubles they themselves are having with law enforcement agencies, particularly since the incidents of Republic Day. “India’s young environmentalists do understand and appreciate that unviable farming leads to unsustainable farming too,” the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said on Monday. After a quick, short statement on Sunday condemning the arrest of the 22-year-old who had backed the farmers and demanding her immediate unconditional release, the Morcha — the banner under which the farmers are gathered on Delhi’s borders since November — issued a detailed response on Monday. The statement explained the obvious connect between Disha’s persuasion as a climate activist and their occupation of farming and repeated the Morcha’s demand for her “immediate unconditional release”. “It is unsurprising that farmers end up adopting desperate unsustainable practices to make ends meet when their farming gets riskier due to increasingly adverse markets (due to unfair trade egged on by big corporations) and compounded by climate change,” the Morcha said. The three farm laws “rammed down” by the Centre do not guarantee remunerative markets for farmers and instead make the markets riskier for them, with greater vulnerability to exploitation, it added. The Morcha said: “In such a situation, the possibility of farmers adopting unsustainable production practices is higher. It is this inter-linkage between viability and sustainability that activists like Disha Ravi have understood in their extension of support for the farmers’ protests.” The Morcha also offered an environmental perspective to its demand for a legal guarantee of a minimum support price for all crops, arguing it would help farmers diversify from mono-cropping of paddy and wheat and provide a lasting solution to the straw-burning problem that contributes to pollution in north India every winter. “It is such solutions that the environmental activists are striving for. It is therefore unsurprising that environmental activists are lending support to the ongoing farmers’ movement, and only those who do not understand the issues involved here will feign surprise at why people like Disha Ravi are supporting the movement,” the statement said. “We are deeply concerned and anguished about the brazen misuse of police power by the government in its efforts to weaken the ongoing farmers’ movement.” Last week, when the Enforcement Directorate was raiding NewsClick, which had provided a detailed coverage of the farmers’ protests and related issues, the Morcha had said: “The government is clearly afraid of the strengthening movement and is trying to choke the voices of citizens and democracy in numerous ways. SKM condemns the continuing attacks on media that is amplifying the voices of the movement, and the raids on NewsClick are the latest in this stifling of democracy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Congress protests jump in cooking gas prices ||The Congress on Monday accused the Narendra Modi government of profiteering on petroleum products, pointing out that the price of an LPG cylinder had been raised by Rs 175 in the past two months. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “In the last two months alone, LPG gas prices have gone up by Rs 175 per cylinder. It used to cost Rs 594 for a cylinder in the national capital in December. It is now costing Rs 769 each cylinder. In February, we have seen a price rise of Rs 75. This is despite the fact that the price of international crude oil has remained very low.” Pointing out that Indians were reeling under extreme economic distress and job losses, Shrinate said: “It tells you a lot about how this government functions and thinks. They are not just insensitive, they want to make money on people’s miseries. They have amassed a whopping Rs 24 lakh crore through high taxes, an amount that actually belongs to the people of this country.” “When we were in the government, the tax on diesel was around Rs 3 per litre. Today, it is nearly Rs 32 per litre. On petrol, it was just a little over Rs 9 per litre, today it is at about Rs 33 per litre.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||SC issues notices to Centre, CVC and ED chief||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notices to the Centre, Central Vigilance Commission, the Enforcement Directorate and its incumbent director Sanjay Kumar Mishra on the alleged illegal one-year extension granted by the government retrospectively to the officer. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat sought response on the PIL filed by NGO Common Cause through advocate Pranav Sachdeva alleging that Mishra had been granted “illegal retrospective change in appointment order” by which his tenure has been increased from two to three years. Appearing before the bench, advocate Prashant Bhushan submitted that Mishra could not have been given any extension since he had already superannuated and such illegal extensions have an effect of destroying the supposed independence of the office of ED director. He sought quashing of the impugned office order, dated November 13, 2020, issued by the central government and a direction to make a fresh appointment in a fair and transparent manner strictly in accordance with the mandate of Section 25 of the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003. As per Section 25(a) of the CVC Act, the central government appoints the ED director on the recommendation of the committee consisting of the Central Vigilance Commissioner as chairperson, vigilance commissioners as members and secretaries of the Union home, personnel and finance ministries as other members. Further, Section 25(c) of the Act provides that no person below the rank of additional secretary shall be eligible for appointment as a director of enforcement and Section 25(d) provides that he shall continue to hold office for a period of not less than two years from the date on which he assumes office. In the present case, the NGO contended that Mishra, vide an order dated November 19, 2018, was appointed as the ED director for a period of two years from the date of assumption of charge of the post or until further orders, whichever is earlier. The said two-year tenure came to an end on November 19, 2020. Mishra also reached the retirement age of 60 years in May 2020, the petition said. However, vide the impugned office order of November 13, 2020, it was notified that the President has been pleased to approve the modification in the earlier order dated November 19, 2018, appointing Mishra as the ED director to the effect that a period of “two years” has been modified to “three years”. “Thus, by virtue of the impugned Office Order, dated 13.11.2020, the appointment order dated 19.11.2018 has been modified with retrospective effect and the Respondent No. 2 (Mishra) herein has been given an additional one year of service as Director of Enforcement in the Enforcement Directorate,” the petition said. “Further, as per the news reports the CVC committee had met on 12.11.2020 to recommend the modification to Respondent No. 2’s appointment. It is submitted that the impugned Office Order, dated 13.11.2020, issued by the Respondent No. 1 (the Centre) is in the teeth of Section 25 of the CVC Act as the said Section provides that a person has to be above the rank of Additional Secretary to the Government of India to be eligible for appointment as a Director of Enforcement. Thus, as the Respondent No. 2 has already reached his retirement age in May 2020, therefore, after the end of Respondent No. 2’s two-year period on 19.11.2020, the Respondent No. 2, by virtue of not holding any post above the rank of Additional Secretary, would have been ineligible for appointment as a Director of Enforcement again,” the petition said. “However, the Respondent No. 1 has employed a circuitous route in order to ensure that Respondent No. 2 gets one more year as Director of Enforcement by way of retrospectively modifying the appointment order dated 19.11.2018 itself,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Deregulation of map-making in India ||Indian entities would no longer need government approvals to collect and offer geospatial data, high-resolution maps, and street views of physically accessible areas across the country under new guidelines announced by the Union science and technology ministry on Monday. The guidelines for geospatial data — topographic information about features and objects across a terrain — are intended to liberalise data collection and use by removing constraints and regulatory approvals without diluting security concerns, top ministry officials said. “Map-making in India stands completely deregulated from today,” Jitendra Singh, minister of state for the departments of atomic energy and space and the Prime Minister’s Office, said. Under the guidelines, Indian entities would no longer require prior approvals, security clearances, or licences for the acquisition and production of geospatial data, including high-accuracy maps and surveys of street views and territorial waters at finer than 1m horizontal and 3m vertical resolutions. Such data would need to be stored within the country. “If an area is physically accessible, there would be no further restrictions on surveying and mapping there,” science and technology secretary Ashutosh Sharma said. But sensitive installations would not be marked on the maps. Experts have welcomed the guidelines saying restrictions and requirements for approvals had until now hampered domestic growth of the geospatial data sector that has potential applications in myriad areas — from navigation, business, and governance to healthcare and tourism. “This could potentially allow an Indian company to offer similar map-based services and street views the way Google does,” said Rahul Chopra, a Pune-based specialist in applications of geospatial data. The Centre had rejected a proposal submitted by Google in July 2015 to provide its street view service in India. The service allows users to explore locations through 360-degree panoramic street-level imagery and view public areas — from shopping centres to tourist spots. The new guidelines also specify that all geospatial data generated using public funds, except classified geospatial data, would become available for scientific, economic and developmental purposes to “all Indian entities without restrictions”. Sharma said foreign entities could license but not be able to own fine (high accuracy) data. “The earlier restrictions primarily due to security concerns had meant the country’s entire coastline was beyond the reach of mappers,” Chopra said. “With those restrictions gone, we could look forward to the growth of applications in sectors such as real estate or business or healthcare.” Geospatial data, for instance, could be used to track the growth rate of towns and cities, to develop population maps that businesses could use to rely on to plan their growth or to map healthcare establishments across cities or states. Industry analysts expect the guidelines to help expand India’s geospatial economy which currently is estimated to be worth Rs 25,000 crore and employing 250,000 people. “With these guidelines, we expect the domestic geospatial economy to grow to Rs 50,000 crore by 2025,” said Sanjay Kumar, the chief executive with Geospatial Media and Communications. Earlier, amid the restrictions or no clear rules, Kumar said, “the industry had to operate in a grey zone and that kept major companies at bay.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Bihar Assembly polls: Election authorities order probe into inflated bills||Election authorities have ordered a probe into inflated bills submitted by private contractors and agencies for logistical services rendered during the Bihar Assembly polls, parts of which have already been paid raising suspicion of a corrupt nexus involving officials. A senior election department official said that in some districts, the bills for the transport, lodging, food and water of election personnel, police and central paramilitary forces and the movement of poll-related material during the October-November 2020 polls were nearly 10 times higher than those submitted during the April-May 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He said that while the bills this time were expected to be higher because of the requirements of social distancing — such as an increased number of booths and personnel and more complicated arrangements for lodging and transport — “it cannot account for around a 10-time increase”. “We have asked all the district magistrates to verify the bills submitted for expenditure during the Assembly elections,” the principal secretary of the state election department, H.R. Srinivasa, who is also the Bihar chief electoral officer, told The Telegraph on Sunday. “Inflated bills have been submitted in several districts, particularly East Champaran, Kaimur, Gaya, Banka, Sitamarhi, Darbhanga and Patna.” He said he had ordered probes in each of Bihar’s 38 districts during a videoconference with all the district magistrates earlier this week. “A committee of district officials that verified the expenditure bills for the Assembly elections has cut the amount under this head down to Rs 32 crore from Rs 42 crore. But it’s still too high,” he said. “The expenses should have been Rs 10-12 crore. We have stopped the payments and will probe every aspect of the matter.” East Champaran district magistrate Shirsat Kapil Ashok told this newspaper: “Although the number of booths was increased by around 1.5 times and the deployment of paramilitary forces was four times higher compared to the Lok Sabha elections in our district, we are looking at an average expenditure of Rs 3 crore per Assembly constituency as a reasonable figure. This takes into account the various social-distancing measures adopted because of the pandemic. We have initiated the probe.” Several district magistrates did not take calls or said they had joined their posts just around a month ago. A few said they would be able to comment only after consulting documents. “The entire issue should be rigorously probed and punitive action taken against the errant contractors and companies,” a senior poll panel official said on the condition of anonymity. “The probe should also cover the payments already made to ascertain whether the wrongdoers acted in collusion with government officials to get the bills passed.” Poll panel sources said the number of booths had been increased by around 63 per cent to 1.06 lakh to ensure social distancing during the Assembly elections. The number of paramilitary companies was increased from 700 during the seven-phase general election to 1,200 for the three-phase state polls. In some sensitive districts like East Champaran, the paramilitary deployment was higher compared to others. The Assembly polls were held across 11 days, compared with 38 days during the Lok Sabha polls in Bihar, but the central forces came a little early to ensure there were no last-minute hitches while arranging the pandemic-dictated logistics. More polling personnel were deployed too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||India||Arrested journalist Siddique Kappan to go home, with armed guard and gag ||The Supreme Court on Monday directed that imprisoned journalist Siddique Kappan be released for five days to meet his critically ill mother in Kerala, rejecting objections from solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. Kappan cannot give interviews or meet members of the public during the visit home, the apex court said after Mehta claimed the journalist would use the opportunity “to have himself paraded in public and gather support for his activities”. To Mehta’s suggestion that Kappan’s mother may not be as critical as suggested, Chief Justice S.A. Bobde replied: “Whoever be the man he is not likely to lie (about) his mother’s imminent death. If this is false then we will never entertain such petitions ever in the future.” Kappan, 41, has been in a jail in Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, since being arrested in early October on terror charges while travelling to Hathras where a Dalit teen had been gang-raped and murdered. He is accused of planning to foment trouble and being a member of the extremist Popular Front of India (PFI), which he denies. The bench of Justices Bobde, A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian passed its order after hearing senior advocate Kapil Sibal, counsel for the Kerala Union of Working Journalists which has espoused Kappan’s cause, and Mehta who was representing the Uttar Pradesh government. The court order said: Sibal had told the top court that its earlier order allowing Kappan to talk to his mother over videoconferencing did not fructify since she was extremely sick and feeble at the scheduled time. He pleaded that Kappan be allowed to meet his mother since she “is not likely to survive for long”. Mehta cut in: “The ground which is raised is tempting for even me to agree. Let me reply by tomorrow.” But Justice Bobde shot back: “What is tempting in this – (that) one wants to see his mother for the last time?” Mehta said there were posters outside Kappan’s home asking he be treated as a martyr. The Chief Justice said: “We will see that it does not happen and then we will not grant bail.” Mehta said that during the attempted videoconferencing, the mother could not even recognise the son, prompting Justice Bobde to say: “We are on his mother and not any political matter.” He added: “This is not fair. If she dies what will you do? We are not on his political antecedents.” Mehta said the investigating agency did not think the mother’s condition was as serious as was being projected. “The PFI is banned and a person belonging to it is found carrying material spreading communal and caste hatred,” he said. “There are posters in Kerala and the wife of Kappan is collecting money (against) his name as if he is a martyr. He is described as the successor (to) a Haji or something who is responsible (for) a massacre. When he goes (home), political opinions would be formed.” But Justice Bobde said: “We are taking Mr Sibal’s proposition on face value...: We will ensure he (Kappan) is not paraded, has an armed guard and only stays home, does not give interviews and then comes back to jail again.” Mehta persisted, saying the application was “a very well thought out ground by petitioner to circumvent the legal process”. The bench brushed the objections aside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||India||Government’s ‘fascist self’ visible, says Congress||The Congress on Monday said the Narendra Modi government was revealing its “true fascist self” by targeting young activists as senior leaders including Rahul Gandhi described the action as another example of cowardice. Quoting the famous couplet by Faiz Ahmed Faiz — “Bol ke lab azad hai tere, Bol ke sach zinda hai ab tak (Speak, that your lips are free, Speak, for truth is still alive)” — Rahul tweeted: “They are frightened, not the country. India won’t be silenced.” Priyanka Gandhi too expressed similar sentiments, arguing that those possessing guns were scared of an unarmed girl. While Delhi police on Saturday arrested 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi from Bangalore, arrest warrants were issued against lawyer Nikita Jacob of Mumbai. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said at a news conference: “If the government thinks that a 21-year-old Disha and a 22-year-old Nikita can damage the strong foundations of the Indian democracy, they don’t know what they are talking about. They are only revealing their true fascist self.” “Democracy is damaged by persons who celebrate the Pulwama tragedy (referring to Arnab Goswami who said in a purported WhatsApp chat — ‘with this we won like crazy’), democracy is damaged by those who get bail and role in J&K as DSP (referring to police officer Devinder Singh who was arrested for links with terrorists), democracy is damaged by those who divide Hindu-Muslim. Questioning and dissent strengthen democracy. But for this government, dissent is anti-national,” she said. Shrinate added: “That the government stooped so low as to arrest young activists shows two things: One, the government is coward; two, they fear free speech. They are extremely scared of women. No matter what they do… they can close down (Twitter) handles, they can pressurise (social media) platforms, they can arrest persons arbitrarily. The reality is the more they do this, more voices of dissent will rise.” Senior party leader and top lawyer Kapil Sibal said: “Disha Ravi is a climate activist. Is the state so weak that a tweet threatens its security? Is the state so paranoid that a  22-year-old is a national security threat? Is the state so intolerant that it cannot tolerate youth standing with farmers? Is this the change Modiji  wanted?” Posting a report from The Daily Telegraph, which said Disha’s arrest is the latest escalation in India’s crackdown on free expression and political dissent as it seeks to stifle the farmers’ mass protests, party MP Shashi Tharoor wondered: “Doesn’t the Government of India care about the damage it is doing to its own global image?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||India||AAP to BJP: If this is not Emergency, what is?||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday came out in support of 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested by Delhi police from Bangalore on Saturday on sedition charges, accusing her of being the “key conspirator” behind a social media “toolkit” being used to publicise protests against the new farm regime. A day after Disha was sent to police custody for five days, Kejriwal tweeted: “Arrest of Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime.” Party MLA Raghav Chadha termed the arrest an “extrajudicial abduction” and called upon the youth to protest. “The BJP reminds us about the Emergency at the drop of a hat but at the end of the day, the BJP itself is taking us towards another Emergency… The Delhi police have not produced any transit remand or followed any proper legal procedure in this arrest. On behalf of AAP, I want to ask BJP if this is not an Emergency then what does an Emergency look like,” he said. Chadha added: “Dissent is not equal to sedition. The difference of opinion between the ruling party or with the policies or laws of the government is also not sedition... AAP demands that Disha Ravi should be immediately released and all the youth should come together to raise their voice against the BJP, peacefully.” The AAP has also denied reports that Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob, another person whose arrest has been ordered in the case on Monday, is its member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||India||NGO says Disha Ravi arrest an attempt to criminalise dissent ||The NGO, Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR), on Monday termed the charges on 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi as “absurd” and an “attempt to criminalise dissent” as it condemned her arrest as “illegal” and in violation of the Constitution and procedures prescribed under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). In a statement issued here, the NGO has alleged that the Delhi police’s special cell had violated all norms and procedures of the CrPC and the Constitution while arresting Disha from her home in Bangalore. “The allegations against her are absurd to say the least and are an attempt to criminalize dissent and protest. Further, Delhi police have failed to follow any of the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar v State of Bihar (2014) when it comes to arrest,” it said. In the 2014 case, the apex court had clearly laid down that it would be a contempt of court if the police arrested any person for offences which entail a punishment upto seven years, unless such an arrest was essential. “Being ‘arrested’ from Bengaluru, she should have been produced before the competent court in Bengaluru for obtaining transit remand since she is being moved between states, but was not. She was instead produced before the Duty Magistrate in Patiala House Court in Delhi — by no means the ‘nearest magistrate’ as required by clause (2) of Article 22,” the statement said. Article 22 prescribes various safeguards before a person is arrested and sent to either police or judicial custody. “She also did not have an opportunity to seek appropriate legal counsel. These actions of Delhi police have made a complete mockery of the ‘procedure established by law’ in depriving Disha Ravi of her right to life and liberty. Such illegal actions by Delhi police would amount to a kidnapping under the pretence of law,” the statement added. The NGO also recorded with “deep disappointment the complete abdication of duty by the Duty Magistrate in Patiala House Court”. According to the organisation, magistrates have an important constitutional role to play under Article 22 to ensure that any detention by the police is strictly in accordance with the law and procedure. “However, the concerned Magistrate has performed their task in a mechanical manner that has resulted in a serious violation of human rights. Such an attitude among the judiciary renders the valuable right under Article 22(2) a virtual nullity and must be deprecated in the strongest possible manner. Such behaviour is regrettably common and requires judges and police being answerable and accountable for treating matters of life and liberty in a routine and casual manner,” the statement said. It added: “We therefore call upon the authorities to immediately release Disha Ravi from illegal detention and take disciplinary action against the concerned officers. Failing which we call upon the Delhi High Court to take immediate, suo motu cognizance of the illegal detention of Disha Ravi and release her, and initiate disciplinary action against the Duty Magistrate who has performed their constitutional duty in a casual and desultory manner.” We call upon courts and judicial authorities across the country to properly sensitize and train magistrates in the performance of their constitutional duties.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||India||Fear engulfs youth climate activists after arrest of Disha Ravi||Fear seems to have engulfed the community of youth climate activists after the weekend arrest of Disha Ravi and the issuance of non-bailable warrants against two others in the social media “toolkit” controversy. Many of Disha’s peers are afraid even to protest the arrest of the 21-year-old, accused of sedition for allegedly being an “editor and key conspirator” behind a toolkit that purportedly facilitated participation in the Republic Day farmers’ parade in Delhi. “The situation is frightening. We are neither traitors nor terrorists, just young citizens trying to create awareness on environmental issues. We are not doing anything against our country,” a Bangalore-based activist of the Karnataka wing of Fridays For Future (FFF), with which Disha was associated, told The Telegraph on Monday. “We are unable to take a call on protesting Disha’s arrest or even on consulting a lawyer on what to do next because most of the volunteers are scared,” the activist, who declined to be named, said. Delhi police had on Saturday picked Disha up from her Bangalore home and taken her to Delhi, the swift and hush-hush operation described as “sinister” and “extra-judicial kidnapping” by a group of writers and activists. The Delhi police say the toolkit was part of an international conspiracy, with Khalistani involvement, to wage war against India. The toolkit was tweeted early this month by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, who in 2018 launched FFF, a global collective of students. A Pune-based FFF activist told this newspaper her mother was extremely worried and wanted her to keep a low profile. “Soon after Disha’s arrest my mother asked me to lie low and stay away from social media. I have never experienced this kind of a scary feeling and keep asking myself, ‘Who’s next?’” the 23-year-old activist said, declining to be named. She said FFF’s Karnataka unit was its first in the country. “Now we are active in all the states, and most of the activists are school students seeking a better, greener and safer world,” she said. “We are not anti-nationals, just young people who want a better tomorrow for ourselves and future generations.” She described as “extremely dangerous” the social media trend — escalated by Disha’s arrest — of portraying activists in general as “terrorists” and “anti-national”. “Suddenly, ‘editing’ and ‘toolkit’ are the new dirty words. I don’t understand what is wrong with editing a Google document and why they feel threatened by a simple thing like a social media toolkit, something that even international agencies such as the United Nations use to create awareness about their projects and programmes,” the activist said. Google documents can be used for real-time collaboration among a group whose members can simultaneously edit it and see the changes made. The high-tech tool can be used to create text documents, slide shows, drawings, spreadsheets and surveys. “These days every digitally empowered agency or individual uses such toolkits, which can be a strategy to run an awareness campaign on what Twitter handles to use, or when and what to share,” the Pune-based activist said. She said large numbers of student activists had flocked to FFF during the pandemic lockdown and taken part in its campaigns. “That’s how important technology has become in communicating with youngsters. We use all available social media platforms to hold webinars to educate children on the issues we take up.” As accusations flew on social media against Disha, Mohammed Zubair, whose profile describes him as a co-founder of fact-checking portal AltNews, tweeted: “Disha’s parents are supporters of Narendra Modi. Imagine what’s going on in their minds when (they) see tweets by ministers and BJP officer (sic) bearers demanding #DishaRavi to be killed.” Haryana minister Anil Vij has tweeted in Hindi: “Those who have seeds of anti-national activities in their mind must be completely eradicated. Be it Disha Ravi or anyone else.” Zubair later tweeted a video clip, whose authenticity could not be independently confirmed, in which Disha is purportedly heard saying her parents “support him”, an apparent reference to Modi who remains unnamed. “So, lot of the main (mainstream) press is Right-wing. So my parents support him, I don’t. Everyone who doesn’t support him is silenced in the most horrific way, and it isn’t shown by the mainstream press, so you have to go to the alternative press,” goes the audio, accompanying the image of a woman who resembles Disha. “And even the alternative press was sued for publishing what they did. So there is next to no freedom of press in India.” Apart from sedition, Disha faces the charges of promoting enmity between groups, provocation with intent to cause riot, and criminal conspiracy. A Delhi court on Sunday remanded her in five days’ police custody. Disha works in a Bangalore-based company that manufactures plant-based vegan alternatives to dairy products.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||India||Odisha Congress seeks bandh support with chocolates to protest price hike of commodities||Congress workers in Odisha on Monday tried to seek public support for the six-hour Odisha bandh organised by the party by offering chocolates and dressing up like Prime Minister Narendra Modi to convince people that they were being hit by the steep rise in the prices of different commodities because of the unprecedented hike in petrol and diesel prices. Impressed by the public support for the bandh, the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) leaders also admitted that rise in fuel prices had hit the common man hard. In Cuttack, Congress workers offered candies to people who came out of their houses during the bandh which was in force from 7am to 1pm and convinced them about the need to protest the rise in prices. “We don’t want to resort to any kind of violence. By offering chocolates to people we were able to connect with them and convince them about the justification for what we were doing,” said party leader Manas Chaudhury. At Umerkote in Nabarangpur district, about 520km from here in southern Odisha, a Congress worker dressed up as the Prime Minister Narendra Modi rode a bullock cart and mockingly inquired from passers by if the prices on petroleum products had fallen. In Bhubaneswar, leader pedalled in streets protesting fuel price hike. Resentment over price rise is mounting. Chhabi Behera, a daily wager with no political links, was upset with the hike and supported the shutdown called by the Congress and AICTU against steep rise in the prices of essential commodities. “I don’t belong to any political party but I am against the price rise. I support those fighting against the price rise,” she said. Chhabi, who lost her husband a few years back and is now bringing up her two children all alone, said, “What pains me most is the continuous rise in the prices of essential commodities such as onion and pulses. Though we have a gas connection, we are hardly able to refill it every month. As the price of the gas has almost touched Rs 750, we buy a refill once in four months now.” On being asked how she would cook without gas Chhabi said, “I stay with my mother in law who continues to collect fire-wood from different parts of the city. As the cyclone Fani and Amphan had uprooted many trees, firewood is easily available. We use it for cooking but collecting wood is a strenuous job.” The bandh, however, remained peaceful in the state. All the market places were closed and vehicles remained off the road. Trains were stranded at different stations because of the shutdown. Pradesh Congress committee president Niranajan Patnaik said, “The bandh remained peaceful across the state. There is an overwhelming support for the cause. The Centre has reduced the corporate taxes by 10 per cent but increased the prices of petroleum products.” The BJD, which claims to maintain equal distance from both the BJP and Congress,  said fuel price hike is a common man’s problem. “The sole intention is to ensure profit for private oil companies by not putting a cap on the prices. In a democratic welfare country, there should be a check on price rise of essential commodities including gas,” said BJD spokesperson and MLA Amar Satpathy. He said, “States are not getting any profit from the cess being collected by the Centre. The Centre should stop blaming states for its problems and putting pressure on state’s exchequer. Otherwise state’s economy will crumble down.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||India||Servitor injured in Puri temple clash ||A servitor of the 12th Century Shree Jagannath Temple sustained head injuries following an attack by another servitor inside the temple premises on Monday. Sources said a servitor Ramakrushna Khuntia carrying an earthen pot was entering the temple through its southern gate that was opposed by another servitor (a Yatri Sahyak or servitor engaged to assist devotees) Damodar Gocchikar. The latter said this was against the tradition. However, Khuntia insisted on entering through the southern gate that led to a scuffle between the two. An angry Khuntia hit Gocchikar with the earthen pot he was carrying, causing serious head injuries to the latter. Police detained Khuntia. Gocchikar was rushed to the hospital from where he has been released following treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Bimal sees political end for Binay and Anit||Bimal Gurung on Monday oozed confidence about his return to power despite the steady exodus of leaders from his camp, and predicted the end of the political road for Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa in the next “15 to 20 days”. “It’s just a matter of another 15 to 20 days,” said Gurung on the political future of Thapa and Tamang during a public meeting at Monteviot Ground in Kurseong. The two rival Morcha leaders parted ways with Gurung in 2017 to form a splinter of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Thapa is the present chairperson of the board of administrators of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). Gurung’s forecast is  probably drawn from an assumption that the model code of conduct for Bengal polls would be implemented, rendering Thapa with limited powers and triggering his political downfall,  said an observer. Gurung had resigned from the GTA in July 2017. But such is his confidence of returning to power that he said he would “re-inaugurate” projects that started during his GTA tenure but were being inaugurated by Thapa now. “In the three years of their tenure, what new asset have they (Tamang-Thapa) built? Everything that is being inaugurated now are projects that we started,” said Gurung who also warned contractors to be careful in their dealings with political leaders in power now. Gurung said he sensed politics behind the GTA’s teachers eligibility test held on Sunday and demanded that recruitment of teachers be done before Assembly elections. The GTA has not opened any teaching vacancy as of now. Nearly 14,000 candidates appeared for the TET conducted by GTA and Gurung probably is worried that these candidates might go with Thapa. “A party delegation met state education minister Partha Chatterjee at 1pm today (Monday) and the minister is unaware of this TET exam,” said Gurung. Gurung also reiterated his attack on the BJP and accused Darjeeling MP Raju Bista of being “garrulous.” Even though Gurung oozed confidence of returning to power, a host of leaders left his camp. Arun Ghisingh, a former GTA Sabha member from Mirik, and who was on the run with Gurung till recently, resigned from the party on Sunday. Earlier, Raju Pradhan, founder assistant secretary and Tilak Chand Roka, president of the party’s tea union had left the party. If one is to go with the list of central committee office-bearers when the party was agitating for statehood between 2007 and 2012, more than 50 per cent of the leaders have deserted Gurung. “We are trying to work with all leaders,” said Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Morcha’s Gurung camp, when asked about the desertions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
16-02-2021||West Bengal||4 dead and 2 injured in accidents||Four persons died and two others were injured in three road accidents in Malda and Jalpaiguri districts in the past 24 hours. In Malda, a cyclist and a driver died on Sunday night after the latter lost control of the vehicle headed to Malda from Habibpur. Police said the car overturned following the collision, killing cyclist Premchand Mandal, 35, and driver Mithun Mandal, 22. Manoj Mallik, the lone occupant in the car, was injured. In Jalpaiguri, a motorcycle carrying three youths from Meenglass tea estate of Malbazar collided into a dump truck parked on the road on Sunday night. The trio was heading Odlabari to attend a wedding. Police said Bablu Oraon, 24, and Krishna Munda, 32, died on the spot. Milan Munda, the third youth, has suffered injuries and is under treatment and the NBMCH. In another incident, a bus rammed into a police vehicle at Kodubari of Gazole police station on Monday morning, injuring a civic volunteer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Samserganj madarsa claim troubles in running academic activities since classes resumed ||Authorities of a high madarsa in Murshidabad’s Samserganj filed a petition with the district education department claiming troubles in running academic activities ever since classes resumed on February 12. They said 15 of its 31 teachers were transferred without intimation when classes were suspended owing to the Covid situation. Authorities of DBS High Madarsa at Dogachi village of Samserganj have blamed the online transfer system introduced by the education department last year for the crisis as it keeps the school in the dark about those transferred. “The problem is because online transfer does not require any no-objection certificate from the school management and the institution remains unaware,” said a school official. The DBS High Madarsa has 3,100 students. Headmaster of DBS High Madrasa Wasim Raja said: “On February 12 when classes resumed, I was shocked to find that 15 teachers of our institution have been transferred. Three of them had been transferred before the Covid outbreak last year and 12 later. I had no knowledge about it. Those transferred included the only political science teacher, whose absence has put the higher secondary humanity group students in a major mess. So far, only one teacher has joined as replacement. It is nearly impossible to run academic activities now.” Last August, the state education department had eased transfer rules by introducing the online application facility for all categories of teachers. Earlier teachers seeking transfer needed to submit an no-objection certificate from their serving institution before appearing before a committee formed to consider their appeal. But the online application system exempted teachers from submitting NOC and the hearing was done away with. While this helped many teachers waiting for transfers, it created a problem for schools in the dark about teachers seeking transfer. A large section of the teaching fraternity alleged that the new transfer policy has put many schools in a major trouble. Schools in remote parts of districts such as South 24-Parganas, East and West Midnapore and Purulia are in deep trouble unable to manage academic activities due to random transfer of teachers without substitute. General secretary of Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses Chandan Maiti, who is also the headmaster of Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, South 24-Parganas, alleged “lack of transparency” in the new transfer policy. Murshidabad's district inspector of schools (secondary) Amar Kanti Sil said he was helpless. Murshidabad district president of Trinamul’s teachers’ wing Sheikh Furkan said: “The objective of the online transfer was to bring back teachers nearer home. But transfer without proper verification is creating problems.” President of WB Madrasa Education Board Abu Tahir Kamruddin said: “I will take up the matter with the WB Madrasa Service Commission, the recruitment and transfer authority of our teachers.” Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Three held with pistols, bullets at Manikchak||Three persons, including one from Bihar, were arrested with a cache of arms and ammunition at Manikchak here on Sunday night. Police sources said five 7mm pistols and 90 rounds of live bullets of different variations had been seized from the trio who were held in a joint raid of the special task force of the state police and Manikchak police. “The trio were intercepted as they crossed the Ganga and landed at Shankartola Ghat in Manikchak. They were frisked and the firearms and ammunition were recovered from them,” said Sanjib Biswas, the inspectorincharge of Manikchak police station. The arrested youths — Sayed Sultan Ahmed, from Katihar in Bihar, Sonachand Chowdhury and Jhaksu Chowdhury, both residents of Bilaimari in Malda — were produced at a court on Monday. During the past few weeks, the police have recovered a number of firearms and ammunition. With the elections ahead, the police in Malda have tightened checking at the interstate borders of Bihar and Jharkhand. Couple of weeks back, two persons were arrested by Harischandrapur police with similar arms and ammunition. “The two local arrested youths admitted that they had brought the firearms from Bihar. It suggests that a racket has been active to bring illegal arms and ammunition from Bihar especially before the polls,” said a senior police officer.Also, on January 26, the STF and the police seized a number of finished and semifinished seven mm pistols. “Prohibitory orders would be enforced along the interstate borders right after the election schedule is announced,” the official added. The seizures have also prompted political parties to react. While BJP district president Gobinda Mandal has claimed that police and STF suddenly became active as the election commission had taken stricter stance, Trinamul district spokesperson Sumala Agarwala said that the recoveries proved the alertness of state police and STF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Dalkhola CPM leader found dead, party finger at TMC||The body of a CPM leader based in Dalkhola of North Dinajpur district was found on Monday with multiple injuries, sparking tension in the area and prompting the CPM leadership to accuse Trinamul of attacking him. Police have started probing the incident but no arrests were reported till Monday evening when this report was filed. Sources said Rafiq Alam, 56, a branch secretary of the Poaltor branch committee of CPM under Dalkhola area committee of North Dinajpur, had gone missing since Sunday. “On Monday morning, some local residents spotted his body in a bush near a petrol pump in Raniganj area of Dalkhola. There were multiple injuries on the victim’s body that appeared to have been made by a sharp weapon and we suspect he has been hacked to death,” said a police officer. In the past one month, this is the second incident when a CPM leader has been murdered in Islampur subdivision of the district. Earlier, on January 17, Guruchand Roy, another CPM leader based in Suryapur area of Dalkhola, was shot dead by a group of miscreants. “We suspect Trinamul-backed goons were behind the attack. Rafiq is the second leader of our party who has been murdered in the past one month. We want the police to probe impartially and find out the murderers,” Apurba Pal, the district CPM secretary of North Dinajpur. Trinamul leaders however, have denied the charges. Monodev Sinha, the Trinamul MLA of Karandighi, said their party has no connection with the incident. “CPM leaders are making baseless allegations. We want the police to find out the truth,” the MLA said. Police said they are probing the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
16-02-2021||West Bengal||TMC to reap political dividends as tea gardens owned by Duncans reopen||Gates of the Birpara tea estate in Alipurduar — one of the tea gardens owned by the Duncans Goenka Group — will reopen on Tuesday after one-and-a-half years, the development likely to ring in political dividends for Trinamul in Birpara and adjoining areas of eastern Dooars where Trinamul had done poorly in recent polls. The development, owing to active involvement of the state government, has come as a relief for around 2,200 workers of the garden. According to sources, Merico Agro Industries Limited, a private enterprise that reopened four other gardens of Duncans through an agreement, will reopen Birpara. “On February 12, a meeting was held at the additional labour commissioner’s office in Siliguri. At the meeting, discussions were held on a series of issues, including payment of workers’ dues. Eventually, there was a consensus that the garden will reopen on February 16,” said a source. Back in September 2019, the Duncans Group had abandoned the garden. Surojit Bakshi, the director of Merico, reconfirmed they would reopen the garden on Tuesday. “We will pay Rs 1,000 to each worker as token. In due course, we will clear other dues of workers such as wage and bonus. We have been running four tea gardens (of Duncans) and each garden is running steadily without pending dues,” said Bakshi. The other four which Merico has been running are Huntapara, Dhumchipara, Garganda and Tulsipara. “After Birpara reopens, only one tea garden of Duncans (Lankapara) will remain closed. We are trying hard to ensure its reopening as well,” said Mannalal Jain, vice-president, Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. The development should yield positive results for Trinamul, opined political observers. Earlier, a number of BJP leaders, including central ministers, had assured the workers of these gardens that the Centre would take initiatives to reopen these gardens. “Such assurance had made the workers vote the BJP. This had helped the party to win the Birpara-Madarihat Assembly seat in 2016 (one of the three seats BJP had won in the state) and also the Alipurduar parliamentary seat in 2019. But the Narendra Modi government could not reopen even one garden,” said an observer. The Trinamul government scouted for prospective investors and could manage to get Merico that reopened the gardens based on an agreement with the Duncans Goenka Group. “During poll campaign, Trinamul leaders will surely raise questions on it that BJP has to answer. It will be interesting to see how BJP handles the issue,” the observer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Gautam Deb’s album of Tagore songs released||State tourism minister Gautam Deb speaks at his debut album release at Calcutta Port Trust Officers’ Club on Monday. “E Jibon Punnya Kawro”, an album on Tagore’s poetry and songs, designed and directed by Anindya Majumdar, was released on Monday. The album has eight recitals by late thespian Soumitra Chatterjee and eight songs by Deb. “It is a dream come true, particularly because I had the opportunity to share the album with a legend, Soumitra Chatterjee,” said Deb. “I lament that we lost him ahead of the album’s release. Throughout my life, I will cherish my experience with him.” Through the album, Deb said that he also tried to disseminate message of harmony, peace and democracy “amid these troubled times when attempts are being made to divide people”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Six Sikkim residents, including one IRB constable nabbed with tusk||Six Sikkim residents, including a constable of the India Reserve Battalion (IRB), were arrested with a tusk early on Monday from the Dooars area of Jalpaiguri district. A team of Baikunthapur forest division busted the poaching and animal parts smuggling gang. A forester said IRB constable Ganesh Chhetri was the alleged mastermind of the racket. “We suspect he used his work identity to conceal the crimes,” the forester added. According to sources in the forest department, the team was tipped off about an animal parts deal to be struck at a roadside eatery in Odlabari, under Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri, some 40km from here. A team led by Sanjay Dutta, range officer of Sarugarah forest range of Baikunthapur, reached the spot. “Around 2am, we spotted the group in front of the eatery. As we challenged them, two fled but the remaining six were caught with a vehicle. We found an elephant task weighing around 1.19 kilos, in their possession,” Dutta said. He added that they could not produce any document to prove the legitimacy of the ivory. Those arrested were identified as Gandup Lepcha and Samson Lepcha of Sombarey, Dhan Bahadur Pradhan of east Sikkim, Rohit Tamang of Arithang, Dawa Sherpa of Namchi and Ganesh Chhetri of Upper Kolthang, and produced at the chief judicial magistrate’s court in Jalpaiguri and sent to judicial custody for 14 days, a source said. Foresters came to know that the seized tusk was extracted from a wild elephant poached in Assam. “The arrested persons are habitual poachers and have killed at least 15 wild animals that include elephants, rhinos and even the clouded leopard. They have managed to sell animal parts and made Rs 1.5 crores,” said a forester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: active cases fall below 4,000, 1 dead||Bengal on Monday logged 258 Covid-19 recoveries, 133 new infections and one death, with total active cases falling to fewer than 4,000 now. There was no Covid death from the city in the 24-hour window that ended at 9am on Monday. The numbers helped the state achieve a drop in its total active cases for the 112th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 3,960, having improved by 89.35 per cent. Bengal is fifth on the list of states with the most active cases in India, with 2.95 per cent of the national total. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 115 consecutive days to touch 97.52 per cent. The national rate now is 97.3. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.89 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 88 days. On Monday, the state reported 15,532 tests, taking the total past 83.15 lakh, at 92,399 tests per million people. Of the total toll of 10,233, 8,590 deaths (83.9 per cent) were attributed by the state to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
16-02-2021||West Bengal||DYFI leader Maidul Islam’s family loses breadwinner||Maidul Islam Middya, 33, the unit secretary of the CPM-backed DYFI in Bankura’s Kotulpur, who died in Calcutta on Monday allegedly of wounds sustained in the police-protester clash that erupted during the February 11 march of Left youths to Nabanna for jobs, had told his wife that he was going to buy textbooks for his daughter. Maidul, who drove an autorickshaw for a living in Kotulpur, was the sole breadwinner of his family that included his mother Tahamina Biwi, 66, wife Aleya Biwi, 29, two daughters Suraiya Parvin, 10, and Sumaiya Parvin, 5, and niece Rebeka Sultana, 12. “He (Maidul) told me that he is going to buy books for our elder daughter, who is a Class V student at a residential school in Burdwan. I thought he will go to Burdwan to buy the books but only later did I come to know that he had been injured in the police torture in Calcutta,” said his wife from their two-storey mud house at Chorkola village in Kotulpur, some 72km from Bankura town. Maidul wanted his daughters and niece to study and did not want his poverty to come in the way. He had got Suraiya admitted to a free residential school in Burdwan this year. Sumaiya is a Class I student at a local primary school, while Rebeka studies in Class VII at a local high school. Maidul had lost his sister a few years ago and had brought over her daughter Rebeca home just so that the girl did not miss out on her education. “He could not study beyond Class X as his father had died early but always dreamt of educating his daughters and niece. When he had bought the auto, he told us he needed to earn more so that the children got a good education,” said his neighbour Alam Sheikh. Alam added that Maidul was so concerned about educating the three girls that whenever teachers or friends suggested a book, he would rush to buy it. DYFI leaders in Bankura said Maidul was always there to support others too. When the poor were affected during the Covid-19 lockdown, he dipped into his savings and helped organise relief camps. “He contributed to our relief camps during lockdown. He was so active that he emerged as the face of our organisation in the area and we elected him as the secretary of Gopinathpur unit,” said Pradip Panda, Bankura DYFI secretary. Right now, Aleya is worried about how to run her all-female family. On hearing that chief minister Mamata Banerjee had spoken to CPM leader Sujan Chakraborty and assured help to the family, Aleya said: “I am ready to take up a job if the government gives me one. But the job should be good enough to help me run our big family.” She added: “How can we survive? We have no land, no food stock. He was the sole breadwinner. Who will take care of us? Why was he beaten up so brutally that he had to die?” Neighbours said Maidul’s mother Tahamina was inconsolable and daughter Suraiya fainted several times throughout the day. As family members waited for his post-mortem to be over in Calcutta, CPM leaders Amiya Patra, Ajit Pati and Abhoy Mukherjee visited his home. Tapas Chakraborty, a CPM district secretariat member in Bankura, said: “Mamata Banerjee’s police killed a youth on whom the entire family depended.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata slams BJP over Disha Ravi’s arrest||Mamata Banerjee on Monday threw her weight behind arrested climate activist Disha Ravi and other voices of dissent allegedly being silenced by the saffron ecosystem. The chief minister accused the BJP of discrimination in arresting the likes of the young climate activist while sparing “their (own) nuisance-creators”. Mamata, in response to a question on Disha’s arrest, said at a news meet at the state secretariat on Monday evening that she felt “sorry”. “I have seen it…it was reported in the newspapers and social media. I feel sorry,” said Mamata. “Even Rajdeep Sardesai and other journalists were not spared…I am really sorry,” she said, apparently referring to senior journalists Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Anant Nath and Vinod K. Jose being formally accused over their tweets and comments about a farmer’s death during the Republic Day violence in Delhi. “Those actually guilty, especially the BJP IT cell, however (are being spared),” she added. “A 21-year-old girl or Sardesai, a Padma Shri awardee, or other journalists from Delhi, Kerala, Karnataka, or even students (are targeted)....But they can spare their (own) nuisance-creators. That is most unfortunate, the discrimination,” said the Trinamul chief. Mamata went on to demand answers on the alleged misuse of social media by the BJP IT cell and other outfits in the saffron camp to further their agenda. “Why is the BJP misusing social networks this way? I remember once Union home minister (Amit Shah) said they can get fake news go viral through 50 lakh WhatsApp groups alone, in a matter of seconds,” said Mamata. “Is it fair, from a political party? Fight politically, but don’t abuse, accuse the people. Don’t beat up farmers, or students, or others,” she added. “It is their pattern. They cannot even spare a 21-year-old girl,” said Mamata. On Monday, Delhi police alleged that Disha, along with two other suspects Nikita Jacob and Shantanu, created the “toolkit” document related to the farmers’ protest and shared on social media. The police claimed Disha, arrested from Bangalore and remanded to five-day police custody ‑ sent the “toolkit” to teen climate activist Greta Thunberg, a global icon, via the Telegram app. Thunberg had shared the “toolkit” to lend her support to the farmers’ agitation against the contentious farm laws of the Narendra Modi government. In the document, various forms of urgent action, including the creation of a Twitter storm and protests outside the Indian embassies, were listed. The “toolkit” has been cited by the saffron ecosystem as “proof” of her alleged conspiracy to fuel protests in India. The police told court that Disha’s custody was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. Mamata on Monday also lashed out at the BJP over Disha’s arrest. Mamata also attacked the Centre over rising fuel prices. “Everyone is concerned about it. Every day they have been increasing the prices of diesel or petrol or LPG, while all subsidies are being withdrawn,” the chief minister said. “Now, if a gas cylinder costs Rs 800, then someone who earns Rs 5,000 a month, how will they afford it? It’s a matter of concern and the Centre has not been taking any serious steps on this,” she added. “Only at the time of approaching elections, they reduce it for three-four days and after elections, they again keep increasing it. This has become a pattern, a tradition for them. We are very concerned, and will request the Centre not to do this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata unveils Maa meals at Rs 5 per plate ||Mamata Banerjee on Monday launched the Maa (Mother) scheme for subsidised meals at Rs 5 per plate for the destitute as well as others across Bengal. Starting on Monday on a trial basis in all 16 borough offices of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and in district headquarters, its ambit would be expanded soon. Run by self-help groups, people on a first come, first serve basis — not confined to the poor — would be able to have a meal of rice, lentils, vegetables and egg curry for Rs 5 between 1pm and 3pm daily. The state government will provide a subsidy of Rs 15 per plate. “This initiative is for the common people of Bengal. We already give free rations, but there remains a huge demand for cooked food. Which is why we decided to start this,” said the chief minister at a Nabanna event in the evening. In her vote-on-account Budget tabled recently, Mamata had earmarked Rs 100 crore for the scheme. On Monday, she repeatedly asserted that funding would not be an issue. “You needn’t worry about the money….We have drawn up a meticulous plan and we have our own mechanism to procure ingredients to run the scheme successfully,” she said. “Sure, there could be some teething troubles, but beyond that, this will certainly make a big difference.” Sources close to her said she did get the idea from community kitchens run by the Left through the pandemic, but wanted to improve on it. “In a recent internal discussion, she received considerable positive feedback on the Left-run community kitchens and how people appreciated the endeavour at the peak of the pandemic. She made some calls and found out how it was being operated. Before long, she decided to imbibe it and improve upon it,” said a source in Trinamul. “Yes, this is also rather similar to the AIADMK’s Amma Unavagam in Tamil Nadu, the Congress’s Indira Canteens in Karnataka and the Shiv Sena’s Shiv Bhojan Scheme in Maharashtra. We believe this state-run project might work towards giving us substantial political mileage in the elections,” he added. A key aspect, he pointed out, like in the case of the Swasthya Sathi (for healthcare), Khadya Sathi (for foodgrain) and Sabooj Sathi (for bicycles to school students), was its universality. “There aren’t restrictions by way of financial strength or allied parameters. This will be made available to all. That is a big deal and therein lies the big difference with projects and schemes conceived by the BJP-led Centre,” he said. The BJP mocked the scheme and questioned the source of funds. BJP’s state unit chief Dilip Ghosh claimed the project exposed the Mamata Banerjee government’s inability to increase people’s spending power. “This is reminiscent of the langar culture during famines back in the 1970s,” he said. “Have we reached the stage again? This goes to show how miserably she has failed to enable and empower people with income, to afford even basic needs such as food,” added the Midnapore MP. The first such initiative by any government in India was launched in 2013, by the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu, which was later proposed for several other states, such as Odisha, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Under the AIADMK government’s Amma Unavagam scheme, municipal corporations in the state establish canteens at multiple places in cities and sell subsidised food at very low prices. The food chains primarily serve south Indian food including idli at Rs 1, sambar rice at Rs 5 a plate, curd rice at Rs 3 a plate, besides pongal, lemon rice, curry leaf rice and chapathi. A Trinamul MP said Mamata was also encouraged by poll strategist Prashant Kishor, whose team conducted an assessment at the grassroots and endorsed the idea. “A scheme such as this can only work to our advantage. Whether or not it would be a game-changer remains to be seen,” Mamata also published the “final report card” for the two welfare initiatives Duare Sarkar and Paray Samadhan, announcing that 32,830 camps were set up in the Duare Sarkar campaign, attended by 25 per cent of the population over five phases. She said of the 1.77 crore applications submitted, cent per cent redress was achieved. Most applications were for enrolment under the Swasthya Sathi and Khadya Sathi schemes, besides for caste certificates, Shikkhashree, Kanyashree and Krishak Bandhu. She said under Paray Samadhan, 10,180 local issues -- 8,415 related to infrastructure, 1,247 related to services and 512 humane issues -- were served and resolved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
16-02-2021||North East||Amit Shah wants to win polls in Sri Lanka, Nepal: Biplab Kumar Deb||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb has revealed that Union home minister Amit Shah, when he was the BJP national president, had spoken about expanding the party’s footprints in the neighbouring countries of Nepal and Sri Lanka. A video of Deb addressing a meeting of the ruling BJP in Agartala on Saturday shows the first-time chief minister making the claim about Shah’s overseas expansion plans. “We were discussing about the party at the guest house in Agartala when he (Shah) was the national president. Someone from among us pointed out to Amitji that BJP was doing well in the country... In response, Amit Shah said there is still Sri Lanka... Nepal is left. We have to take the party there… we have to win there also. That is his (Shah) mindset, to take the party across the world. Under him BJP became the largest political party in the world, bigger than the bigger communist party,” a relaxed and smiling Deb told the gathering in the video doing the rounds of social media. The chief minister, who is prone to making controversial statements and claims, also said at Saturday’s meeting held on the Union budget that the BJP would win both the Kerala and Tamil Nadu Assembly polls because both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Shah are working in these states. “No CPM or Congress government in Kerala this time. Modi has reached there too. Amit (Shah) has already reached. In Tamil Nadu too, there will be no government other than the BJP’s,” Deb said. The BJP rules Tripura along with ally Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura(IPFT), after ending the Left Front’s 25-year reign in 2018. The state BJP and Sanjay Mishra, officer on special duty to the chief minister, came out in Deb’s support on Monday. Both described the speech as a sort of pep talk to keep the party rank and file motivated with BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjee adding that the chief minister was articulating the party’s plans to extend India’s ideology across the world for peace. “The capitalists and the communists cannot ensure peace and development. We can do it with our ideology and spiritual bent of mind. BJP-led India can be a margdarshak (guide). The BJP’s ambition is not only to win elections. There are followers of communist ideology in the world. Why can’t we spread our ideologue Deendayal Upadhyayaji’s political philosophy, which is integral humanism, aimed at developing a person’s body and mind at the same time? We have already managed to take yoga to the world stage. Our chief minister was trying to convey the same thing at the party meet,” Bhattacharjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-23
16-02-2021||Opinion||The hunt: climate change activist Disha Ravi arrested||India takes pride in its demographic dividend. It assures itself that the burgeoning population of young, skilled men and women would be the engine of growth and development in the future. But what does India make of its cerebral — critical — politically engaged, opinionated youngsters? The question has acquired renewed urgency with the arrest of the 22-year-old climate activist, Disha Ravi, who has been charged with sedition by the Delhi police for being one of the key ‘conspirators’ behind a social media toolkit on the farmers’ protest. Questions have been raised concerning the police’s failure to follow the due process of law in the course of Ms Ravi’s arrest. The court, hopefully, would look into the veracity of the charges that have led to her incarceration — described as ‘extra-judicial abduction’ by writers, academics and activists. But the crux of the matter lies in this democracy’s changing relationship with the constituency of politically engaged dissenters, many of whom happen to be young activists and students. That their engagement has a steep price is evident from the growing list of incarcerated youth. Ms Ravi’s arrest was preceded by the arrest of a young Muslim man, a comedian, for a joke he, it is alleged, did not crack; several students and scholars from Jawaharlal Nehru University and Jamia Millia Islamia, accused of being involved in the riots in Delhi or for participating in the protests against the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act, await trial and, in many instances, legal relief that is mandated by the law. It is possible to trace a worrying pattern in these developments. Global history shows that conscientious youth have often led protests against a myriad causes and suffered the consequences of their participatory action at the hands of repressive regimes. It is a matter of deep concern when a robust democracy refuses to engage with the concerns expressed by the youth and punishes them, instead, for their courage to question. This kind of intimidation is a testament to the paranoia among the powers that be, a distrust that is having damaging consequences for Indian democracy. It is unlikely to put an end to searching questions. India would do justice to its pride in its youth in a meaningful manner only when ruling regimes perceive young citizens to be harbingers of economic growth as well as custodians of social justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
16-02-2021||Opinion||Wrong move: Congress's Sabarimala law||Sir — The draft law prepared by the Congress in Kerala on Sabarimala reeks of electoral populism (“Holy touch”, Feb 11). With the state likely to go to assembly polls in April, the Congress clearly wants to win over the vote of the majority community. The party state unit has promised to give legal sanctity to the custom that women of reproductive age from entering the Sabarimala shrine. It is inappropriate to make such promises when a seven-judge bench of the Supreme Court is reviewing its own judgment on the matter. The Congress supported the mobilizations against the 2018 verdict allowing women entry into the shrine. Its phenomenal success in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections was attributed to a Hindu consolidation on account of the party’s stance on Sabarimala. But the political scenario in the state has changed since then. Results of the recent local body polls indicate that the Left Democratic Front has recovered lost ground. It seems that the Congress thinks that it can leverage the controversy surrounding the Ayyappa temple to revive its fortunes. In 1985-86, when the Congress, siding with conservatives, challenged the Supreme Court’s verdict on the Shah Bano case, the party dented its liberal credentials beyond repair. This decision, too, is unlikely to bode well for the Grand Old Party. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is extremely unfortunate that the Congress is going out of its way to rally behind the Hindu right. Witnessing Rahul Gandhi remark favourably on the occasion of the bhoomi pujan for the Ram temple held in Ayodhya was distressing. Similarly, the promise by the Congress in Kerala to enact a law preventing women of reproductive age from entering the Sabarimala temple is unfortunate. A nation cannot progress if it caters to religious majoritarianism. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta New beginning Sir — It was good to see world leaders send Lunar New Year greetings to people around the world. Many see this as a gesture to promote unity and friendship. This comes at a time when unprovoked attacks on Asians, especially in the United States of America, have increased manifold. The pandemic has given way to a new wave of racism; as such, the gesture could go a long way in assuaging their fears. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
16-02-2021||Opinion||Caste off: no reservation for converted dalits||Correctness can sometimes seem indefinably askew. The Union minister for law, Ravi Shankar Prasad, did not deviate from Para 3 of the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950 when he said in the Rajya Sabha that Dalits who have converted to Islam or Christianity cannot get reservation benefits for scheduled castes or contest in elections for a reserved SC seat. Mr Prasad mentioned that conversion to Buddhism and Sikhism would not have the same effect, as the order exempts these faiths. Perhaps an atmosphere haunted by fears of discrimination made the law minister’s statement sound pointedly exclusionary. The emphasis on the Constitution Order almost seemed to suggest that discrimination need not be unconstitutional. This discomfort, however, is not entirely unreasonable. While caste does not exist in Islam or Christianity — so too in Sikhism and Buddhism — Indian realities demand a different perception. Castes are markers of traditional professions. The continuation of these, scavenging say, or the work of barbers and butchers, is common among groups that find social mobility elusive, having been historically oppressed. Conversion does not mean a change of job. So reservations for other backward classes in many states — Kerala and Karnataka for example — include members from religious groups barred by the 1950 order. The Sachar Committee Report showed that of three strata in Muslim society, the most oppressed stratum, associated with the so-called ‘unclean’ professions, needs the kind of attention given to the SCs. But its members are grouped with the better-off second stratum, equivalent to OBCs and, in some cases, do get OBC benefits, or are included in the most backward classes category. The crux of Mr Prasad’s statement is the term, ‘Dalit’. This was a self-identifying term for anyone outside the four main castes used in caste-based politics. While B.R. Ambedkar applied it to all depressed groups irrespective of caste, the Indian government identified it with SCs while prohibiting its use in official documentation. That the law minister should use it officially is confusing. But the greatest confusion around reservations is caused by the use political parties continue to make of the principle purely for electoral gain. Quotas for underprivileged classes and castes should be guided by need and record of progress; they are not meant as a political strategy designed to keep people dependent on the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
16-02-2021||Opinion||The Himalayas: not in the pink of health||Health of the hills, as ancient tribal wisdom goes, is the wealth of the plains. The Himalayas are not in the pink of health, as several studies have warned. Unbridled human activity is wrecking the ecology of the Western Ghats and destroying the Satpudas. The result: massive human tragedies in the plains, in the form of flash floods and drought. Last week, devastating flash floods, apparently caused by a glacial lake burst, killed over 30 people and trapped 200 workers in the underground tunnels of a hydel power project of NTPC Limited in Chamoli, Uttarakhand. The event brought back memories of a devastating cloud burst some years ago. The death toll is likely to go up as rescuers evacuate bodies from the tunnels-turned-graves, the rescue operations hampered by heavy boulders and muck. Climate change can be blamed, but the truth is that disaster after man-made disaster is waiting to happen in the plains of the Himalayas, the Western Ghats, and along the Satpudas as human beings mess with their ecosystems. Rivers are either flooding or running dry as mindless development projects, in wilful ignorance of warnings, destroy the sources. In 2013, seven rivers originating from the Western Ghats went dry at their source owing to the human interference on the hills. This plunged the plains into enormous socio-economic strife. In June 2019, the Drought Early Warnings Systems told us that more than 44 per cent of the country was undergoing varying degrees of drought, from abnormally dry to exceptionally dry. Because of the general elections that summer, the drought was ignored. According to scientists, there are about 10,000 glaciers in the Indian Himalayas, with 1,500 in Uttarakhand alone. Many of them are receding owing to the warming climate. People know about it. Ought there to be any project construction there? There should not, but humans crowd the Himalayas with mindless development, threatening opulations that live in those areas. “[The] Rishi Ganga has had a history of similar devastations,” says the historian and environmentalist, Shekhar Pathak. “There is a possibility of more such events this year.” Should we be putting power plants in the regions that we know are drought-prone? We should not. Yet, nearly 40 per cent of the country’s power plants are in highly water stressed areas, along the plains, witnessing heightened water contestation. The tragedy is not just the calamity itself. The tragedy is that we do not care. Instead of healing the hills, we do the opposite. Take this: the Niti Aayog has commissioned a study to examine the “unintended” economic impact of judgments by the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal. This is bizarre. The study should have ideally be on the long-term costs of the environmental devastation caused by development projects. It is no secret that the Narendra Modi regime disregards any serious efforts put towards conservation. Its idea of environmentalism seems to involve building zoos rather than conserving forests. Building projects is a priority, even if they destroy forests, oceans, river or mountain ecosystems beyond repair. I remember the wise counsel of the American ecologist and pre-eminent climate scientist, George Woodwell, given during a talk at the Prairie Festival of Land Institute at Salina, Kansas, the United States of America, in September 2009. A functional civilization, he said, needs three things: a functional government, a functional economy and a functional ecosystem. Political trade-offs are possible for the first two; the third is non-negotiable. There cannot be any trade-off with nature; follow the rule, or perish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
16-02-2021||Opinion||Lights, camera, action: Satyajit Ray centenary celebrations||The lukewarm preparedness for the centenary celebrations of Satyajit Ray’s birth on May 2, 2021 — ascribed largely to the pandemic — raises many questions. Sporadic efforts notwithstanding, the occasion is not on the public radar owing to a variety of factors. But should not a nation remember and pay homage to one of its most illustrious sons? The centenary is an appropriate occasion to watch his films, read his books, and ensure that his artistic creations reach far and wide. Since Ray, like Tagore before him, is known mostly for a singular achievement — as the director of The Apu Trilogy and an Oscar-winner — an attempt should be made to disseminate his body of work among the large swathe of the unreached. On January 14, in response to my letter to the secretary-general of the United Nations, Melissa Fleming, the under-secretary-general, responded positively about Ray: “We value greatly the passion and commitment that artists bring in support of causes that are high on the United Nations agenda. The organisation counts on the creative community, including individuals such as Mr. Ray, to raise awareness of, and inspire action on, the common objectives that Member States have agreed on.” It suggests that the UN resident coordinator and the UN information centre in New Delhi be engaged in this regard. One wishes that demonstrable interest were exhibited by both the Central and the state governments, by individuals and institutions. In an article for The Week and later in an essay for Science and Culture, I made certain suggestions that seem to have been followed up by the appropriate administrative and political levels of the Centre and the state government in West Bengal. There must be similar and more innovative ideas crying out for consideration. None of these is likely to entail major expenditure, but would surely send out the message that art and culture matter. At the international level, the United Nations, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the British Film Institute, the Cinémathèque Française, The Criterion Collection and other bodies could take the lead. Reputed journals like Sight & Sound, Film Quarterly and Cahiers du Cinéma could popularize Ray’s oeuvre. About six decades ago, Time magazine, in its lead article, “Cinema: A Religion of Film”, asked, “Will Ray redeem his prodigious promise and become the Shakespeare of the screen?” Should not such magazines revisit Ray on this occasion? At the national level, there are several options that can be considered: issuing postage stamps, setting up Ray Film Centres in collaboration with states (like Rabindra Bhavans during the Tagore centenary), declaring May 2 as Film-makers’ Day, May 2-8 as National Film Week, organizing international seminars, sub-titling his films in regional languages, asking the Indian Council for Cultural Relations, Sangeet Natak Akademi, Lalit Kala Akademi, Sahitya Akademi, the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, the National Film Archive of India, the Film and Television Institute of India and such bodies to disseminate different facets of Ray’s genius — in cinema, literature, music and other forms of art. The external affairs, culture and education, and information and broadcasting ministries should chart out clear courses of action. It is also hoped that neighbouring countries, especially Bangladesh, would take adequate measures in this respect. Most of the action should, however, take place in West Bengal. Completing the unfinished work of the Ray encyclopaedia, expediting the Ray archive (maybe with support from the United Nations), acquiring and converting the house of the Rays at Garpar Road where the maestro was born into a memorial, publication of Ray’s film scripts and of all his writings for the public in multi-volume sets with state subsidy, reviving film societies, creating or earmarking a small auditorium at Nandan or elsewhere exclusively devoted to the screening of his films are amongst the many ideas, raised from time to time, that can be pursued. Ray was more than a celebrated director; he was a complete artist in the best of Renaissance tradition. His literary works are as original as they are luminous. Since the National Education Policy, 2020 lays stress on the translation of works into regional languages, it may be worthwhile to get select literary works of Ray transcreated into major Indian languages. The National Book Trust or the Sahitya Akademi may be encouraged to take up this project. But government action should be complemented by efforts from individuals, NGOs and corporates. Only then would the celebration be truly meaningful, participative and inclusive in nature. It is heartening that some enthusiasts and societies have started bringing out books and magazines, organizing film shows and discussions, but such well-intended efforts are yet to coalesce into a wholesome celebration. Unfortunately, sustained action rarely stems from bureaucratic enthusiasm. That initiative has to come from enlightened political leadership at the highest levels. There are no signs yet that it is happening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
16-02-2021||Opinion||Sinking boats||Fiscal and monetary policies announced this month are devoted to recovering growth and putting it on a sustainable footing. In this year’s budget presented on February 1, the government unveiled its post-Covid macroeconomic strategy. It chose capital investment to anchor medium-term growth, avoiding relief measures or a safety net cover for millions rendered jobless by the pandemic. While the logic of the former’s larger multiplier effects upon private investment, employment and incomes is indisputable, the risk is that the economically vulnerable sections could suffer permanent setbacks from prolonged economic duress. An alternative spending mix, splitting a portion of capital expenditure for front-loaded deployment towards temporary consumption enhancement, would have hit harder at the downturn and helped avert such a possibility. There is a large macroeconomic gap to cover in the wake of Covid-19. National output is estimated at having shrunk as much as -7.7 per cent in 2020-21 by the Central Statistics Office. In 2021-22, the government projects real gross domestic product to rebound 10 per cent from this depth; adding the rate of inflation, growth will be 14.4 per cent. This looks very robust but is actually technical because of the deep plunge. It therefore reveals little about the strength of the recovery. For better understanding, most compare this to the pre-Covid output, setting the 2019-20 level to 100; in 2020-21, the fall is to 92.3, from where it will lift to 102.3 next year. So the economy will have grown 2.3 per cent over two years. For the individual Indian earner, this means a reduction in annual real income to Rs 99,193 in FY21 from Rs 1,08,645 in 2019-20, a monthly loss of Rs 788 in the Covid-19 year. Next year too, her annual earnings will not be fully restored, remaining to be recouped in 2022-23. Relative to this recovery, the scale of economic loss is staggering. The per capita income representation above is not equally distributed across the population. The non-linear impact of Covid-19 has hit some segments much harder, such as hospitality, travel and retail, amongst others. This has been unfolding in the form of an uneven or what is called a K-shaped recovery: the winners gain big as observed from the unspent incomes and profits, while the bottom-earners and weaker firms fall even lower. The associated employment losses have been huge, with continued losses of jobs and incomes as businesses either shut shop or cling on in leaner form and regain strength through savage cost-cutting. The precedents were none too strong either. For a full grasp of the stress in the labour market, the pre-Covid overhang of the growth slowdown needs reckoning as well. The rapid descent of growth to 4 per cent a year ago — half of that recorded in 2016-17 and an alarming 2.5 percentage point fall in just one year — had earlier taken a toll upon consumption and employment. For example, the 2017-18 consumption expenditure survey, officially unaccepted but some findings of which were reported, had shown national unemployment at its highest, 6.1 per cent, in four decades, with a 3.7 per cent fall in monthly per capita consumption (mainly food) over the levels in 2011-12. There is insufficient timely alleviation in the budget to help tide over at least the duration of the economic reopening that can be expected to restore some of the temporary job and income losses. While the budgeted capital investments and other measures to incentivize domestic production and exports will take time to affect aggregate demand, a period of prolonged economic pressure could mean that second-round income effects take hold, resulting in a permanent slipping back of the vulnerable segments. It is difficult for some deeply wounded parts of the workforce to bounce back independently without policy support. It is likelier that enduring shocks to consumption and incomes will tip the peripheral earners and those at the margin into poverty besides the ones who may already have done so before. Late last year, the World Bank estimated that Covid-19 probably increased the number of extreme poor by 88 million, reversing the steady decline in global poverty since the nineties that lowered the number from 1.9 billion to 689 million. India contributed majorly to this decline — before the revision of the international poverty line in 2015 (from $1.25 to $1.90 per day), the number of extreme poor in India fell by 8.1 per cent, from 300 million to 99 million by 2010, in five years’ time. Using the intuition that growth is the most robust driver of poverty, Homi Kharas of Brookings, a think-tank based in the United States of America, combined poverty data with the International Monetary Fund’s growth forecast in October 2020 (then -11 per cent for India) to measure the pandemic’s impact; these estimated that about 120 million people worldwide would be extreme poor in 2020 relative to 2019, with the biggest impact likely upon India. Now, the expected contraction is less, -7.7 per cent, but the risk of reversion or slippage into poverty remains substantial unless countered by quick and strong growth. This illustrates the scale of the post-Covid challenge. The government’s main plank to grow out of the pandemic is a multi-year spending push to infrastructure. The shift to capital investment over other forms of spending is because the former is job-rich; indeed, construction work engages a higher number of unskilled and semi-skilled labourers over other forms of labour. However, infrastructure expenditures take long to kick off, a couple of quarters at least, with lagged impact upon aggregate demand. In the meantime, a slower period of demand growth minus temporary relief could accentuate or convert what might be temporary income-employment effects into lasting ones, and an increased prevalence of poverty. If consumer demand remains subdued, falls back after an initial spurt from pent-up pressures, firms or sellers may find it difficult to sustain profits or strength, slowing down investments and overall recovery. Many point to complementary structural innovations, such as labour and agriculture markets, privatization, bad bank, and so on, that further augment medium-term growth prospects. These too are in the distance. The growth trajectory visualized ahead is not unduly strong. From the 10 per cent peak in 2021-22, the economy is expected to grow in the 5-6 per cent region until 2025-26, according to the post-budget explanations by senior government officials. This appears insufficient or not a tide that is robust enough to lift all boats. Under the circumstances, even with the resource constraints that the government is operating with, an upfront provision of short-term income support from a part of budgeted capital expenditure to uphold aggregate demand with infrastructure expenditures taking up the baton thereafter may have been a superior strategy. A more forceful punch would minimize the risk of a feeble, prolonged recovery and of the transitory losses turning into permanent ones. Just as strong, robust growth lifts all boats, a slower recovery does the converse. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI set to host TED Talk event virtually||XLRI is scheduled to hold the eighth edition of TEDxXLRI- 2021 themed “Surviving the Storm” virtually on February 19. This year, the event looks forward to witnessing eminent speakers from different walks of life coming together on a single platform to uncover new ideas, provide an authentic and intelligent perspective of an unexplored topic and inspire inquisitive minds through stories of path makers who defied all odds and emerged victorious. One of the eminent speakers for TEDxXLRI 2021 is Deepika Kumari, one of the finest archers of the country who started her professional journey at the Tata Archery Academy in Jamshedpur. She won two gold medals at the Delhi Commonwealth Games 2010. Deepika has been conferred with the Arjuna Award, India's second-highest sports award, in the year 2012 by the then President Pranab Mukherjee .She was awarded the coveted Padma Shri in 2016. The second speaker will be Dhaval Jain, a 2014 batch Indian Administrative Service ( IAS) and an MBA from IIM -Ahmedabad. He is currently the managing director at Paschim Banga Agri Marketing Corporation Limited. The third speaker -Amit Behl - is an Indian theatre, television, and film actor who has worked in over almost 100 TV serials, broadcasted over a variety of channels spanning across the Hindi, English, Marathi, Punjabi, and Urdu television industry.  A senior joint secretary of Cine and TV Artistes Association ( CINTAA) since 2015, he is also a member of the governing council of Media and Entertainment Skill Council ( MESC). Sarah Hussain, who runs food blogs by the name zingyzest will also address the online event. She is  one the youngest and most successful bloggers in India. She has numerous followers on Instagram, where she strikes a balance between street food and fine dining. Aditya Gupta, an entrepreneur and ace mountaineer who successfully summited Mt Everest at the age of 50 will also address the event. Aditya is the owner of successful brands like Sharda Exports, India, The Rug Republic, and The Furniture Republic. Tanmay Jain,  founder and CEO of Infeedo will be the other eminent speaker. He is also known as the youngest millennial speaker to address HR leadership in organisations like Fidelity, PwC, Schneider and Microsoft. Commenting on the theme, XLRI director Fr. P Christie said, “The pandemic has shown the need for making the process of management education more meaningful and purpose-oriented. We as a part of TEDxXLRI want to encourage people to uncover new ideas, provide the authentic and intelligent perspective of unexplored topics, challenge students to think about complex ideas and to share the latest research in their local areas that spark conversations in our community. We aim to provide a platform for people that have big ideas or are doing remarkable work that would never be recognised in any other way.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Robbers loot cash, jewellery worth Rs 8 lakh from villager’s house||More than a dozen criminals, wielding iron rods and daggers, looted cash and jewellery worth Rs 8 lakh and even manhandled women of a family at Paharbad village in Dhanbad’s Madandih Panchayat, during the wee hours of Tuesday. The incident took place in the house of Saifur Sheikh, a contractual employee of Maithon Power Limited, at a time when there were no male members in the house, where a wedding ceremony was to take place. “I woke up after hearing some sound at around 1 am and went to the other room and switched on the light. Suddenly one of the criminals grabbed me and pressed my mouth with his palm. Another man with a dagger tied me up with a gamcha (towel),” narrated a woman from the family. The criminals took away Rs 3 lakh in cash and jewellery worth Rs 5 lakh, the woman added. Another family member mentioned that they were suspecting someone close to the family being involved in the case, as the burglars had information about where keys to the locker were hidden. A team of MPL police led by OC Wasim Ahmad reached the site upon receiving information from Madandih Panchayat leader Sheikh Taimur. They took details regarding the incident and even collected forensic evidence. A probe has been initiated after lodging an FIR against unidentified people. “We received information on the phone about the incident during the morning hours from the mukhiya. We immediately rushed to the spot and found that jewelleries and cash meant for an upcoming marriage ceremony had been looted. We have initiated an investigation into the incident. Criminals will soon be nabbed,” Ahmad said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||‘Brown sugar’ worth Rs 30 lakh recovered in Jamshedpur||In a breakthrough, police seized “brown sugar” worth Rs 30 lakh from two drug peddlers. The duo was transacting when the police nabbed them near Garib Nawaz Colony, which falls under the Jugsalai police station area on Monday night. According to police, they have confiscated around 400 grams of the above-mentioned drug from the duo. They have been identified as Sadique Ansari (32), a resident of Muslim Bustee in Adityapur, and Hasiqur Rahman (40), a resident of Bansgara in Murshidabad district of West Bengal. Revealing details of the arrest, senior SP, M Tamil Vanan said that they had been informed about “two men meeting near the Railway Over-bridge close to Garib Nawaz Colony to peddle drugs around 10.30 pm”. “Acting on the tip-off, we set up a team of police officials, which was headed by deputy superintendent of police (law and order) Alok Ranjan. As the information was specific, the police team dressed in plainclothes surrounded the locality. On being spotted, they were nabbed by the police. On searching, we found two packets of ‘brown sugar’, weighing 200 grams in possession of each. We immediately brought them to Jugsalai police station where they were interrogated,” said Vanan while addressing a press conference on Tuesday afternoon. Vanan added Rahman, used to supply drugs sourced from Murshidabad to bootleggers in Jamshedpur and Adityapur in adjoining Seaikela-Kharsawan district. “Rahman had brought two packets of the brown sugar, containing 200 grams each. He had handed over one of the packets to Sadique and had kept the other with himself, which would be passed on to some other person. However, before they could get away, the police nabbed the two red-handed,” said the senior police officer. Vanan mentioned that recently three women had been arrested for selling drugs in small packets in the Jugsalai area. During interrogation, one of the accused, Rashida Khatoon, had tipped them about “a man coming from Murshidabad to hand over drugs to his local contacts”. Following this information, the police worked hard to arrest the man from Murshidabad. According to the senior SP, Sadique would have made 20,000 packets, each containing one milligram of the ‘brown sugar’ for his customers. Each packet would have been sold at Rs 100. “We will try to trace the drug traffickers in Murshidabad based on the information gathered from Rahman. If we fail to reach the main supplier, then we will take Rahman into police remand for further investigation. We might even take him to Murshidabad to nab the dealers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police nabs son-in-law and aide for gun attack on jeweller||Jamshedpur Police arrested two persons on Tuesday involved in the gun attack  on the owner of Chandra Jewellers Ganesh Chandra, one of them being the victim’s son-in-law. Those arrested were identified as Rajkumar Patro (25) and Raghunath Manna (19), both residents of Uliyan in Kadma, where the attack took place on February 13 night. Rajkumar is the son-in-law of Chandra. Senior SP M Tamil Vanan said Rajkumar and Raghunath were nabbed from near the Tatanagar station area, while they were riding a bike on Tuesday morning. Revealing details, Vanan said that Rajkumar, who worked as an electrician, married the jeweller’s 19-year-old daughter Ayushi Chandra following an affair between them a year ago. “Within a few months of the marriage, Ayushi came to know about her husband’s dubious background. Eventually, there was a marital dispute between the two as she had tried to bring her husband's wrongful activities to an end,” Vanan said at a press conference. As the dispute deepened further, Ayushi returned to her parents’ house at Bipasha Path in Uliyan last November. As Ayushi realised that she had done wrong by marrying Rajkumar, Ganesh Chandra, convinced her to seek a divorce from her husband. She then filed her divorce petition with the Jamshedpur court,” the senior SP detailed. Vanan said on coming to know about the divorce petition filed in the court, Rajkumar thought that Ayushi must have been forced by her father. He contacted Chandra and pressed him to withdraw the divorce petition from the court. Rajkumar had also threatened Chandra with dire consequences if the divorce petition was not withdrawn shortly, the police officer said. Vanan said as Chandra did not pay any heed to his son-in-law’s request, the latter had conspired the attack on the former on February 13 night. Chandra (38) was seriously injured as two bike-borne criminals had opened fire at him near his jewellery shop at about 9.30 pm when the victim was returning home, having closed the shop.  The criminals had fired two shots, one of which had hit the victim's abdomen whereas the other one was a misfire. The injured jeweller had been rushed to Tata Main Hospital, where he had given a statement to the police on February 14. The victim had in his statement made it clear that his son-in-law must have conspired the attack, given the background of his marital life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||JMM slams Centre over Disha Ravi’s arrest||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), which is leading an alliance government in the state, on Tuesday joined the chorus against the arrest of Disha Ravi, the 21-year-old Bangalore-based climate change activist. She was arrested by Delhi police two days ago for allegedly editing and sharing a ‘toolkit’ related to the farmers’ protest on social media. The tribal outfit has termed her detention as yet another instance of the brutal assault on the right to dissent by targeting a youth this time. Addressing a press conference in Ranchi on Tuesday, JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “We are heading towards very-very dangerous times under the current regime led by the BJP at the centre. In the last three years, there has been a jump of 200 percent in the number of sedition cases being filed. Activists, social workers, youths, and all those who speak for the public and burning issues in this country are called anti-nationals. Sedition charges are being slapped on them. This time a young climate activist is being targeted. Ironically, they fail to prove charges in the court, however for the cases to be over and the victims to be released it takes months.” He added that BJP’s modus operandi has been to terrorise people to divert attention from core issues. “The current arrest is to deflect the attention from the farmers’ protest against the three black laws brought by them which aims at privatising farmlands. However, the country’s farmers aren’t going to fall prey to it this time,” said Supriyo. He even appealed to the masses to start raising their voice against the saffron camp. “JMM has decided to not sit silent anymore against the atrocities unleashed by the BJP government,” he said. He added that they are planning to launch a massive campaign against the rising fuel and LPG prices. “BJP’s slogan for 2021 is abki baar, petrol-diesel 100 ke paar. Agle saal, 200 paar. LPG prices has also witnessed a steep rise. BJP claims having distributed crores of LPG connections to the poor under the ujwala yojana, but they should tell how many have refueled it. With unplanned lockdown breaking everyone’s backbone and derailing the economy, how can people afford such hefty prices?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||In Ranchi, goddess of knowledge slays the virus and how||This Saraswati Puja, the goddess of knowledge was worshipped in various avatars in the state capital of Ranchi. Themed primarily on Covid, she embraced the role of a medical practitioner, holding a syringe in one hand and inoculating her disciples, treating patients a doctor, and holding placards, in addition to her veena, to propagate Covid safety guidelines. With Covid-19 cases on decline in the state, Basant panchami, which marks the first public puja of 2021, was celebrated with enthusiasm across the state capital on Tuesday after a long lull in festivities due to the pandemic induced lockdown. At the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), the biggest state-run hospital, a Covid themed goddess was housed in a modest pandal near the hostel. RIMS director Kameshwar Prasad said they all prayed for the end of the pandemic. “Since the outbreak of the virus, RIMS has had a huge role to play to contain the virus and treat patients. All medical professionals walked the extra mile to serve humanity. Hence, our theme for the puja was Covid. The idea was to pray for the wellbeing of everyone in Jharkhand,” said a RIMS official. Many coaching centres opened for the day to hold Saraswati Puja. Manish Kumar, head of Manish Tutorials in Bariatu, said coaching centres like his were still waiting for a government nod to reopen. Hence, Saraswati Puja was a good occasion to reconnect with their students. Their idol had the goddess holding a syringe. “We had specially ordered the idol,” said Kumar, adding that they also organised a low-key feast and a cultural programme for students. “Everyone was told to follow Covid norms. We all wore masks and provisioned sanitisers at the venue,” he said. Notably, the state government has allowed gatherings of about 200 people at indoor venues and 300 people at outdoor venues. Use of loudspeakers and DJs are permitted during the day. Ajay Pal, one of the more famous idol makers in Ranchi with a workshop at Peace Road, said all his idols had Covid as a theme. “I prepared around 150 big and small idols. The big idols depicted the entire pandemic — right from the virus outbreak to the vaccination process _ with Saraswati shown as a doctor treating or inoculating patients,” he said. Pal was happy to see some business after the lockdown. “I had incurred losses if over Rs 3 lakh due to the lockdown last year as all major pujas  _ Ganesh, Durga Puja, Vishwakarma and Kali _ were literally washed out due to lockdown guidelines,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Rural life depicted in coal town Saraswati Puja pandal||Cow dung cakes, bamboo baskets, canal, culvert, spades, huts and models of several other rural articles were put up as decorations at the Saraswati Puja pandal organised by a group of students at Jharkhand Maidan in Dhanbad, in a bid to highlight the importance of rural life. Visitors thronged at the site on Tuesday to take a look at this unusual display meant to show the significance of villages in our life, which provided refuge, bread and butter to the vast majority of migrant workers who had to go back to their native places during the lockdown. Santosh yadav, one of the organisers of the puja, said they tried to create an entire traditional village scene in the 30x30 feet pandal. “The basic aim behind highlighting rural life is to drive the message of maintaining a balance between rural and urban life as the rural economy is the backbone of our country, which has been proved during the lockdown.,” Yadav, a member of the Satyam Shivam Sundaram Committee that organised the puja, said. Nitish Kumar, another organiser, said that the spade, furrow and canal have been made to show that there is no need to rush to urban areas, which are already congested. “The worst hit  section of society due to the economic slowdown is the youth working in the corporate sector. Many have lost jobs all of a sudden and burdens like paying EMIs of loans have been increased,” he added. Vikas Sao, a member of the committee, said that they have been organising Saraswati Puja every year since 2002 but their primary aim was to organise Durga Puja. “We have provided an opportunity to the students to create the scene of our theme and have also constructed a five-feet high idol,” Sao said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police jawan dies in anti-Naxal operation at Lohardaga||A 30-year-old police jawan from Gumla died on way to a hospital in Ranchi on Tuesday after sustaining severe injuries in an IED blast triggered by the outlawed CPI (Maoist) group at a dense jungle at Serengdag in Lohardaga district. Police said said Duleshwar Paras, who was airlifted by an Indian Air Force chopper from the jungle in Lohardaga and brought to Ranchi for treatment, succumbed to his injuries after landing at the state helipad at Khelgaon, from where he was taken to Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital by road. Doctors there declared him “brought dead”. The martyr’s mortal remains have been sent to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for post-mortem. His last rites will be performed with state honours at his native place in Gumla, police sources said. Duleshwar belonged to a small action team of the district police. He was part of a joint operation of SAP 3 and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) against CPI (Maoist) rebels, who are said to be active in suburban Lohardaga and neighbouring Gumla. No other casualty has been reported from the site of the operation. Sources said the IED (improvised explosive device) got triggered after Duleshwar stepped on it during the operation. He lost one of his legs in the explosion. His fellow soldiers, sources said, took a profusely bleeding Duleshwar to a safe place in the encounter site to tray and save his life. Later, he was airlifted to Ranchi. “The IED was a pressure bomb, which got triggered with the jawan stepped on it. He was conscious but he had lost a lot of blood because of the injuries in his legs,” said a CRPF official not authorities to give official statements to the media. SAT are small teams of district police personnel formed in each district to fight Left Wing Extremism (LWE) and run special operations against the rebel outfits. CRPF officials said that the combing operations were on at the neighbouring areas of Lohardaga and Gumla from Sunday. The security forces had received intelligence inputs that dreaded Maoist leader Ravinder Ganju, who has a bounty of Rs 10 lakh on his head, and other members of his team were active in the region. As per figures with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), at least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand are LWE-affected. Besides the CPI (Maoist), there are more than 17 splinter outfits operating in various districts of Jharkhand, say police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro entrepreneurs make the most out of lockdown||Amid the difficulties of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, young Bokaro entrepreneurs Tanvi Priya, Kundan Mishra, Abhishek Mishra, Madhulika Nayak and a few others have been smart enough to perceive the situation as an opportunity. Kundan and Amit, who are two siblings, have launched their company, Custkart Merchandise Private Limited, which supplies quality printed T-Shirts, hoodies, sweatshirts, bags, caps and other items to corporate houses and colleges. Launched in June 2020, the company, based in the brothers’ native village situated outside the town, has achieved a turnover of Rs 18 lakh. “We are now getting orders online from other states outside apart from here. All the things start from printing, stitching, ironing, packaging, and dispatch is being done from our small factory outlet in our village Pupunki. We are receiving good responses from the market and our clients are increasing,” Kundan, the younger one, said. It was his idea to launch the start-up, while Abhishek left his job to join him later. Kundan handles the technical part of the business, while the latter is invested in the management part. On the other hand, 23-year-old Tanvi Priya has made her startup Kanak Krea OPC Private Limited popular through her dedication. Tanvi’s company deals in teaching coding to children and youths. However, the business boomed when Tanvi could provide placements to more than a dozen of her trained aspirants. A National Law University graduate working at a reputed firm, Tanvi says that one day she thought of achieving something bigger in life. “I moved back to Bokaro and  I shared ideas with my father, who motivated me. Thereafter, I opened Kanak, named after my mother. I had to work hard but now I am in a comfortable zone getting a good market response.” Tanvi has also opened a wing of her company, which teaches coding to underprivileged people and provides them with jobs. Madhulika Nayak is another entrepreneur who started her business of soaps, lotions and other skincare products in December 2019. But just when her company ‘Arnaved’ got introduced, the lockdown kicked in. However, that did not stop her from carrying on, and after things started to open up, she started making profits. Madhulika says she manages to earn Rs 40,000 a month now, and wants to provide employment to a good number of women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Over 11,000 vaccinated in the state in a day, 1,777 get second shot||Over 11,000 beneficiaries were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Monday, while more than 1700 healthcare workers were given the second shot of the vaccine, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per NHM data, the state has so far administered the first dose of the vaccine to 2,35,732 beneficiaries, achieving 61 per cent of its target. On the other hand, as many as 4108 of the over 2.3 lakh vaccinated people have been given the second jab as well. On Monday, the state achieved 39 per cent of its target by administering the first dose of the vaccine to 11,136 beneficiaries. As many as 1777 beneficiaries got the second dose of the virus on the day, at least 28 days after getting the first jab. While Bokaro achieved 100 per cent of its vaccination target on the day by inoculating 637 people, only 11 per cent of the 1136 registered beneficiaries were inoculated in Chatra – the lowest among all districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi achieved 45 per cent of its target on the day by administering the first dose of Covishield vaccine to 1826 people. As per NHM data, only one case of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) was reported in Jharkhand from Dhanbad, taking the total count of AEFI cases in the state to 266. At least 170 of the 266 AEFI cases have been reported in Ranchi so far. Meanwhile, two more Covid patients, one each from Ranchi and Bokaro, died during treatment on Monday, taking the Covid-19 toll in the state to 1084, a separate bulletin released by NHM stated. The state reported 33 Covid recoveries against 38 fresh cases on the day, which took the number of active cases up at 464 in Jharkhand. Ranchi reported 22 fresh cases against 13 recoveries, triggering a rise in active cases here. As many as 245 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by the end of Monday. As many as 16 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases on the day. Barring Ranchi, none of the districts reported a double-digit-spike. As per government data, as many as 119354 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far and 98.70 per cent of them have recovered. At the current pace, it would take more than 2400 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand, the NHM bulletin stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress plans tractor rally in Hazaribagh||The Jharkhand unit of the Congress is gearing up for holding another tractor rally, this time in Hazaribagh on February 20, for expressing solidarity with protesting farmers and demanding withdrawal of the farm laws. The party had organised the first rally in Santhal Pargana on January 31 when party supporters along with farmers moved from Godda to Deoghar, a distance of about 80 km, with about 200 tractors, mobilising public opinion against the farm laws. If the first really was focused mainly on the northern part of the state, this one will concentrate mainly on the southern part, informed party sources, adding the leaders were already travelling in the districts for mobilising support for making the proposed rally successful. The party is planning to hold a massive rally in Hazaribagh that day after farmers and supporters converge there from various districts. “We are also simultaneously holding meetings in the districts for enrolment of new members,” informed Congress’ state spokesperson Alok Dubey, adding they wanted to induct people from various sections of the society into the party. They had already held march at block headquarters across the state on Saturday, he further informed,  adding a bike rally was also brought out in Hazaribagh that day. The bike really drew attention as Amba Prasad, state’s youngest MLA from Barkagaon, drove a Royal Enfield motor cycle with state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh riding the pillion while holding the party falling flag on both hands. Patralekh, who worked hard to make the earlier rally in Santhal Pargana successful, was now touring Ramgarh-Hazaribagh-Koderma belt for garnering support for the proposed rally in Hazaribagh. Congress state unit chief Rameshwar Oraon who is also the state’s finance and food minister is also touring the districts. Besides addressing meetings meant for membership drive, he is also mobilising support for the rally. Oraon was in Lohardaga on Sunday, reached Latehar on Monday and will go to Hazaribagh on Tuesday, Dubey who was accompanying him informed from Latehar. Many party leaders had earlier said they would continue their protest against the farm laws until those are scrapped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand plans shift to practical learning||Elementary education in government schools in Jharkhand is going to shift from rote learning methods and embrace the next generation STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) system aimed at creating critical thinkers, problem solvers and innovators. STEM is a curriculum based on the idea of educating students in four specific disciplines — science, technology, engineering and mathematics — through an interdisciplinary and applied approach. Rather than teaching the four disciplines as a separate module, STEM integrates them into a cohesive learning paradigm based on real-world applications. In many developed countries and developing countries around the world, STEM labs have become a norm. However, such a system of learning is yet to become a regular practice in Indian schools. “We would set up STEM labs along with science labs in all model schools. Initially, in the first phase all the 27 model schools at the district level will be having STEM labs. We are planning to roll it out in a few selected schools from this academic session itself,” said Shailesh Kumar Chourasia state project director, Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC). He is also the director, higher education. On completion of one year in office on December 29 last year, chief minister Hemant Soren had announced about Adarsh Vidyalaya (model school) scheme. In the first phase of the scheme, 27 existing government schools will be transformed into model schools. “As a pilot project, STEM labs are being installed in five blocks in capital Ranchi. Focussing on students who have a knack for maths, science and technology related subjects, the labs will impart practical learning and improve problem-solving ability based on the theories taught in regular classes,” added Chourasia. Major underlying issues prevalent in the government schools include student attendance and overall learning outcomes. The government believes that such a project will help in terms of value addition and in creating an interactive atmosphere for students. The project is being implemented through the innovation fund of the state government and has been adopted in Ranchi district. According to an administration official, the labs will be open to students from all the government schools in the respective block. After evaluating the impact of this project, similar labs will be set up in all the blocks. “Traditional education pedagogy in India is still focused on books and numbers while very little importance is given to the practical implementation of these theories. This scenario changes with STEM education. The labs will give students the space to think freely and create something on their own,” a source in the chief minister’s office said. A STEM lab would be equipped with different exhibits related to the subject module taught in the curriculum of the schools, such as pinhole camera, LED-based heart, eye model, ear model, infinity wall, sound in different mediums, layers of soils, solar system, hand pump, solar-power system, hydro turbine, motor model, sensor setup, telescope, generator, skeleton system, Newton’s law of motion setup, biodiversity setup, different types of robots, projector, tab and interactive computing device. All the teachers deputed in these schools will be given hands-on training before the final handover of the labs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
