17-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta primary school teacher merit list||The Bengal government has published within a month of completion of interviews a merit list of 15,248 candidates who will be appointed as primary school teachers. Officials said the recruitment process was likely to be completed in a week. Many of them admitted that they had rarely seen such promptness in appointing teachers. The West Bengal Board of Primary Education usually takes several months after concluding the interviews to publish the merit list. The weeklong interview of the aspirants had started on January 10. On Monday night, the board came up with a notice announcing the publication of the merit list. Aspiring teachers have been among the most vocal critics of the Mamata Banerjee government in recent times. The resentment against the government heightened after the high court had on December 11 quashed the process initiated by the school service commission to recruit around 15,000 teachers for upper primary schools (Classes V to VIII). The day the judgement was delivered, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that 16,500 teachers would be appointed at the primary level (Classes I to IV). The candidates who had cracked the teacher eligibility test (TET) and undergone DLD (diploma in elementary education) training were interviewed from a pool of aspirants. They had applied between December 23 and January 6. “We were eagerly looking forward to faster recruitment at some level after the court had struck down appointments at the upper primary level,” said an official of the school education department. The notice from the board says 1,216 remaining posts have been kept vacant “for further recruitment of the same recruitment process from out of remaining candidates who had submitted online applications but are not included in the above merit list ….as well as candidates who had submitted their applications offline pursuant to the orders passed by the Hon’ble High Court and others”. Para-teachers, who have been vocal against the gov-ernment over the past two years, have been given preference in the recruitment process. Para-teachers were appointed by the respective school management committees between 2007 and 2009 before the implementation of the right to education act, which mandates that all children aged between six and 14 will be covered under the school education system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
17-02-2021||Calcutta||Fatal end to unavoidable venture into Sunderbans||A man who had ventured deep inside the Sunderbans to catch crabs and fish died after being mauled by a tiger on Tuesday morning. Samaresh Ray had set out on a small boat with several others from Kultali in South 24-Parganas, a forest department official said. According to the forest department official, the tiger attacked Ray from behind deep inside a forest. Before the other men could realise what was happening, the animal had dragged him away. The men hit the tiger with axes and sticks, but it managed to drag Ray deeper into the forest. Officials of the forest department and villagers later recovered the body. The lockdown and Cyclone Amphan, which has left most fields and ponds in the Sunderbans inundated with saline water, have resulted in loss of livelihood for many people, according to foresters and people working for the welfare of those living in the Sunderbans. Even inexperienced groups have been venturing into the forests in search of a living, an official said. “Many migrant workers have returned to their villages after losing their usual means of livelihood during the lockdown. Several have fallen back on the forest and have taken to catching crabs and fish in order to make ends meet,” Sagnik Sengupta, a member of Stripes And Green Earth (SAGE), an NGO, said. More than 20 fishermen have been killed since March 2020 in tiger attacks in the mangroves — two more than the number of persons killed in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
17-02-2021||Calcutta||Farmer’s struggle on canvas in Calcutta ||The painter’s brush has rallied behind the farmer’s plough at an ongoing art exhibition in the city. A series of paintings and sculptures on display at a gallery at the Academy of Fine Arts speak of the turbulent times in the context of the long-standing farmers’ protests on the borders of Delhi. An acrylic on canvas shows a farmer woman, with sad but piercing eyes, holding out a fresh-looking vegetable in one hand. The other hand embraces a child. The thought behind the painting — farmers do not keep their best produce, not even for their own children. They give it to the  consumer. An oil painting shows the subject in an almost supine posture, her body marked by many bruises, some of them very fresh. She represents “wounded and tortured farmers”. Next to it, another painting shows a “corporate hand” tapping a plough, triggering a protest in the form of raised fists. Firmly with farmers — on canvas, an art exhibition, is being organised by Prachi Protichi, a cultural organisation. The exhibition, which started on Monday and will end on February 21, features the works of over 20 artistes, including the likes of Jogen Chowdhury, Hiran Mitra and Subrata Ganguly. “This exhibition is our humble tribute to farmers. The canvasses mirror the revolutionary times that we are living in,” said a curatorial note of the exhibition. On one of the walls, an acrylic painting shows a plough and its shadow, under the gaze of farmers. The canvas also has drops of blood. The background is “chaotic”. Instead of trailing the plough, the shadow is on the front so that the “viewer cannot escape the reality”. A terracotta sculpture sits on a table beside the painting. The figure is that of a skeletal farmer, his face writhing in pain. “Humans, who were dependent on hunting, took to farming for a permanent supply of food. That was tens of thousands of years ago. Till date, there is no alternative to farming. In a way, all of us are descendants of farmers and have farmers’ blood flowing in our veins…. This exhibition is in solidarity with the farmers’ protest,” said Tapos Mallick, the founder-secretary of Prachi Protichi. Author Swapnamoy Chakraborty, one of the guests at the inauguration of the exhibition, said farmers had never got social respect. “During my time in the radio, there was a programme on farmers. It was called Chashi-bhai der jonno…. We never address doctors and lawyers as brothers but addressing a farmer or a weaver as brother is acceptable,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
17-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta teachers wade towards Mamata’s backyard ||A group of para-teachers tried to reach chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s house in Kalighat by wading through the water of Tolly’s Nullah on Tuesday morning, demanding pay parity with regular teachers. Senior police officers, headed by Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra, rushed to the spot to block the protesters. Mamata was at her home then. Tolly’s Nullah flows behind the chief minister’s Harish Chatterjee Street home. The agitators, some of whom had reached the mid-point of the canal by the time the police team had reached the spot, could be prevented from reaching Mamata’s home. Six men and a woman were arrested from the spot. The incident, which took place between 10.30am and 11am, prompted the senior brass of Lalbazar and officers of the state directorate of security to review the security arrangements in and around the chief minister’s home. Mamata’s house is heavily guarded and no one without a valid  reason is allowed within 500m of the Kalighat address. Sources, however, said the rear of the house, which opens onto Tolly’s Nullah, was relatively less secured as the canal forms a natural cordon, officers said. A senior officer said Tuesday’s incident was “more to seek attention than being a security breach”. Para-teachers were recruited between 2007 and 2009, before the implementation of the right to education act. The government made the recruitment hoping that enrolment of students would see a jump following the implementation of the act, which says all children between six and 14 have to be covered under the school education system. However, being part of the unorganised sector, the salaries of para-teachers are much less compared with regular teachers. The para-teachers who had gathered near Mamata’s house on Tuesday — some of them were holding placards — said they were demanding pay parity with regular teachers. Last month, another group of para-teachers had demonstrated outside the Assembly complex and some of them had scaled the compound’s main gate, threatening to jump over. On Tuesday, they demanded a meeting with the chief minister for a quick resolution of the matter, one of them said. “We were promised equal pay in 2011. Again we were made the same promise in 2016. Another Assembly election is approaching but there is no change in our status,” one of the agitators said, referring to the promise reportedly made before the previous two Assembly polls. The para-teachers had gathered near Alipore and sneaked past a bylane adjoining the Alipore Central jail that opens into Tolly’s Nullah. The chief minister’s residence is located on the other side of the canal. Sources at Lalbazar said they were reviewing the security arrangements to increase human vigil and install barricades to cordon off the canal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
17-02-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur alumnus: What’s behind renaming?||Several former IIT Kharagpur students have expressed outrage at the institute’s decision to rename a multi-speciality hospital, originally named after Dr B.C. Roy, after Syama Prasad Mookerjee and posted comments on the Facebook page of director V.K. Tewari. “What is the purpose of renaming the hospital from BC Roy to Shyamaprasad other than satisfying the PM and his coteries?” wrote Indrajit Dutt. “Please remember, the hospital was named with great fanfare as BC ROY Hospital by APJ Abdul Kalam and you cannot take away this name of a great doctor on whims and fancies. You may be aware Shyamaprasad had no credentials in medicine or surgery and BC Roy excelled in this matter. I am attaching the photographs of the earlier inauguration as blatant proof of the glaring mistakes you are making. Tagging a few fellow IITians….” Dutt told Metro later: “Such was the degree of outrage that I did not wait to write a formal letter to him. I thought I should immediately post my reactions.” He said he was in the same batch as Tewari at the IIT. The director, however, has not responded to any of the comments posted on his timeline about the renaming. Dutt posted a picture of the plaque bearing the name of Dr B.C. Roy, which was installed by the IIT authorities in 2007 while naming the proposed multi-speciality hospital after the former chief minister of Bengal on the occasion of the laying of the foundation stone. The hospital has come up in Balarampur, off the IIT campus. Syama Prasad Mookerjee is the founder of the Jana Sangh, the precursor to the BJP. Dr B.C. Roy is the maker of modern Bengal. The eight posts that are critical of the decision to rename the hospital were among the 37 comments on Tewari’s Facebook timeline till Tuesday evening. Most of the remaining posts lauded the director for holding the convocation virtually and involving the Prime Minister in the proceedings. The Prime Minister will be the chief guest at the February 23 convocation. Responding to Dutt’s comments, another former IITian posted: “I only hope the name of Azad Hall is not changed someday.” The former student later deleted the post. The Azad Hall of Residence is a students’ hostel on the campus named after India’s first education minister, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. Monish Chatterjee posted: “Good point. Azad, Nehru, Patel — the essence of the Old Campus.” Chatterjee, who had studied electronics and electrical communications engineering, shared a link of The Telegraph report on the renaming and wrote it “indicates a political agenda behind this re-naming, and it serves no other purpose than catering to a narrow, sadly sectarian agenda…. This denigrates both Bidhan Chandra Roy and also Shyama Prasad Mukherjee. This re-naming serves no purpose other than politicizing honorable names.” This newspaper had on Sunday reported that director Tewari had made a Facebook post about the upcoming convocation on February 23, stating: “The Prime Minister will also inaugurate (virtually) Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, IIT Kharagpur.’’ Fourteen years ago, on May 17, 2007, then President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam had laid the foundation stone for the hospital. Posting on the same thread, Kamalendu Ghosh wrote: “Human beings respond to incentives: post-retirement perks bring out sycophantic zeal’’. A post by Umesh Kumar Dubey is steeped in sarcasm: “Dr Tewari, congratulation on organising the convocation. Is this the same institute...?” He then shared a link that contains the IIT’s publications about the super-specialty hospital named after Dr B.C. Roy. “How could they rename a facility about which they have come up with publications even last year? It’s not that the facility was in the process of being built. It’s illogical and has been done with a purpose to derive political mileage,” Dubey, who had studied electrical engineering at the IIT, told this newspaper. Repeated calls to Tewary went unanswered. He did not respond to a text message from this newspaper either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
17-02-2021||Calcutta||Keep following protocols: Doctors on Bengal Covid panel||Senior doctors on the Bengal government’s committee for management and containment of Covid-19 have urged people to continue adhering to the protocols strictly because the coronavirus is still active even though the number of cases is going down. The doctors said vaccination of healthcare workers and frontline workers, which is on, should not be a reason for the rest of the population to feel complacent about the pandemic. It is still a long way for the rest of the population to be vaccinated against the disease and the coronavirus continues to remain virulent, they said. “We haven’t eradicated the coronavirus and it is still a long way for everyone to get vaccinated. So there is no alternative to adhering to the Covid-19 protocols because we are still admitting patients who have tested positive,” said Ajay Krishna Sarkar, a pulmonologist and critical care specialist at Peerless Hospital. “This is also the time when several other strains of viruses and bacteria remain active and the coronavirus finds it easy to infect those who are immuno-compromised.” Till Monday, according to figures from Swasthya Bhavan, around 5.53 lakh health-care workers and frontline workers were vaccinated, out of a total of around 13.32 lakh. Which means around 42 per cent of the two categories of workers have been vaccinated. Senior officials said there was still no specific directive from the Centre about enlisting the next category for inoculation and the entire population would not be covered anytime soon. But that obviously didn’t matter to many. On Tuesday, on the occasion of Saraswati Puja, a large number of people on the roads across localities and markets in Calcutta were not wearing masks or wearing masks on their chin. According to Lalbazar, 45 people were booked across Calcutta for not wearing masks till Tuesday noon. But officers admitted that such action contributed little to spreading awareness on the Covid protocols. Experts from the state’s Covid-19 management and containment committee described the situation as scary and appealed to the people to stick to the basics of wearing a mask, maintaining social distance and sanitising hands. They said strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocols would not only keep the coronavirus at bay but protect people from a host of seasonal infections as well. “We have made it clear to all that there is no immediate winding up of the arrangements for Covid-19 across all facilities that are under the state health department. It is still not the time,” said Gopal Krishna Dhali, the head of the Covid-19 committee and also the gastroenterology department at SSKM Hospital. “We might be scaling down the arrangements a bit but there is no reason to believe the battle has been won. So please continue to abide by the Covid-19 protocols.” Senior doctors of the committee said they would start visiting medical colleges and other hospitals in Calcutta from next week to ensure the post-Covid clinics keep functioning properly. They said this was important since it was still unknown how the coronavirus would react after entering the human body and which organs it would target.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
17-02-2021||Calcutta||Jab drive in Calcutta trips on ebbing fear, poor data||The reluctance among a section of people to take Covid-19 vaccine doses is because of abating fear of the coronavirus and lack of adequate data, public health experts and government officials said on Tuesday. State health department officials said the reluctance was more among healthcare workers than frontline workers, the two categories chosen for the ongoing first round of vaccination against Covid-19. Those who will refuse to take the first dose of a Covid vaccine by February 20, the deadline set by the Centre, will not be given priority after that, the officials said. Metro reported on Tuesday that after 24 days of vaccination since January 16, only 42 per cent of the targeted population had taken a shot against Covid till February 15. “I think there are two factors responsible for the reluctance. The darkness and fear about Covid-19, which was there in people’s minds even a couple of months back, has diminished to a large extent. Second, there is a lot of confusion about the vaccines, particularly Covaxin,” public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury said. “There is not enough data about the efficacy of Covaxin. So, it seems the drive for vaccination is driven by belief and not scientific data in India…. The rule that one has to sign a consent form before taking a Covaxin dose has only heightened the confusion. Many health workers wonder why they should take the trouble when the number of Covid-19 cases is coming down,” said Chowdhury. Covaxin and Covishield are the two vaccines against Covid-19 cleared for emergency use in India. Chowdhury said more scientific data about Covaxin should be published by the Centre to make the vaccination drive more successful. Several hospitals in Calcutta said fewer health-care workers were taking the shots compared with frontline workers over the past few days. Vaccination of frontline workers, such as civic staff and police personnel, started a few days ago, while health-care workers have been getting the shots since January 16. A senior official of the health department said health-care workers had access to the data of daily Covid cases in their hospitals and are seeing the numbers coming down sharply. Bengal reported 151 new Covid cases and two deaths on February 16. The corresponding figures were 133 and 1 the day before. In contrast, the state had reported 2,293 new cases and 46 deaths on December 16. “This has led to complacency among a section of health-care workers. Also, people are still concerned about side-effects. But we have to keep in mind that Covid is far from over and vaccination is important,” said Ajoy Kumar Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services. Another health official said the efficacy trial sample for Covaxin was so small that it was difficult to convince people based on scientific evidence. The result: the number of health-care personnel taking vaccines at many sites is much less compared with frontline workers. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, on February 15, 80 per cent of the recipients of the first dose were frontline workers and 20 per cent were health-care personnel. At Peerless Hospital, 87 frontline workers took a dose on February 15, compared with 25 health-care personnel. Hospitals said they were not receiving any fresh list of health-care workers for Covid jabs. “There were many health-care workers who did not take the vaccine on their scheduled dates. Now, we are convincing some of them to come and take the shots. But we apprehend several will not be vaccinated,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “We think 25 per cent of our health-care workers will not take the vaccine. Since this is voluntary, we can’t force anyone,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN tagore hospital is a flagship unit. State health service director Chakraborty said he was trying to counsel reluctant health-care workers. “The health-care workers have to keep in mind that they are most exposed to the coronavirus as they are treating patients. If they don’t take the shots, they are leaving themselves as well as the patients and their family members, many of whom are elderly, at risk,” Chakraborty said. “The health-care workers who will not take the first dose by February 20 will no longer be given priority. They will have to wait for months for their turn," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
17-02-2021||Business||Government approves Rs 12,000 crore scheme for telecom sector||The government on Wednesday approved a Rs 12,195 crore production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for telecom gear manufacturing in India, a move that will position the nation as a global powerhouse for production of such equipment ahead of 5G roll-outs. The PLI scheme for telecom gear manufacturing, will be operational from April 1, 2021. It will lead to incremental production of around Rs 2.4 lakh crores with exports of around Rs 2 lakh crores over five years. The scheme is expected to bring investment of over Rs 3,000 crore and generate huge direct and indirect employment and taxes both, an official release said. Briefing reporters after a meeting of the Cabinet, Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that the government is positioning India as a global powerhouse for manufacturing, and has created a conducive environment for ease of doing business. "Cabinet has approved PLI for telecom sector...to ensure further progress of Make-in-India in telecom equipment space...5G equipment will also come...so it was important to give incentives. We held widespread consultation with stakeholders," Prasad said adding that the scheme also aims to promote MSMEs in "Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. The scheme is expected to offset huge imports of telecom equipment worth more than Rs 50,000 crores and reinforce it with Made in India products both for domestic markets and exports, the release said. The new scheme has an outlay of Rs 12,195 crores over five years, and its eligibility will be subject to achievement of a minimum threshold of cumulative incremental investment and incremental sales of manufactured goods. The incentive structure ranges between 4 and 7 per cent for different categories and years. Financial Year 2019-20 will be treated as the base year for computation of cumulative incremental sales of manufactured goods net of taxes, the release added. Minimum investment threshold for MSMEs has been kept at Rs 10 crores and for others at Rs 100 crores. "Once qualified, the investor will be incentivized up to 20 times of minimum investment threshold enabling them to utilise their unused capacity," the release said. Prasad said that the government will soon come up with a PLI scheme to encourage production of laptops and tablet PCs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 400 points to close at 51,703||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped 400 points on Wednesday tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and TCS amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 400.34 points or 0.77 per cent lower at 51,703.83, and the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 104.55 points or 0.68 per cent to 15,208.90. Nestle India was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Asian Paints, IndusInd Bank, Maruti, HDFC twins and Dr Reddy's. On the other hand, SBI, PowerGrid, NTPC and Reliance Industries were among the gainers. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities witnessed pullback amid weak global cues. Profit-booking was visible in IT, Pharma and FMCG space, while PSU Banks continued to see investors' interest with PSU Bank index rising briskly by over 6 per cent, he said. Rotational trading was seen, where a number of mid cap and small cap stocks witnessed sharp uptick as improving earnings visibility is attracting investors to this space especially in sectors which are considered to be beneficiary of higher capex, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while those in Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.58 per cent higher at USD 63.71 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Cairn Energy moves courts in US, UK, Netherlands to get $1.4 bn from India||Britain's Cairn Energy plc has filed cases in the US, the UK and the Netherlands courts to register a USD 1.4 billion arbitration award it had won in a tax dispute against India, as a preparatory action in case it is not paid by the Indian government. Cairn filed a petition in a Washington DC Federal court on February 12, and followed it up with similar filings in the UK and the Netherlands courts, people with knowledge of the matter said. In a petition, Cairn Energy plc and its UK holding company sought the US district court for the District of Columbia to recognise and confirm the December 21 award by a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague. It also plans to move a Canadian court soon. Sources said the petitions are primarily to register the December 21 award with the courts prior to taking any enforcement actions such as seeking seizure of Indian assets in those countries to enforce the award in case it is not paid. No enforcement action is planned for now and the company is waiting for a formal response from the Indian government on honouring the award, they said. The company declined comments on the issue. Cairn's hands have been forced by its shareholders who after waiting patiently for seven years for resolution of the tax issue, now wants action to recover the award. The shareholders include big financial institutions such as BlackRock, Fidelity, Franklin Templeton, Schroders and Aviva. Rather than sit and wait for the government response, Cairn has moved to cover for all eventualities, sources said. Registration of an arbitration award is the first step before any entity can file a petition in court for seizure of any asset to recover the amounts awarded. Cairn chief executive Simon Thomson has sought a meeting with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman this week to discuss the arbitration award. While Sitharaman hasn't responded to the request, Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey is likely to meet him. Last month, the Edinburg-based firm had written to the government saying it would be forced to seize Indian government assets if New Delhi fails to pay it USD 1.4 billion after losing a bitter dispute over retrospective taxes. An international tribunal had in December unanimously ruled that India violated its obligations under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty in 2014, when the income tax department slapped a Rs 10,247-crore tax assessment using legislation that gave it powers to levy taxes retrospectively. Soon after seeking Rs 10,247 crore in taxes over alleged capital gains made by the company over a 2006-07 reorganisation of India business before its listing, the tax department seized Cairn's residual 10 per cent stake in Cairn India. In a ruling Cairn had previously described as "final and binding", the tribunal ordered New Delhi to pay USD 1.2 billion in damages, plus interest and costs, to compensate Cairn for the shares long sold off by the tax department as well as confiscated dividends and withheld tax refunds. This totals USD 1.4 billion. Its shareholders have been egging the management to take action to get the money back. But one-and-a-half-month since the 582-page judgment was issued, the government has given no indication whether it intends to honour the verdict, though payment was due immediately. Cairn gave the country its biggest onland oil discovery in Rajasthan. It also developed the Ravva oil and gas field off the Andhra coast and smaller discoveries in Gujarat. In the letter to the Indian government last month, Cairn had said its shareholders "expect an early resolution, failing which they will expect Cairn to pursue the award in conformity with its rights under the treaty". "The award can be enforced against Indian assets in numerous jurisdictions around the world for which the necessary preparations have been put in place," it added. The letter did not specify the assets that might be seized but it is widely speculated that the targets could include bank accounts as well as mobile and immobile property, including the assets of public sector enterprises such as state-owned Air India, but not diplomatic assets. Earlier this month, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur had told Lok Sabha that the Cairn arbitration award was "under consideration of the government." Cairn Energy had in 2011, sold Cairn India to mining billionaire Anil Agarwal's Vedanta Group, barring a minor stake of 9.8 per cent. It wanted to sell the residual stake as well but was barred by the I-T department from doing so. The government also froze the payment of dividends by Cairn India to Cairn Energy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 300 points in early trade on Wednesday tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and TCS amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 310.50 points or 0.60 per cent lower at 51,793.67. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 74.35 points or 0.49 per cent down at 15,239.10. Nestle India was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by ONGC, HDFC, TCS, PowerGrid and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, SBI, Bajaj Finance and Reliance Industries were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex settled 49.96 points or 0.10 per cent lower at 52,104.17, and Nifty inched 1.25 points or 0.01 per cent lower to close at 15,313.45. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,144.09 crore on Tuesday, according to exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic markets do not look to be inspiring at the moment. A continued buying from FPIs has been a major driving force for the market in the recent period. The recent revival in earnings rebound is likely to sustain in subsequent fiscals. However, rise in commodity prices and risk emanating from hardening bold yields could be a medium-term concern. While we remain positive about the outlook of equities for the long-term perspective, markets may witness some amount of pullback in the near term and rotational trading might be visible, he said. Modi noted that US equities finished mostly lower on Tuesday as sharp spike in 10-year treasury yield and energy prices dampened investors' sentiments. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while those in Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.21 per cent higher at USD 63.48 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman holds post-budget meeting with RBI central board||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman outlined the main points of the Union Budget for 2021-22 and discussed the road map to fiscal consolidation and borrowing plan with the Reserve Bank of India’s central board in their first meeting after the presentation of the Union budget. According to tradition, the finance minister holds a customary meeting with the board members of the RBI and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) after the budget presentation every year. The finance minister addressed the 587th RBI central board meeting and informed the members about the key initiatives in the budget and the priorities of the government, the RBI said in a statement. “Complimenting the finance minister on the budget, the board members made various suggestions for consideration of the government,” it added. The board reviewed the current economic situation, global and domestic challenges and various areas of operations of the RBI, including ways for strengthening of grievance redress mechanism in banks. Earlier this month, the finance minister presented a Rs 34.5 lakh crore-budget for 2021-22 in the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic. The budget has laid emphasis on increasing capital expenditure, raising allocation for healthcare capacity building and development of agriculture infrastructure, among others. In the aftermath of the disruptions wrecked by the coronavirus pandemic, the economy is expected to contract 7.7% this financial year ending in March. The RBI has pegged real GDP growth at 10.5% for fiscal 2021-22, based on factors such as improved capacity utilisation at factories and energy demand. Fiscal deficit is expected to hit a record high of 9.5% of GDP in the current fiscal. For fiscal 2021-22, fiscal deficit is pegged at 6.8% of GDP. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das has assured that the central bank will support the Rs12 lakh crore government borrowing program in the next financial year in a non-disruptive manner. In its monetary policy committee (MPC) meeting earlier this month, RBI announced several measures, such as allowing retail investors to open Gilt or G-Sec accounts with the central bank, a move that will help deepen India's bond market. The meeting, held via videoconferencing, was attended by minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Singh Thakur, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey and secretary, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management, Tuhin Kanta Pandey, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Future Group’s creditors mull options to recover loans||Future Group’s creditors are exploring options to recover more than $2.5 billion in loans, amid worries the Indian retailer’s planned sale of assets to Reliance Industries could fail, four bankers with knowledge of the matter said. Future may face liquidation if the deal, already mired in legal wrangling, falls through and banks are actively discussing an alternate one-time restructuring option that could include an easier repayment tenure and fresh capital infusion, the people said on condition of anonymity as the talks are private. “Without Reliance, there is no future for Future,” one of the bankers at a major state-owned lender said. Bankers have discussed a restructuring plan in the past week and are drawing up a blueprint, the sources said. Future’s top financial creditors include India’s largest lender State Bank of India, along with smaller rivals Bank of Baroda and Bank of India. The three banks, Future Group and Reliance did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Future, India’s No.2 retailer with more than 1,700 stores, has been hit hard by the pandemic and agreed to sell most of its retail assets to Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance in a $3.4 billion deal. The transaction, however, has faced legal hurdles with e-commerce giant Amazon.com alleging that Future, by agreeing to sell assets to Reliance, was violating terms of a deal the US firm had struck with a Future Group entity. Future denies any wrongdoing. The deal was temporarily blocked by the Delhi high court but subsequently the order was struck down. Amazon has now taken the matter to the Supreme Court. The Future-Reliance deal will help creditors recover up to 80 per cent of their dues, the four bankers estimate. The troubled retailer’s over $2.5 billion debt includes loans from banks and money owed to operational creditors. SAT relief for Biyani The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has stayed the order passed by market regulator Sebi that had put a one-year ban on Future Retail chairperson Kishore Biyani and some other promoters from the securities market. SAT has also directed the Future Group promoters to deposit a sum of Rs 11 crore as an interim measure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Tata Communications join hands with Google Cloud for cloud computing services||Tata Communications on Tuesday joined hands with Google Cloud to drive cloud adoption among Indian businesses. The announcement of the partnership led to the shares of Tata Communications climbing close to 6 per cent on the BSE to Rs 1,050.90. Tata Communications said the deal had expanded its managed public cloud services portfolio to include the capabilities of Google Cloud. The partnership is expected to enable organisations to deploy and access Google Cloud services through Tata Communications’ “IZO Managed Cloud” platform. Companies will get access to end-to-end services, including cloud architecture planning and workload migration. Since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, technology firms have been witnessing a rise in demand for services such as cloud computing. A cloud is where various services can be accessed from the Internet through a provider. Tata Communications said as a Google Cloud India partner, it will support organisations with services across infrastructure modernisation, data centre transformation, application modernisation and smart analytics. According to the company, with the current global scenario, there is wider recognition for business resilience and agility that cloud enables and most businesses are now beginning to explore a cloud-first model. “The current demands on enterprises to manage and optimise their cloud solutions has never been more important, especially in the wake of Covid-19 and our increasing reliance on cloud infrastructure,” Rajesh Awasthi, global head of cloud and managed hosting services at Tata Communications said. As organisations migrate to Google Cloud, they need a partner that will support them across their entire IT ecosystem and deliver a unified cloud management platform that offers greater transparency, control and security of their data and applications, Awasthi said. Tata Communications, erstwhile VSNL was in the news last month when the Government said that it will sell its entire 26.12 per cent stake in the company through offer for sale and strategic sale route in the current fiscal. In a notice, the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) had said that a part of the shareholding will be offered through offer for sale (OFS) and the balance, including any leftover portion in the OFS, will be offered to strategic partner Panatone Finvest Ltd.  The transaction is to be completed by March 20, 2021, the DIPAM had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Tata group inks deal to buy 68 per cent stake in BigBasket||The Tata group is reportedly picking up 68 per cent in online grocer BigBasket for Rs 9,500 crore a deal that could see the exit of Alibaba and some other investors. According to a TV report on Tuesday, the enterprise value — market capitalisation plus debt — of BigBasket has been set at Rs 14,500 crore. The top management of the online grocer, led by co-founder Hari Menon, is likely to stay for around three years. The reported negotiations come at a time the Tata group is building a super-app that will offer a wide range of products under one roof. The entry of the Tatas could increase competition in India’s online grocery segment dotted by players such as Flipkart, Amazon’s Fresh and Reliance Retail. There have been reports of the Tatas planning to acquire online pharmacy firm 1mg. “India’s e-commerce market is the largest opportunity in the country’s Internet industry. It was worth close to Rs 22,600 crore ($31 billion) in 2019, after expanding at an impressive five-year CAGR (compounded annual growth rate) of 39 per cent. We expect the industry gross merchandise value (GMV) to be worth $100 billion by 2025,’’ analysts at HSBC said in a recent report. HSBC said online retail makes up just 4.7 per cent of the Rs 48 lakh crore Indian retail market. Apparel, footwear and consumer electronics (primarily mobile phones) account for 44 per cent of e-commerce sales in 2019. The bulk of these sales are made in online marketplaces such as Flipkart and Amazon, aided by their distribution reach, ease of payment, and flexible return policies. The report said other categories were expanding rapidly from a small base. Home care items were growing the fastest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Amazon to start manufacturing Fire TV stick devices in India||Amazon.com Inc on Tuesday said it would start manufacturing its devices in the country giving a huge boost to the Modi-government’s Make in India initiative. The e-commerce giant will first make the Fire TV stick, a streaming device. A company blog said production would start later this year at the Chennai facilities of Cloud Network Technology, a contract manufacturer which is a subsidiary of Foxconn. Amazon did not offer any investment details. The company said production would meet the demand in India and it was open to scaling up operations by setting up facilities in the other parts of the country depending upon the demand. The announcement comes at a time the online giant is locked in a legal tussle with the Future group over the Kishore Biyani company’s Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. Amit Agarwal, senior vice-president and country head, Amazon India, on Tuesday discussed the company’s proposals with electronics and information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. “Amazon is committed to partner with the Indian government to advance the vision of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat. We have pledged to invest $1 billion to digitise 10 million small and medium businesses, help Indian businesses sell worldwide thereby enabling $10 billion in cumulative exports, and create an additional one million jobs by 2025,” Agarwal said. Last year, the company had announced the ‘Local Shops on Amazon’ programme to help retailers and local shops build an online presence. Amazon has registered over 22,000 neighbourhood stores with itself, building their online presence and becoming an additional pickup point, logistics partners and experience centres for e-commerce. “We welcome Amazon’s decision to set up a manufacturing line in Chennai, as it will enhance domestic production capacities, and create jobs as well. This will further our mission of creating a Atmanirbhar Bharat which is digitally empowered,” Prasad said. Prasad later in a tweet said he had asked Amazon India to take products made by India’s artisans and Ayurvedic items to the global markets.  “Amazon is a global company but Amazon India must evolve as a truly Indian company deeply connected with the Indian business community and culture.’’ PLI scheme Last year, the government had announced a Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme to step up manufacturing capacity. Already Apple and Samsung are producing smartphones in India through their partners. Dixon Technologies, a contract manufacturer of electronic goods, on Monday said its wholly owned subsidiary Padget Electronics has entered into an agreement with HMD India to manufacture Nokia phones in Noida. Padget Electronics had entered into a similar deal with Motorola to manufacture its smartphones at the Noida plant. “India is an attractive investment destination and is poised to become a major player in the global supply chain in the electronics and IT products industry. Our government’s decision to launch a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme has received tremendous response globally,” Prasad said. He said Amazon’s decision to set up a manufacturing line in Chennai is a welcome move and it will enhance domestic production capacities and create jobs as well. He also urged the e-commerce major to also select a few villages in India and develop them as fully digital villages. Amazon should also work with small local shops and make them a stakeholder in the larger efforts of Amazon to grow its business, Prasad added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
17-02-2021||Business||EPFO likely to announce rate of interest on PF deposits for 2020-21||Retirement fund body EPFO is likely to announce the rate of interest on provident fund deposits for 2020-21 on March 4 when its Central Board of Trustees will meet at Srinagar. K.E. Raghunathan, an EPFO trustee, said that on Monday he received the intimation that the next CBT meeting is scheduled to be held on March 4, at Srinagar and that the agenda papers are likely to be sent soon. He said that there is no mention about the discussion on interest rate for 2020-21 in the intimation mail. Speculation is rife that the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) may lower interest on provident fund deposits for this fiscal (2020-21) from 8.5 per cent provided for 2019-20 in view of more withdrawals and lesser contribution by members during this fiscal mainly because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Last year in March, the EPFO had lowered its interest rate on provident fund deposits to a seven-year low of 8.5 per cent for 2019-20 from 8.65 per cent in 2018-19. The EPF interest rate provided for 2019-20 at 8.5 per cent was the lowest since 2012-13. The EPFO had provided an 8.65 per cent interest rate to its subscribers for 2016-17, and 8.55 per cent in 2017-18. The rate of interest was slightly higher at 8.8 per cent in 2015-16. The fund had given an 8.75 per cent rate of interest in 2013-14 as well as in 2014-15, higher than 8.5 per cent for 2012-13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
17-02-2021||Business|| Unacademy announces acquisition of majority stake in TapChief||Edtech major Unacademy on Tuesday announced the acquisition of a majority stake in professional networking platform TapChief. As part of the deal, Unacademy will acquire a majority stake in TapChief and enable the exit of all existing investors, a statement said. Unacademy said post the acquisition, TapChief will join the Unacademy Group with a valuation of Rs 100 crore. It, however, did not provide details about the quantum of stake acquired, the investors exiting. TapChief has more than 1.5 lakh registered professionals, who use the platform to collaborate with a number of experts from their chosen domains and take up short-term professional projects. Founded in 2016 by Shashank Murali, Binay Krishna, and Arjun Krishna, TapChief caters to over 150 enterprise customers across sectors such as education, FMCG, and e-commerce . The company has raised funding from Blume Ventures, Cred founder Kunal Shah, former Flipkart executive Mekin Maheshwari, Aprameya Radhakrishna of TaxiForSure and others. “Our endeavour at Unacademy has always been to democratise education and make learning accessible and affordable . TapChief shares a similar ethos in a different space, as evident from the open community of professionals and learners they've created,” Unacademy Group co-founder and CEO Gaurav Munjal said. Unacademy Group consists of Unacademy, PrepLadder, Mastree, CodeChef, and Graphy. The company is backed by investors like Tiger Global, Dragoneer Investment Group, SoftBank Vision Fund 2, Facebook, General Atlantic, Sequoia India, SAIF Partners, Nexus Venture Partners, Steadview Capital, and Blume Ventures. Shashank Murali, co-founder and CEO of TapChief, said the company's mission has been to empower the modern Indian professional with access to a wide array of opportunities that enhance their career and growth. ”We are excited to learn from the Unacademy team and carry forward our mission at a greater scale and fervour as part of the Unacademy Group,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
17-02-2021||Business||Supreme Court asks govt to clarify on OTT curbs||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to file an affidavit explaining the measures being taken by the government to rein in Over the Top (OTT) platforms such as Amazon Prime, Netflix, Disney + Hotstar and Zee from telecasting uncensored movies and serials on their networks. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, Justices A.S. Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian while directing the government to file its response posted the matter for further hearing after four weeks. The court passed the directions while dealing with a petition filed by advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha in October last year when the court had initially issued a notice. The bench on Tuesday wanted the petitioner to withdraw the case and make a representation to the information ministry to prepare the necessary guidelines. Additional solicitor general K.M. Natraj who was present in the court said the government was “contemplating some action” on taking measures to regulate the content over OTTs. “Everybody in this world can contemplate. But you put it in writing what you want to say and what you are going to do…”Justice Bobde told Natraj. The petitioner has complained that there is unbridled telecast of crime, sex and other objectionable portions in the networks which have a tendency to corrupt the minds of the viewers. Unlike feature films, there is no censor certificate or proper regulation of the content. The petitioner had urged the apex court to direct the government to set up a suitable mechanism to deal with the issue. The petitioner had pleaded the court direct the government to set up a proper board/institution /association for the monitoring and management of content on different OTT/Streaming and digital media platforms. “With cinema theatres unlikely to open anytime soon in the country, OTT/Streaming and different digital media platforms have surely given a way out for film makers and artists to release their content without being worried about getting clearance certificates for their films and series from the censor board,” the plea said. The petitioner said lack of legislation governing was becoming evident with each passing day and every new case that was filed on these grounds. The government is facing heat to fill this lacuna with regulations from the public and the Judiciary; still the relevant government departments have not done anything significant to regularise these OTT/Streaming Platforms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
17-02-2021||India||Maharashtra Cabinet clears caravan tourism policy to revive the sector||Against the backdrop of Covid-19 and need for safe travel, the Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday approved a new 'caravan tourism' policy that seeks to provide incentives to tour operators and at the same time boost employment opportunities in the pandemic-battered sector. The policy, aimed at addressing safety concerns of travel enthusiasts, was cleared at the weekly cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The policy has two parts - caravan and caravan parks - allowing tourists to enjoy the state's natural beauty and a range of other attractions, a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said. It will also boost employment opportunities in the tourism sector, which has been badly affected by the pandemic, it said. A caravan is a specially-built vehicle used for the purpose of travel, leisure and accommodation. A caravan park is a place where such vehicles can stay overnight and provide amenities and facilities for tourists. Benefits like waiver of stamp and electricity duties, and GST refund will be provided to tour operators under the policy, the statement said. Caravans and caravan parks will have to be registered with the tourism directorate, which will train their promoters in marketing, management and hygiene aspects, it said. The CMO statement said accommodation facilities for tourists and private investment will get a boost under the policy. Family picnics can be arranged in places other than hotels and resorts and no development zones can be utilised better, it said, adding that remote areas with tourist attractions will become easily accessible. Caravan parks can be set up in places which are well equipped with basic amenities like water, road and electricity, the statement said. Caravans can be parked in these places, which can come upon private or government land. Owners of caravan parks will have to ensure the safety and security of travellers and provide them necessary facilities, including for the differently-abled, the statement said. Caravan parks can also come up on the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) guest house areas and open land belonging to the state-run body. The statement said caravans will have beds, kitchens, toilets, sofas and tables and these vehicles in different sizes will be registered with the transport commissioner apart from the tourism directorate. Registration fee will be Rs 5,000 and licence of operators will be renewed on payment of Rs 2,000, it said. In another decision, the cabinet gave a go-ahead for setting up a skilled university while centres of excellence in all the six revenue divisions of the state. These will function as divisional centres of the university, the statement said. The cabinet also approved the Pimpri-Chinchwad-Nigdi elevated line of the Pune metro project. The existing Pimpri-Chinchwad-Swargate route has been amended for the purpose and the extended line will cost Rs 946.73 crore and have three stations, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||PM Modi to address top military commanders at Combined Commanders’ Conference in Kevadia||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the top commanders of the three defence forces at the Combined Commanders’ Conference in Gujarat’s Kevadia in the first week of March. "The Combined Commanders' Conference 2021 is scheduled to be held at Kevadia in Gujarat. The Prime Minister would be addressing the top commanders of the Indian Army, Air Force and the Navy at the event and is expected to give directions to the defence forces for being prepared for the challenges in the near and distant future," as reported by ANI. The Commanders' Conference is attended by the commander-in-chief rank officers of the three services and the tri-services organisations such as the Integrated Defence Staff Headquarters, Strategic Forces Command and the Port Blair-based Andaman and Nicobar Command. The conference would also see the participation of the Chief of Defence Staff. This post was created soon after the government came to power in 2019 as one of the first major military reforms. During the event, presentations regarding the progress made in the field of the creation of theatre commands are expected to be given to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is also expected to be briefed on the restructuring of the Army formations in view of the recent Chinese aggression in the Ladakh sector. As per plans, the Defence Ministry will be creating the Air Defence Command as the first step towards restructuring of defence forces in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||Cabinet clears signing of free trade agreement between India and Mauritius||More than 300 domestic goods from agriculture, textiles, electronics and other sectors will get market access at concessional customs duties in Mauritius, with the Indian government on Wednesday approving the signing of a free trade agreement between the two countries. The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has approved signing of the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation and Partnership Agreement (CECPA) between India and Mauritius, an official statement said. It said that Mauritius will benefit from preferential market access into India for its 615 products, including frozen fish, speciality sugar, biscuits, fresh fruits, juices, mineral water, beer, alcoholic drinks, soaps, bags, medical and surgical equipment, and apparel. "The CECPA between India and Mauritius covers 310 export items for India, including food stuff and beverages (80 lines), agricultural products (25 lines), textile and textile articles (27 lines), base metals and articles thereof (32 lines), electricals and electronic item (13 lines), plastics and chemicals (20 lines), wood and articles thereof (15 lines), and others," the statement said. In a free trade agreement, two trading partners cut or eliminate customs duties on a host of products besides liberalising norms to promote services trade. With respect to trade in services, Indian service providers will have access to around 115 sub-sectors from the 11 broad service segments such as research and development, telecommunication, construction, distribution, education, environmental, financial, tourism, recreational, yoga, audio-visual services, and transport services. On the other hand, India has offered around 95 sub-sectors from the 11 broad services sectors, including professional services, R&D, telecommunication, financial, distribution, higher education, environmental, health, tourism, recreational and transport services. Both sides have also agreed to negotiate an Automatic Trigger Safeguard Mechanism (ATSM) for a limited number of highly sensitive products within two years of the signing of the pact. The agreement will be signed on a mutually convenient date and will come into force from the first date of the following month. According to the statement, it will be the first trade agreement to be signed by India with a country in Africa. It is a limited agreement, which will cover trade in goods, rules of origin, trade in services, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary (related to food safety and animal and plant health protection) measures, dispute settlement, movement of professionals, telecom, financial services, customs procedures and cooperation in other areas, it added. India and Mauritius have been negotiating this pact since 2005. This is the first such agreement approved for signing by the Modi government since it came to power in 2014. The bilateral trade between the countries dipped to USD 690 million in 2019-20 from USD 1.2 billion in 2018-19. While India's exports in 2019-20 aggregated to USD 662 million, the imports stood at USD 27.89 million. Mauritius was the second top source of foreign direct investment into India in 2019-20. India received USD 8.24 billion (about Rs 57,785 crore) foreign inflows from that country in the last fiscal. India has implemented free trade pacts with countries like Japan, Korea and ASEAN (Association of South-East Asian Nations). It is also negotiating similar agreements with Australia, New Zealand and the European Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||Apollo plans to launch private market for Covid-19 vaccines by March||Apollo Hospitals Enterprises on Wednesday said it plans to launch a private market for vaccines against Covid-19 within weeks across the country, a move that may help in making India achieve its August target, Bloomberg reported. In an interview with Bloomberg Television, the health care chain’s Managing Director Suneeta Reddy said they are working with the Centre to provide vaccines for health workers, and has also trained 6,000 people besides allocating 3,500 inoculation sites. “Our expectation is maybe March. We have the advantage of so much of the manufacturing happening in India, so there will be vaccinations available unlike in a lot of other countries. There is great potential to cover many more people,” Reddy said. Eleven states have inoculated less than half their healthcare workers with Covid-19 vaccines, according to Union health ministry data released on Tuesday that underline the challenge ahead to meet the deadline a week away. India has inoculated over 6.1 million healthcare workers, about 61 per cent of nearly 10 million nationwide due to receive the vaccines, since the vaccination campaign began on January 16, but the states lagging are causing concern among health officials. The health ministry has set a February 24 deadline for healthcare workers to receive first doses of the vaccines and plans to start the campaign to inoculate people above the age of 50 years in March. Over 2.4 million, or about 26 per cent, of around 20 million frontline workers across the country have also received the first doses of the vaccines. Eight states have already vaccinated 40 per cent or more of their frontline workers, but 10 states have covered less than 10 per cent. However, at this rate, India will fall short of its target to inoculate 300 million people by August, Bloomberg reports. “I believe it's achievable, but I do believe public and private have to work together. We can exceed those numbers -- if we do achieve these vaccination goals, India will be well prepared for the second wave,” Reddy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||China prepares for Round 2 of disengagement at LAC: Report||Large numbers of tank transporters near the headquarters of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Rudok and Xiadullah across Rezang La and Karakoram Pass indicate that the Chinese Army are making preparations for the second round of disengagement, Hindustan Times reported on Wednesday quoting experts. The disengagement of Indian and Chinese troops across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) began last week, ending a 10-month-long standoff between the two armies in Eastern Ladakh. From February 10, frontline troops of China and India at the south and north banks of the Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh started synchronised and organised disengagement, the Chinese defence ministry announced. “All I can say is that the disengagement process is moving on well, though the date of next meeting of military commanders is yet to be decided,” Hindustan Times quoted a senior Indian official as saying. The Indian government, however, acknowledged this the next morning. Presenting a statement at the Parliament, defence minister Rajnath Singh said: “The agreement that we have been able to reach with the Chinese side for disengagement in the Pangong Lake area envisages that both sides will cease their forward deployments in a phased, coordinated and verified manner.” He added: “The Chinese side will keep its troop presence in the north bank area to east of Finger 8. Reciprocally, the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3. A similar action would be taken in the south bank area by both sides.” The militaries of China and India have been engaged in a tense standoff in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. The two countries have held several rounds of military and diplomatic-level talks to resolve the face-off. On January 24, the ninth round of China-India Corps Commander-level meeting was held on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||Threatened over donating money for Ram Temple, alleges HD Kumaraswamy ||Days after stoking controversy with his multiple tweets on the Ram Temple donation drive, former Karnataka chief minister and JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy on Wednesday alleged that he was threatened to donate for the construction of the shrine in Ayodhya. The former Karnataka CM alleged three people, including a woman, came to his house and threatened him for not giving donation for the construction of Ram Temple. "Who is giving the information? Where is the transparency? Several street people are collecting donations by threatening many. I’m also a victim. Some three persons, including a lady, came to my house and they threatened me and said ‘why are you not giving the money’. I request VHP people to be transparent,” he said while speaking to reporters. Kumaraswamy on Monday took to Twitter to accuse the RSS of marking houses of those who did not give donations for Ram Temple in Ayodhya and alleged it was similar to what the Nazis did in Germany.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||Two persons from 'Delhi police' seized Shantanu Muluk's hard disk from house, says father||Two persons claiming to be the personnel of Delhi Police seized a computer hard disk and other items from the house of green activist Shantanu Muluk, a suspect in the "toolkit" case related to the farmers' protest, without a search warrant on February 12, in Beed in Maharashtra, his father Shivlal Muluk has told local police. Beed superintendent of police Raja Ramaswami said on Wednesday that Shivlal Muluk made a representation to the police on Tuesday. "We got representation yesterday. We'll enquire & accordingly take needful action (sic)," reads the message texted to PTI by Ramaswami. On Tuesday, the Bombay High Court granted transit anticipatory bail to Shantanu Muluk for 10 days. Shivlal Muluk, 54, made the representation as a "responsible citizen" to Beed Police and urged the SP to take appropriate action regarding the 'search' conducted at his house, an official said. The letter stated that two persons visited the residence of the Muluks in Chanakyapuri area in Beed on February 12 around 5.30 am and introduced themselves as officials of the Delhi Police by showing their identity cards, the official said. The duo told the Muluk family that Delhi Police wanted to know about Shantanu, saying he had committed treason and he had been in contact with pro-Khalistan people, the official said quoting the letter. The duo then searched all rooms in the house and took away a hard disk, an environment-related poster, a book, and a mobile phone cover from Shantanu Muluk's room, it stated. According to Shivlal Muluk, the police officials did not show any search warrant and also didn't obtain any permission from the family before taking away these items, the letter said. The police officials also didn't prepare any 'panchnama' of the seized material, it stated. A Panchnama is a record of witness testimony, usually prepared by the police, during the investigation of a crime or after a death. The police officials also told the Muluk family that the seized material will be returned to them later, as per the representation. Shivlal Muluk also claimed that the visiting police team had asked him to come to the government guest house in Beed for questioning. The letter stated that Shivlal Muluk as a "responsible citizen" was informing about the visit of the Delhi Police to Beed SP as no local government official accompanied them. When contacted on phone, Shivlal Muluk said on Wednesday that he was not in a condition to speak. According to the Delhi police, Shantanu Muluk and Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob along with arrested accused Disha Ravi, an activist from Bengaluru, were allegedly involved in preparing the document and were in direct touch with "pro-Khalistani elements". On Wednesday, the Bombay HC also granted transit anticipatory bail to Jacob. The Delhi police on Monday alleged that Ravi along with Jacob and Shantanu had created the toolkit and shared it with others to tarnish India's image. Greta Thunberg, a celebrated climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend support to the farmers' agitation near Delhi borders against the Union government's new agri laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||Congress sweeps Punjab municipal corporation polls||The ruling Congress on Wednesday won seven municipal corporations in Punjab’s state local body polls, media organisations reported. However, according to a PTI update at 3:45 pm, the party had won six seats. The results for seven corporations -- Moga, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Abohar, Pathankot, Batala, and Bathinda -- were declared on Wednesday, and Congress had clearly sweeped all of them, according to media organisations. The win in Bathinda, represented by Shiromani Akali Dal’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal in the Lok Sabha, came as a surprise after 53 years. Manpreet Singh Badal, who represents the Bathinda urban assembly seat, tweeted expressing happiness over the win. “Bathinda will get a Congress Mayor for the 1st time in 53 years! Thank you to ALL Bathinda residents,” he said. The counting of votes started at 9 am for elections to 2,302 wards of eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils in the state. The State Election Commission had ordered on Tuesday re-polling at two polling booths of the Mohali Municipal Corporation. Therefore, the counting for the entire civic body will take place on Thursday. Tight security arrangements have been made at the counting centres, they further said. Over 70 per cent voting was recorded in the civic body elections on February 14. A total of 9,222 candidates were in the fray, of which 2,832 were independents, 2,037 from the ruling Congress and 1,569 from the Shiromani Akali Dal. The BJP, AAP and the BSP had fielded 1,003, 1,606 and 160 candidates respectively. The BJP and the Akali Dal, which walked out of the National Democratic Alliance last year over the farm laws issue, have fought the elections separately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||Journalist Priya Ramani acquitted in defamation case filed by former minister MJ Akbar||A Delhi Court on Wednesday acquitted journalist Priya Ramani in M J Akbar's criminal defamation case against her over the allegations of sexual harassment, saying a woman has the right to put grievances before any platform of her choice even after decades. Ramani had accused the former editor of sexual misconduct amid the #MeToo movement of 2018. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey dismissed the complaint filed by Akbar saying that no charges were proved against her. "Women can't be punished for raising instances of sexual abuse," the court said, adding, "The Indian constitution allows women to put forward her grievances before any forum and at any time". The court said it is shameful that crimes against women are taking place in a country where mega epics like Mahabharata and Ramayana were written about respecting them. "The glass ceiling will not prevent Indian women as a roadblock in advancement in society of equal opportunities," it said, adding that the society must understand the impact of sexual abuse and harassment on its victims. The court, while referring to MJ Akbar's claim that Ms Ramani's allegations had tarnished his image, observed that the right of reputation cannot be protected at the cost of right to dignity. In a newspaper article, Ramani had said the alleged sexual misconduct took place around 20 years ago, when Akbar headed Asian Age. He had called her to his hotel bedroom for a job interview and behaved inappropriately, she had said. Akbar had filed the complaint against Ramani on October 15, 2018 for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct decades ago. He resigned as a Union minister on October 17, 2018. He has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment against the women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||SC allows MP, HP to be parties on plea challenging interfaith marriage laws||The Supreme Court Wednesday permitted an NGO to make Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh as parties to a pending petition challenging the controversial state laws regulating conversions due to inter-faith marriages. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde also allowed Muslim body Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind to become a party to the petition on the ground that a large number of Muslims are being harassed under these laws across the country. The apex court on January 6 had agreed to examine controversial new laws of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand regulating religious conversions due to interfaith marriages. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, however refused to stay the controversial provisions of the laws and issued notices to both the state governments on the petitions. The pleas, filed by advocate Vishal Thakre and others and an NGO 'Citizens for Justice and Peace', have challenged the Constitutional validity of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020 and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018 which regulate religious conversions of interfaith marriages. During the brief hearing, senior advocate C U Singh appeared for the NGO and sought impleadment of Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh as parties saying they have also framed laws on the lines of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The controversial UP ordinance was cleared by the state Cabinet and given assent by Governor Anandiben Patel on November 28. The ordinance relates to not only inter-faith marriages but all religious conversions and lays down elaborate procedures for any person who wishes to convert to another religion. The Uttarakhand law entails a two-year jail term to any person or persons found guilty of religious conversion through force or allurement . The allurement can be in cash, in kind of employment, or material benefit. Thakre and others in their plea have said that they are aggrieved by the ordinance which curtails the fundamental rights of the citizens of India which has been provided in the Constitution. The plea said the laws passed by Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand against 'Love Jihad' and punishments thereof may be declared ultra vires and null and void, because they disturb the basic structure of the Constitution as laid down by the law. It said they are against public policy and society at large. The plea filed by Mumbai based NGO said that both the legislations violate Articles 21 and 25, as they empower the state to suppress an individual's personal liberty and the freedom to practice religion of one's choice. Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind, in its application filed through advocate Ejaj Maqbool, raises the issue of fundamental rights of the Muslim youth who are being allegedly targeted and demonised by using the impugned ordinance, which in itself is unconstitutional being violative of Articles 14, 21 and 25. The application said that besides Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have also enacted similar legislations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Modi's advice for Indian start-ups||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday urged India's startup founders to think how to create institutions and not focus on valuations alone. Addressing the Nasscom Technology and Leadership Forum here, Modi said that startups should not restrict themselves only to valuations on exit strategies. They should think of creating an institution that can outlive this century by creating world class products that will set the global benchmark of excellence. The Prime Minister further said the large population of the country is the IT industry's biggest strength as people are eager to adopt newer solutions. IT industry's corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts to develop lateral thinking in rural kids can prove to be a gamechanger for India, Modi noted. The country is not short of ideas, he said, adding that it needs mentors to help turn ideas into reality. The IT industry will have to develop solutions for societal good which leverage on the wide optical fiber cable (OFC) network we are laying across the country, Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Nikita Jacob granted transit anticipatory bail by Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted transit anticipatory bail to advocate Nikita Jacob, a suspect in a case registered by Delhi police in connection with the "toolkit" shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg over the ongoing farmers' protest. Justice P D Naik gave Jacob three weeks' time to approach the court concerned in Delhi for relief. The court in its order noted the applicant (Jacob) is a permanent resident of Mumbai and the FIR is lodged in Delhi, and the relief sought by her now is only temporary. "The applicant apprehends that she will be arrested at any point of time. She has to make arrangements to seek relief from a court in another state. Hence, this court is of the opinion that protection as sought by the applicant can be granted for a temporary period," Justice Naik said. The HC said since Jacob would be approaching the court concerned in Delhi to seek anticipatory bail, it would not be appropriate for this court to make any observations on merits of the case. "The applicant is granted transit anticipatory bail for a period of three weeks to enable her to approach the court concerned in Delhi," Justice Naik said. The court said if Jacob is arrested in the three-week period, then she shall be released after furnishing a bond of Rs 25,000. Justice Naik also took note of the fact that another suspect in the case, Shantanu Muluk, an engineer based in Maharashtra's Beed district, was granted transit anticipatory bail for 10 days by the HC's Aurangabad bench on Tuesday. Jacob and Muluk, who claim to be environmental activists, had approached the Bombay HC after a Delhi court issued non-bailable warrants against them. According to the Delhi police, the two along with arrested accused Disha Ravi, an activist from Bengaluru, were allegedly involved in preparing the document and were in direct touch with "pro-Khalistani elements". The Delhi police on Monday alleged that Ravi along with Jacob and Shantanu created the toolkit and shared it with others to tarnish India's image. The accused persons have been booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 124(a) for sedition, 153(a) for promoting enmity between different sections of the society and 120(b) for criminal conspiracy. Jacob's plea was opposed by the Delhi police's cyber cell which sought dismissal of the same. Advocate Hiten Venegavkar, appearing for the Delhi police, on Tuesday argued that this court does not have the jurisdiction to grant any relief as the FIR is lodged in another state. He further said when the Delhi police team searched Jacob's house on February 11, they had informed her that they would be questioning her further on February 12. "However, Jacob went absconding since then. Due to this, the Delhi court issued a non-bailable warrant," Venegavkar said. He claimed Jacob and Disha Ravi had authored and created the toolkit document, which gave detailed directions on how the protest should be carried out, and it was made much before the January 26 "riot" incident at the Red Fort in Delhi. Senior counsel Mihir Desai, appearing for Jacob, had argued that the toolkit was prepared by a number of people in support of the farmers and does not talk about violence or the Red Fort incident. Desai said Jacob apprehended arrest, which was fortified by the issuance of a non-bailable warrant, and hence, left her house on February 12 and moved this court seeking transit anticipatory bail. Jacob and Muluk in their pleas said they were targets of political vendetta. Greta Thunberg, a celebrated climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend support to the farmers' agitation near Delhi borders against the Union government's new agri laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||R-Day violence: Man seen in video swinging swords at Red Fort arrested||A 30-year-old man who was allegedly swinging swords that "motivated" the protesters at the Red Fort during the violence in Delhi on Republic Day has been arrested, police said on Wednesday. Maninder Singh, who works as a car AC mechanic, was arrested around 7.45 pm on Tuesday near the C D block bus stop in Pitampura in northwest Delhi. "Singh was seen in a video swinging two swords at Red Fort with intent to motivate or radicalise and energise the violent anti-national elements indulging in brutal assault or attack on police persons on duty with swords, 'khandas', iron rods, axes, 'barsaas', sticks etc and damaging historical monument Red Fort on Republic Day," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said. The suspect, who runs a sword-training school in an empty plot near his house in Swaroop Nagar, has "disclosed to have been radicalised by seeing provoking Facebook posts of various groups. He used to frequently visit Singhu Border and was highly motivated by speeches made by leaders there", police said. Thousands of protesters had clashed with the police during the tractor parade called by farmer unions on January 26 to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some of them even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts. According to police, Singh had "motivated" six people of the neighbourhood. All six of them, riding upon bikes, had accompanied tractor rally of farmers heading from Singhu border towards Mukarba Chowk on Republic Day. Before joining tractors parade, Maninder had kept two swords with him -- 'khandas' having a size of 4.3 feet -- that were used in swinging at Red Fort. The swords have accused recovered from his house, police said. As per their plan, the suspect and with his five associates and other unknown armed miscreants entered the Red Fort and he did sword dance or swing. "That sword dance had motivated violent protesters to cause more mayhem at Red Fort by indulging in all sorts of violence against public servants, including policemen on duty there, and causing damage to historical monument of Red Fort," Kushwah said. A long video of him purportedly swinging swords at Red Fort on January 26 has been found in his mobile phone. Other photos of his presence at Singhu border are in his phone, police said, adding that an investigation was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||India logs 11,610 fresh Covid cases, 100 casualties in a day||With 11,610 fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally has climbed to 1,09,37,320, while the number of recoveries has surged to 1,06,44,858, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. The death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,55,913 in the country with 100 more fatalities reported in a 24-hour period, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has climbed to 1,06,44,858, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.33 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. There are 1,36,549 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country currently, which account for only 1.25 per cent of its total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 20,79,77,229 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease in the country, including 6,44,931 on Tuesday. The 100 new fatalities include 39 from Maharashtra, 18 from Kerala and seven from Tamil Nadu. Of the total 1,55,913 COVID-19 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 51,591, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,432), Karnataka (12,273), Delhi (10,894), West Bengal (10,235), Uttar Pradesh (8,704) and Andhra Pradesh (7,163). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Kiran Bedi pens farewell note before leaving||Outgoing Lt Governor of Puducherry Kiran Bedi on Wednesday said whatever work done was a sacred duty fulfilling her constitutional and moral responsibilities. A day after she was removed as the Lt Governor of the Union Territory, the former IPS officer thanked the Centre for a life time experience in serving Puducherry. She also thanked all those who worked with her closely. Bedi said she could say with a deep sense of satisfaction that during her tenure 'Team Raj Nivas diligently worked to serve larger public interest'. Bedi, who has been at loggerheads with the elected government and particularly with Chief Minister V Narayanasamy also said "whatever was done was a sacred duty fulfilling my constitutional and moral responsibilities." She asserted that Puducherry has a very bright future. "It is now in the hands of the people." She wished for a prosperous Puducherry. In a surprise development late on Tuesday, the Rashtrapati Bhavan announced that Bedi will cease to hold the office of Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry, just a week after Narayanasamy petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind, urging him to recall her. Hailing the replacement of Bedi, the CM had said, "it marks victory for the rights of the people". Telangana Governor Tamizhisai Soundararajan has been assigned additional charge of Puducherry following removal of Lt Governor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||BJP to micro-manage poll campaign from Calcutta’s five-star hotel||If the chariot is a BharatBenz, where will the charioteers check in to blow the conch shells? A five-star hotel, of course. The BJP will micro-manage its Bengal poll campaign from the luxury of a five-star hotel — an uncommon choice in the state. The BJP’s Bengal unit is setting up a “media centre” at Hotel Hindusthan International (HHI). “We are booking several rooms at HHI, where our leaders coming from various parts of the country and state will stay and hold meetings till the Bengal elections are over,” a BJP leader said on the condition of anonymity. “A part of the hotel will be used as a media centre where news conferences will be held.” HHI officials said they were not aware of any bulk booking. Another source in the BJP said the party would book rooms in several other hotels ahead of the polls as several senior leaders would be camping in Calcutta. There is nothing unlawful about political parties working out of hotels. Hotels have been linked with political bases in the past — the most famous in the world was Watergate in the US, the complex where the eponymous hotel and the Democratic National Committee headquarters was located when the scandal that felled Richard Nixon broke. But it is not a familiar feature in Bengal. Political rivals took swipes at the BJP, calling it a party of the rich and saying the Election Commission should keep an eye on its poll expenses and sources of funds. BJP old-timers expressed surprise at the party’s decision, seeing it as antithetical to the RSS ideals of austerity and alien to Bengal’s political culture. They expressed the fear that such “extravagance” would not go down well with an electorate that had never seen elections being managed from a hotel. The rath that BJP national president J.P. Nadda had flagged off in Birbhum last week was a BharatBenz vehicle, according to data associated with the registration number. BharatBenz is a brand of Daimler India Commercial Vehicles, a subsidiary of the German manufacturer Daimler AG. “For several months now, the party has been operating from a new address at Hastings on Calcutta’s southern fringes. The party has leased four floors in the building, which is enough space to oversee elections,” a party member of 20 years said. “We can’t understand the need to additionally rent a luxurious address. In elections outside Bengal, the party does rent hotel rooms; the same culture is being replicated here.” The state BJP’s social media and IT teams operate from the building at Hastings, where almost every leader, including Trinamul Congress turncoat Rajib Banerjee, has a designated room. Sources said meals for at least 250 people are prepared at the Hastings office every day. Renting a host of rooms at star hotels in the run-up to elections became the norm for the BJP ever since the current crop of leaders replaced the generation of Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L.K. Advani. During last year’s Bihar elections, the BJP had booked a portion of a hotel in Patna where its senior leaders and star campaigners stayed during visits to the state. The party’s media centre too operated from the hotel. Several visiting seniors from Delhi and elsewhere, however, chose to stay at another luxury hotel near the Gandhi Maidan in Patna. In addition to renting the Hastings address, the Bengal BJP has renovated its headquarters, 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane, in central Calcutta. Apart from offices for leaders, the building houses a call centre for the party’s Calcutta zone. Once the election dates are announced, journalists will be restricted from entering the Hastings office and all news conferences will be held at Hotel Hindusthan, sources said. The BJP will also rent two upscale guesthouses in Calcutta with the elections in mind, they added. Political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty could not remember any political party renting a portion of a five-star hotel to supervise election management in the state before. “This is unprecedented. I can’t remember any political party booking rooms in a five-star hotel on a long-term basis for poll management,” he said. “However, this is the first time in 10 years that the Trinamul Congress is pitted against a party that can challenge it, not just politically but financially too.” Trinamul spokesperson Saugata Roy said: “This only shows that the BJP is a party of the rich. It has no connection with the poor. However, its expenditures will go in vain; it will lose the election.” CPM politburo member Mohammad Salim too castigated the BJP. “The BJP’s culture of five-star politics has set in since the advent of (Narendra) Modi and (Amit) Shah,” he said. “The money is coming from opaque sources like electoral bonds…. The hypocrisy is telling: BJP leaders check in at star hotels while indulging in the optics of eating at the homes of poor villagers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Evidence was planted in activist Wilson’s computer: US academic||A computing associate professor of Arizona State University has said a report that concluded evidence was planted in the computer of jailed human rights activist Rona Wilson “conclusively establishes that the malware was used for incriminating document delivery and there is no room for interpretation or doubt about this…”. “For an administration that admits to not even finding the instances of malware that are detectable by an ordinary virus scan software, leave alone the more sophisticated and custom installations of NetWire (the malware that was used to attack Wilson’s computer), to call the forensic report a distortion is unfortunate,” Jedidiah Crandall told an online news conference. Wilson, facing trial in the Bhima Koregaon case, has been in jail in Maharashtra for almost three years now. In response to a report in The Washington Post newspaper on the findings of Arsenal, the US consultant whose data forensics report has been filed in Bombay High Court, the National Investigation Agency had said it had found no evidence of malware in Wilson’s devices. Citing the Arsenal report, Wilson’s lawyers had recently asked Bombay High Court to quash the case. Crandall made his categorical assertion on Tuesday after reviewing the Arsenal report. Crandall has researched computer systems and cybersecurity and measured censorship, surveillance and other threats to Internet freedom to build a picture over time of how the Internet is evolving, according to Arizona University. At the media conference organised by a group called Mumbai Rises to Save Democracy, a lawyer and relatives of two of the 16 people jailed in the case spoke out against the NIA’s dismissal of the data forensics report. Rama Ambedkar, wife of jailed academic Anand Teltumdbe and granddaughter of B.R. Ambedkar, said: “This has gone on for too long. Arsenal has done the work that the responsible government agency should have done. We must immediately put this evidence at the centre of the case and not only release all accused on bail but also institute a special investigation team charged with the task of getting to the bottom of how such a conspiracy was created.” Sagar Abraham Gonsalves, the son of jailed academic Vernon Gonsalves, said: “At the time of the raid, spare phones, laptops and even CDs that were lying in the house were confiscated. My father asked for a clone copy back then, but he was refused.” Defence lawyer Mihir Desai pointed out: “In all, there were five instances of NetWire malware present on Wilson’s computer. Of these, two would have been detectable by ordinary anti-virus software. So, when the highest (investigative) agency of the country claims that no malware was detected, it points to either a complete inability to respond in the face of compelling evidence or sheer incompetence.” IIT Kanpur professor Sandeep Shukla added: “Other claims such as the possibility of the cloned hard drive being tampered with during transportation are reflective of a complete failure to understand the technical strength of good forensic analysis.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||No incitement in ‘toolkit’ content, says Justice Deepak Gupta||None of the contents of the toolkit linked to Disha Ravi and available in the public domain is an incitement to violence, former Supreme Court judge Deepak Gupta has said. The assessment strikes at the root of the sedition charge levelled against the young climate activist by Delhi police who arrested her from Bangalore over the weekend. Although the Supreme Court had upheld the sedition law (Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code) in 1962, its application was limited to acts involving intention or tendency to create disorder, or disturbance of law and order, or incitement to violence. Justice Gupta told The Telegraph on Tuesday: “Now specifically coming to this young lady, this Disha Ravi case, what I have read from the toolkit… that part of which is available on the public domain, all that it says is ‘we should all get together, have a social war on social media and target the government, create a Twitter storm against the government and then on the 26th (January) we will all move to Delhi and then come back to the border’. “Now, none of them is an incitement to violence, I would say. At best, you can say Section 144 CrPC (prohibition on gathering of five or more persons at a place) was applicable in Delhi on that day (January 26) and you have violated Section 144, but it is not an incitement to violence. I don’t find any link (of the toolkit schedule) to the Red Fort incident or anything.” Violation of Section 144 can entail a maximum punishment of three years in jail but police usually take violators into custody and release them after a few hours. Section 124A can send a convict to prison for life and usually the suspects are not given government jobs until they are cleared of the charge. Justice Gupta, who had spoken on the issue on NDTV on Monday, pointed out to this newspaper that the misuse of the sedition law was not confined to any particular dispensation. “It is not this government alone; in West Bengal, there was a cartoon and the person was arrested. There was some challenge to the PDS system in Chhattisgarh and the person was arrested. There is a growing misuse of the defamation law, the sedition law and the UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act) to stifle the voice of dissent,” he said. “Basically the idea is people get scared and they don’t speak up because nobody wants to go to jail. Some (governments) indulge in more, some indulge in less, but all of them indulge… almost all of them indulge…. “In 99 per cent of the sedition cases filed, they all end up in acquittal or discharge. Or the police do not file the chargesheet till three months or six months and the person goes home,” he said. Justice Gupta said that unfortunately even after Independence, instead of abolishing the sedition law, it was made harsher during  the term of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by amending the provision to make it a cognisable offence. It was a non-cognisable offence under the British Empire. Under a non-cognisable offence, a person can be arrested by the police only under a warrant from a judicial magistrate, unlike a cognisable offence where a cop can pick up a person and put him in the cell in the name of arrest. “In England, Australia, etc, it is abolished, but we continue with it. In the past five to six years, there has been an exponential increase in sedition cases. In my view, it is only an attempt to instil fear that if they talk against the power that be, we will take action,” Justice Gupta said. Magistrate’s duty Justice Gupta said it was also the duty of the judicial magistrate before whom an accused is brought to see that the allegations made by the police were not taken as the gospel truth. “That is why they go on Sunday before a duty magistrate who is not involved with the case at all,” Justice Gupta said. He was alluding to a practice of the police arresting a person during the weekend and seeking remand from the duty magistrate who may not have all the materials before him. On a weekday, a suspect has to be produced before a regular judicial magistrate who can scrutinise the materials placed before him minutely. Rhea parallel The former judge drew a parallel between the victimisation of the young climate activist and actress Rhea Chakraborty. Justice Gupta said Disha was being declared guilty and branded an anti-national by sections of the  media and others, much like Rhea had been after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. “You kept a person behind bars for two days, three-five days, 10 days, 15 days, 20 day, a month. How do you return that or make up for the person’s lost liberty? There are channels and channels and in the news media she (Disha) is already like Rhea Chakraborty. This girl has already been proclaimed to be guilty and an anti-national. Just because we disagree, a person disagrees with the government, does not make that person anti-national,” Justice Gupta said. “They can always be patriots. Two patriots can always have different points of view on how the government should function,” the former judge said. Dissent “In my view, dissent is an essential part of democracy. If there is no dissent, there is no vibrant democracy. In a democracy, there has to be arguments, debate… otherwise, we will live in a stagnant society,” Justice Gupta added. He said the Supreme Court or the high courts could not be expected to suo motu intervene in such matters as it was for the aggrieved citizen to approach the judiciary. “In every case, the Supreme Court cannot intervene. Either somebody has to intervene or move the court. Disha Ravi has become a celebrated case. But when a poor villager is arrested, nobody bothers. So I don’t think this is a case where the court can take suo motu notice,” he said. Justice Gupta said that “on the larger context, when the matter comes up for bail or for other reasons, the Supreme Court should look into these aspects and, may be, lay down the law and guidelines on how and where they can be arrested”. Arrest-happy The former Supreme Court judge, known for his forthright views on citizens’ personal liberty, expressed concern at the growing trend in the country to arrest citizens for every petty offence even when there is no requirement under the law. “There is another tendency, which I find that now arrest has become the first thing. A person has to be arrested not to punish him, but because at this stage of investigation, it is only the police that believe the person might have committed an offence,” Justice Gupta said. “They are presumed to be innocent till proven guilty. So till that time, you don’t have to arrest everybody. If they cooperate with you, if you find that there is no chance of their absconding or running away, if you find that they are giving you computers or whatever you want, why should you arrest them? Why should you arrest them?” he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Less than 50 % healthcare workers inoculated in 11 states||Eleven states have inoculated less than half their healthcare workers with Covid-19 vaccines, according to Union health ministry data released on Tuesday that underline the challenge ahead to meet the deadline a week away. India has inoculated over 6.1 million healthcare workers, about 61 per cent of nearly 10 million nationwide due to receive the vaccines, since the vaccination campaign began on January 16, but the states lagging are causing concern among health officials. The health ministry has set a February 24 deadline for healthcare workers to receive first doses of the vaccines and plans to start the campaign to inoculate people above the age of 50 years in March. Fourteen states have vaccinated 70 to 80 per cent of healthcare workers, Bihar on top with 80 per cent, followed by Madhya Pradesh (75), Uttar Pradesh (73) Kerala (71) and Rajasthan (70). In Uttar Pradesh alone 696,000 healthcare workers have been vaccinated. “But things are not so good elsewhere,” said Rajesh Bhushan, the health secretary. “There are 11 states where less than 50 per cent of healthcare workers have received the first dose of vaccines.” Among them are Karnataka that has vaccinated 49 per cent of healthcare workers, Andhra Pradesh (49 per cent), Delhi (42 per cent), Tamil Nadu (37 per cent), Punjab (37 per cent), Chandigarh (33 per cent) and Puducherry (22 per cent). “We’re telling the states to accelerate the process, add sessions and try to vaccinate as many recipients as possible during the sessions,” Bhushan said. The campaign began offering the second doses of the vaccines to healthcare workers on Saturday but has so far inoculated only over a third of the eligible beneficiaries — 170,628 (37 per cent) of the 454,049 recipients due for second doses till Monday. Over 2.4 million, or about 26 per cent, of around 20 million frontline workers across the country have also received the first doses of the vaccines. Eight states have already vaccinated 40 per cent or more of their frontline workers, but 10 states have covered less than 10 per cent. The campaign’s next phase will seek to inoculate 270 million people above 50 years of age and those below 50 with chronic health disorders. The campaign is intended to accelerate India’s move towards herd immunity — a threshold at which such a large fraction of people are protected from the infection that the epidemic stops. Only Kerala and Maharashtra now account for 72 per cent of the country’s 137,000 active cases. Bhushan said central teams had visited the states and provided guidance to control the epidemic. He said the teams had noted that the testing levels had declined in some parts of the two states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Four detected with South African strain of coronavirus in India||India has detected in four travellers from Africa the so-called South African novel coronavirus variant that has become a source of worry among scientists worldwide because of its potential to evade vaccines. The South African variant known as B.1.351 has been detected in one returnee from Angola, one from Tanzania, and two from South Africa, health officials disclosed on Tuesday, but declined to specify their locations in India. The B.1.351 variant that was first documented in South Africa in mid-December last year and has since spread to over 40 countries carries multiple mutations and appears to have increased transmissibility just like the B.1.1.7 variant first identified in the UK. But B.1.351 also has certain mutations that scientists believe could make some vaccines less effective against the variant. All the travellers’ contacts have been tested and quarantined and the National Institute of Virology, Pune, is trying to isolate and culture the variant, said Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research. The travellers had arrived in India during the third and fourth week of January, a health official said. Bhargava said another variant that emerged in Brazil in January this year has also been detected in one returnee from that country. The NIV has isolated the Brazil variant and has begun experiments to assess the vaccine’s effectiveness against it, he said. Studies have already found that the homegrown Covid-19 vaccine named Covaxin, jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and the ICMR, is effective against the UK variant which has so far been detected in 187 cases in India.“There is so far no evidence that either the UK or the South Africa variants have had any effect on the epidemic patterns in India — we don’t see any clustering, no unusual trends or reinfections,” a senior scientist associated with the sequencing effort told The Telegraph. Scientists in labs across the world are trying to determine how well current Covid-19 vaccines will work against these emerging variants. Some studies have suggested that the B.1.351 variant is less effectively neutralised by antibodies from vaccinated people. South Africa had earlier this month announced a plan to halt the rollout of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine amid preliminary evidence indicating marked reduction in vaccine efficacy against mild and moderate disease caused by the B.1.351 variant. However, given the small sample size in the South African study, the World Health Organisation has currently recommended that the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine should be used even if the variant is present in a country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
17-02-2021||India||Farm focus shifts back to border ||The collective of 32 Punjab farmer unions has decided to call off the mahapanchayats being organised across the state against the three controversial farm laws to free up peasants to move to Delhi’s borders in greater numbers and also ensure the success of the four-hour nationwide rail roko on Thursday. Addressing a media conference at the Singhu border, the Punjab union leaders said it was their considered opinion that there was no need for mahapanchayats in their state as the farmers there were already aware of the pitfalls of the three farm laws. The need of the hour is to strengthen the movements at Delhi’s borders to counter the canard that the numbers at these protest sites have thinned since the incidents of January 26, the union leaders said. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) leader Buta Singh Burjgill said arrangements had been made at the protest sites to cater to the change in weather in preparation for the long haul through the summer. Water pumps and motors have been installed, as also fans and coolers. According to Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala of the Kirti Kisan Union, the mahapanchayats are needed more for states that have joined the movement late. “We have gone through this exercise last year itself,” he said, articulating a concern that with the mahapanchayats drawing all the attention, the focus had shifted from the mobilisation along the borders of the national capital which is an important pressure point of the movement. However, as of now, the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Ugrahan) — the largest farmer union of Punjab — has not called off its Kisan-Mazdoor Ekta Rally planned to be held in Barnala on February 21. The Ugrahan group is not part of the 32-union collective but coordinates with them and the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. Since Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) turned the tide of a demoralised movement after the events of Republic Day with his tears two days later, union leaders have been busy organising mahapanchayats across the country to mobilise further support and counter the Narendra Modi government’s claim that only farmers of Punjab are opposed to the three farm laws. Apart from Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, mahapanchayats have been organised in Telangana and Maharashtra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
17-02-2021||India||Delhi Commission for Women issues notice to Delhi police||The Delhi Commission for Women on Tuesday sent a notice to Delhi police on the allegation that due procedure was not followed after climate activist Disha Ravi was arrested from her Bangalore home on Saturday in connection with the “toolkit” sedition case. The panel asked the police to provide a copy of the FIR, reasons for allegedly not producing Disha before a local court for transit remand, “not providing the lawyer of her choice” when she was produced before the Patiala House court in Delhi on Sunday and a detailed action taken report. “It has been alleged in the media by some activists that she was taken to Delhi from Bangalore by Delhi police with no disclosure of her whereabouts, not even to her parents. It has also been alleged that she was brought to Delhi from Bangalore without presenting her before a local court for transit remand,” the commission said in its notice. “It has been further alleged that Disha Ravi was produced before a court in Delhi without a lawyer of her choice being present in the court. This is a very serious matter.” The commission said: “In the light of the above, please provide the following information to the commission: (i) copy of the FIR registered in the matter, (ii) reasons for allegedly not producing the arrested girl before the local court for transit remand, (iii) reasons for allegedly not providing a lawyer of her choice to the girl when she was produced before the court in Delhi, (iv) detailed action taken report in the matter.” Delhi police had on Monday claimed that due procedure was followed and Disha was arrested in the presence of her mother and local police and she was represented by a lawyer. The police, however, did not comment on the transit remand. Delhi police commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Tuesday defended the police’s action. “We have filed cases pertaining to the Republic Day violence and a probe is on in the toolkit case. Many more details are yet to be revealed,” he said, adding that Disha was arrested after following all due processes. “Whether someone is 22 or 50 years old, law treats everyone equally. The court was in agreement with the decision to arrest her and remanded her in police custody for five days,” Shrivastava said. Sources in Delhi police on Tuesday said the role of some farmer leaders were also being probed in connection with the “toolkit” case and the ongoing probe into the Republic Day violence during the tractor rally, triggering apprehension that the Centre was now planning to crack down on protesters against the three farm laws. The police have also written to videoconferencing platform Zoom seeking details of those who participated in a January 11 virtual meeting organised allegedly by a pro-Khalistani group to prepare a protest toolkit backing the farmers’ agitation. The police had said on Monday that Disha and two other accused — Nikita Jacob, a Bombay High Court lawyer, and Shantanu, a Maharashtra-based engineer — had attended the meeting to gather online support for the farmers’ tractor rally. “We have written to Zoom to ascertain the identity of the others who had participated in the virtual meeting ahead of Republic Day,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
17-02-2021||India||Congress accuses Modi govt of diverting public attention||The Congress on Tuesday said the Narendra Modi government had conspired to keep people constantly busy in emotive and irrelevant issues to divert the nation’s attention from its failures and misdeeds. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said at a media conference: “The government always manufactures controversies, whips up emotions to keep people busy. Anger, hate and fear are powerful emotions. People get engrossed, forgetting their real concerns. That has been the ideological journey of the RSS-BJP — to play on emotions, whip up emotions that divide, create villains. Use distorted history and mythology for the purpose. That is the modus operandi.” Alleging that the mainstream media was also participating in State-sponsored distractions, Khera said: “They keep us blinded, they don’t want the people to see the examples of misgovernance on every front — be it economy, unemployment, farmers’ movement, women’s safety, etc. They are not worried about anything. They keep focus on two things — how to remain in power and how to help crony capitalists. As our leader Rahul Gandhi has said — working for hum do, hamare do.” Rahul had told Parliament last week that the government had refashioned the family planning slogan “hum do, hamare do”. While Rahul did not name anybody, a BJP minister named “Adani and Ambani”. The Congress has often accused the Modi government of headline and perception management. While Rahul and former defence minister A.K. Antony have made serious allegations against Prime Minister Modi, describing the terms of disengagement in Ladakh as surrender to China, the national discourse all of a sudden has turned to the arrest of environment activist Disha Ravi on the charge of editing and sharing a farmers’ protest toolkit. Nobody is asking the Prime Minister to explain the allegations about a compromise on the territorial integrity of India. Emotions do play a vital role in the BJP’s politics. The entire political discourse in the last parliamentary election had been hijacked at the last moment by a surgical strike inside Pakistan in response to the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed. Modi, who became Prime Minister in 2014 promising “achchhe din” — packaged around economic reforms, fight against corruption, two crore jobs every year, doubling of farmers’ income and countless other lofty promises — successfully concealed his failures behind the powerful emotion of nationalism by spinning a Pakistan-centric discourse in 2019. Prior to the Pulwama tragedy and the surgical strike, the political dialogue had been dominated by rising unemployment, agrarian distress, the disastrous demonetisation, the Rafale fighter jet scam, atrocities on women and the failure to bring back black money. The Prime Minister’s apathy to answer questions and debate his performance had further pushed him to a corner, but the emotions whipped up by the Pulwama tragedy and its aftermath dramatically transformed the political backdrop, pushing the Opposition’s narrative out of the electoral frame. The Congress, however, hopes that one emotion — triggered by the same government — will ultimately unite the people. Khera said: “The emotion of suffering — caused by historic unemployment, economic recession, farmers’ distress and rising prices of petroleum products — will unite people cutting across castes, religions, language and region. For six years and nine months, people have witnessed the frightening face of the Modi government in every sphere of life. This emotion will unite them and we are already witnessing this change. “No matter where we come from — which caste, which religion — when we pay Rs 90 for a litre of petrol, it pinches. And we all know this is despite the fact that the price of crude oil in the international market is very low. In May 2014 when the Congress relinquished office, crude oil in the international market was $109 per barrel and petrol was sold at Rs 71 a litre and diesel at Rs 57.28. Now when crude oil is $54.41 per barrel, petrol in Delhi costs Rs 89.29 a litre and diesel Rs 79.70. This is because of Modi tax. The cost of petrol today is Rs 31.82 and diesel Rs 33.46. The Modi government earned Rs 20 lakh crore by levying taxes.” Rahul also took a dig at the government over petrol prices, tweeting: “The Modi government is determined to loot the common people and serve the interest of hamare do.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
17-02-2021||India||Sedition law cannot be invoked to gag ‘disquiet’||A Delhi court has said the law of sedition cannot be invoked to quieten disquiet. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana made the observation while granting bail on Monday to Devi Lal Burdak and Swaroop Ram, arrested by Delhi police on charges of sedition for allegedly posting fake videos on Facebook during the farmers’ protest. The court said the law of sedition was a powerful tool to maintain peace and order. “However, it cannot be invoked to quieten the disquiet under the pretence of muzzling the miscreants,” the judge said. He noted that the law proscribes any act that can create disorder “by resort to violence” but that no call to violence was attributed to the two. The police had said the men forwarded two separate videos, one from Jharkhand and another of a Delhi police officer briefing his force, with a tagline that suggested a rebellion in Delhi police. Opposing bail, the police had accused them of intent to spread disaffection against the State.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
17-02-2021||India||Social activists urge Bangalore police to book Anil Vij ||Social activists have urged Bangalore police to book Haryana minister Anil Vij for tweeting that young climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested for editing and sharing a protest toolkit, should be “eradicated”. The activists have also sought steps against Delhi police for taking Disha away from her home in Bangalore without following proper procedures involving her basic rights. Campaign Against Hate Speech, a Bangalore-based rights group, lodged a complaint with the city police commissioner’s office late on Monday seeking legal action against BJP leader Vij. “Desh virodh ka beej jiske bhi deemag mein ho uska samool nash kar dena chahiye fir chahe veh # Disha Ravi ho ya koi aur,” Vij had tweeted. In English, it could be translated to mean that whoever harbours the seed of anti-nationalism in their mind, either the person or the thought has to be destroyed from the roots. The police in BJP-ruled Karnataka have yet to take follow-up action on the complaint against Vij. Vij said he was not afraid of police complaints being filed against him over his tweet. Challenging the interpretation of his tweet, the minister told reporters: “I have said whoever harbours the seed of anti-nationalism in their mind, that has to be destroyed from the roots. Let me make it clear, it is exterminating that seed of anti-nationalism and not exterminating the person.” Vij’s post had also prompted an investigation by Twitter. “Even Twitter investigated the tweet, they said nothing was wrong,” said Vij. Asked about the police complaint filed by the Karnataka-based group of activists, Vij said: “I am not afraid of such complaints or FIRs. Anyone can lodge a complaint, I will give a reply.”The 21-year-old climate activist was “picked up” from her home in north Bangalore on Saturday and arrested in Delhi before a court remanded her in five days’ police custody. According to Delhi police, Disha had edited and shared a social media toolkit on how to support the ongoing farmers’ protest in Delhi. Disha is associated with the Karnataka chapter of Fridays For Future, a students’ movement started in 2018 by Swedish climate change activist Greta Thunberg. A group of 70 social activists, lawyers and writers have urged Bangalore police to take action against Delhi police for the “flagrant violations of law” in taking away a resident of the city without following any procedures. “It is utterly distressing to note that Ms Ravi’s arrest has been carried out without any regard for her rights under the Constitution of India. Police officials are entrusted with the implementation of the law and are hence the foot soldiers of our criminal justice system,” stated the memorandum submitted to the police commissioner. “The entire incident was a clear and blatant violation of Articles 19, 21 and 22 of the Constitution of India,” stated the memorandum. While Article 19 and its sub-sections provide for, among others, freedom of speech and expression, the right to assemble peacefully and to form associations or unions, Article 21 deals with personal liberty, and Article 22 governs the rights of those arrested in any case. “It is therefore deeply worrying that these authorities have begun to act with complete contempt for legal procedures and constitutional safeguards. We must identify that this is a threat to our criminal justice system and act appropriately to make amends,” Campaign Against Hate Speech said. The memorandum cited legal procedures governing inter-state arrests and noted that Delhi police should have informed Bangalore police and secured a transit warrant before taking Disha to the capital. Bangalore police have been mum on the matter. “It is pertinent to note that Ms Ravi’s family, her legal counsel and the public at large have been kept in the dark about the details and documents relating to the arrest,” the memorandum stated. To establish their point, the signatories have demanded copies of the permission to take Disha to Delhi, entries made in the jurisdictional police station, copies of the FIR, transit warrant and search warrant signed by a local magistrate, a list of public witnesses in Bangalore and Delhi, details of the women police officers who went to fetch her and the custody order. Lawyer and rights activist Vinay Sreenivasa, one of the signatories, told The Telegraph that every individual enjoys rights as enshrined in the Constitution. “Delhi High Court has laid out guidelines on inter-state arrest and on why police from other states cannot arrest or simply ‘pick up’ an individual without informing the local police,” he said, referring to last year’s Sandeep Kumar Vs the state of Delhi case. The memorandum cited the judgment that had cautioned against such inter-state arrests without taking the local police into account. “Such practice is obviously contrary to the police manuals and if such actions go unchecked, it will amount to condoning lawlessness by the police force. In a country governed by the rule of law, this is simply unacceptable,” the memorandum said, quoting from the judgment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
17-02-2021||India||Kiran Bedi removed as lieutenant governor of Puducherry||Kiran Bedi was removed as lieutenant governor of Puducherry on Tuesday night in a surprise move that came on a day the Congress-led government was reduced to a minority after the desertion of a fourth MLA. Assembly elections are due soon. The BJP had tweeted on Tuesday: “Congress Era Ends in Puducherry’’. Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan will hold additional charge of Puducherry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
17-02-2021||India||Hilal Lone booked under UAPA for his December election speech ||A National Conference leader in Kashmir who is the son of an MP has been booked under the anti-terror UAPA law for proclaiming at a public event that he was a proud beef-eater and that he planned to open an Islamic seminary to impart religious education even if the pass-outs were called terrorists. Hilal Ahmad Lone, the son of the National Conference’s Baramulla MP Mohammad Akbar Lone, had made the comments during an election speech in December. Hilal, whose father had also served as the Jammu and Kashmir Assembly Speaker, had been arrested a few days after he had made the remarks and kept under preventive detention at the MLA’s hostel sub-jail in Srinagar. He was shifted to Hajin police station after the UAPA charge was added on Tuesday. A police officer said before Hilal was booked under Section 13 of the UAPA, he had been charged under IPC Sections 505 (incite people to commit offence against other communities), 153-A (promoting enmity between groups) and 188 (disobedience to an order passed by a government servant). “GoI continues to shamelessly book Kashmiri mainstream leaders under UAPA for ‘hate speech’. The truth is that there won’t be enough room in Indian prisons if their own ministers, lawmakers & noxious IT Cell were brought to book for inciting communal passions against minorities,” PDP leader and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti tweeted. NC leader Omar Abdullah said the BJP had a completely different standard when it came to hate speeches by its own leaders, tweeting a recent report of the non-government Association of Democratic Reforms that said 27 of the 58 MPs and MLAs with declared cases of hate speech against them were from the BJP. “They can call for hands to be cut off, people to be murdered & it’s fine,” Omar said. During his December speech, Hilal had been reacting to BJP leaders calling the new alliance in Jammu and Kashmir a “gang”. He had said the “real gang” was the one that had demolished the Babri Masjid and rioted in Delhi. “You assert that those who study in darasgahs (seminaries), in UP, in Assam, become terrorists. Those who study in mutts (Hindu monasteries) are saints, but those who pass out from darasgahs are terrorists,” Hilal had said. “In the coming days I might open a darasgah where I will teach Islam. If you tell me I am producing terrorists, (so be it). I will be producing such terrorists who are taught the Quran, taught Islam,” he had said. Hilal had said he was proud to declare that he ate “cow’s meat” because his religion allowed him to do so. “If you want to eat pork, eat it. We will not tell you anything. If we have to eat beef, we will eat it,” he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
17-02-2021||India||Ahead of Bengal polls, Mohan Bhagwat meets Mithun||Mohan Bhagwat on Tuesday drove to Mithun Chakraborty’s residence in Mumbai for a chat over breakfast, following which the actor proclaimed he had a “spiritual relation” with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief. Although both sides sought to dismiss claims that the content could be political, the meeting took place in the run-up to the Bengal elections. “Mohanji ke saath mera ek spiritual relation hai aur bahut dino se hai (I have a spiritual relation with Mohan Bhagwat and it has been there for a long time),” Mithun told reporters after the meeting. “Koi rajneeti nahi, kuch nahi (There was no politics, nothing at all). Only blessings and love. Nothing else,” the yesteryear superstar added. Officially, the RSS refrained from saying anything and privately claimed there was no political motive behind the meeting. Internally, BJP leaders said that though Mithun may not like to formally join the party, they would be more than happy if he agreed to campaign. “Mithun Chakraborty’s popularity is particularly high in rural Bengal and if he campaigns for us then it would help us in a big way,” a BJP leader said. RSS and BJP managers widely circulated a picture of the meeting. The BJP is known not to miss any opportunity in garnering votes with optics. Party insiders said the picture was sure to stir a discussion in Bengal, that has a deep emotional connect with Mithun although he has reduced his film load, and make the BJP more acceptable. The BJP and the RSS have been working in tandem in a desperate bid to win the Bengal Assembly elections. Recently, a coordination meeting of different Sangh parivar outfits and the BJP was held to discuss the strategy for Bengal. BJP and RSS leaders feel that after Assam and the other north-eastern states, winning Bengal was of tremendous ideological significance for them. Apart from his Bengali roots, the popular actor’s significance lies in the fact that he had been associated with the Trinamul Congress. Mithun had been elected to the Rajya Sabha on a Trinamul ticket in 2014. He, however, resigned and quit the party in 2016 citing health reasons. Mithun’s decision to step down had coincided with his name cropping up during the CBI probe into the Saradha scandal. Although he was not made an accused, he had been questioned by the Enforcement Directorate since he had been one of the brand ambassadors of Saradha. Mithun, who had for long been associated with the Left before becoming a Trinamul MP, had paid a visit to the RSS headquarters in Nagpur last year. According to him, he had been moved by the “sacrifice and dedication” of the RSS towards the country and on Tuesday stressed his deep attachment with the Sangh. “I’m still attached to the Sangh,” Mithun said when asked about his visit to the RSS headquarters and his association with the saffron outfit. He said he had invited Bhagwat to his home and now planned to go along with his family to Nagpur. “Mohanji invited me to come with my family to Nagpur and I will go,” Mithun said. He also said that he would give his services to the RSS’s work for the country whenever he is asked for.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
17-02-2021||India||8  tourists stranded near Tsomgo Lake rescued||Sikkim police with the help of the army rescued eight stranded tourists from near the Tsomgo (Changu) Lake in East Sikkim on Monday evening after heavy snowfall lashed the area, blocking the highway at several places and making travel risky. The eight were members of two families from Bengal comprising five men, two women and a child. They were rescued and put up at the army guest house at 17 Mile, which is between Tsomgo and Gangtok. “It started snowing from one’o clock yesterday (Monday), and they (the tourists) got slightly delayed and got stuck. Around 4pm, they were shifted to the army guest house at 17 Mile,” Siva Prasad Yellasiri told The Telegraph. All of them were doing well and brought down to Gangtok on Tuesday. The Sikkim tourism department did not issue permits to visit Tsomgo as well as North Sikkim on Tuesday because of the heavy snow in those areas. “It snowed today (Tuesday) as well. We will issue permits depending on the weather condition,” said Lukendra Rasaily, the chairman of the Sikkim Tourism Development Corporation (STDC). The weather forecast for the next few days, however, is not very encouraging. “This will continue for another 72 hours in North Sikkim and another 48 hours in East Sikkim. This (the snowfall) is because the passage of a trough in the westerlies in the upper level of the atmosphere over this region,” said Gopi Nath Raha, the head of Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Gangtok.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul’s ‘corruption and violence’ model won’t work anymore, says Dinesh Trivedi||Nearly a week after dramatically announcing his resignation from the TMC on the floor of the Rajya Sabha, Dinesh Trivedi on Wednesday launched a frontal attack on Mamata Banerjee's party, saying its "corruption and violence model" will no longer work and take Bengal back to "dark days". The former union minister also termed the "insider- outsider" debate started by Mamata "antithetical" to Bengal's liberal ethos. The former railway minister praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi, hailing his popularity and insisting people have faith in his leadership, but kept under wraps his political plans. Trivedi had resigned from the Rajya Sabha and the TMC last Friday, saying he felt "suffocated" because of the violence going on in Bengal and his inability to do anything about it. He also insisted that the rule of law needed to be established in the state for bringing about the "real change". "In Bengal, we talk about icons and their ideals but what we see is contrary. The (TMC) model of violence and corruption is not what Bengal stands for. This model will take Bengal to dark days. The state has so much potential and we can't just let it go waste," Trivedi said in an exclusive interview with PTI. He said as a public representative he could not have turned a blind eye to what was happening in the state. Trivedi maintained he felt ashamed when people asked him about the culture of violence in the state, something that "pricked" his conscience and made him take a firm stand. "I should rather work for the people of the state in my way if my party is not allowing me to do so. It is high time that we ended the TMC's model and culture of corruption and violence," he said. Trivedi also accused the TMC of being in "denial mode" over the happenings in the state and playing the "victim card". "If the thought process is that if you don't abuse the prime minister and home minister regularly, you are not a loyal soldier of the party, then no one can help it. Criticising doesn't mean abusing. We are Bengali Bhadra lok (gentlemen)." He said the chair commands respect and those occupying it should not be denigrated just because they are from a rival party. The veteran leader said he raised these issues several times on TMC forums but that did not yield any result as "somebody else" other than Mamata Banerjee took "control of the party" after it came to power in 2011. He, however, declined to name who it was. "Time and again I raised the issues with the party. After the Narada scam, when I raised the issue in a party forum it was set aside. I became the bad guy and was asked not to go for campaigning in the assembly polls. I never spoke out in public due to party discipline," he said, responding to a question about why it took him so long to speak out. Political circles have been agog with speculation that he may join the BJP but Trivedi chose to keep his cards close to the chest while praising the saffron party. "The BJP is the No. 1 party in the world. I thank Kailash Vijayvargiya Ji (BJP's Bengal minder) and Dilip Ghosh Ji (state party chief) from the core of my heart for welcoming me to the party. Only time will answer what's in store. But I will keep fighting for the betterment of the people of Bengal," he said. Trivedi said people of the country as also Bengal have faith in Narendra Modi's leadership, which was reflected in the way the BJP won 18 of the state's 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. "It was due to people's faith in Modi that the BJP pulled off such a spectacular performance. I too lost the Lok Sabha election because of the Modi wave. How can we deny that?" Trivedi, who had to bite the dust from Barrackpore, said. The former union minister deprecated the insider- outsider debate triggered by Mamata Banerjee, saying it was against the state's cultural tradition of liberalism. "India is a liberal country and Bengal is one of the most liberal states. This Bengali and non-Bengali, insider and outsider debate is very much against the rich culture and heritage of Bengal. The state of Rabindranath Tagore and Swami Vivekananda has no place for such debates," he said. Trivedi deplored the marginalisation of the founding members of the TMC after the party came to power. "Before the TMC came to power, we would sit for three-four hours every day discussing party work and formalising strategy. But after we came to power, the founding members were nowhere and the party was taken over by somebody else. But why blame somebody else if those at the helm choose to keep quiet," he said. He also criticised the Mamata Banerjee government for being in conflict with the Centre "all the time" and not allowing central welfare schemes to be implemented in Bengal, saying it harmed the state. The former TMC veteran was apparently referring to the state refusing to implement the Ayushman Bharat scheme and belatedly agreeing to allowing PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme for farmers. When asked whether he had brought up these issues before Banerjee, he said those at the helm of a party or government need to have a "robust information system". He said the TMC came to power on the promise of "paribortan" (change) but the real change will happen only when the rule of law is established. "There's no rule of law at present," he alleged. "My commitment is to the people," he said when asked whether or not he will be accused of deserting the TMC ahead of the assembly elections after enjoying the fruits of power. Trivedi said several of his former TMC colleagues called him up after his resignation and told him he did the right thing. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul feud whiff in Englishbazar MLA home attack||Trinamul infighting took an ugly turn in Malda on Monday night, within five days of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s visit, urging district leaders to be united against the saffron camp. Around 10.30pm on Monday, a group of some 150 people, apparently Trinamul supporters, ransacked the house of the party’s Englishbazar MLA Nihar Ranjan Ghosh at BS Road of the town and also a party office which Ghosh uses. Ghosh, in mourning attire after his father’s recent death, narrowly escaped the attack. The mob dispersed when a police team rushed to the spot. Ghosh, who also chairs the board of administrators of Englishbazar municipality, filed a police complaint naming Krishnendu Choudhury, a former minister and chairman of district Trinamul, and Prasenjit Das, the district youth Trinamul president. “They came to kill me as their conspiracies to demean me before the state Trinamul leadership have been foiled. Krishnendu Choudhury and Prasenjit Das led the attack in person and instigated criminals to harm me and my family. They broke portraits of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and  minister Firhad Hakim,” said Ghosh. According to sources, the group carrying sticks, rods and sharp weapons reached Ghosh’s house. “Assembling in front of the house, they started abusing the MLA, ransacked the party office and then entered his home. There, they ransacked rooms indiscriminately and even entered his bedroom,” said one of Ghosh’s close relatives. As the MLA called up the police, a team led by inspector-in-charge of Englishbazar police Madanmohan Roy reached, which caused the attackers to flee. Trinamul loyalists of Ghosh also reached his home. Police started a probe and arranged security for the MLA and his family, SP Alok Rajoria said. On Tuesday, Ghosh handed over CCTV footage to the police and claimed Choudhury and Das could be seen in it. Ghosh and Choudhury have a bitter history. Choudhury was an elected councillor of Englishbazar municipality from 1990 and civic chairman for two terms. He tasted defeat for the first time at 2005 civic polls to Ghosh, then backed by Left and Congress. In 2016, Ghosh filed his nomination from the Englishbazar Assembly seat as an Independent backed by the Left and Congress. Choudhury, then a minister in Mamata’s cabinet, lost to him again. Later, Ghosh joined Trinamul. Choudhury and Das have denied the charges. Choudhury said he knew nothing about the incident. Das said the incident might be the fallout of a family feud.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Demonstration for dues marks Duncans Goenka group's tea garden reopening in Dooars||Representatives of a new company who arrived to reopen a tea garden of the Duncans Goenka group in the Dooars on Tuesday and run it on an interim basis were greeted with protests by around 1,000 workers who demanded the immediate payment of all dues. The protest was of a rare kind in the Bengal tea industry where workers hold celebrations on Day 1 of any estate’s reopening. The Birpara tea estate with around 2,200 labourers had been lying abandoned since September 2019. The state labour department had taken initiatives to facilitate the estate’s reopening and accordingly, a meeting was recently held in Siliguri where it was decided that Merico Agro Industries Limited would run operations on an interim basis. Merico director Surojit Bakshi and Mohan Sharma, the chairman of the Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, reached the Birpara estate around 10am on Tuesday to reopen it. They were, however, surprised to find around 1,000 workers — mostly from the Tukra-Jateswar division — assembled near the entrance. The workers shouted slogans, saying their outstanding wages and bonus should be cleared or else, they wouldn’t allow the estate’s reopening. Bakshi, Sharma and other Trinamul leaders started talks with the demonstrators who relented after three hours. Around 1pm, the workers allowed the Merico director to enter the garden and it was formally reopened. Each worker of the estate was paid Rs 1,000 by the new management. A police team was at the site of the demonstration to prevent any breach of law and order. Mannalal Jain, the vice-president of the Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, alleged that BJP and some “non-workers” had orchestrated the demonstration. “It was unfortunate that some non-workers, instigated a section of labourers to hold the demonstration. We suspect the BJP also had a hand in the protests. Notwithstanding several promises to the workers of the Duncans group’s tea estates, BJP leaders have failed to do anything for them so far. After the state government’s initiative materialised, the BJP has tried to foil the reopening. Workers always wanted the garden to reopen and are with us,” said Jain. Alipurduar MP John Barla and Birpara-Madarihat MLA Manoj Tigga — both from the BJP — were in the garden on Tuesday. The protests, sources said, were also backed by the Paschimbanga Khet Mazdoor Samiti. Anuradha Talwar, a representative of the samiti, said according to court’s order, Duncans cannot hand over the garden to any other company. “More importantly, prior to reopening any closed tea garden, the dues should be cleared. We will file an appeal in Calcutta High Court to stop such illegal handover of the garden to new management,” she said. Bakshi, the director of Merico, said some time was needed to clear the dues. “Like other gardens, we will gradually clear the workers’ dues in Birpara. But if a demand is made to clear the dues at one go, there would be immense pressure on us. In the remaining four tea gardens (of Duncans), there are no dues as of now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls: Rival Morcha camps vie for three hill seats||Both rival factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, allies of Trinamul, are preparing the ground to field their respective candidates in the three hill Assembly seats, a development further complicating politics in hills. Anit Thapa, general secretary of the Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha on Tuesday said their faction would not only contest all three seats but do so in their own symbol. “We are in alliance with TMC (Trinamul) and it is a past understanding that we would support (Trinamul ) during MP elections and TMC would support us during the MLA election. The chief minister has also said this in various stages. We are sticking to this line and three of our candidates will stand in the election on our own (symbol),” Thapa said on the sidelines of a government function in Mungpoo. Amar Singh Rai of the Tamang camp had contested on a Trinamul ticket during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, and  Tamang was supported by Trinamul in the Darjeeling Assembly bypolls in 2019. Both  lost to the BJP alliance. The decision by the two Morcha factions to contest would, observers said, end up helping the BJP, which has an alliance with the GNLF. However, though Morcha sources admitted they were aware of the likely outcome of a fight between them, they are sticking to their guns. While Thapa made his stand clear on Tuesday, the Bimal Gurung faction has also been stating that they, too, would field their own candidates in the three hill seats. “We will sweep the three hill seats even if an election is held tomorrow,” Gurung recently said in a public meeting. Trinamul, which has never won an Assembly seat from the hills, is eyeing the three hill seats through support from both Morcha factions. The two factions have publicly refused to come to any understanding and are getting increasingly critical of each other. “The situation is such that the only hope is Mamata Banerjee’s intervention (Gurung hinted that the I-PAC team, poll strategist for Trinamul, tried to patch up things between the two factions but in vain) but things do not look easy,” said a hill observer. Many are talking about three permutations to solve this deadlock but none looks watertight, said an observer. The first option being mulled is to divide a seat each among three alliance partners. “Going by party workers' mood, a supporter of one faction is mostly unlikely to vote for the other faction,” said an observer. “Accepting a rival faction’s candidate is seen as a loss of face by party cadres.” Many believe the other option would be to ask both factions to vote for an independent candidate of Trinamul’s choice. “This option is easier said than done as both factions are unsure if hills will vote for Trinamul,” said another observer. A Bimal Gurung faction leader said in a public meeting that she will never be able to vote for Trinamul, a statement reflective of the mood of some Morcha workers. The third option is about Mamata Banerjee letting both factions contest the election as a win by any would mean Trinamul’s win. “But such a move would mean a split of anti-BJP votes,” the observer added. No faction seems to be in a mood to yield an inch as winning the Assembly polls is seen as a test of their strength and a mandate to be in the GTA. “This is because to be in power in the hills is to have the GTA under one’s control,” the observer added. At the moment the GTA is being headed by Anit Thapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Elephant kills three women in western Dooars||Three women who had entered a reserve forest to collect fodder for cattle and firewood were killed when an elephant attacked them near Banarhat in western Dooars on Tuesday. Bhado Oraon, 49, Sugi Baraik, 62, and Birsi Oraon, 55, were residents of Haldibari tea estate. The trio were part of a group of women who had entered the Haldibari forest under the Moraghat range to collect the fodder and the firewood. “Suddenly, a wild tusker attacked them. Although most members of the group managed to escape, three women could not run away. The elephant attacked them with the trunk and trampled them over. All the three died on the spot,” said a forest officer. The deceased used to live at the Bora labour line and Mission labour line in the tea garden. Foresters and Banarhat police went to the spot and seized the bodies. In north Bengal, many people who live in tea gardens and villages close to forest enter the jungle to collect firewood. There are also people who take cattle to the forests for grazing. “Many such people have been killed in attacks by wild elephants. A few days ago, a woman was killed by a wild elephant near Nagrakata after she went to the forest to collect firewood. Whatever happened today is unfortunate but others should learn a lesson from the incident and refrain from entering forests,” said Sima Chowdhury, an honorary wildlife warden of the state forest department. Nature and wildlife conservationists said Tuesday’s incident showed the lack of vigil on the part of the forest department. “People have lost their lives in elephant attacks. There have also been incidents of poaching of animals. Today’s incident again proved that the forest department is not vigilant, else, those women would have been prevented from stepping into the jungle,” said Nafsar Ali, a representative of the Nature & Adventure Society based in the Dooars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Sub-inspector's mother found dead with wounds on head in Raiganj||The 70-year-old mother of a sub-inspector of police and resident of a village on Raiganj outskirts was found dead with deep wounds on her head on Monday late night. Raiganj police suspect she was murdered and have detained one of her grandsons for interrogation. Sources said victim Batashi Burman, a resident of Joynagar village of Raiganj block, has three sons one of whom is Mohini Burman, who works in the state police force and is posted in Bagdogra police station of Darjeeling district. Batashi used to reside with her two other sons and their families. Police said that Shankar Burman, one of Batashi’s grandsons and Mohini’s nephew, had woken up on Monday night to attend nature’s call when he noticed that the door of his grandmother’s room was ajar. “He said that as he peeped in, he found blood oozing from the old lady’s head, and raised an alert. Soon, we got information and a team was sent to the spot,” said a police officer. As news spread, neighbours swarmed into the victim’s house. Sub-inspector Mohini was told about the fatal attack on his mother. He reached Raiganj from Bagdogra early on Tuesday. Police recovered the body and initiated a probe. “We suspect she has been bludgeoned to death. Some blunt weapon was used and she was hit on the right side of her head. The post-mortem reports will confirm the cause of her death,” an officer said. Neighbours are perplexed over the incident. Batashi had cordial relations with them and they had never heard any dispute within the family, neighbours have said. Police detained Shankar who they suspect might be involved in the crime. “We are not ready to buy what he has told us. We have also learnt that he is a habitual drunkard and we need to interrogate him. Our officers are trying to find out the motive behind the murder,” said Sumit Kumar, the SP of North Dinajpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Case lodged against 250 Left Front supporters for thrashing cop at Entally||Calcutta police on Tuesday lodged a case against over 250 Left supporters, including SFI state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya, for allegedly roughing up a policeman at Entally on Monday, a few hours before the body of DYFI leader Maidul Islam Middya, a protester in Thursday’s march, arrived there. A Bankura resident, Maidul died at a Calcutta nursing home on Monday allegedly of injuries from police beating during the Left rally for jobs. Hundreds of Left supporters reached the SFI-DYFI office in Entally on Monday. During a heated argument between them and the police, an ASI of Taltala police station, Arunava Dutta, was thrashed. Police sources said apart from Srijan, FIRs were filed against DYFI spokesperson Kalatan Dasgupta, SFI Calcutta district president Arjun Ray and Calcutta district secretary Samanway Raha under sections including rioting. SFI sources said that none apart from Srijan was even present there. “We are being framed to shift the focus from police brutality,” Kalatan said. On Tuesday, New Market police sent questions to CPM leader and doctor, Fuad Halim, on Maidul’s medical condition and whereabouts since Thursday. Halim, who treated Maidul, said he had replied to all queries and sent copies of Maidul’s medical reports. Left sources said this came in the wake of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s announcement that the police would probe Maidul’s death. On Monday’s incident, Srijan said the cop’s “insulting remark” about Maidul’s “sacrifice” angered some Left supporters present there. CPM leaders asked the police to focus on identifying those who had beaten up Maidul and trace Left worker Dipak Kumar Panja, missing since the march. A source at Taltala police station said that one Dipankar Sengupta, 45, had been picked up from his Bangur Avenue residence on Tuesday in connection with the case. A missing person’s case has been initiated to search for Panja with New Market police by his wife Saraswati, who lives in Panskura in East Midnapore. “Dipak (Panja) is missing because of the police and they will have to find him or we shall launch a bigger protest,” said Panskura’s CPM MLA Ibrahim Ali. Funds for Maidul kin The DYFI will raise funds to help Maidul’s family who lost their breadwinner. “All our party workers will donate,” said DYFI state secretary Sayandeep Mitra and added the government would have to compensate for “killing” Maidul. The Left has lined up a series of protests for Maidul. Supporters of 10 Left students and youth outfits will gherao all police stations of the state on Wednesday. A call to block railway tracks has been given on Thursday. A source in the CPM said an application will be filed at Calcutta High Court by Thursday demanding judicial inquiry into Maidul’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leader meets Maidul Islam Middya's wife with promise of job||A day after Mamata Banerjee offered a government job to a family member of Maidul Islam Middya, the young DYFI leader who died on Monday allegedly of cop-inflicted injuries in Thursday’s Left march, Trinamul leader and minister Shyamal Santra met Maidul’s wife on Tuesday with the promise of a job. Maidul, a resident of Chorkola village in Bankura’s Kotulpur, was the sole breadwinner for his mother, wife, two daughters and a niece. Santra, also Bankura district president of Trinamul and Kotulpur MLA, said: “I gave some financial help and promised to stand by the family till Maidul’s wife (Aleya) got the job. His mother will get old age pension as soon as possible.” CPM leaders and villagers questioned the intent of the government that is yet to take action against the cops. Mamoni Begum, a cousin of Maidul, said she wanted “punishment for murder”. Ajit Pati, secretary of the CPM’s Bankura district committee, was scathing. “Has the government taken any step against the cops who beat up our youth leader? The job offer is an eyewash to cover up the crime that the police have committed.” Earlier on Tuesday, DYFI state president Meenakshi Mukherjee, state secretary Sayandeep Mitra, all-India general secretary Abhay Mukherjee, and senior SFI and CPM leaders were present with thousands of villagers when the body of Maidul was laid to rest. The BJP is also planning to send a team to meet Maidul’s family. Calling the death unfortunate, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh added his party “lost 135 workers and no one offered their families jobs”. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Dutta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls: Congress, Left Front finalise seat pact||The Left Front and the Congress on Tuesday announced finalisation of seat sharing for Bengal Assembly polls, but refrained from saying the number of constituencies each would contest because of parleys with Abbas Siddiqui's Indian Secular Front and other parties. Leaders of the Congress and the CPM met at the Left party’s headquarters at Alimuddin Street in Calcutta on Tuesday to finalise the modalities of the electoral alliance. State Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, MLA Abdul Mannan, Rajya Sabha member Pradip Bhattacharya, Left Front Chairman Biman Bose and CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra attended the meeting. “We finalised our alliance at the meeting today.… The fight for Bengal will be a triangular one and the Left-Congress alliance would be a formidable force,” Chowdhury said at a news conference after the meeting. Sources said unlike the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when a consensus couldn’t be achieved between the Left and the Congress, the process of sealing the alliance was smooth this time as both the parties were more accommodative. However, the number of seats to be allotted to each party couldn’t be announced on Tuesday. According to Chowdhury, several smaller political forces, including ISF, NCP and RJD are willing to fight alongside the Left-Congress alliance. “That is why we need to provide space for them… So, we are not announcing the number of seats allotted for each of us right now,” Chowdhury said. “We want that the Left parties, the National Congress and the ISF participate in the Bengal polls in 2021 on the basis of a mutual understanding,” Biman Bose echoed him. Although both the leaders named several parties, the seat sharing formula could not be announced primarily because the ISF, a fledgling outfit that has emerged as a strong force in minority-dominated areas. ISF chief Abbas Siddiqui told this correspondent that it had written to the CPM demanding 60 to 80 seats. He also said representatives of his party had spoken to CPM leaders about their demands on Monday. “We have said what we want. There can be minor adjustments, but we are mainly sticking to our demands,” Siddiqui said. “I’ll either win or learn. I’ve nothing to lose. But the other parties have become weak and have been losing. I think it is better for all of us if the three hues come together to fight,” Siddiqui added. Sources said the CPM and the Congress were yet to decide how to accommodate the ISF’s demand, which many believe is “illogical”. “But as both the CPM and the Congress are so weak, they are not in a position to counter Siddiqui, who has already started blackmailing leaders of both the parties... A meeting between CPM-Congress and ISF leaders is likely tomorrow (Wednesday),” said a source. Smaller Left allies have started raising objections to the induction of the ISF into the alliance. These parties are afraid that including Siddiqui — a Muslim religious leader—in the alliance may alienate the traditional Hindu votes of the Left. “We will raise this concern at our meeting with the CPM. Muslim fundamentalists are as objectionable for us as Hindu fundamentalists,” a source in one of the minor Left parties said. Shah’s lunch plan Union Home minister Amit Shah will have lunch with an immigrant family from Bangladesh during his two-day tour of Bengal later this week. The bread-breaking schedule, sources said, is part of the BJP’s agenda to woo the migrants from Bangladesh ahead of the Assembly polls. Shah will be at Kakdweep in South 24-Parganas on February 18 to inaugurate the Poriborton Yatra for the BJP’s Calcutta zone. Before that, he will visit the migrant family at Narayanpur village and have his lunch. Sources said that Shah will participate in a series of central government programs on February 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
17-02-2021||North East||Two journalists arrested for attempting to 'malign' Himanta Biswa Sarma||Two journalists were arrested on Wednesday for their alleged attempt to malign Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma after they shared a photo of him along with his daughter with a "salacious intent", police said. Taufiquddin Ahmad, the Editor-in-Chief of local news website Pratibimba Live, and its News Editor Iqbal were arrested to investigate the "conspiracy", Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) GP Singh said. Police would take strong action against all such attempts under stringent provisions of the POCSO Act, he said. They were arrested on the basis of a case registered at the Dispur police station under IPC section 509 (intending to insult the modesty of any woman), and sections 14 and 21 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he said. "Action shall be taken against all persons irrespective of their place of residence who use any of the social media platforms to maliciously use such platforms for furthering this conspiracy," Singh added. The website had shared a photo of the minister hugging his daughter, following which it went viral on social media. The website later apologised for not mentioning that the girl in the photo was the minister's daughter and blamed others for sharing it with the intent to defame Sarma. The news outlet received backlash for the intent to post the photo with Sarma retweeting it and mentioning that it was him and his daughter. Police said they are investigating the matter to identify those behind the post going viral.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
17-02-2021||North East||Kerala team promises to restore NRC papers in Assam village ||A Muslim Youth League delegation that recently visited Assam has promised to strive for ensuring adequate compensation for those who lost their houses and help restore National Register of Citizen papers destroyed in arson in Kachurthal village bordering Mizoram. A delegation of the youth wing of Indian Union Muslim League had visited the village and took stock the situation after alleged rioters burnt down houses of villagers from a minority community who lost all their belongings, including the NRC papers that establish their citizenship. The village falls under Ramnathpur police station in Katlicherra revenue circle of Hailakandi district that has witnessed communal tension over several years. More than a 100 houses have been damaged or destroyed in the recent arson attacks that left more than 20 people injured. The delegation visited the injured admitted in Silchar Medical College and Hospital, the Muslim Youth League said in a statement issued on Tuesday. “The total failure of the state government in controlling the situation was what led to the riots. The situation was quite peaceful in recent times,” it said. The delegation led by Youth League national president Asif Ansari and general secretary C.K. Zubair had embarked on the trip after IUML leader E.T. Mohammed Basheer raised the matter in the Lok Sabha recently. The visiting team provided emergency assistance of dry rations for the riot victims who had lost all their belongings. According to the statement, the villagers apprised the delegation on the larger conspiracy behind the rioting and arson that left them without the crucial NRC documents. “The villagers are in a state of shock after having lost the documents that prove their citizenship and their homes,” the statement said. The delegation headed to the village under an armed escort of Assam police and CRPF since the situation remained tense. The team met senior police officials and sought adequate security for the villagers living in fear since the attacks. The arson took place on February 9. Assam police had said that 20 houses were burnt and three persons were seriously injured in the incident. Katlicherra MLA Suzam Uddin Laskar told The Telegraph on Tuesday night that the situation remains tense in the affected area with economic activities coming to a standstill. “The locals of the affected area are moving out fearing more attacks. Deployment of security personnel is yet to happen,” Laskar said. According to him, 21 houses were burnt and 15 people were hurt, three of them seriously. The affected area in Assam borders Kolasib district of Mizoram. The interstate border has been witnessing flareups since August last year, triggered first by a row in Karimganj which then spread to Cachar. Additional reporting by Umanand Jaiswal from Guwahati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
17-02-2021||North East||Congress to build CAA martyrs’ memorial||The Congress will build a memorial in Assam to “commemorate the martyrdom” of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protesters who “sacrificed” their lives to save “Assamese pride” if it wins the upcoming Assembly polls. Five protesters had died at the peak of anti-CAA protests in Assam in December 2019. This is the second time in a week that the Opposition party has flagged the CAA issue, making the contentious law the cornerstone of its campaign to regain the state in the April-May polls. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi had in his first poll rally in Assam on Sunday said the party will not allow the imposition of the law under any circumstances and will “not move an inch” on the 1985 Assam Accord which “protects” the Assamese people. “I have worn this gamosa (Assamese scarf) with CAA written on it and over which we have put a cross. We have all worn it. This means, whatever happens, the CAA will not happen. Hum do (obliquely referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah), hamare do (alluding to Adani and Ambani), acchi tarah se sun lo (listen carefully), (CAA) nahi hoga, kabhi nahi hoga (CAA won’t happen ever),” Rahul said at the rally in Sivasagar in presence of senior party leaders all of whom had worn the gamosa. On Tuesday, senior state leaders declared the party’s plan to build a memorial against the “anti-Assam” law which makes it easier for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan to acquire Indian citizenship if they have entered the country till December 2014. According to the 1985 Assam Accord, the cut-off date for detection and deportation of illegal foreigners is March 24, 1971. The CAA was notified by the Centre in January 2020 but is yet to be implemented. Shah had last week said that it will be implemented after the Covid-19 vaccination drive gets over. “The reason why the Congress has announced that it will make a memorial for the anti-CAA struggle is to make sure future generations remember how the people stood up to the autocratic rule of BJP and its imposition of an anti-Assamese law,” said Abdul Khaleque, chairman of the Congress media and communications committee. Nagaon MP Pradyut Bordoloi, who is the chairman of the Congress campaign committee, said: “After winning the election, we shall make a memorial for the anti-CAA people’s movement that has been ongoing in Assam over the past few years. The memorial shall remember the people’s struggle and sacrifices, protest songs and paintings.” Assam PCC president Ripun Bora also reiterated that Guwahati will see a new landmark: a grand memorial in memory of the anti-CAA movement to be built by the incoming Congress government. “This will be the state’s message to the ruling BJP. No CAA in Assam,” Bora said. Congress Legislature Party leader Debabrata Saikia, MPs Gaurav Gogoi and Khaleque and senior MLA Rakibul Hussain too reiterated the party line. “The dark days of BJP’s oppression of Assamese people are about to get over. The Congress is winning Assam and will make a memorial to the historic people’s struggle against CAA,” Saikia said. The Congress leaders are campaigning hard against the “draconian CAA” while touring the state as part of their “Axom Basaon Ahok (Come, Save Assam)” Yatra. The state leadership is interacting and taking feedback from all sections of society on the CAA, unemployment and other pressing issues plaguing Assam. While the Congress has stepped up its ante on the CAA, senior Assam cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma feels the people of the state are today more “concerned” about livelihood and developmental issues as they recover from Covid-19 and that they are looking for more a “positive” message from the political parties. The ruling BJP has launched scores of development and welfare schemes in the run-up to the polls, trying to fan a “feel good” factor among the populace. The state BJP said on Tuesday that it was building its poll plank around a “secure and developed Assam”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
17-02-2021||Opinion||Unfair treatment: Wasim Jaffer||Sir — The article by Mukul Kesavan on the insult and injustice meted out to Wasim Jaffer makes all Indian cricket lovers bow their heads in shame (“Jaffer alone”, Feb 14). Jaffer exemplified the solidity of the Mumbai batting order for nearly two decades and provided great service to Indian cricket. The celebrities of the Mumbai and the Indian cricket teams who shared dressing rooms and playing fields with him should not forget his contributions. It is shocking that the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand has brought charges of communalism against Jaffer, compelling him to resign from the post of coach of the Uttarakhand cricket team. But it is more shocking, even unforgivable, that apart from a few cricketers, no one uttered a word of condemnation in support of Jaffer. The silence of the most famous names in Indian cricket — such as Sourav Ganguly, the president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India — is disconcerting. They should have come out with an appropriate statement against the charges. Susanta Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — It is not Wasim Jaffer alone who has been made a scapegoat for having spoken the truth — many others have suffered the same fate. But Jaffer, who had alleged that undeserving players were being pushed by some selectors, is surely a victim of the same politics. The charges against him seem to have been made only to scrap him from the cricketing arena. It is also not a surprise that fellow cricketers of his time, except for a handful, have not spoken a word in favour or against him — they have preferred to stay mute spectators rather becoming involved in his problem. In his article, Mukul Kesavan has referred to such former players as a row of waxworks. But there is a reason for this: the fear of losing the position conferred on them if they dare to speak out. Many of them, especially those who have known Jaffer as a human being, may even support him personally. There is no doubt in Jaffer’s abilities as a cricketer. Whenever he represented his side with the willow in his hand, his performance spoke for him. He has shown great prowess as coach: his experience helped him successfully mentor the players training under him. It is very much possible that the complaints against him have been lodged by trainees biased against him. Perhaps it was better that he stepped down rather giving in to the high-handed attitude of others. Alok Ganguly,Nadia Sir — It was shocking to learn that Wasim Jaffer, the former Indian Test cricketer and the highest run-scorer in the Ranji Trophy, resigned as the coach of the Uttarakhand team, alleging that some officials were pushing for undeserving players. He received support from cricketers like Anil Kumble and Irfan Pathan; some of his former teammates have also vouched for his professionalism and integrity. A fallout between a coach and a cricket association is not new, nor are differences arising on the selection of players, how a team should function or the autonomy enjoyed by a coach. But cricket in India has been an exemplar of Indian secularism in practice. All that has mattered is how well one can bat, bowl, field and function in the team, on purely cricketing yardsticks. The allegations made against Jaffer of communalizing the selections is surely baseless. But it is also disturbing. It is an effort to introduce the politics of communalism, bigotry and prejudice into what has often been called India’s true religion — cricket. The treatment meted out to Jaffer must be condemned. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Wise choice Sir — Every year, people across Bengal pray to the deity, Saraswati, asking for wisdom. That the prayers of some have been answered is evident from the fact that artisans in a Baruipur village decided to make biodegradable idols for Saraswati Puja this year (“Go green with Saraswati”, Feb 14). Made of cow dung and clay, the idols are expected to dissolve in water within days, as opposed to those made of burnt clay. This could help reduce water pollution caused by idol immersions every year. May more people find the wisdom to opt for these environment-friendly idols from next year. Sampa Kundu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
17-02-2021||Opinion||Disgrace: Trump acquitted, not exonerated||Donald Trump will go down in the history of the presidency of the United States of America with several dubious feathers on his cap. He is the only president to have faced impeachment proceedings twice — he survived on both occasions, with the Senate recently voting to acquit Mr Trump by a thinner margin on the second occasion. But this acquittal — by a margin of 57-43 votes on the charge of being guilty of inciting a crowd of supporters that went berserk on the US Capitol — need not be read as an exoneration. Even though Mr Trump may no longer be vulnerable to eternal banishment from politics — an impeachment would have been a step in that direction — he remains unprotected in other ways. With the presidential office no longer serving as a shield from legal liability, Mr Trump the Citizen would have to devote considerable time to battle a number of cases in courts. This sustained demand for accountability is a point that Republicans complicit in Mr Trump’s second escape from disgrace are harping on to argue that the former president has not got away unscathed. But this is a rather lame argument, and the Democrats’ accusation of their rivals’ adopting double standards cannot be dismissed easily. The majority of Republicans chose to defer to what is believed to be a substantial public sentiment that remains favourable towards the former president. The consequences of their capitulation could have far-reaching implications for they signal the willingness of senators to prioritize narrow political imperatives over a greater cause. Unwise decisions on the pedestals of power are often a catalyst in the weakening of the foundations of democracies; American democracy is not an exception to this caveat. Punishing a leader for what, evidently, is a transgression could have served as a deterrent against such predations in the future. But that is not to be. Another message can be read from Mr Trump’s second acquittal. Even though seven Republican senators did exhibit the courage to break ranks with their timid brethren, the spirit of bipartisanship — something that Mr Trump’s successor has emphasized repeatedly — remains feeble. This could only mean that American politicians and the American people remain camped along partisan lines. Joseph Biden’s prayer for healing and reconciliation in a fractious polity seems to have gone unheard so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
17-02-2021||Opinion||Keep Quiet: Nirmala Sitharaman labels Rahul Gandhi the Doomsday Man||This is a triumph for DC comics. The most comprehensive put-down for a leader of the Opposition that India’s finance minister could think of appeared to have come out of the DC universe. Nirmala Sitharaman labelled the former Congress president, Rahul Gandhi, the Doomsday Man for India in Parliament, making it clear that the figure no longer inhabited a comic series but was stalking the makers of achchhe din in the real India today. Debate and dissent in Parliament have almost vanished. Now it is quite routine to hear a string of appellations flying towards the Opposition from the treasury benches whenever critical questions are asked. Mr Gandhi has consistently raised issues — from the effects of demonetization, the seriousness of Covid, the tragedy of migrant labourers and so on to China and the farmers’ movement — that Narendra Modi’s government will simply not address. Mr Gandhi is doing his job — as Opposition member he is unrelenting and most visible among other critics of the government. Hence Ms Sitharaman’s fanciful appellation in remarks claiming that Mr Gandhi’s ‘fake narratives’ of doom and humiliation of India by his criticism of Constitutional authorities such as the president, prime minister, Speaker and so on demonstrate his lack of belief in the democratically elected Parliament. When an Opposition politician’s rightful role in Parliament is described as his loss of belief in it, the distortion of India’s formative values seems complete. Dissent and protest from the people who have elected representatives within Parliament are being penalized daily by arrests and long detentions of the protesters. Ms Sitharaman accused Mr Gandhi of abuse and destructive politics, of becoming part of the ‘fringe’ of the ‘destroy-India-image’ brigade. This reveals the Modi-led regime’s attitude that questioning an elected government is equivalent to ‘demeaning’ or ‘humiliating’ India. This belief — its repetition suggests it is a belief, not just an attitude — encapsulates the true danger to democracy and is intimately tied up with the government’s furious reaction to all criticism and refusal to answer questions, whether they come from the Opposition or the people. The ruler can do no wrong. Mr Modi’s government wishes to erase its elected origin and turn its electors into subjects who are not permitted to criticize the rulers. Ms Sitharaman was representing that agenda, not the people or parliamentary democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
17-02-2021||Opinion||Road map for a hotter future||The United States of America is set to formally re-enter the Paris Agreement this week. On assuming the presidency of the US, Joseph R. Biden accepted the Paris Agreement and every article and clause thereof on behalf of his country. The US’s engagement is critical to but not necessarily sufficient for the success of the Conference of Parties in Glasgow in November, where it is expected that the parties to the Paris Agreement will finalize the rules of how the Agreement will operate in the future. I am, at best, cautiously optimistic. Donald Trump’s presidency has demonstrated the fragility of the institutional arrangement. Institutional arrangements will likely become more robust in the future and whims of an individual may not be able to derail global arrangements, but it might happen too late and the narrow climatic envelope of about 11 degrees Celsius to 15 degrees Celsius mean annual temperature may be breached by then. For millennia, humans have operated in a fairly narrow subset of earth’s available climates, transforming labour, capital, energy, and other natural resources into new goods or services. This is possibly a reflection of the human temperature niche; all species have an environmental niche. According to a recent study, the human population distribution in relation to MAT has remained largely unaltered, with a major mode around 11 degrees Celsius to 15 degrees Celsius accompanied by a smaller secondary mode around 20 degrees Celsius to 25 degrees Celsius corresponding to the Indian monsoon region. It has been found that globally economic productivity is non-linear in temperature, with productivity peaking at MAT of 13 degrees Celsius and declining strongly at higher temperatures, both for agricultural and non-agricultural activity, irrespective of the economic condition of the countries. If societies continue to function as they have in the recent past, geographical position of this temperature niche is projected to shift more over the next 50 years than it has in the last 6,000 years. Climate change is expected to reshape the global economy by substantially reducing global economic output. Over the coming decades, the human climate niche is projected to move to higher latitudes. “Draw a line around the planet at the latitude of the northern borders of the United States and China, and just about every place south, across five continents, stands to lose out.” Under such circumstances, what option does India have, given its large population that is dependent on climate-sensitive sectors and allied services? While some regions may face declining conditions for human thriving, conditions in other places will improve. As the world warms, no country stands to gain more than Russia. By 2080, Russia’s permafrost in the Asian part of the country will be reduced by more than half, potentially making more than five million square kilometres available for farming. A great transformation is already underway in the eastern half of Russia. Wild forests, swamps and grasslands, land that was once impossible to farm are for the last two decades bearing soya bean, corn and wheat. Russia could become the largest food producer on the planet, provided they have enough people to work the land. The Russian population, after a period of miniscule growth between 2008 and 2018, is again on the decline. Could Russia and India forge a partnership as they have done in case of exploration, development and production of oil and gas in the Russian Far-East? ONGC Videsh Limited, which is in the business of prospecting for oil and gas acreages outside India, has three of its oil and gas assets in the Russian Far-East. The State Farms Corporation of India Limited could be refashioned along the lines of OVL to prospect for agricultural acreage outside India. However, not all thawed land will be suitable for farming and neither will the thaw occur overnight. Therefore, SFCIL or a similar entity should start prospecting now. The OVL was founded in 1965 and its current oil and gas assets stand at 37, producing about 30.3 per cent of oil and 23.7 per cent of oil and natural gas of India’s domestic production in 2019-20. In time, OVL could surpass its parent, ONGC, in terms of reserves and production. Similarly, in the decades to come, SFCIL could account for higher agricultural production and ensure India’s food security despite declining domestic production. India’s national per capita income is projected to be nearly 92 per cent less by the year 2100. Repurposing a company like SFCIL is just one part of the solution. India will have to consider shipping hundreds of thousands of workers to the Russian Far-East to make it a win-win for itself and Russia. This might seem like an insurmountable challenge but India already sends hundreds of thousands of IT professionals where there weren’t any just 40 years ago. In spite of the formidable psychological, social, and political barriers to migration, seasonal or permanent, a change in the geographical distribution of human populations and agricultural production is almost inevitable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
17-02-2021||Opinion||Long shadow: a failure in Agra||The 20th anniversary of the Agra summit, when General Pervez Musharraf was invited to India, will fall this coming July. As is well known, it was Musharraf’s outspoken comments early during the visit that started a downward trend, which finally led to the summit’s ultimate failure. As is often the case in such India-Pakistan events, there are conflicting accounts of the proceedings. For the then Pakistan foreign minister, Abdul Sattar, Musharraf was “persuasive” and the audience “spellbound” as he held forth his views on Kashmir. For Jaswant Singh, the then external affairs minister, Musharraf was “belligerent” and a “grand standing fever” led to much unrestrained comment. While views have differed on how much weightage should be given to the press interaction in tilting the summit towards failure, that it did begin things on a negative note is undeniable. The invitation to Musharraf for the summit had itself come after a fraught time. The Kargil conflict in May-July 1999 had been followed by a coup as Musharraf ended another attempt at democracy in Pakistan. Barely had this drama ended when India went through in end December 1999 the trauma of the hijacking of IC 814 to Kandahar, and that ended only with the release of some terrorists in Indian custody. The released terrorists soon surfaced in Pakistan and the shadow of that event extends right up to the present. One of the terrorists released was Omar Sheikh who went on to kill the American journalist, Daniel Pearl, and, finally, surrendered himself to Ijaz Shah, an ISI officer, who joined politics subsequently and was, till recently, Pakistan’s interior minister. Omar Sheikh was awarded the death penalty but this was never carried out and after almost two decades in custody, his release was ordered recently and upheld by the Pakistan Supreme Court. If 1999, because of Kargil and IC 814, will go down as a very bad year in India-Pakistan relations, 2000 was a year without major conflict but no real stability either. This no-war no-peace period ended in May 2001 with the invitation to General Musharraf to visit India for talks. The invite infuriated many in India who saw it as a hasty, even maverick, decision, taken possibly because of US pressure and from which no good would come. Others objected because they saw the invite as a retreat from a position of the principle that there could be no talks without cessation of support to terrorists. Whatever the merit and validity of these views, Prime Minister A.B. Vajpayee, perceived events from a different and wider prism and he wrote as 2000 came to an end, “A self-confident and resilient nation does not postpone the inconvenient issues of yesterday to a distant tomorrow”. Two other principal figures in his cabinet — the home minister, L.K. Advani, and the external affairs minister, Jaswant Singh — had been fully involved in the back room discussions with Pakistan before the invitation was extended. The summit ended without an outcome — not surprising in itself given the gulf between the two sides on the issues of terrorism and Kashmir. The differences were well known and, to an extent, both sides had sought to prepare for this. Musharraf had also used the opportunity to declare himself president and was sworn in as such in June 2001. He would now visit India as president of Pakistan rather than as chief executive as he had styled himself post the coup. In any event, it was the peripheral issue of the press meeting and Musharraf’s immaturity and cockiness that played spoiler. This was not the first time that a high-level meeting in fraught circumstances had failed at Agra. There had been a major missed opportunity a little under three and a half centuries earlier in the summer of 1666. Shivaji arrived in Agra on May 12 for an audience before Emperor Aurangzeb. Purists may well deny that this proposed meeting had the status of a summit. Aurangzeb was the Mughal emperor and Shivaji was then a rebel and a military headache but still eight years away from his coronation as king. Yet, he had established himself as a leader by defeating Mughal armies and raiding some of their major centres such as the port of Surat. His visit for an audience with the emperor was the outcome of both military pressure and patient diplomacy by the Rajput ruler of Amber, Jai Singh, who was the Mughal commander in the Deccan. Possibly the end result he and the emperor envisaged were of the Marathas joining the Mughals just as the Rajputs had three generations earlier. The differences between the Mughals and the Marathas were, of course, formidable and militate against this theory. Yet, the fact that the meeting was taking place at all suggests that possibilities always exist and even appear probable to actual participants. All this was not to be and the outcome of the audience was a well-known disaster. Shivaji felt that he was deliberately insulted, stormed out of the court, was imprisoned, but later escaped to make a separate history for himself and the Marathas. Was this breakdown inevitable? The historian, Jadunath Sarkar, asked himself this question just over a century ago on the basis of new documents he had unearthed. The downward trend that ended with the disastrous scene in the Mughal court began, Sarkar found, with a “comedy of errors” on account of what we would today call protocol mix-ups and unintentional mistakes. For these, Sarkar placed the main responsibility on Jai Singh’s son and the representative in the Mughal court. “Ram Singh’s slothfulness and the incompetence of his officers” meant that Shivaji was not properly received at the end of a long journey and reached the court late. Consequently the intricacies of court protocol could not be properly explained to him beforehand, he felt slighted at the treatment he received and walked out. At this breach of court etiquette, a group we would term today as hardliners coalesced. These were in the main Mughal nobles who had been worsted in battle by the Marathas, Jai Singh’s own Rajput rivals as well as others whose financial interests had been hit by Maratha raids. At their clamour, Aurangzeb’s own sectarian impulses also asserted themselves. The edifice that Jai Singh had so painstakingly built with the emperor’s earlier consent came crumbling down. Whatever may be the differences in assessments about what was achievable from this initiative, what is clear is that a major opportunity had been missed by the Mughals. In its immediate aftermath Agra — in 2001 at least — did not appear as a total write-off. Jaswant Singh said after the summit that “we will pick up the threads”; in the Pakistan readouts, the view was that the meeting was inconclusive, not a failure. Yet, over the forthcoming winter, the world changed as 9/11 meant that the global narrative on terrorism now would be decisively different. The terrorist attack on our Parliament in December 2001 heralded a fresh phase of India-Pakistan tensions. By January 2004, however, Vajpayee was in Pakistan and, by this time, the space for Musharraf’s grandstanding no longer existed. The author is a retired diplomat and currently Director General, Indian Council of World Affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau Tiger Reserve gears up to tackle surface fire||Palamau tiger reserve (PTR) is gearing up to fight surface fire as the time for such mishap inches closer. The period between February and June is termed as the fire months for the reserve. According to sources, during this time span the forest witness instances of surface fire, which is quite unlike the ones that take place in American or Canadian jungles Deputy director south division of PTR Mukesh Kumar said, “We are right on the alert.” He added, “Early onset of summer lengthens the fire months in the tiger reserve.” Explaining the reason behind the fire, stated, “It’s a dry deciduous forest. So, at the onset of summer it witnesses a huge leaf fall. The more the leaves fall, the more are the chances of forest fire taking place.” According to Kumar most of these fires are caused by man. “This forest area has mahua trees in abundance. The villagers collect its fallen fruits day and night, to make country liquor. To reap a clean harvest, they burn the dry leaves. At times these fires go out of control,” said Kumar. According to sources at times villagers have caused fire simply out of revenge. “Often the ground staff bar them from stealing timber or chopping trees. So, villagers at times cause fire at the forest area out of revenge,” said a source. Talking about tackling fires at PTR, Kumar mentioned that the tiger reserve is equipped with thirty fire blowers. The ground staff have been trained to use the fire blower to fight fire. Kumar, “All the 30 fire blowers are in order.” On being asked why water is not used to fight forest fire, he said, “Fire in the tiger reserve is not extinguished with water. It is just not possible at all. Fire line is used to stop surface fire from further spreading.” He added that they have men patrolling the jungle to spot fire. He added, “ Our men work hard. Remember extinguishing forest fire is not an easy task.” “Significantly, there has been no loss of wild life by such fire. Eggs of birds, peacocks, worms, insects and snakes are harmed. Needless, it is the bio diversity that gets a jolt during the fires,” noted environmentalist D S Srivastava. He said, “Various eco development committees need to be activated by the tiger reserve officials for better fire fighting measures.” Srivastava warned the official to be on red alert. He said, “We expect a hard summer and that means more vulnerability to fire.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Man arrested for duping half a dozen unemployed youths of lakhs||A 45-year-old man was on Wednesday arrested by the Sonari Police for allegedly duping lakhs of rupees from two unemployed youths in the name of providing them railway jobs. The accused, identified as Kumardeep Gupta, was arrested from his house at Vastu Vihar in RIT police station area of Adityapur at about 4 am.  Sonari Police Station OC Renu Gupta confirmed the arrest on Wednesday. “We arrested the accused from his house early in the morning. He had been evading it,” the OC told The Telegraph Online. One of the victims, Umesh Chandra Mahto, a resident of Sankosai in Mango, had first approached the police to get a case registered. However, he had to approach a court as the police refused to take up his case. Thereafter, the court had asked the police to register a case, which they did following the order. According to the police, the accused had duped over half a dozen youths, including Umesh Chandra Mahto. Another youth, Surjeet Sarkar had also approached the court with the same complaint. Kumardeep had promised Mahto a Group-D railway job and took Rs 2.5 lakh from him in 2016. He had later promised a job at the IRCTC and made the victim run from pillar to post for the next three years. When Mahto realised that he was being fooled, he wanted his money back. But this time the accused became non-responsive, prompting Mahto to file a case against him at the Jamshedpur court in 2020. The police sources said as the transaction between Mahto and the accused was done in Sonari, the case was finally registered with the Sonari Police. Kumardeep was sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail after he being produced before a judicial magistrate in the afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Athawale invites Sorens to join NDA, envisages a BJP-JMM govt in Jharkhand||Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale has invited Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), which is heading a coalition government in the state, to join National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to reap benefits of double engine government. He mentioned that the tribal outfit could also seek portfolios in the centre. Athawale’s comments came on a day when chief minister Hemant Soren’s party launched a scathing attack at the central government for stifling the voice of dissent and burdening the common man with price hikes. The union minister was on a day long tour of the state during which he also visited Ramgarh and spoke also to the media in Ranchi. During his interaction he said, “I have appealed to Shibu Soren and Hemant Soren to join NDA. We can have a BJP-JMM government here. They (JMM) will also get strengthened in Delhi, which will help in overall development of the state.” The minister, who is also the president of Republican Party of India, attacked AICC leader Rahul Gandhi over his recent jibe of “Hum do humare do”. Speaking in the Parliament last week during the budget session, Gandhi mocked how the central government being run by two is working for two people only, indirectly taking a dig at two most influential corporate giants (Adanis and Ambanis). Athawale said, “If Rahul Gandhi believes so much in the slogan, he should do his bit to promote it further by marrying a Dalit girl and set an example against casteism to fulfill Mahatma Gandhi’s vision.” Significantly, JMM was part of the NDA government between 2009 and 2013. During this period present chief minister Hemant Soren has served the state as its deputy chief minister. However, the alliance broke in January 2013, leading to the fall of Arjun Munda government.. Following which, JMM returned back to UPA fold in 2019 by contesting Lok Sabha and state elections under the ‘mahagatbandhan’ banner. Despite the UPA alliance managing to win only 2 out of 14 parliamentary seats in Jharkhand, it later booted out the BJP government in assembly elections under Hemant Soren’s leadership. Athawale’s statement invited strong reaction from Congress, which is part of the incumbent regime. In a formal statement, Congress spokesperson and co-working president Rajesh Thakur maintained that the minister’s statement should be seen as indirect confession of the Union government harassing non-BJP ruled states. He said, “We have been crying about funds crunch and step brotherly treatment being met out by the Modi government towards Jharkhand. His statements confirm the fact. A minister should first advise PM and his Sanghi friends on marriage to end casteism.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Brace for rain, thunderstorm across the state in next 24 hours||Ranchi and its adjoining areas have been experiencing rain since Tuesday evening as two induced cyclonic circulations, which triggered unseasonal showers and thunderstorms in several parts of the state. “Jharkhand is under the influence of two induced cyclonic circulations triggered by a western disturbance passing through higher latitudes. One cyclonic circulation over eastern Rajasthan was hovering up to 0.9 km above mean sea level while the other cyclonic circulation over Vidarbha was existing 1.5 km above mean sea level. The twin cyclonic circulation was resulting in rainfall activity over several districts across Jharkhand,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Several places across the state including Ranchi and Jamshedpur on Wednesday woke up to overcast conditions with intermittent rains. Weathermen issued a forecast of generally cloudy sky with possibility of light rain accompanied by thunderstorms at a few places over northern, central and southern Jharkhand during the next two days. Both IMD’s Ranchi and Patna Met Centres have issued an alert on possibility of thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and hail in several districts - Chatra, Palamu Lohardaga, Hazaribagh , Ranchi Khunti, Seraikela-Kharsawan, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum in the next 24 hours. An alert on thunderstorms accompanied with lightning was also issued for isolated places over central and southern Jharkhand over the next 24 hours. Kuru in Lohardaga district located in north western Jharkhand topped the rain chart with 6.5 mm of rain while Nimdih in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district followed close with 5.5 mm of rain. The local IMD observatory in Ranchi recorded 2.6 mm of rain since Tuesday. Kuru in Lohardaga district located in north western Jharkhand topped the rain chart with 6.5 mm of rain while Nimdih in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district followed close with 5.5 mm of rain. Several places in Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas on Wednesday morning recorded around 1.5 mm of rain while some places recorded rainfall in traces. Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum district recorded 1.3 mm of rain while Khunti recorded 1 mm. Mandar in Ranchi district recorded 4.2 mm of rain while Bokaro experienced 2 mm of rain. Ghatshila in East singhbhum district recorded 1.2 of rain. Reports of light rain also poured in from several other districts. The adverse weather resulted in an abrupt rise in night reading across Jharkhand. Ranchi on Wednesday recorded a minimum temperature of 15.2 degree Celsius while Jamshedpur recorded 18.2 degree Celsius. Pakur too was warmer at 17.5 degree Celsius while Sahibganj and several other districts in Santhal Pargana region recorded over 16 degree Celsius. Met data revealed that in most places the minimum reading on Wednesday was three to four degrees Celsius above normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri residents demand resumption of Dhanbad-Sindri passenger train||The Sindri-Dhanbad passenger train, lying suspended since March last year, will be restored soon, said General Manager of East Central Railway Lalit Chandra Trivedi on Wednesday during his trip to Dhanbad. The suspension of the train service has caused a lot of inconvenience to the residents of Sindri. During his interaction with a group of retired employees of Sindri fertilizer factory some representative, while inspecting Patherdih Railway station of Dhanbad, he instructed them to send a letter regarding the matter to the railway board through Dhanbad MP PN Singh. The group led by former public relation officer of Fertilizer Corporation of India also apprised Trivedi about the plight of the senior citizens of Sindri due to lack of other transport facilities. Singh, after a meeting with the GM, said they had been told that the matter could be only handled by the Railway board. However, sending a letter through an MP could help. DN Singh, another representative, said that the group will be meeting the MP soon, and would request him to write a letter to the railway board for restoration of the Dhanbad Sindri passenger train. “We also apprised the GM about our previous meeting with the Additional Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad, Ashish Kumar Jha, held on the same grounds on December 16 during which he assured to forward our request to East Central Railway Hajipur. However, no action is in sight on ground as we are still compelled to carry out tiresome and costlier journeys on auto rickshaws to Dhanbad for minor work,” said another member of the delegation Uma Shankar Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Chamoli Tragedy: Identifying decomposed bodies traumatise kin||Kin of Jharkhand labourers missing in the Chamoli disaster are dealing with much more than the trauma of losing a family member – the sole bread earner in most of the cases. They now have the task of identifying their dear ones as partially-decomposed bodies are being fished out of the muck – a sight that can shake the strongest. The sight is mortifying for the kin of the missing labourers, who have been camping in Uttarakhand with the sole purpose of recognising the corpses being recovered. So far, 58 bodies have been found from the site of the disaster of which only 31 have been identified. The bodies of the 14 labourers missing from Jharkhand are yet to be identified. The family is hoping against hope to meet their missing family member alive, despite knowing that the chances are slim. Jaman Mahto, a resident of Gola Block in Ramgarh, was at Chamoli on Wednesday to identify his son-in-law, Kuldip Kumar Mahto, who was working at a National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) site in Tapovan. He has been staying there for nearly a week now, and the experience of dealing with the trauma of identifying his son-in-law among defaced and decomposed bodies has left him scarred for life, he said. “I know there is no chance for his (Kuldip) survival. I want this process to end as soon as possible, so I can take his body and go home,” said Jaman. His voice quivered as he added, “Kuldip is survived by his widow and two daughters, who are too young to take on the responsibility of the family. All of them are emotionally shattered, and I don’t know how they will cope with this loss. He was only 30-year-old.” Similar is the experience of the 13 other families since the Chamoli tragedy struck. An NTPC contractor, Ajay Kumar Singh, who was making travel arrangements for the kin of missing labourers in Chamoli admitted that the chance of survival of the missing labourers was bleak. But he was still cooperating with the families of missing labourers and trying to ensure that the bodies are identified. “The bodies are so badly decomposed after being trapped under the debris for several days that it is almost impossible to identify them. Six more people from Ramgarh district of Jharkhand were here to identify bodies. They left yesterday,” said Singh. Another NTPC contractor Vinod Singh while explaining the process for identification said, “Once a body is found, it is cleaned and shown to the family members for identification. Following which DNA samples of family members are collected and matched with the recovered bodies.” As per records with the state control room, as many as nine persons from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh, and one from Bokaro are missing from Chamoli since the tragedy struck. Besides Kuldeep, Birsai Mahto, Madan Mahto, and Jitendra Mahto are Ramgarh labourers missing from Chamoli. Birsai’s nephew Vikrant Mahto mentioned that the bereaved family is only hoping for the formalities to get over soon, so they can get the compensation and the time to overcome their loss. “The family members of all the four missing labourers have given their DNA samples for identification of the bodies,” added Vikrant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Defunct fogging machines add to sting woes in Dhanbad ||Over 250 fogging machines of Dhanbad Municipal corporation are lying unused at a time when its residents are facing the outbreak of various mosquito-borne diseases like dengue and malaria. Concerned over the issue, Madhurendra Singh, former president of Bartand Chamber of Commerce and a civil rights activist, on Tuesday wrote to municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar, demanding immediate resumption of fogging services in all 55 wards of the district. Around 12 bike-mounted and over 225 portable machines are lying defunct due to the lack of use and proper maintenance, Singh told The Telegraph Online. “I have also drawn the attention of the Municipal Commissioner towards the fact that during the pandemic expired chemicals were used for fogging. As a consequence the grind was ineffective in yielding the desired result. It merely generated smoke,” he added. Jay Kumar, councilor of ward number 38 of the Jharia circle of DMC said fogging has not been carried out in any ward since the last six months. “This leads to a strong possibility of an outbreak of mosquito-borne diseases,” he said. Kumar also said that along with the fogging machines, a lot of other equipment like garbage collecting tractors are lying unused. “This gives rise to diseases like malaria and dengue, and also puts pressure on sanitation workers,” he added. Sanitary inspector of the DMC Arjun Ram said operation of the truck-mounted fogging machines is too high. “It consumes 200 litres of diesel, five litre of petrol and 20 litres of chemical for two-hour operation and thus are lying unused due to lack of funds for managing such huge expenses. We have been carrying out fogging operations with portable machines since the last four days,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Man charred to death as SUV catches fire in steel city||A 40-year-old was charred to death on Tuesday night when his SUV caught fire on the Marine Drive in Jamshedpur, while he was driving towards Sakchi to Sonari. Ajay Pal was driving his Scorpio when at around 10 pm it caught fire as it was crossing Tilo Bhatta, a slum along the Marine Drive under the Sonari police station area. A fire brigade rushed to the spot soon but by that time, both Pal and his car were gutted to fire. Seeing the vehicle up in flames residents of the slum rushed to the spot carrying  buckets of water, but to no avail. According to an eye-witness, after catching fire the vehicle was gutted in less than 10 minutes. He said the vehicle caught fire from the rear side and spread fast. On getting the news a mobile PCR (Police Control Room) van reached the spot. Deputy superintendent of police ( DSP ) Arvind Kumar too reached the spot. "The cause of the fire is being probed. The victim could not come out of  the vehicle as the door locks were not working. No one also heard his shriek as the doors remained closed," said the DSP. Eye-witnesses said local residents with the help of police broke open the doors of the SUV to find the charred body. According to police, the  victim, who has a son and a daughter, used to run a poultry business at Kagalnagar in Sonari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Farmers to hold rail blockade against agri laws on Thursday||Farmers’ groups in the state are gearing up for a four-hour rail blockade on February 18, in support of the nationwide call to press for repeal of the three contentious farm laws. Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanway Samiti (JRKSSS), a joint union of different farmers groups on Wednesday said that a decision in this regard was taken in a joint meeting among different stakeholders on Tuesday. Sufal Mahato, convenor of the umbrella union said that they have also appealed to all non-NDA constituents to join the movement. "We have decided to hit on the tracks with full force on February 18 to block rail movements from 12 noon to 4 pm. Besides farmers, workers, daily wagers and people from all such depressed and marginalised sections will be part of the rail protest," he told The Telegraph Online. Mahato added that the protest is to press for rollback of the controversial farm legislations, law on minimum support price (MSP) and the revival of shoddy procurement process at government mandis. "The situation of paddy procurement process in Jharkhand and elsewhere in the state is still such that it favours middlemen more than the real farmers. Legitimate farmers aren't even able to register themselves for the procurement process. On the contrary, middlemen have managed to enrol bribing officials to buy food grains at throwaway prices from farmers and sell them at exorbitant prices in open markets or at procurement centres," he said, adding that there are several such cases from his village in Tamar (Ranchi). "We demand the government to set up procurement centres at panchayat levels," he said. Notably, the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanway Samiti, which is a conglomeration of Left-backed farmers’ organisations and other independent groups, on February 13 held its first mahapanchayat in Rahe block on Ranchi outskirts. It now plans to hold a series of such mahapanchayats across the state in coming weeks. "It's high time that farmers across the country are mobilised and united to take on the anti-farm policies of the government," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 40 new Covid cases, achieves 28 per cent of its vaccination target||Less than 0.5 per cent of the over 11,000 people tested for Covid-19 infection on Tuesday were found infected in Jharkhand, while Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on the day, bringing the number of active cases down at 460, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The three Covid-free districts – Godda, Giridih and Pakur – remained Covid-free on the day despite more than 1600 people tested for the infection in the three districts, NHM stated in a bulletin released on Tuesday night. As per government data, the state reported 40 cases against 44 recoveries on the day. Ranchi reported at least 28 of the 40 cases and 25 of the 44 recoveries. The number of active cases rose to 247 here on Tuesday, which is more than 50 per cent of the total active cases in Jharkhand. Besides Ranchi, no other district reported a double-digit-spike in cases. At least 17 of the 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on the day, government data highlighted. So far, as many as 119394 people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand and 98.70 per cent of them have recovered, the NHM bulletin stated. At the current pace, it would take more than 2483 days for the cases to double in the state. Meanwhile, Jharkhand achieved only 28 per cent of its vaccination target on Tuesday by administering the first dose of Covishield vaccine to 6154 of 22360 registered beneficiaries. The state has so far achieved 63 per cent of its vaccination target by inoculating 2,43,636 people, stated a separate report released by NHM. The state on Tuesday also administered the second dose of the vaccine to 1424 registered beneficiaries, achieving 55 per cent of the target. As per NHM data, Jharkhand has administered the second dose of Covishield vaccine to 5563 people, thereby achieving 63 per cent of the target. No fresh cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) were reported in Jharkhand on the day. So far, as many as 266 AEFI cases have been reported in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||New address for footpath vendors of Sakchi market  ||The 400-odd footpath vendors of Sakchi market have finally been shifted to a new address from Tuesday - the sprawling Aambagan ground. The popular 'Mangala Haat', organised every Tuesday inside the market has been shifted to the new venue too. " All footpath vendors have agreed to transact business from the new venue. We, therefore decked up the ground with colourful balloons on Tuesday to attract customers, " said Md. Shamim, a footwear vendor who has been running a makeshift shop inside the Sakchi market for the last 12 years. Another garment vendor Arun Kumar said, " We are happy to shift to the new venue though many customers are not aware of the change. Gradually, they will come to know and we hope it will be business as usual in the days to come." Notably, a Quick Response Team ( QRT ) had to be deployed in Sakchi market last month to remove the footpath vendors. Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer (SDO) Nitish Kumar Singh had earlier issued a directive to make Sakchi market free from vendors. The police had launched a crackdown last month and had removed over 100 makeshift shops from Sakchi market after recieving regular complaints from permanent shopkeepers against footpath vendors. After the makeshift shops were cleared, the aggrieved vendors came to the Sakchi police station and demanded an alternative place to run their business from. They police asked them to move to the nearby Aambagan ground but they were initially reluctant to follow the order. A senior official of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee ( JNAC ), Ravi Bharti said, " We could finally convince the vendors to shift to the new venue. This will help Sakchi market visitors move around freely without any hassles. The footpath vendors were creating commotion as well as hygiene problems."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
