18-02-2021||Calcutta||Raft on canal near Mamata Banerjee’s home||Seven police pickets were set up near the Tolly’s Nullah and a raft was deployed on the canal behind chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Kalighat home a day after some parateachers tried to reach her house by wading through waistdeep water. They held placards demanding pay parity with regular teachers. The raft will have disaster management group personnel who will patrol the canal through the day, officers attached with the chief minister’s security said. Police presence has been increased along Alipore central jail in the lanes and bylanes leading to the canal. From Wednesday, seven police posts were set up along Alipore central jail where personnel were posted on different shifts to ensure that no one would be able to reach the canal without being frisked or giving a satisfactory reason. Many residents in the neighbouring areas go to the canal for their daily chores, police said. Civic volunteers from the locality will assist the police to verify that the people going to the canal are from the neighbourhood. The stretch of the canal that flows behind the chief minister’s home is partially marshy and has not been dredged in several years, sources in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said. CMC boats sometimes cross the stretch to spray insecticide and larvicide as part of antimosquito drives, said an official of the civic body. The police top brass is contemplating initiating action against the officers who were on duty and in charge of the security of the chief minister’s home from the Tolly’s Nullah approach, sources in Lalbazar said. On Tuesday, a group of parateachers had waded through the Nullah and tried to reach the chief minister’s home with demands of pay scale parity with teachers recruited by the government. Mamata was at home at the time. Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra rushed to the spot and ensured that the agitators were prevented from reaching the chief minister’s residence. The chief minister’s home on Harish Chatterjee Street is guarded by multiple pickets and heavy radio flying squad vehicles on all sides except one, sources said. The back of her house adjoining the Tolly’s Nullah usually remains unguarded. The group of men and women who tried to cross the canal on Tuesday had used a bylane adjoining Alipore central jail, apparently unnoticed and unintercepted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
18-02-2021||Calcutta||RKM convocation minus guardians||The Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous) in Narendrapur will hold its convocation on March 6 but degree recipients have been asked not to bring guardians for the event to avoid crowding amid the Covid pandemic. The ceremony will be held at an auditorium on the campus that can accommodate 950 students, an official of the college said. “Around 140 outgoing undergraduate and postgraduate students will come to the campus to receive their degrees,” said Swami Shastrajnananda, the principal of the college. Students who would not be able to attend the convocation will have to go to the campus later to collect their degree certificates in a staggered way. The ceremony will be live streamed on digital platforms. A notice signed by principal Swami Shastrajnananda says: “As Covid-19 precautionary measures, you will come to campus on the day of the ceremony and return after the event. There will be no on-campus accommodation facility this time around.” At the Narendrapur institution, the college usually allows outgoing students to go to the campus days before the convocation, stay there and spend a few days on the campus post the ceremony. As hostels have been shut because of the pandemic, this custom has been done away with, said an official said. The degree recipients have been asked to fill up a Google form — https://forms.gle /qGJ7UJ9rVyKaeSaE6 — to confirm that they will attend the programme. The last date to submit the form is February 28. The chief guest for the convocation will be Sangamithra Bandyopadhyay, the director of the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata. “You are expected to follow the standard Covid-19 protocols — wearing of masks, carrying hand sanitiser, physical distancing and the rest,” the principal’s notice says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
18-02-2021||Calcutta||Sector V: call centre racket busted ||Salt Lake police arrested two director-cum-owners of a call centre in Sector V for allegedly duping Spanish, German and Australian nationals posing as officials of a software giant, police said. The police have identified the two as Shuvashis Jana and Rahim Passa. The other owner-directors are on the run, the police said. A team from the Bidhannagar Commissionerate conducted a raid at the fifth-floor office of Dreambolic Technology Pvt Ltd at EN Block in Sector V on Monday afternoon. The cops found at least 50 men and women working at the office. “The arrested duo have confessed that they used to dupe foreign nationals by calling them posing as officials of a software firm. They would warn them against a virus attack on their computers and offer help. After given access to the computer,s they would siphon-off money from their accounts using various payment gateways,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
18-02-2021||Calcutta||Xavier’s report cards to mention offline or online mode of exams||St Xavier’s Collegiate School has said the report cards of students of Classes X and XII will mention whether they took the pre-board exams in offline or online mode. “The report cards will carry the information ‘Pre-Board Offline’ and ‘Pre-Board Online’,” says a notice signed by the principal and sent to parents and students of Classes X and XII on Wednesday evening. “We welcome the parents who chose the offline mode because they showed a great courage and confidence in the school...We also respect the other parents’ opinion (who chose online mode),” principal Father M. Thamacin Arulappan told Metro. The notice also asked parents not to change their decisions on offline/online exams. Those writing the exam in the online mode will have to send the PDF of the answer scripts within 10 minutes after the writing time is over. Late mails won’t be accepted. The school said about 90 per cent parents have given consent to offline exams that starts March 1. “....We have decided to hold the Pre-board examinations in offline mode to increase the confidence of our students...A large number of our parents have given the consent letters in view of Offline Examination...We respect the concerns of other parents too,” the principal’s notice reads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
18-02-2021||Calcutta||Open-heart surgery simplified||A conventional open-heart surgery, involving a long stay at the hospital and a longer recovery time, is the usual procedure to replace a non-functional valve. But under a new minimally invasive method, in which a catheter is inserted through a very small opening in the leg, the hospital stay is much shorter and the recovery time quicker. Doctors at a city hospital on Wednesday explained some innovations in cardiology. Here’s a lowdown on some of them. Valve On most occasions, replacement of a dysfunctional valve requires an open-heart procedure, in which the chest is surgically cut open to implant a new valve. “But under a new method, all it takes to implant a new valve is inserting a catheter through a small opening in the groin. As a result, the patient’s hospital stay is much shorter,” said Anjan Siotia, interventional cardiologist at the BM Birla Heart Research Centre. The new method is called transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). A woman underwent a TAVI surgery at the hospital during the lockdown and was doing fine, the doctor said. Pacemaker A leadless mini pacemaker, roughly one-tenth the size of a usual pacemaker, was flaunted at the programme. A conventional pacemaker, that signals the heart to beat when the heartbeat is irregular, comprises a pulse generator, one or more leads and an electrode on each lead. The lead is an insulated wire connecting the generator and the heart’s chambers. “Some of the complications associated with conventional pacemakers with lead are infections, hematoma and lead fracture. The leadless pacemakers do not have these complications. The mini pacemaker is implanted through a small hole in the femoral artery (groin), similar to an angioplasty. There is no need for a surgical incision in the chest. The surgery is a quicker process. The mini pacemaker lasts around 10-12 years, similar to a conventional pacemaker,” said Anil Mishra, interventional cardiologist at the Alipore hospital. Bluetooth-enabled pacemakers were also being used on cardiac patients, especially those who cannot visit the hospital regularly, doctors said. “The device can be connected to the patient’s phone. All the data can be accessed by a central server. A patient living at Alipore can visit us anytime he wants but the same is not true for patients living far away,” said Siotia. The new innovations are mostly dependent on imported devices and the surgeries are costlier than conventional procedures. “Implanting a mini pacemaker could cost two times the surgery to implant a conventional pacemaker,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
18-02-2021||Calcutta||Ambedkar bridge flank curbs for load test||One of the flanks of the Ambedkar bridge on the EM Bypass, which takes vehicles from Parama to Ruby, will be shut to traffic from 11pm on Friday to make way for load test of the structure. The blockade would be removed at 5am on Monday. The bridge is crucial for vehicular movement on the Bypass, considering the volume of traffic it handles. Located near the PC Chandra Garden on the Bypass, the Ambedkar bridge is over 30-years-old. In 2016, engineering consultancy company RITES had listed it among five bridges and flyovers in Calcutta that needed immediate repairs. The four others on the list were — Bankim Setu in Howrah, Sealdah flyover, Baghajatin rail overbridge and Chingrighata flyover. Two years after this, the urban development department had replaced the expansion joints of the bridge. The department has now decided to conduct a load test. “We would want to find out whether the load bearing capacity of the bridge has gone down since it was built or if it requires certain repairs so that the capacity can be enhanced,” a senior engineer of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), which is responsible for the bridge’s upkeep and maintenance, said. “All the four others that were on the 2016 list have undergone some sort of repairs,” the CMDA engineer said. During the time when the flank that carries vehicles from Parama to Garia will remain shut, the police have decided to divert the traffic to the other flank that takes vehicles from Garia to Ultadanga. “The flank would be split into two halves with guardrails,” said a senior officer of Tiljala traffic guard. “Though the traffic load is comparatively less on Saturdays and Sundays, if the tail up is more, vehicles will be diverted from Parama and Ruby.” Officials in the urban development department said the load test of the Ambedkar bridge would comprise mounting several loaded trucks first on the lane that is to be tested followed by empty trucks. A team of engineers would check how different components of the bridge — such as the deck slab, bearings, piers and the cables — were responding to  the loads. Deflections of different components of the bridge would be calculated and the report would be sent to the bridge monitoring committee that the state government has set up in 2018 after the Majerhat bridge collapse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
18-02-2021||Calcutta||Portion of Lake View Road renamed Basant-Sarala Birla Sarani||A portion of Lake View Road in south Calcutta was renamed Basant-Sarala Birla Sarani on Wednesday evening. Basant Kumar Birla, affectionately called “BK Babu”, was the son of industry doyen Ghanashyam Das Birla (GD Birla) and the patriarch of one of India’s most illustrious business families. Sarala Birla, to whom Basant Kumar Birla was married by Mahatma Gandhi, was the guiding force in his life. In an interview with this newspaper during the 69th anniversary of their wedding, Basant Kumar Birla had said that he never went ahead with anything without her approval. The stretch of Lake View Road, between its intersection with Rashbehari Avenue and Anil Roy Road, was renamed Basant-Sarala Birla Sarani at a programme organised by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The portion between Anil Roy Road and Southern Avenue will remain Ashoktaru Bandyopadhyay Sarani, the name which was given to the whole of Lake View Road earlier. Vidula Jalan and Maitreyi Kandoi, grandchildren of Basant and Sarala Birla, were present at the programme on Wednesday. “We thank everyone for renaming this road after our grandparents. We are too emotional to say much today,” Maitreyi said. The honour for the Birlas comes at a time a debate has been raging about the identity of the “sons of the soil” and “outsiders”. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has accused the BJP of parachuting “outsiders” — leaders from several other states — to steer its election campaign in Bengal. The BJP has tried to turn that around and spin a narrative in which Mamata is someone opposed to the city’s predominantly Marwari business community. Speaking about the contributions of the Birla family towards Calcutta’s growth, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of CMC’s board of administrators, said: “They were 300 times more Bengali than me.” “Nowadays there is a lot of talk about insider and outsider. I think Basant and Sarala Birla were 300 times more Bengali than me. Or for that matter, R.S. Agarwal and R.S. Goenka (founders of the Emami group). Once upon a time, they came from Rajasthan to do business here. Today, they are sons of Bengal,” Hakim said. He also mentioned the Kandoi family, pointing towards Maitreyi’s husband Vikash Kandoi, who was present. Among industrialists present at the ceremony were Sanjay Budhia, managing director of Patton Group, and Sushil Goenka, managing director of Emami Ltd. “The Birlas are a rare breed of industrialists. They built such a large business when there was licence and quota raj. Post-liberalisation, it is easier to build business but it was not easy in that age,” said Budhia. Sources in the CMC said the reason for renaming Lake View Road after the couple was their close association with the Birla Academy of Art and Culture, which is about 20 metres from where Lake View Road meets Southern Avenue. The website of the Birla Academy mentions the role of Basant and Sarala Birla in its foundation. “It all started when Sri & Smt B.K. Birla, foremost industrialists of India, had started collecting rare and valuable treasures of art out of their profound love for art & beauty. With a sizeable collection in place, it was decided that such veritable treasure troves of history should be accessible to all. A public Charitable Trust was created in 1962 with a view to collecting, preserving and exhibiting art objects for the public,” the website says. This is the first road in Calcutta named after a Birla family member, many of whom made the city their home. Painter Suvaprasanna had proposed to Mamata  that the road be renamed after the two. “She immediately agreed and asked the CMC to do the necessary,” Suvaprasanna told Metro. Basant Kumar Birla was born in Calcutta and went to Hare School. Most of his business ventures are headquartered in the city such as Kesoram Industries Ltd and Jaya Shree Tea. Even when Basant Kumar Birla was ailing because of age and he mostly spent time in Mumbai with his grandson Kumar Mangalam Birla, he expressed a desire to be back in Calcutta, at the Birla Park residence on Gurusaday Dutt Road. “There are other roads in Calcutta named after illustrious Marwaris who lived or worked here. Banstalla Street was renamed Sir Hari Ram Goenka Street in 1938 and there is Jamnalal Bajaj Street in Burrabazar,” said Debasis Bose, a former member of CMC’s road renaming committee. “Alipore Road was renamed RP Goenka Sarani after Rama Prasad Goenka passed away. Russell Street was renamed Anandilal Poddar Sarani and Pageyapatty Street was renamed Basantlal Murarka Road,” said Bose. Basant Kumar Birla built two institutions to promote art and at least six schools to encourage education, especially among girl children, mainly at the behest of wife Sarala Birla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
18-02-2021||Calcutta||60% dip in Calcutta Metro passenger count||Only about 40 per cent of the pre-pandemic number of passengers has been taking Metro trains even though the transportation system resumed operations from mid-September last year. The suburban trains, too, are less crowded than they used to be before the Covid-19 pandemic. Many people losing their jobs because of the pandemic, others working from home and educational institutions remaining closed, except for few classes in the schools, are some of the main factors for the transportation systems not having passengers like the normal times, several officials told Metro. Metro Rail has had 2.1 lakh to 2.3 lakh passengers daily this week. The number has gone up from 21,336 passengers on September 14, the day services had resumed. The number of trains has also gone up from 110 to 240. However, after five months of resuming operations, the passenger count is still far less compared to 6.5 lakh passengers taking Metro trains daily before the pandemic. Then, 284 trains would run on weekdays. Metro services were closed from March 23 last year. The passenger counts for suburban trains have also not touched pre-pandemic levels. Eastern Railway is recording a daily passenger count of around 25 lakh on an average in its suburban trains as against 30 lakh earlier. South Eastern Railway now has around 7,500 passengers compared to the earlier daily average of 10,500 passengers in the suburban trains, said an official. Tens of thousands of people staying in the fringes of Calcutta would take a suburban train to Calcutta for work. Many of them would take a Metro from stations like Dum Dum to get to the heart of the city where their offices are located. There would be others who would take a Metro to travel short distances within the city for work. During the Covid-triggered lockdown, many lost their jobs and are yet to find another one. An elderly resident of Belghoria in the northern fringes of the city, who used to work as a security guard for a retail store in a mall in south Calcutta, would take a suburban train to Dum Dum and then a Metro to Rabindra Sarobar station. From there, he would take an autorickshaw to reach his workplace. The store, a retail chain, decided to do away with security personnel as a cost cutting measure. “I am yet to get a job. There are a few stores I have contacted but at the moment no one is hiring me,” he said. There are many like him who are no longer travelling on suburban and Metro trains to come to Calcutta for work every day. A Metro official said the footfall at Dum Dum station, an interface for suburban and Metro passengers, was 80,000 passengers daily. The number is 39,000 now. “We are trying to encourage people to travel by Metro by withdrawing the e-passes. Now, passengers can buy smart cards for travelling,” said Indrani Banerjee, Metro spokesperson. Metro is yet to introduce tokens because they apprehend these could lead to the spread of the coronavirus. A Metro official said many passengers who are buying smart cards are returning them after a day or two. “People don’t want to keep the money deposited, even though it is a small amount.” A Metro smart card can be bought for Rs 100 and if it is returned, a small amount including the ticket price for the rides is deducted. According to the official, in January 2021, nearly 1.42 lakh smart cards were sold, out of which almost 29,000 were returned by passengers after a few days. In January, 2020, 21,240 cards were sold and only about 3,000 were returned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
18-02-2021||Business||Sensex sheds 379 points to close at 51,324||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 379 points on Thursday, tracking losses in index heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 379.14 points or 0.73 per cent lower at 51,324.69. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty dropped 89.95 points or 0.59 per cent to 15,118.95. Bajaj Finance was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, skidding over 2 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Nestle India, HDFC, M&M and ICICI Bank. ONGC was the top gainer, rallying around 8 per cent. NTPC, Asian Paints, Tech Mahindra, PowerGrid and IndusInd Bank were among the other winners. According to analysts, profit-booking in private banks, auto and FMCG dragged the benchmarks. Indian markets could not sustain early gains and started trading in negative zone in the afternoon session as selling pressure was witnessed following weak global cues mainly from western markets as investors awaited key economic data, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. Elsewhere in Asia, Shanghai ended on a positive note, while bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading in the negative terrain in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.48 per cent higher at USD 64.65 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open marginally higher||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a positive note on Thursday tracking gains in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and SBI, despite a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 61.08 points or 0.12 per cent higher at 51,764.91. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 18.20 points or 0.12 per cent up at 15,227.10. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, SBI, Infosys, HCL Tech and Asian Paints. On the other hand, M&M, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and Kotak Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex slumped 400.34 points or 0.77 per cent to close at 51,703.83. The broader NSE Nifty tumbled 104.55 points or 0.68 per cent to 15,208.90. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,008.20 crore on Wednesday, according to exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be modestly positive at the moment. 3QFY21 earnings have been quite encouraging and a large number of companies succeeded to top consensus earnings estimate. This along with increased visibility of sustaining corporate earnings rebound after favourable announcements in the Union Budget emboldened investors, he said. Persistent inflows from FPIs, which was the key driving force for markets in recent period, are expected to sustain, he added. US equities finished mostly lower on Wednesday. However, Dow Jones witnessed its third straight record close after minutes from FOMC's January meeting echoed Powell's last week of dovish statements. Fed policy makers reiterated that they need to see sustained inflation before considering the end of the bond buying programme. Hence, situations like taper tantrum are still away, in our view. Investors will be keenly watching out progress on passage of the quantum of fiscal stimulus in the near term, Modi said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while those in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.24 per cent higher at USD 65.14 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||India considers clearing new investment proposals from China||India is poised to clear some new investment proposals from China in the coming weeks as frosty relations between the two neighbouring countries thawed amid an easing in border tensions, said three government officials with knowledge of the matter. Last week, India and China began disengagement from the Pangong Tso area, in the Ladakh region of the western Himalayas, following a nearly nine-month-long standoff after the worst clash between the neighbouring countries since 1962. At the height of the tensions, India framed various policies targeting China, including blocking the nation from participating in government tenders, compelling any Chinese company investing in India to seek approvals and banning dozens of Chinese apps. The foreign investment rule change by the Indian government said investments from an entity in a country that shares a land border with India would require government approval, markedly slowing investments flows from China. The rule change had put in limbo over 150 proposals from China worth more than $2 billion, hurting the plans of Chinese companies in India. Among the proposals delayed was China’s Great Wall Motors’ acquisition of a General Motors’ plant in India. “We’ll start giving approvals to some greenfield investment proposals, but we will only clear those sectors which are not sensitive to national security,” one of the officials said. The officials, who asked not to be named as the discussions are private, did not give details of the proposals they plan to clear in the coming weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||Advertising spend to increase 23.2 per cent in 2021: GroupM||GroupM India on Tuesday announced its advertising expenditure forecasts for 2021. According to the GroupM futures report ‘This Year, Next Year’ (TYNY) 2021, India will see a major advertising recovery in 2021 after the steep fall in 2020 because of the pandemic. TYNY forecasts India’s advertising investment to reach an estimated Rs 80,123 crore this year. This represents an estimated growth of 23.2 per cent for calendar year 2021. India is the second fastest growing market in the top 10 countries and will be the sixth largest contributor to incremental ad spends in 2021 globally. While India was ranked ninth in the global ad spend rank in 2019, it dropped to tenth position in 2020 and is likely to regain its ninth rank this year. Prasanth Kumar, CEO of GroupM South Asia, said, “2020 was an unprecedented year... The ad industry too had its challenges and 2020 witnessed a steep drop in the overall media investments. However, we have witnessed a month-on-month upturn starting the third quarter last year and we are quite optimistic about the revival that 2021 will see.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||GST payout feud likely to resurface||States are expected to raise concerns over inadequate GST compensation once again as the 15th Finance Commission has estimated the shortfall in the payout at Rs 7.1 lakh crore for the period April 2020 to June 2022. The issue is likely to be raised at the GST Council meeting which is expected before the end of March. Discomfort among the states is growing with Covid-19 continuing to wreak havoc on their revenues and the Union budget making no mention of how they will be compensated for the shortfall. As the compensation cess fund will not be sufficient to meet the Centre’s obligation, the GST Council has to decide whether or not to extend the current arrangement to make up for the shortfall of states with debt, officials said. The Council also has to decide on deferring part of the compensation payment for 2021-22 and the June quarter of 2022-23 for a later period as well as offering liquidity support by way of debt for that period, the officials said. The Fifteenth Finance Commission has estimated the shortfall in the collection of state GST vis-a-vis the assured collection at Rs 7.1 lakh crore for the 27 months April 2020 to June 2022. “From our projections of collections from GST compensation cess, it turns out that the compensation cess fund will have an amount of only Rs 2.25 lakh crore by that time, from the collections of 2020-21 to Q1, 2022-23,”it said. The commission indicated that “the shortfall in the requirements of compensation till Q1 2022-23 will be met by extending the levy of GST compensation cess till the year 2025-26”. “In the interim, the transitional requirements of liquidity of the States could be met from borrowings, either by the Union or by the states,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel to acquire 20 per cent stake in DTH from Warburg Pincus||Bharti Airtel on Wednesday said it will acquire a 20 per cent equity stake held by an affiliate of Warburg Pincus in its DTH arm Bharti Telemedia for Rs 3,126 crore. As part of the transaction, Airtel will issue around 3.647 crore shares at a price of Rs 600 per share with Rs 1,037.8 crore paid in cash. It will value the DTH arm at around Rs 15,630 crore. In a regulatory filing, Bharti Airtel said the issuance of shares through preferential allotment is subject to shareholders’ approval. In December 2017, the Warburg Pincus affiliate had agreed to acquire the stake in Bharti Telemedia Ltd, the DTH arm of Bharti Airtel. The preferential allotment represents a premium of one per cent to the closing price of the Bharti Airtel stock on the exchanges on Wednesday. On the BSE, the scrip settled at Rs 594.05, largely unchanged from its previous close of Rs 594. According to the company, the proposed transaction is part of a strategy to align the shareholding of its customer facing products, services and businesses under the same holding group. According to Bharti Airtel, a full control and ownership over Bharti Telemedia would allow it to offer differentiated and converged solutions to customers so as to promote “One Home” strategy. “DTH is an integral part of our homes strategy and this transaction is another step towards simplifying the shareholding of our customer facing businesses providing structural flexibility and ease of implementation,” Harjeet Kohli, group director, Bharti Enterprises, said while commenting on the transaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||PM Modi pitches for liberalised regulations on geospatial data and maps||Thaw in India’s relations with China got reflected in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pitch for liberalised regulations on geospatial data and maps. “Today, India is brimming with confidence. We are seeing it on the borders,” Modi said, without explicitly mentioning the thaw with China. He said in the past, security considerations prevented the government from undertaking the measure to liberalise map making and access to geospatial data. Addressing the annual Nasscom Technology and Leadership Forum, Modi said the decision is not just restricted to the area of technology, nor should it be seen as another administrative reform where the government exits a particular field. Mapping was till now a government preserve, handled by the Survey of India. With the changes, any Indian entity can take part in the process and profit from it. The government estimates that the new guidelines will boost the geospatial data sector to a value of Rs 1 lakh crore by 2030 and create jobs for 2.2 million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||Centre clears PLI scheme for telecom equipment ||The production linked incentive scheme for telecom equipment approved by the government is expected to lead to local production worth Rs 2.4 lakh crore, bring in investment of more than Rs 3,000 crore and generate huge direct and indirect employment and taxes. “The Union cabinet has approved a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme worth Rs 12,195 crore for telecom equipment manufacturing,” Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters after a meeting. The government expects the scheme will lead to Rs 2,44,200 crore incremental production of telecom equipment in the country in the next five years, Prasad said. The minister said soon the government will come up with a PLI scheme to encourage production of laptops and tablet PCs. “This approval comes in the wake of the very encouraging success of PLI related to mobile and component manufacturing, which was announced in April 2020 during the height of the Covid pandemic,” an official statement said. Prasad said this incentive will make the country an important export hub. The PLI scheme is also expected to boost network gear exports and create a robust components ecosystem. Support under the scheme will be provided to companies engaged in manufacturing of specified telecom and networking products in India. Eligibility will be further subject to achievement of a minimum threshold of cumulative incremental investment over a period of four years and incremental sales of manufactured goods net of taxes (as distinct from traded goods) over the base year 2019-20. Mauritius pact The cabinet has also approved the signing of a Comprehensive Economic Cooperation and Partnership Agreement (CECPA) between India and Mauritius, an official statement said. More than 300 domestic goods from agriculture, textiles, electronics and other sectors will get market access at concessional customs duties in Mauritius. Mauritius will also benefit from preferential market access into India for its 615 products, including frozen fish, speciality sugar, biscuits, fresh fruits, juices, mineral water, beer, alcoholic drinks, soaps, bags and apparel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||Hindujas pay premium of 61 per cent to raise stake in IndusInd Bank||The promoter group entities of IndusInd Bank have paid a premium of 61 per cent to raise their stake in the private sector bank through a warrant conversion. To fund the conversion of warrants, IndusInd International Holdings Ltd (IIHL), which is the Hinduja family’s investment vehicle, had come out with a rights issue which was over-subscribed. It may be recalled that the bank had issued convertible warrants to IIHL and IndusInd on July 6, 20I9. Both the entities had paid Rs 495.29 crore and Rs 178.53 crore, respectively, (aggregating Rs 673.81 crore) towards the warrant subscription, which was 25 per cent of the total payment. Market regulator Sebi had given additional time to the promoters of the bank for the conversion of warrants into shares — first by one month till  February 4 and then by two weeks till February 18 for payment of the balance 75 per cent. In all, the bank was issuing 1,57,70,985 warrants aggregating to Rs 2,695.26 crore. In a late evening regulatory filing to the exchanges, IndusInd Bank said IIHL and its subsidiary IndusInd Ltd have now redeemed the balance of 75 per cent of the warrants at a price of Rs 1,709 per share. This is a premium of almost 61 per cent to the closing price of Rs 1,058.65 of the IndusInd Bank share on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the scrip settled 2.46 per cent lower at Rs 1,032.60 on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||RBI comes out with slew of directions related housing finance companies||The RBI on Wednesday came out with a slew of directions related to the maintenance of liquidity coverage ratio, risk management, asset classification and loan-to-value ratio for housing finance companies (HFCs). It asked HFCs to maintain a liquidity buffer in terms of liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) to ensure that they have sufficient high-quality liquid asset  to survive any acute liquidity stress scenario lasting for 30 days. All non-deposit taking HFCs with an asset size of Rs 10,000 crore and above, and all deposit taking HFCs will have to achieve a minimum LCR of 50 per cent by December 1, 2021 and gradually to 100 per cent by December 1, 2025. Non-deposit-taking HFCs with asset size of Rs 5,000 crore and above but less than Rs 10,000 crore will have to reach a minimum LCR of 30 per cent by December 1, 2021 and to 100 per cent by December 1, 2025.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||Sebi relaxes norms for listing of large initial public offerings||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Wednesday relaxed norms for the listing of large initial public offerings (IPOs). According to the present rules of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 (SCRR), issuers with post- issue capital of more than Rs 4,000 crore should offload at least 10 per cent in the IPO. Moreover, they are required to achieve a minimum public shareholding (MPS) of at least 25 per cent within three years from the date of listing. At its board meeting on Wednesday, the Sebi board  decided to recommend changes in the SCRR for issuers with post-issue capital of over Rs 1,00,000 crore. For such issues, Sebi said the requirement of MPS will be reduced from the current 10 per cent to Rs 10,000 crore plus five per cent of the incremental amount beyond Rs 1,00,000 crore. Thus, for example, if a company’s post-issue capital is Rs 1,25,000 crore, the minimum offer will come to Rs 1,250 crore plus Rs 10,000 crore aggregating to Rs 11,250 crore. Sebi added these issuers shall be required to achieve at least 10 per cent public shareholding in two years and at least 25 per cent  within five years from the date of listing. Sebi’s relaxation comes at a time the mammoth IPO of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) is set to hit the capital markets next fiscal. At its meeting, the board also approved the repealing of Sebi (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993, and amendment to Sebi (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1993 and Sebi (Stock Brokers) Regulations, 1992.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
18-02-2021||Business||Modi blames UPA for flare up in petrol and diesel prices||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has resorted to a familiar diversionary tactic of blaming the UPA regime for the dramatic flare up in petrol and diesel prices — cresting above Rs 100 a litre in several parts of the country — while trying to hide his government’s colossal failure in handling a burning issue that could ignite inflation just when it seemed it had been yanked under control. Modi said the middle-class would not have been burdened if the previous governments had focussed on reducing India’s energy import dependence. “Can we be so import dependent? I don’t want to criticise anyone but I want to say (that) had we focussed on this subject earlier, our middle-class would not have been burdened,” he said at a function to inaugurate oil and gas projects in poll-bound Tamil Nadu. The NDA government has failed to put forward a credible plan to reduce import dependence since domestic production of oil and gas meets only about 18 per cent of the country’s energy demand. Data show that demand for crude oil in India reached 4.9 million barrels per day (bpd) compared with less than 1 million bpd of the total domestic liquids production. Without referring to the relentless increase in retail fuel prices, which are linked to international rates, Modi said India imported over 85 per cent of its oil needs in the 2019-20 financial year and nearly 53 per cent of its gas requirement. Petrol and diesel prices have been breaking records almost daily even as Assembly polls loom in four states, including Bengal. Assam, which will also go to the polls with Bengal, has reduced the state levy on petrol and diesel and so have Mizoram and Rajasthan, where petrol crossed the Rs 100-per-litre-mark on Wednesday. Opposition parties, including the Congress, have criticised the price hikes, blaming it on the Modi government for raising taxes to scoop out the benefit that arose from international oil rates plunging to a two-decade low in April-May last year. While global rates have rebounded with a pick-up in demand, the government has not restored the taxes, which are at a record high. Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 per cent of diesel. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan has recently ruled out the possibility of the government intervening by cutting duties and providing some relief to consumers. Since coming to power in May 2014, the Modi government has periodically raised the excise duty on petrol and diesel even when the global crude price plunged to $18-per-barrel levels in April last year. While the duty was Rs 9.48 per litre of petrol and Rs 3.56 per litre of diesel in May 2014, it has increased to Rs 32.90 a litre of petrol and Rs 31.80 for diesel. Taxes make up for over 61 per cent of retail petrol price while they constitute more than 56 per cent of diesel rates. Pradhan on Wednesday urged Saudi Arabia and other global oil producers to ease production cuts, saying rising international oil prices are hurting economic recovery and demand. Demand recovery should take “primacy” over oil prices at least for the next few months, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
18-02-2021||India||Maharashtra Cong chief threatens to stop Amitabh, Akshay’s film shoots||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Thursday said if actors Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar do not take a stand on the issue of fuel price hike, then screening of their films and shootings would not be allowed in the state. Talking to reporters here, Patole said Bachchan and Kumar had tweeted about fuel price rise during the previous UPA government, but are now silent on the issue. The prices of branded or additive-laced petrol, which attracts higher taxes, have crossed the Rs 100-mark in some places, including Maharashtra. In Mumbai, petrol is now costing Rs 96.32 a litre and diesel Rs 87.32. Patole said the common man has been affected a lot by the increase in prices of petrol and diesel. Filmstars like Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar, through their tweets, had earlier criticised the fuel price rise during the Manmohan Singh-led government, he said. Why are they silent now on the rising petrol and diesel prices? he asked. "If they do not take a stand now on the injustice meted out by the Modi government, we will not let any films (screening) or shootings of Amitabh Bachchan or Akshay Kumar in Maharashtra," the Congress leader said. They should now play the same role and protest against the central government's "anti-national policy", as they did during Manmohan Singh's tenure, Patole said. He also criticised the BJP-led central government on the FASTag system for vehicles. The Centre had made FASTags mandatory from February 15 midnight and said any vehicle not fitted with it will be charged double the toll at electronic toll plazas across the country. The Ministry of Road Transport & Highways clarified that this has been done to further promote fee payment through digital mode, reduce waiting time and fuel consumption, and provide for a seamless passage through the fee plazas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||UP DGP: Postmortem inconclusive on cause of death of Unnao girls||No injury marks were found on the bodies of the two teenage girls found dead in Unnao. The postmortem couldn’t ascertain the cause of their death said Uttar Pradesh Police chief, Hitesh Chandra Awasthi on Thursday. The third girl, who was found in a field along with the two, is undergoing treatment at a Kanpur hospital and her condition is “critical but stable”, he said. “Postmortem of the two girls was done by a panel of doctors and no injury before death or external injuries were found on their bodies. The cause of death could not be ascertained and viscera has been preserved for chemical analysis. We are taking help of forensic experts and looking into all possibilities,” Director General of Police (DGP) Awasthi said. A medical bulletin issued by the Kanpur hospital treating the third girl has noted “it is a suspected case of poisoning”, the police chief said. The three girls, aged 15, 14 and 16, left their homes to collect fodder on Wednesday evening. When they did not return, their family members went out, searching for them only to find them tied in a field in Babuhara village in Asoha, around 36 km south of Lucknow. The villagers informed the police and rushed the girls to a local hospital where two of them were declared brought dead, while the third was rushed to the Unnao hospital and later referred to Kanpur. The DGP said six police teams have been constituted and senior officials are supervising the probe, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||Puducherry Lt Governor orders floor test for Congress government||Puducherry Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararjan on Thursday ordered a floor test for the Congress government in the union territory on February 22, to ascertain whether it has majority in the wake of a spate of resignations by the ruling party MLAs that has reduced its strength to 14. The strength of both the ruling and opposition camps stand at 14 in the 33-member house, including three nominated legislators of the BJP. The assembly has five vacancies. Congress' own strength is ten, including the Speaker, while its ally DMK has three members. An independent also supports the government. Soundararajan's direction to Chief Minister V Narayansamy came after the opposition, led by Leader of the Opposition in the assembly and AINRC chief N Rangasamy, "reiterated" its stand that the government has to prove its majority on the floor of the House, a release from the Lt. Governor's Secretariat here said. The Lt Governor has conveyed to Narayanasamy that the Assembly will meet on Monday and be confined to a "single agenda, namely whether the government of the incumbent Chief Minister continues to enjoy the confidence of the House," it said. Voting shall take place by show of hands and the entire proceedings be videographed, it said. "The floor test in pursuance of the above directions shall be concluded by 5 pm on 22.02.2021 and the proceedings shall not be adjourned/delayed or suspended at any cost," it said. Soundararajan on Thursday assumed additional charge of the union territory of Puducherry and said she will function as a "people's Governor" and according to the Constitution. She said she had not come to Puducherry with any ulterior motive but to serve the people. The fifth woman to be appointed Lt Governor of the Union Territory, Soundararajan was sworn in at a simple function at the Raj Nivas where she took oath in Tamil. Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee administered the oath of office to Soundararajan, who hails from nearby Tamil Nadu. Later, addressing reporters, she said "I know what are the powers of a Governor, powers of Lt Governor and Chief Minister, of elected members and officers." She would function as a "people's governor." "There would be no obstacles between me and the people. I will pursue every issue thoroughly and serve the people," Soundararajan said. The new Lt Governor said she was glad she had been given the opportunity to serve the people of Puducherry and would address their concerns. She succeeds Kiran Bedi, who was  removed as Lt Governor of Puducherry in a sudden move on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||To drum up support for stir, farmer leaders to hold meetings in West Bengal too||Farmer leaders on Tuesday said they will hold meetings in poll-bound West Bengal as well, with one of them indicating that they will ask people there not to vote for those who are "snatching our livelihood". Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a farmers' "mahapanchayat" at Garhi Sampla here, the peasant leaders said like many other states, they will tour West Bengal too shortly. Replying to a question, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said, "We will tour the entire nation, we will also go to West Bengal. Farmers in West Bengal are also facing problems. They are not getting good rates for their crops." Addressing the "mahapanchayat", he said, "We will hold panchayats across the country. We will go to Gujarat, Maharashtra, other places.... We will go to West Bengal and hold a big meeting there too. The farmers of West Bengal are facing some issues with the state government as well as the Centre. We will hold a panchayat there as well." Asked if the visit would be connected to the upcoming Assembly polls in West Bengal, Tikait told reporters, "That is not the case, we will go there in connection with farmers' issues." However, Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni, during his address to the "mahapanchayat", appealed to people not to cast votes for anyone from panchayat to Parliament if they do not help the protesting farmers and support their agitation. "Do not give your vote to them, you may give it to anyone else," he said. Later, talking to reporters along with Tikait and some other farmer leaders, Chaduni said, "As far as West Bengal is concerned, if those from the BJP are defeated, then only our stir will succeed. In West Bengal too, people are dependent on agriculture. We will go there and urge the farmers that those who are snatching our livelihood, do not vote for them." Asked if they are going to West Bengal because the state is going to polls, Chaduni quipped, "We are not going there to help anyone in the election, but we will hold rallies there to awaken the farmers.... We will tell the farmers, labourers and common people that these laws are pro-corporates." Tikait said the 40 leaders spearheading the agitation against the Centre's farm laws will tour the entire country to drum up support for the stir. He told the gathering earlier that the "panch" (leaders spearheading the stir) and the "manch" (stage) of the agitation will remain the same. Later, asked by reporters why he has been asserting in recent days that the Singhu border protest site will remain central to the ongoing farmers' stir and not the Ghazipur border, Tikait said this was to underline that the "panch" and the "manch" will not change. The BKU leader from Uttar Pradesh has been camping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border for over two months against the contentious agriculture laws passed by Parliament in September last year. Replying to another question, Tikait said, "We are thankful to those who are supporting the stir. But if anyone has done anything against the country, we do not support that." Chaduni said governments are not above people and they will have to accept the demands of the protesting farmers. "We have to fight till we get our rights, even if that means fighting till our last breath," he said. Earlier, Tikait and other farmer leaders, including BKU's Balbir Singh Rajewal from Punjab, paid floral tributes to Sir Chhotu Ram at Garhi Sampla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||Two more bodies recovered from Tapovan tunnel, toll rises to 61||Two more bodies were recovered on Thursday from a tunnel of the NTPC's flood-ravaged Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project and one from Raini as rescue operations continued for the 12th day to reach workers feared trapped inside after a flash flood in Uttarkhand's Chamoli district. The confirmed death toll in the Chamoli disaster that took place on February 7 has now mounted to 61 while 143 are still missing, police said. Thirteen workers have so far been pulled out of the sludge-choked tunnel at Tapovan where a large number of people were at work when the tragedy occurred following a flash flood in Rishiganga. One human limb was also recovered from the tunnel on Thursday, taking the total number of human body parts recovered from different parts of the affected areas to 27. The glacial burst had triggered a flash flood which had demolished a 13.2 MW hydel project along the river besides causing extensive damage to the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project along Dhauliganga. Search operation at the tunnel was resumed on Wednesday after hours of interruption caused by water which had entered making it difficult to remove slush. The exercise was resumed on Wednesday afternoon after pumping water out of the tunnel by a combined team of rescuers comprising of Army, ITBP, NDRF and SDRF personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||No political party a match for BJP, asserts Nadda||Almost all political parties in the country are family-based with none of them matching the BJP's strength having over 18 crore countrymen, including the world's most accepted leader Narendra Modi, as its members, party's president J P Nadda said here on Thursday. It is not easy to create a membership of over 18 crore people. No other political party has the power to reach even near this number, said Nadda, addressing his party working committee meeting here. We are a mass, cadre-based organisation with the world's most accepted personality Narender Modi belonging to the BJP and this is our strength, said Nadda. So there is no exaggeration when we say there is no match to the BJP, he added. We are lucky that we are the members of a right party, pursuing cultural nationalism with collective efforts and undergoing scientific growth, he added. Nadda told the working committee members that the BJP's strength is our unity and we should regularly make self-assessment for our own growth in the party. Talking of the BJP's economic model antoday , Nadda said it is based on the party's philosophy of sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishvas (the company of all, growth of all and trust of all) and these three elements are ingrained in all schemes of the government. Talking of Himachal Pradesh's contribution to the organisational structure of the BJP, Nadda said the party owes its booth-based structural model of Panna Pramukh to the state and, accordingly, Himachal should go in for the Panna committees model by 2022. He said the BJP will soon have its own offices in every district of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||Bhim Army Chief, four others named among TIME magazine’s top emerging  leaders||Five Indian-origin personalities, including Twitter's top lawyer Vijaya Gadde and UK's finance minister Rishi Sunak, and an Indian activist feature in TIME magazine's annual list of 100 "emerging leaders who are shaping the future". The 2021 TIME100 Next, released on Wednesday, is an expansion of TIME's flagship TIME100 franchise of the most influential people in the world and highlights 100 emerging leaders who are shaping the future. "Everyone on this list is poised to make history. And in fact, many already have," Dan Macsai, the editorial director of the TIME100, said. Other Indian-origin personalities on the list are Instacart founder and CEO Apoorva Mehta, doctor and Executive Director of nonprofit Get Us PPE Shikha Gupta and founder of nonprofit Upsolve Rohan Pavuluri. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Aazad is also on the list. Mr Sunak's profile in the TIME feature says that a little over a year ago, the 40-year old was an "unknown junior minister in the British government" but after he was named to lead Britain's Treasury last year, he "quickly became the benevolent face of the government's response to the Covid-19 pandemic, approving large handouts for many citizens whose jobs were disrupted by the virus." Mr Sunak has however also been criticised for advocating early relaxation of lockdown rules, the profile said. "Nonetheless, Sunak remains the country's most popular politician, according to the pollster YouGov. And he's the oddsmakers' favourite to be Britain's next Prime Minister," it added. On Ms Mehta, 34, the TIME profile said that in the initial days of the Covid-19 pandemic, Instacart "faced a tidal wave of orders, as people with means opted en masse to pay the service's workers to buy groceries for them." Ms Mehta describes that period as a "wartime moment," it said. However, later Instacart also "faced new criticism about the way it treated its workers, including labyrinthine sick-pay policies, frequent rule changes for shoppers and demanding performance metrics." Instacart continues its focus on expansion. "The smartphone is the supermarket of the future. We are going to help co-create that," Ms Mehta said in the TIME article. The TIME profile described Ms Gadde, 46, as "one of Twitter's most powerful executives" who was the one to convey the news to CEO Jack Dorsey that President Donald Trump's Twitter account had been suspended following the Capitol attack of January 6. Mr Dorsey "has delegated to her Twitter's content-moderation decisions; she was the architect of the 2019 decision to ban all political advertising, and is responsible for the warning labels that Twitter applied to Covid-19 and election-interference misinformation in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||‘Metroman’ E Sreedharan to join BJP ahead of assembly polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday said ‘Metroman’ E Sreedharan will join the party ahead of the Kerala Assembly election. BJP state president K Surendran said Sreedharan, who is credited with changing the face of the public transport system in the country, will join the BJP during the party's ‘Vijay Yatra’ commencing on February 21 from Kasaragod. He has expressed his willingness to work with the BJP, Surendran told reporters in Kozhikode. “I have decided to join the BJP, just official formalities remain,” the 88-year-old told NDTV. On being asked why he joined the party, Sreedharan said, “I have been living in Kerala for the last 10 years, since my retirement. I have seen different governments and they are not doing what can be done for the people. I am joining the BJP to be able to do my part, using my experience.” Criticising other political parties for showing India in a bad light, he said to NDTV, “Political parties with vested interests are projecting India in a very bad light nationally and opposing just for the sake of opposing. Parties like the Congress are creating a bad image for India.” A 2001 Padma Shri and 2008 Padma Vibhushan awardee, Sreedharan is known for the excellent city metro project under his supervision. He is also credited with the restoration of the Pamban bridge in Tamil Nadu establishing link between Rameshwaram and the mainland, which was damaged after a cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||Rail roko: Protesting farmers sit on tracks in Punjab, Haryana||Farmers on Thursday sat on railway tracks at many places in Punjab and Haryana as part of the 'rail roko' protest against the Centre's new agri laws, with officials stopping trains at stations as a precautionary measure. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions which is spearheading the protest, last week had announced the nationwide rail blockade to press for its demand to repeal the legislations and had said that the agitation will be from 12 pm to 4 pm. In Punjab, protesters sat on tracks at many places on the Delhi-Ludhiana-Amritsar railway route, officials said. Farmers blocked the Jalandhar Cantt-Jammu railway track in Jalandhar and in Mohali district also farmers blocked a rail track, they said. In Haryana, protesting farmers, including women, squatted on rail tracks at many places, including in Ambala, Kurukshetra, Panipat and Panchkula districts, the officials said. On the Ambala-Delhi railway section, a group of farmers led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader from Ambala, Gulab Singh, squatted on a rail track at Shahpur village, about 2 kilometres from the Ambala Cantt station. "Our protest will continue in a peaceful manner till the farm laws are repealed," Singh said. Security has been tightened in both Haryana and Punjab with personnel of the government railway police and the state police forces being deployed, officials said. The Ferozepur division of the Northern Railways has decided to halt trains at stations so that passengers face less inconvenience during the 'rail roko' protest. The officials said that the movement of trains is likely to be delayed because of the farmers' rail blockade. Train services will be resumed after following due security protocols once the agitation is over, they said. In Haryana, besides railway police personnel, the Haryana Police has deployed its staff in large numbers near the protest sites and at various railway stations. Divisional Railway Manager, Ambala Division, G M Singh said that no train has been cancelled in view of the 'rail roko' agitation. Four trains were scheduled to pass from Ambala between 12 to 4 pm, railway officials said. Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) members will block railway tracks at 22 places, including at Nabha, Mansa, Barnala, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Jalandhar and Tarn Taran, in Punjab, the organisation's general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||SC closes suo motu proceedings to probe larger conspiracy to frame ex-CJI Gogoi||The Supreme Court on Thursday closed the proceedings initiated to probe a larger conspiracy behind sexual harassment allegations against ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi and "fixing" of benches at the top court. A bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said that nearly two years have passed and the possibility of retrieving electronic records is very little. The top court, while closing the suo motu proceedings in the case, said the in-house probe has been completed and the three-member panel headed by Justice S A Bobde, the current CJI, has already given the report exonerating the former CJI. The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said the Justice (retd) A K Patnaik panel was not able to get electronic records like WhatsApp messages to probe the conspiracy and hence no purpose would be served by continuing with the suo motu case. The top court referred to the letter of the Director of Intelligence Bureau that some conspiracy might have ensued due to certain tough decisions taken by former Chief Justice Gogoi like verdict on preparation of the National Register for Citizens (NRC) in Assam. There are strong reasons to believe that some kind of conspiracy might have been undertaken against the then CJI Gogoi, the bench said, while quoting the report of Justice Patnaik. It said that in view of the mandate of the order dated April 25, 2019 Justice Patnaik's report opines that it cannot really inquire whether the decisions of the then CJI on the judicial side had triggered the conspiracy against Gogoi. We are of the view that the suo motu proceedings in the present case is accordingly closed and the report be sealed again , it said, adding that the veracity of the allegations levelled by lawyer Utsav Singh Bains could not be verified completely due to the limited access of records and other collaborative material. The top court, while referring to the report of Justice Patnaik, further said that simultaneously the report on the existence of conspiracy cannot be completely ruled out. On April 25, 2019, the top court had appointed former apex court judge Justice Patnaik to hold an inquiry into the sensational allegations of a lawyer about "larger conspiracy" to frame Gogoi and fixing of benches in the top court. The apex court made it clear that inquiry by Justice Patnaik shall not be with respect to the "alleged misbehavior" involving the CJI, against whom allegations of sexual allegations have been levelled by a former top court employee. It had said that the outcome of inquiry by Justice Patnaik "shall not affect the in-house procedure/inquiry which is pending on the administrative side." The top court had asked the Directors of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Intelligence Bureau (IB) and Delhi Police Commissioner to "co-operate" with Justice (retd) Patnaik as and when required by him during the inquiry. It had directed the Secretary General of the apex court to "forthwith" hand over the photocopies of affidavits and documents filed by Bains in a sealed cover to Justice (retd) Patnaik along with the order. Bains had filed an affidavit following the unprecedented hearing in the court during which Justice Gogoi had said some "bigger force" was behind the sexual harassment allegations as they wanted to "deactivate" the CJI's office. The hearing on April 20 in the case, titled as a matter of "great public importance touching upon the independence of judiciary", was held after stories were published on some news portals about sexual harassment allegations levelled by a former employee of the apex court against the CJI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||'Rail Roko' protest: Delhi police beefs up security||The Delhi Police on Thursday tightened security in several parts of the national capital, especially near railway tracks, in view of the "rail roko" (rail blockade) called by the farmer groups protesting against the Centre's new agri laws, officials said. According to a senior police officer, additional staff has been deployed at several points near railway tracks and patrolling has also been increased. Though there is no information on whether rail blockades will take place inside the national capital, police have made adequate security arrangements, another officer said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions which is spearheading the protest, last week had announced the rail blockade to press for its demand to repeal the legislations. The SKM had said that the blockade will be held across the country from 12 pm to 4 pm. The railways has deployed 20 additional companies of the Railway Protection Special Force across the country, with focus on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, in the wake of the "rail roko" call. Earlier, farmer unions had called a 'chakka jam' on February 6 and a 'tractor parade' in Delhi on January 26, during which a section of protesters clashed with police, overturned vehicles while some hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi's borders against the legislations since November 28 last year and demanding these be repealed. Their agitation is against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi moves HC against leaked content, court issues notice to channel||Climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested for alleged involvement in sharing a toolkit backing the farmers' protest, on Thursday moved the Delhi High Court seeking to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material in relation to the FIR lodged against her. Delhi Police, in its reply, told the court that it has not leaked any material to the media in relation to its probe. Disha, in her plea also sought action against News 18, India Today, and Times Now for carrying out news that showed her private chats with third parties. Since there were no counsels representing the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) and some of the media houses named in Ravi's petition, the court issued notice to them and said it will hear the matter on Friday. The submission was made before Justice Prathiba M Singh by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the police. The court asked the police to file an affidavit containing its submission that it has not leaked any material relating to the investigation to the media. The petition has also sought to restrain the media from publishing the content or extract of any private chats, including those on WhatsApp, between her and third parties. Ravi said she is "severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation, where she is being viscerally attacked by the respondent 1 (police) and several media houses". She claimed that her arrest from Bengaluru on February 13 by a Cyber Cell team of Delhi Police was "wholly unlawfully and without basis". She also contended that in the present circumstances, it was "highly likely" that the general public will perceive the news items "as being conclusive as to the guilt of the petitioner (Ravi)". "In these circumstances, and to restrain the respondents from further violating her privacy, her reputation, and her right to a fair trial, the petitioner is moving the present petition," the plea has said. Her petition has alleged that investigative matters have been leaked to the media and the press briefings by the police are "prejudicial" and "grossly violative of her right to a fair trial and presumption of innocence". "The illegal actions and omissions on part of the respondents has irrevocably violated the petitioner's fundamental right to privacy, her right to reputation, her dignity, and the consequent effect of the administration of justice and right to fair trial," the petition has said. It has claimed that the police first "leaked investigative material" -- like alleged WhatsApp chats -- the substance and details of which were only in the possession of the investigating agency. Thereafter, the "private alleged WhatsApp chats" were publicised and disseminated by various media houses which was a violation of the provisions of the Cable Televisions Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 (CTN Act), the Programme Code and the Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines, the petition has contended. Citing previous cases, the petition has said, “conversations on a phone are of an intimate and confidential nature, and are entitled to be protected under an individual's fundamental right to privacy under Article 21.” “The illegal actions and omissions on part of the respondents has irrevocably violated the petitioner''s fundamental right to privacy, her right to reputation, her dignity, and the consequent effect of the administration of justice and right to fair trial,” it said. It has also claimed that the "media houses have published one-sided defamatory, suggestive innuendos, and half truths about the petitioner". Ravi's plea has further contended that the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the NBSA "have failed to exercise their statutory and self-regulatory powers in ensuring compliance with the Programme Code under the CTN Act and the Code of Ethics of National Broadcasting Standards Association". Delhi Police, probing the "toolkit Google doc" backing the farmers' agitation shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, had arrested Ravi while Mumbai lawyer Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk have been granted pre-arrest bail by court. A Delhi court had on February 14 sent Ravi to five day police custody after the agency said her custodial interrogation was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. A toolkit is a document created to explain any issue. It also provides information on what one needs to do to address the issue. This might include information about petitions, details about protests and mass movements. Delhi Police had earlier asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email ID, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the toolkit shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers' protest. The Cyber Cell had lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the toolkit for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the government of India". The case against unnamed persons was registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The toolkit was aimed at spreading disaffection and ill-will against the government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups, the police had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||India's Covid tally closing in on the 1.1 crore mark||India's tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 1,09,50,201 with 12,881 new infections, while the recoveries surged to 1,06,56,845, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,56,014 with 101 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate has dropped to 1.42 per cent, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,56,845 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.32 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,37,342 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.25 per cent of the total cases, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,87,03,791 samples have been tested up to February 17 with 7,26,562 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 101 new fatalities include 40 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 10 from Punjab. A total of 1,56,014 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,631 from Maharashtra followed by 12,438 from Tamil Nadu, 12,276 from Karnataka, 10,894 from Delhi, 10,237 from West Bengal, 8,707 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,165 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||How to Start Working From Office Again?||After the emergence of the pandemic last year, the majority of people started working from home. Now that the world has started adapting various precautions and safety measures, people are encouraged to start getting back to the grind. It has been almost one year now - earlier people were not used to working from home and now people are not used to working from the office! So many people have been adversely affected by this pandemic - both mentally as well as physically. Some people have suffered from irreparable losses while others have lived in constant fear since the beginning. Now that people are getting back on track, many offices have reopened or many employers have declared a date on which they’d start calling their employees back to the office. Of course, things will not reopen at the pace which they earlier used to be, but most organizations have prepared themselves to at least start taking baby steps. From opening their office for one day a week for only a certain number of employees to bringing some flexibility in the timings - organizations are also adapting and accepting some new elements of the ‘new normal’. In fact, many organizations are even contemplating - is hybrid working the new normal? This whole situation can be really chaotic and confusing so let us discuss a few ways to start working from your office in a smooth and seamless manner. 1. Take it slow - You cannot start working from your office at the same speed and with the same zest with which you left work before the pandemic. Thus, our advice to you is that you must take it slow otherwise you might feel too overwhelmed by this ‘new’ change again. Keep regular meetings with your manager and team members so you all can share your feelings and opinions. This will make you realize that you are not alone and it is okay to take things a little slow. The idea of most organizations is to get you started - not to force you into speeding up. Thus, it is important to take a break every once in a while. You can call your family members or friends or play money games or other interesting sports online in between work so you do not feel so overwhelmed. 2. Take care of your hygiene and maintain all the safety measures - Do not forget that the pandemic has not left the world and the risk is still very much there. So, clean and wash your hands at regular intervals. Keep sanitizing yourself, do not touch any surface without cleaning it, do not indulge in handshakes with employees, and maintain social distancing while interacting with others. This is for your own safety as well as the safety of others. 3. Ask for sick leave or work from home if you feel unwell - If you feel a little under the weather while working from your office, immediately go back home. You can take the permission of your manager to allow you to work from the office if you still can or you can apply for sick leave. Take ample rest at home, drink lots of fluids, keep checking your temperature every once in a while, and return to work only when you feel completely okay. This is for everyone’s good. Moreover, even after taking a sick leave or going back home and working from there, do visit or consult a doctor soon so you can have a timely checkup and there is no delay in your treatment. 4. Communicate but from a distance - No office is complete without regular meetings and when you have resumed working from your office, you are expected to meet in person, sit together, and collectively, accomplish all the goals of the meeting. However, while being a part of the meeting is very crucial, you must not forget that the pandemic is still very much here. It is very important to maintain social distancing with others while communicating and interacting with them. In addition to this, you must keep reminding yourself that times are different now - things are not the same anymore! It is better if you do not share food with each other, get your own lunch, water bottle, pens, notepads, etc., and sit separately even when you are taking a break for a few minutes from work. If you want to pass your time or do something to distract yourself from work stress every once in a while, you can indulge in online chatting, online poker, or some other online game, or even online video conferencing. In this digital era, make the most of what you’ve got! 5. Empathize with others - Know that everyone is sailing in the same ship - everyone is dealing with the pandemic. Even though the effects are different for every individual, the generic impact is the same. The bottom line is that the pandemic has changed everyone’s lives. Thus, it is vital to empathize with others and listen to their problems. This is good for your own and your employees’ mental health. Final thoughts Now that it has almost been a year since the pandemic had emerged, people have started resuming their lives like earlier times, knowing that they cannot pause forever. This also includes work life. Thus, people have started working from the office again, offices have reopened, and virtual workplaces are slowly fading again, of course, with some new changes! This article is all about how to deal with going back to ‘normal’ again!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Rescued Kashmir kid shivers, cops won’t identify trio||A shadow crossed the labourer’s face as he turned to look at his nine-year-old daughter, standing near him as he worked at the construction site. “She is too scared to sit at home. She still shivers. That’s why I bring her along. I’m a poor man and cannot afford to sit at home,” the father from a village in Bandipora nearly broke down as he spoke to The Telegraph over a video call. The primary school pupil, traumatised since being allegedly rescued last week from the prying eyes of three men accused of trying to drag her into a car, feels insecure at home without her father despite the presence of her mother and relatives. Police sources said three suspects — one of them a local man and two from outside Jammu and Kashmir — had been arrested on the charge of trying to abduct the girl while she was returning from a tuition centre on February 10. Allegations have surfaced that the suspects are soldiers. Bandipora senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rahul Malik declined to reveal the identities of the accused or confirm whether they worked in the army, citing the “sensitivities” involved and accusing netizens of “overreacting” to what were “just allegations”. He denied the widespread allegation that the police were trying to shield the accused. Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said: “Nothing is clarified that somebody has done anything. But it is still in process of investigation.” Talking about the girl’s trauma, the father, who said he had two other young children, urged this correspondent to make a video call to “see for yourself”. He called his daughter, standing nearby at the house-building site where bricks were being laid. “I’m happy my daughter was rescued in time. The men, who were in an Alto, tried to lure her with notes worth Rs 520. When she refused, one of them got off and tried to drag her towards the car,” the father said. “She cried out, and luckily an acquaintance saw them. He rushed to save her and seized the keys of the car. Dozens of people arrived and surrounded the accused. They called me and the three men said before everybody that they were from the army.” The father broke down and stopped speaking for a while. The girl was in tears too. “We lodged a police complaint the same day. Next day, they (the army) came to my home, perhaps to try and persuade me to withdraw the case. I told them that seeing them was scaring my daughter and asked them to go back,” he said. He added that he too felt afraid thinking about the consequences of lodging a complaint. “I fear for my family, my relatives.” SSP Malik said the three accused had been “booked for attempt to kidnap, not even kidnapping”. “There is no molestation charge, although some of the Twitter handlers are writing it,” Malik said. “Because of the sensitivities of the matter — you can yourself see that some people are overreacting to it — it is better not to disclose (the identities).” Besides, he said, “things are still not clear” and so far these are “just allegations”. He denied the police were shielding the accused: “Why should we have registered an FIR then?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Social media smear campaign against Disha Ravi||Joseph, one of the most familiar names in the world, has become a weapon of religious profiling and misinformation in India. Disha Ravi, the young climate activist arrested on the charge of sedition for editing and sharing a toolkit on the farmers’ protest, was the target of a vicious campaign on Wednesday on social media that sought to project her as a Syrian Christian from Kerala. A flood of tweets with the hashtag “DishaRaviJoseph” was top-trending on Twitter by noon. That it is a lie is secondary. The venom behind the campaign is a telling comment on how depraved a vocal section of India has become. Some of those who still have not lost their sanity asked: even if Disha is a Christian and her name is Joseph, why should it matter? Friends and supporters of Disha had to wage a spirited fight to debunk the lie that was meant to embellish the “proof” of an “international conspiracy” to defame India over the farmers’ movement. “Just a few days ago she was a Khalistani. Today they call her a Christian. But friends like me know that she is a Lingayat and her name is Disha Annappa Ravi,” a volunteer from the Karnataka chapter of Fridays For Future, the Greta Thunberg-founded outfit to which Disha is attached, told The Telegraph. Disha’s father Annappa Ravi and mother Manjula Nanjaiah belong to Tiptur town in Tumkur district, some 70km from Bangalore. Disha grew up in Bangalore. Karnataka chief minister and BJP leader B.S. Yediyurappa and a host of ministers from the party belong to the Lingayat community. “It’s nauseating that in this day and age, when we are bragging about being an IT superpower, we are discussing someone’s religion,” said the Fridays for Future volunteer. An alumnus of Mount Carmel College, where Disha did her Bachelor of Business Administration, described the Twitter campaign to label her a Christian as “appalling”. “It’s a shame that we are even discussing it now. But to counter these people, we need to come out and debunk their appalling claims,” said the former student. National campaign-in-charge of the Indian Youth Congress, Srivatsa, tweeted: “She is Disha Annappa Ravi from a Lingayat household of Karnataka. She is NOT Disha Ravi Joseph from a Christian household of Kerala. Even if she was, does it matter? It justifies her targeting by Govt? Bhakts, what happened to Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam? All you do is divide India.” Disha, who was whisked away from her home in Bangalore by Delhi police over the weekend and arrested in the capital on Sunday, has been sent to five days’ police custody. A cursory glance at the Twitter campaign against her would reveal how well orchestrated it was. A now-deleted tweet from a person who gave the impression that he is a Supreme Court lawyer at 9.31am was perhaps one of the early ones describing Disha as a “Syrian Christian from Kerala”. The tweet said: “Disha Ravi Joseph is a Syrian Christian from Kerala. Members of this community always at the forefront of breaking India movements!” Nothing could be further from the truth. Some of the most accomplished professionals and public figures in the country trace their roots to the community. Another tweeter whose profile describes him as “Non Political, MBA, Businessman, Hindu Nationalist” tweeted at 9.41am the same text posted by the lawyer 10 minutes earlier. Several such tweets unleashed a barrage to label Disha a “Syrian Christian from Kerala”. Each hate message was more virulent than the other. “Disha Ravi Joseph is just one of the anti-national Mallus in Bangalore. There are thousands out there!” tweeted a man who claimed he took “life with a spoon of sugar, a pinch of salt and a shot of homemade tequila”. But many others vehemently opposed the campaign and said personal faith didn’t matter. “Now bhakts falsely claim that she’s Disha Ravi ‘Joseph’, implying that she’s a Christian who deserves this treatment. The last time when they claimed Tamil superstar Vijay — who questioned the government — is in fact ‘Joseph’ Vijay to give it a communal spin, this happened,” a user named Anton Kalashnikov tweeted with a picture of Vijay attending a massive gathering of his fans. Vijay was at the receiving end of a hate campaign in 2017 over his Deepavali release Mersal (Stunned), which contained a few dialogues critical of the GST and the Digital India programme. BJP leader H. Raja had then attempted to shock Vijay’s fans by drawing attention to his full name, C. Joseph Vijay, as listed in his voter ID. But the attempt to give a communal spin flopped badly as the actor — born Joseph Vijay Chandrashekar — had never concealed his full name while opting to go with the mononym Vijay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Princess Latifa recordings reveal shameful details of ‘Indian role’||Between 12 and 15 Indian commandos had kidnapped Princess Latifa as her small boat approached the Indian coast three years ago, wrecking her dash to freedom from her restricted life in her country, the Dubai royal has alleged in secret video recordings. She says the commandos dragged her to an Indian naval ship and then allowed a private jet to fly the drugged captive to her father, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, ruler of Dubai and Vice-President and Prime Minister of the United Arab Emirates. Latifa’s video messages, apparently sent from the bathroom of the villa in the UAE where she says she is a prisoner fearing for her life, were broadcast on Tuesday night on BBC TV’s flagship Panorama programme. She is heard describing how two commandos sat on her to hold her down, how she was injected twice with what seemed tranquilisers, how she bit an Emirati commando, and how “generals” on a purported Indian ship ignored her pleas to let her go. The revelations ended with a note from the BBC: “The Government of India has still never commented on its involvement in the events of March 2018.” What began as a domestic quarrel between possibly an over-strict father and a daughter seeking her freedom has now exploded into a full-scale international row. On Wednesday, the BBC announced: “The United Nations has said it will raise the detention of Princess Latifa.” “We will certainly raise these new developments with the UAE,” spokesperson Rupert Colville said. “Other parts of the UN human rights system with relevant mandates may also become involved once they have analysed the new material.” The timetable of events in the Panorama programme, The Missing Princess, is that Latifa, now 35, was snatched off her boat at midnight on March 4, 2018, by Indian forces. A year later, her long-time tutor and friend from Finland, Tiina Jauhiainen, managed to smuggle a phone to her, allowing her to send video messages from her bathroom. Latifa’s supporters in the West have now gone public with her video messages because they fear her phone has been discovered. Panorama’s voiceover is done by Sophie Black: “Latifa and Tiina managed to get out of Dubai and board a yacht. The plan was to cross the Indian Ocean, then fly to the United States, where she would try to claim political asylum. But as they neared India, the escape went horribly wrong.” Tiina takes up the sequence of events: “Myself and Latifa were tired. So around 10 o’clock in the evening, we decided to go down to our cabin to get some sleep. We started hearing noises from the upper deck, which sounded like gunshots. “Basically, the boat was taken over by Indian special forces. Lots of people. She was saying, ‘Oh my God, oh my God, they’re here.’ She continued screaming and kicking and trying to get away. That’s the last time I see my friend.” Narration by Black: “Now, for the first time, Latifa can reveal what happened to her that night on the boat.” Latifa reveals: “So when they kidnapped me on March 4, 2018, on the small boat.... I don’t know how many commandos, maybe 12-15, and the two Emirati-like lieutenants... sergeants. “I was fighting. And this guy came with a small camouflage pouch. And he took out the needle and he injected me in my arm and I was fighting. I was saying, ‘Don’t do that. Don’t do that. Don’t do that.’ And I just assumed it was tranquilisers, but it didn’t take any effect on me. “But then I was like, ‘Okay, assess your situation. Your hands are tied. You have two guys sitting on you, you’re on the bottom, a small boat. So just calm down.’ There’s no fighting at this point. I just calmed down.” Voiceover: “Latifa says she was transferred to an Indian military ship.” Latifa continues: “The commandos carried me through this corridor and to a big room. And there was in front of me maybe four or five generals. So I’m repeating to them, ‘My name is Latifa…. I wanted to get asylum. I was in international waters. You should let me go.’ But they did not stop. “I see a private jet in front of me at that point. I said, ‘No. I’m not going to voluntarily go’.” Voiceover: “She says she was then manhandled by an Emirati commando.” Latifa: “He grabs me, and he lifts me up. And (I was) kicking and fighting, and he’s much bigger than me. So I see that his sleeves rolled up and his arm is exposed. So I said, ‘Okay, I have one shot.’ So I just bite him as hard as I can, and shake my head. And he screamed, the same guy tranquilised me again. “They put me on a stretcher. And as they were carrying me up the steps of the private jet is when I passed out, I lost consciousness. All I remember was the rocking and seeing the stairs and then I just passed out. “When I woke up, the private jet had already landed in Dubai. I just felt really sad at that point. Working for so many years to get my freedom was gone.” She describes her captivity in Dubai: “This video is from a bathroom because this is the only room with the door locked. So I’m in a villa. And I’m a hostage. And this villa has been converted into a jail — the windows are barred shut. I can’t open any window. There are five policemen outside and two inside the house. And I can’t even go outside to get any fresh air. I don’t know when I’ll be released. Every day I am worried about my safety in my life. I don’t really know if I’m going to survive the situation.” British foreign secretary Dominic Raab, who said he had watched the programme, said the UK would support the UN’s efforts to raise the issue with the UAE. “I think it’s deeply troubling. And you can see a young woman in deep distress,” Raab said. Mary Robinson, former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and erstwhile President of the Irish Republic, who had earlier given Sheikh Mohammed a clean chit, now says she was “tricked” into doing so. She has changed her stance and told the programme: “I continue to be very worried about Latifa. Things have moved on. I think it should be investigated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Message to BJP in Punjab civic poll disaster||The Congress on Wednesday swept the Punjab civic polls as voters sent an unambiguous message to the BJP that its political survival in the state would be difficult if it did not relent on the controversial farm laws. The Congress victory in a state that was the initial epicentre of the farmers’ movement was so resounding that even the main Opposition in the Assembly, the Aam Aadmi Party, got routed and the Shiromani Akali Dal barely managed to stay afloat. The extent of the people’s anger could be gauged by the fact that BJP candidates could not open their account in many wards. The number of Nota (none of the above) votes was higher than the votes polled by the BJP, AAP and Akali Dal candidates in many areas. Of the seven municipal corporations, the Congress gained big victories in six and emerged as the largest party in the seventh. The Congress snatched Bathinda from the Akali Dal for the first time in 53 years, signalling the turning political tide in Punjab amid the ongoing farmers’ movement. The Congress won 271 of the 351 wards in seven municipal corporations, a strike rate of over 77 per cent, completing a dream run for the party that had been expected to grapple with anti-incumbency ahead of the next Assembly elections in 2022. The Akali Dal won 33 wards, the BJP 20 and the AAP nine. Independents won 18. In 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats, too, the Congress dominated by bagging 1,078 wards, while the Akali Dal got 251, the AAP 50 and the BJP 29. Independents won 375 wards. Making the most of the euphoria, the Punjab leadership of the Congress bypassed the party high command to announce a mission named “Captain for 2022” in favour of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Amarinder, 78, had announced before the Assembly polls in 2017 that he was contesting his last election. State Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said at a media conference after the stunning victory: “All sections of Punjab voted for the Congress. The credit goes to the leadership of Amarinder Singh. People have demonstrated their faith in Captain’s leadership. Only he can steer the ship in these times of turbulence. We are today launching the campaign ‘Captain for 2022’.” Although it will be difficult for the Congress high command to ignore his claim if Amarinder wants to lead the party in the 2022 Assembly elections, with his leadership getting hugely bolstered by the overwhelming victory in the civic polls, it is unthinkable in the Congress to announce the face for an election without the formal approval of the high command. The Captain may have sealed the deal at his own level, anticipating that his detractors led by the mercurial Navjot Singh Sidhu would muddy the waters at a later stage. The chief minister’s role in capitalising on the dominant sentiment in Punjab over the farm laws has been remarkable and his continuance as the supreme leader despite his advanced age would not have been open to dispute. But the emphatic victory in the local elections, which left the challengers vanquished, has almost stamped out the possibility of a leadership change in Punjab. While the BJP paid the price for railroading the farm laws, getting wiped out in its stronghold urban centres, the Akalis bled for partnering the party and remaining silent when the farm ordinances were brought in. The Akalis subsequently severed ties with the BJP. Even the AAP suffered because it had failed to take the lead against the farm laws, with the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi initially sending out confusing signals. While the Congress described the outcome as the beginning of a change in the country, former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Does the Modi government still believe that the farm laws are popular and only a small ‘section’ of farmers of Punjab are protesting against them? The ministry of external affairs is fast losing credibility by becoming the ministry of extraordinary apologists for the government’s wrong domestic policies. “The farmers are voters. So are migrant workers, MSMEs, the unemployed and the very poor families. When it is their turn, they will vote against the BJP like the Punjab voters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Delhi court dismisses MJ Akbar’s defamation suit||A Delhi court has dismissed a defamation case filed by former Union minister and editor M.J. Akbar against journalist Priya Ramani for levelling allegations of sexual misconduct against him, marking a milestone moment in the “Me Too” movement in India. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey acquitted Ramani of the charge of criminal defamation. The court also accepted her contention that the complainant — a former deputy external affairs minister in the first government headed by Narendra Modi — “is not a man of stellar reputation”. As the judge left the courtroom, journalist Natasha Badhwar, who was there to express solidarity with Ramani, cried out: “Thank you, Sir!” Akbar, the founder editor of The Telegraph who headed the newspaper till 1989, resigned from the Union government in 2018 after several women journalists accused him of sexual harassment. Akbar continues to be a BJP Rajya Sabha MP. The judgment said: “The court takes consideration of the systematic abuse at the workplace due to lack of the mechanism to redress the grievance of sexual harassment at the time of the incident of sexual harassment against the accused Priya Ramani and witness Ghazala Wahab….” Ramani had named Akbar as the person who had sexually harassed women colleagues and herself in 1993. Wahab, another journalist, had accused Akbar of molesting and hounding her in 1997. Ramani said on Wednesday: “I feel vindicated on behalf of all the women who have ever spoken up against sexual harassment in the workplace. Sexual harassment at the workplace has got the attention it deserves, despite the fact that it was me, the victim, who had to stand up in court as the accused.” She added: “I believe my victory will inspire more women to speak up about SH at the workplace. I also hope it will deter powerful men from attempting to intimidate victims by taking them to court in false cases.” Wahab tweeted: “A day to remember that #MeToo is not a movement. It’s a consciousness about demanding and expecting safe workplaces, whether at home or outside. Women, who can, must always stand up for themselves, and for those who are unable to stand for themselves #PriyaRamani.” Ramani’s counsel Rebecca John, who fought the case pro bono, received an ovation from those gathered outside the courtroom. John told reporters: “Truth in public interest and for public good has been accepted as a defence for defamation…. This was probably the most important case of my career.” The lawyer made no mention of it but the judgment has been delivered at a time defamation charges have been used as a weapon to intimidate journalists and media outlets. The court said: “The attack on the character of sex abuser or offender by sex abuse victim is the reaction of self-defence after the mental trauma suffered by the victim regarding the shame attached with the crime committed against her. “The woman cannot be punished for raising her voice against the sex abuse on the pretext of criminal complaint of defamation as the right of reputation cannot be protected at the cost of the right of life and dignity of woman as guaranteed in Indian Constitution under Article 21 and right of equality before law and equal protection of law as guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution. “The woman has a right to put her grievance at any platform of her choice and even after decades.” Before the court proceedings began on Wednesday, Akbar and Ramani waited at two opposite ends of the corridor outside courtroom 203 at the Rouse Avenue District Courts in the capital. In the court, the former minister was flanked by his sister and several police personnel, and Ramani by her husband and journalist Samar Halarnkar as well as several women journalists. Halarnkar held Ramani’s arm as the judge read the conclusion, while Akbar looked down. Ramani and Halarnkar have taken more than two dozen flights between Delhi and Bangalore where they live since the case began, leaving their children in the care of her parents who would fly down from Mumbai. As soon as the verdict was delivered, Akbar left with his legal team. Akbar was represented by lawyer Geeta Luthra. A source in Akbar’s legal team said they would decide on whether to appeal after reading the judgment. A US-based former colleague had accused Akbar of raping her in 1994, a charge the former editor and his wife have denied, describing the relationship as consensual. The case, which started in October 2018 in the Patiala House Courts, was shifted to the Rouse Avenue District Courts, which were inaugurated in April 2019. The case was transferred from the special court for MPs and MLAs by Delhi High Court in November last year at the final stage of hearing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||ISC Class XII practical exams to be conducted in April ||The ISC Class XII practical examinations will have to be scheduled between April 1 and May 31, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations said in a circular to heads of schools. The circular is meant for practical examinations in physics, chemistry, biology, biotechnology, Indian music (Hindustani), fashion designing, computer science and home science. For physics, chemistry, biology, biotechnology, Indian music (Hindustani) and fashion designing, “the dates for the practical examination for a particular subject… would be finalised by the  visiting examiner in consultation with the head of the examination centre (the school principal) and the supervising examiner of the centre”, the chief executive and secretary of the CISCE, Gerry Arathoon, has said in the circular. The visiting examiner will also set question papers for these exams based on documents provided by the council. After the dates are finalised, the head of the examination centre will have to forward the information to the council and the respective conveners. The heads of examination centres will inform the candidates of the date of the practical examination at least 10 days before the scheduled date of the first practical. Computer science and home science practicals have two components: planning and examination. The date for the planning session will be fixed by the council and that of the examination will be finalised by the visiting examiners in consultation with the head of the examination centre and the supervising examiner of the centre. The council will set questions for these two subjects. All the preparations for the conduct of practical examinations must be completed by March 19. The last date for uploading marks awarded to candidates for practical examinations and project work is May 31. For subjects where questions are set locally, the “head of the examination centre” will be provided with detailed instructions along with sample questions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
18-02-2021||India||Congress flags electronic voting machine doubts||Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh has asked the Election Commission of India to clarify serious questions raised by former bureaucrat Kannan Gopinathan about the claim of electronic voting machines (EVMs) being standalone units not connected to external devices and exhorted political parties to take up the matter seriously. Digvijaya said on Wednesday in a series of tweets: “Kannan Gopinathan has made very pertinent points which question the Election Commission’s claim of EVM being a standalone machine, if it is connected to an external device? Also, the EC has always claimed that EVM has only OTP (one-time programmable) chip but there are reports that the chip used in VVPAT is MTP (multi-time programmable). If so, then the message to the control unit is what VVPAT gives and not what ballot unit gives.” Digvijaya appeared to be suggesting here that the VVPATs too can be manipulated. Gopinathan, an IAS officer who has offered his resignation from service, has been ceaselessly asking questions about EVMs, expressing grave concern about the fairness of the electoral process. He has written to the commission several times raising vital questions about the functioning of the EVMs without getting a satisfactory answer. Digvijaya lent his voice to the cause on Wednesday, saying: “The EC must respond to the issues raised by Kannan who has conducted elections on EVMs. Would they? Let’s see.” Digvijaya, who lost the last parliamentary election in Bhopal to the BJP’s controversial candidate Pragya Thakur, himself nurtures serious apprehensions about EVM manipulation. He has been working with technocrats to understand the possibilities of EVM manipulation and believes that it is incumbent upon political parties to take the issue seriously as it directly affects the soul of India’s democracy. He reflected this sentiment in response to a tweet by Pankaj Sharma, former AICC secretary. Sharma, who had been former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s media adviser, had tweeted: “Experts say hacking 5-10% of the EVMs in 100 constituencies is sufficient to change the entire political scenario. (Which means manipulating) 180 EVMs in each constituency, (out of) a total of about 18,000 EVMs. Unless Opposition takes this matter seriously, no change is ever possible.” Digvijaya replied: “Yes all political parties have to take it up seriously. I am very happy that the concerned citizens, retired bureaucrats, retired judges, professors of computer science and cryptography are raising logical doubts about the efficacy of EVM and the vulnerability to manipulation of EVM. “Can’t let the largest democracy and a nation which has the oldest democratic history in the world be allowed to be hijacked by unscrupulous entities whether from within or outside. The EC must come out of their ‘head in the sand’ attitude!! They must allow forensic test by any internationally reputed forensic science laboratory of VVPAT & EVMs under supervision and guidance of internationally well known and eminent computer scientists and cryptographers.” Digvijaya also agreed with Gopinathan’s view on the stance of professors who were members of a technical expert committee formed by the EC to examine EVMs before the 2019 parliamentary elections. The committee had held that there was no chance of tampering as EVMs were standalone machines. Gopinathan tweeted on Wednesday: “If you know any of these four professors of the Technical Expert Committee, ask them as to how is the name & symbol of candidates loaded on to the EVM if they are not connected to any external device. People trusted them. They shouldn’t have lied.” Gopinathan also dared the EC, saying: “If I am wrong in any of my statements, you have a solemn duty to counter me and prove me wrong so that I don’t spread falsehoods. And if there is truth to what I am saying, then acknowledge it & take steps to improve. No one wants to delegitimise elections.” Over the past few days, Gopinathan has intensely grilled the EC on EVMs being standalone machines. He said: “Is it true that EVM-VVPAT is connected to an external device, SLU, through a 9-pin serial cable? And SLU (symbol loading unit) is connected to a laptop through a serial cable? Then what about EVM-VVPAT are standalone machines not connected to external devices claim? Why a laptop computer/desktop PC is required for VVPAT commissioning? Also, there is an application software! If EVM-VVPAT is not connected to any external device what is this laptop for? Please care to explain.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
18-02-2021||India||Jamiat to be heard on ‘love jihad’ laws: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday permitted the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind to intervene in a batch of petitions challenging the anti-conversion laws in four BJP-ruled states after the organisation claimed that Muslims were being targeted through the legislation against “love jihad”. A bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobe and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian allowed the Jamiat, an organisation of Islamic scholars, to be heard in the case after initially questioning its locus standi. The four states whose “love jihad” laws have been challenged are Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. Ejaz Maqbool, appearing for the Jamiat, said “a large number of Muslims are being harassed all across the country” and the organisation wanted to assist the court in the matter as the Jamiat espouses the cause of Muslims on various issues. Apart from allowing the Jamiat to intervene, the bench permitted the main petitioners — advocate Vishal Thakre and the NGO Citizens for Justice and Peace, founded by Gujarat-based activist Teesta Setalvad — to implead Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. In their separate appeals, the petitioners had questioned the constitutional validity of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018. Subsequently, states such as Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh have also come out with their own laws to curb “love jihad”, an alleged practice according to the Right-wing to forcibly convert and indoctrinate through marriage. Quoting media reports the Jamiat said that as on December 29, 2020, within one month of the promulgation of the ordinance, 51 people had been arrested in Uttar Pradesh alone, while 14 cases had been registered. Only two of the cases were based on complaints by the victims while the rest hinged on complaints by family members. “At the most, the practice of converting religion just for the sake of marriage might at worst be termed as ‘ethically objectionable’ or ‘immoral’, however, the same cannot be criminalised,” the Jamiat said. In its intervention application the Jamiat said through its legal cell secretary Gulzar Ahmed Noor Mohammed Azmi: “In such circumstances, the applicant organisation wishes to raise the issue of fundamental rights of the Muslim youth, who are being targeted and demonised by using the impugned ordinance, which in itself is unconstitutional being violative of Articles 14 (right to equality), 21 (life and liberty) and 25 (freedom of religion).” According to the organisation, the anti-conversion laws attempt to regulate a personal decision of a person by encroaching upon an individual’s choice to convert to a religion of his or her choice and as such is a grave assault on personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. The Jamiat said the laws made conversion through “allurement” a criminal offence. The term “allurement” has been defined in Section 2(a) of the Uttar Pradesh anti-conversion law as “…offer of any temptation in the form of: i. Any gift, gratification, easy money or material benefit either in cash or kind; ii. Employment, free education in reputed school run by any religious body; or iii. Better lifestyle, divine displeasure or otherwise.” The Jamiat said: “As can be seen from above, the term allurement has been defined very broadly, to include even providing a gift to the person who is sought to be converted. This means if a person belonging to one religion, say Islam, gifts a non-Muslim a book concerning the teachings of Islam and the said non-Muslim person who received the book after reading it decides to convert to Islam, the said conversion could be said to have taken place by ‘allurement’ since it occurred after a gift was given to the convert. “Further the use of the words ‘or otherwise’ makes the definition of allurement even more ambiguous and encroaches upon the right to propagate guaranteed by Article 25 of the Constitution. For instance, if a preacher simply gives a discourse about the positive tenets of his religion, which prompts anyone hearing it to convert, it would amount to illegal ‘allurement’ under the ordinance.” However, the anti-conversion laws provide that “reconversion” to a person’s previous religion is not illegal, even if it is vitiated by fraud, force, allurement, misrepresentation and so on. The laws put the burden on the person carrying out the conversion to prove that it is not illegal, the Jamiat pointed out. The offence of illegal conversion is also “cognisable” and “non-bailable”, which means that a police officer can arrest an accused without a warrant, and the accused may or may not be released on bail, which will be at the discretion of a court, the Jamiat said. The effect of the laws “will be to bring a shadow of criminality over inter-faith marriages… (and) empowers disgruntled family members to slap criminal cases on couples who got married defying their diktats”, the Jamiat said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
18-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest: BJP deploys Sanjeev Balyan to woo Jats ||The BJP is set to deploy junior minister and Muzaffarnagar riot accused Sanjeev Balyan to talk to the protesting farmers at a time the sizeable Jat and Muslim communities of western Uttar Pradesh are threatening to form a formidable anti-BJP axis. Balyan, an influential Jat leader from the region, met BJP politicians from western Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday to brief them on how to defend the contentious laws before the angry farmers from the politically powerful Jat community. So far, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railway minister Piyush Goyal have been handling the farmer protests, but sources said Balyan could now be fore-grounded too. The junior minister for animal husbandry and fisheries belongs to the same Balyan khap or gotra (lineage) as farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, who is leading the protests at the Ghazipur border. Rakesh and elder brother Naresh Tikait are said to have switched support to Balyan at the last moment before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, helping him defeat Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Ajit Singh by a thin margin. Muzaffarnagar has emerged as the epicentre of the farm protests in western Uttar Pradesh, with efforts being made to revive the decades-long Jat-Muslim “brotherhood” that had been shredded by the September 2013 violence. Balyan could prove a divisive figure in this context. Balyan is accused of being a key instigator of the 2013 riots, which not only helped turn the BJP into the dominant political player in the region but created the climate for its victory in the April-May 2014 general election. The BJP has been particularly concerned after the farmer protests intensified in western Uttar Pradesh since the state votes early next year. First, the farmers and now political parties like the Rashtriya Lok Dal and the Congress are organising farmer mahapanchayats, which are drawing huge crowds. On Tuesday, home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda asked party leaders from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan to aggressively counter the Opposition’s “misleading campaign” on the farm laws. “We discussed the farm laws and the misconceptions being spread and decided to step up our awareness campaign,” Balyan said. “There are no APMCs (Agricultural Produce Market Committees) in western Uttar Pradesh. There’s only a gur (jaggery) market,” he added, saying farmers from the region were therefore forced to sell much of their produce in neighbouring states like Punjab. “The new laws help small farmers since they will no longer have to pay 2.5 per cent tax to sell their produce outside the state.” Party insiders said this was Balyan’s chance to prove his leadership qualities by placating the Jats from his region. Balyan has been eyeing a cabinet berth for a long time. At Tuesday’s meeting, Shah is learnt to have told party leaders to not be defensive but go out and convince the farmers that the protests were being masterminded by forces conspiring against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the country. Party insiders said that one of the reasons for the anger among the sugarcane farmers of western Uttar Pradesh was sugar mills’ failure to pay their dues. “The government is taking steps and soon the dues will be cleared,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
18-02-2021||India||Transit bail for Disha Ravi co-accused Nikita Jacob||Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted transit anticipatory bail to advocate Nikita Jacob, a suspect in a case registered by Delhi police in connection with the “toolkit” shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg over the farmers’ protest. Justice P.D. Naik gave Jacob three weeks’ time to approach the court concerned in Delhi for relief. The high court noted that Jacob was a permanent resident of Mumbai while the FIR was lodged in Delhi, and that the relief sought by her was only temporary. “The applicant apprehends that she will be arrested at any point of time. She has to make arrangements to seek relief from a court in another state. Hence, this court is of the opinion that protection as sought by the applicant can be granted for a temporary period,” Justice Naik said. The high court said that since Jacob would be approaching the court concerned in Delhi to seek anticipatory bail, it would not be appropriate for the high court to make any observations on the merits of the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
18-02-2021||India||Global chorus in support of farmers ||India’s official effort to silence condemnation from overseas of the farmers’ protests by telling critics to keep off the country’s “internal matters” does not seem to have drawn the desired result going by the continuing chorus of support for the peasants. On Tuesday, 75 organisations from the US and elsewhere brought out a full-page advertisement in The New York Times newspaper bearing a solidarity message for the farmers. Paid for by the Ohio-based Justice for Migrant Women, the advertisement is essentially a solidarity statement of activists, farmers and civil society that also urges “all people who champion human rights — in the United States and around the world — to join us and condemn the abuses against farmers, labourers, and protesters in India”. Providing details about the protests, the advertisement further urges readers to “use your voice to call on India to respect the core principles of democracy, including the rights of all people to protest peacefully, demand accountability, and envision a safer, healthier, and more just future for all people on the planet”. The advertisement seeks to draw attention to the Indian government response to the protests that have remained largely peaceful despite their prolonged nature. “Yet they have faced violence, persecution, and retaliation by the government. The protest sites, at times, have been cut off from water, aid, and electricity. Internet services have been strategically suspended to silence dissent. Media outlets have been censored and threatened. Protesters, activists, and journalists have been arrested, assaulted, and held in indefinite detention.” Earlier on February 3, after Barbadian singer Rihanna and climate change activist Greta Thunberg tweeted in support of the farmers, the external affairs ministry had issued a rather political statement asking people not to rush to comment on such matters without ascertaining the facts and a proper understanding of the issues at hand. This has not silenced voices overseas. If anything, the subsequent actions of the government, including the arrest of Bangalore-based climate activist Disha Ravi, have only served to keep the focus on India as is evident from the detailed article on her arrest in the international pages of The New York Times on Tuesday. A sustained critic of the government’s response to the farmers’ protests and its subsequent actions is Meena Harris, niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris.  On Tuesday she tweeted about Disha’s arrest and said: “What is happening in India is terrifying. Please pay attention.” Explaining the rationale for initiating the letter of support for farmers, the founder-president of Justice for Migrant Women, Monica Ramirez, said in a statement: “India’s response to these peaceful demonstrations run counter to the fundamental values shared by all democracies — among them freedom of expression, protest, and the press, as well as the fundamental dignity of all people — and it is time that we all lend our voices to speak against this unjust treatment with those who are fighting for their lives and livelihoods.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
18-02-2021||India||Land title proposal raises promoter alarm||The Centre has proposed a time-bound award of conclusive land titles that some critics fear might make it easier for promoters and corporate groups to buy disputed land claimed or presumptively owned by poor people. The move coincides with a farmers’ agitation against three farm laws that the protesters allege are a ploy to hand over control of the agriculture trade as well as their land to the corporate sector. An official said the department of land resources — part of the rural development ministry, which is supposed to pilot the “conclusive titling” proposal — was undecided on its next move because of the farmers’ agitation. An expert on land issues who supported the government move in principle questioned the feasibility of its implementation, saying it would bury land officials under paperwork apart from entangling the country’s crores of landowners in a complicated bureaucratic process to prove their entitlements. A critic, asking not to be identified, suggested the proposal was principally meant to “scare and intimidate” people in a country where many lack government documents — fears similar to those expressed about the National Register of Citizens that puts the onus on every Indian to prove their citizenship. T. Haque, head of the committee behind the proposal, told The Telegraph that land titles are not conclusive under the country’s existing system and can be challenged forever in the civil courts, which has led to numerous plots getting tied up in court cases. “The present system gives only presumptive title to a person on a piece of land. Anyone can challenge it and the case goes on,” said Haque, former head of the Commission for Agriculture Cost and Prices under whom the Niti Aayog had set up a committee in 2015 to suggest ways of conferring conclusive land titles. “A conclusive title will be the final title. It cannot be challenged normally. This will make the land record free of any encumbrances and facilitate economic activities or investment.” Once the conclusive title has been awarded by bureaucrats and any dispute settled by a tribunal within a stipulated three-year timetable, it cannot be challenged in the civil courts but only in the high courts and the Supreme Court — entailing long delays. A working group had studied the Haque committee’s report and submitted a draft “model conclusive land titling” proposal in November 2019. The Niti Aayog circulated it among the states and Union Territories last June, seeking their feedback with the rider that failure to send their views by September 2020 would be taken as consent. Most states have not sent their views. Haque, however, clarified that since land records and land registration are state subjects, any central law enacted on these domains would apply to a state only if ratified by its Assembly. ⦿ Under the proposal, each state is to set up a land authority that will have a title registration officer (TRO) who will prepare a title record based on document-based claims from the presumptive owners and any claimants. ⦿ The authority will then publish a draft list of the presumptive ownership of every plot (on which it has received applications) and invite claims within a given deadline from anyone else with an interest in the property. ⦿ The TRO will be free to mention any number of people as owners of a particular plot if satisfied with their documents. If the official cannot come to a decision, he or she might refer the case to the land dispute resolution officer (LDRO), appointed under the land authority. ⦿ A “record of titles” will then be notified. Over the next three years, “land titling appellate tribunals”, made up of retired or serving district judges, will hear disputes arising out of the orders passed by the TRO and the LDRO. ⦿ Once three years have passed since the notification, the title will be deemed conclusive, open to challenge only through writ petitions in the higher courts. The new farm laws have a similar, much-criticised provision that empowers officials but not the lower courts to rule on farmer-corporate disputes related to contract framing. However, the farm laws have no provision for judicial tribunals, either. Plots already enmeshed in court cases will remain outside the ambit of the conclusive titling process, which an official said would provide an incentive to a dubious claimant to quickly lodge a legal case before the proposal is enacted. Once conclusive ownership is granted, the title holders will be free to use the land for any purpose, including sale, gift or a “development agreement” — that is, sale or lease to a promoter or company. “I get the sense that the objective of the proposed law is to enable easy access to land for private developers,” a Ranchi-based civil lawyer, Rashmi Katyayan, said. “Poor people might lose their land if this proposal is enacted.” For instance, he said, a promoter or company may quietly lure a relative of a group of migrant labourers to apply to the land authority for ownership of a plot the entire family claims. The migrants may never learn about it before the three-year period has passed. “The poor migrate to other states for work and may not be able to claim their rights within the stipulated period, after which the title will become conclusive with little legal remedy for correction,” Katyayan said. He said land titles were now awarded, under the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, and Civil Procedure Code, 1908, on the basis of documentation and possession of the property. Any dispute was fought in a civil court. Retired civil servant N.C. Saxena, an expert on land issues, said he supported conclusive titling since the real owners of a plot were often not the ones in possession of it. “But this proposal expects everyone to apply and file claims. India has 18 crore landowners. It’s not feasible,” Saxena said. He suggested the government adopt something similar to the British system under which “revenue officials went to villages, checked the land records, heard the claimants and settled the records”. An email sent on Tuesday to Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar for his comments on the concerns expressed about the proposal had evoked no response till Wednesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
18-02-2021||India||Odisha budget session to commence from Thursday||The Budget session of the Odisha Legislative Assembly will commence from Thursday. According to the schedule, the House will sit for five hours every day and on special days, the session will be stretched up to seven hours. The state budget will be presented on February 22. The session will be held in two phases — from February 18 to 27 and from March 12 to April 9. Assembly Speaker Surya Narayan Patro told reporters: “There will be Question Hour and Zero Hour during the session. However, all those who attend the budget session will have to undergo Covid testing, be it MLAs, Assembly staff and journalists.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
18-02-2021||India||Temple panel nod for Puri heritage corridor plan||The Shree Jagannath Temple Management Committee has given approval to theRs 800-crore heritage corridor project. The approval comes at a time when there is a controversy over the National Monuments Authority’s heritage bylaws for various shrines of Odisha. However, following a public outcry, the culture ministry withdrew the draft bylaws for the Jagannath temple in Puri. The plan for Shree Jagannath Heritage Corridor that will come up within a 75-metre radius of the temple will ensure basic amenities to the devotees who come for darshan of the deities. Besides, the plan will focus on providing required security to the shrine and the servitors, providing basic amenities to the servitors and creating facilities for lakhs of devotees who can smoothly participate in the Rath Yatra and see the various rituals of Lord Jagannath, including the Suna Vesha (when deities are decked in golden attire during Rath Yatra). Chief administrator of the temple, Dr Krishan Kumar, said: “The corridor has got the approval of the Odisha cabinet. It will be developed at a cost of Rs 800 crore. Those who have donated their land for the project will be given compensation. We had constituted three committees for this purpose — an advisory committee for giving suggestions on various aspects of culture, a technical committee and a design committee. More than 50 meetings were held to give a concrete shape to the corridor plan.” “We will take approval for the draft plan from the Archaeological Survey of India, National Monuments Authority and the Odisha government by the end of this month,” said a senior member of the temple committee. Besides providing basic amenities, a queue management facility for 6,000 devotees will be developed. All the devotees can enter and have a hassle-free darshan of the deities inside the shrine. The plan will be developed under these components — heritage corridor, Shree Jagannath Reception Centre, providing amenities and redevelopment of existing matha temples around the shrine. The heritage corridor component includes building a green buffer zone, a public convenience zone, shuttle-cum-emergency lane, pedestrian foot plan, service land and mixed traffic lane, among others. At the reception centre, around 4,000 people can deposit their belongings like camera and mobile phones before going to see the deities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
18-02-2021||India||Nitish plea to Centre for separate EBC quota||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday raked up the reservation issue by requesting the Centre to provide a separate quota for the Extremely Backward Castes (EBC) and also demanding the conduct of a caste-based census to arrive upon the numbers and needs of different sections of the society. “The reservation for the backward castes in our state is divided into two categories — Other Backward Castes (OBCs) and EBCs. This was done by Jan Nayak Karpoori Thakur (former chief minister) and has continued since then. We want it to be replicated at the Centre also though there it is a single category. It will be a good thing if people coming within the category get the benefit in a different manner,” Nitish said. Nitish was talking to reporters after being asked about a debate that has cropped up in various forums after a leader from his Janata Dal United, Ajay Alok, tweeted that the next generation of a person who has benefited from reservation in studies and jobs should not get it. The JDU leader reasoned that it would spread the advantage of affirmative action to a wider section of the society and free reservation from the grip of a few affluent families. Alok’s comments have triggered a raging debate on the issue. Though Nitish asserted that he did not know about any such discussion or any proposal to deprive anybody of reservation, he added that it would be another matter if any assessment or study was being done to bring a change in the provisions of reservation. Speaking further, the chief minister raised the demand for caste-based census and said: “We have asked for it previously also and it should be done at least once. It used to be done earlier, but was stopped prior to Independence.” “The caste-based census will provide the correct information about the numerical strength of every caste and help decide what should be done for them. This is not just our demand. The members of the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council had unanimously passed a proposal for such a census and sent it to the Centre,” he added. Nitish’s comments on reservation come at a time when the BJP–led government at the Centre has its hands full with several controversial issues generated due to its own policies, laws and actions. The Bihar chief minister’s comments can further queer the pitch for the central government as reservation is a sensitive issue and various groups within the OBC are already demanding separate reservation in states like Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Karnataka. Nitish’s old friend-turned-foe, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad, has also been continuously raising the demand for a caste-based census for the last several years. A section of Bihar politicians said Nitish’s comments indicate a growing closeness between the two leaders. The Bihar chief minister had said on Tuesday that the people would be happy if fuel prices did not rise, while reacting to questions about the rapid rise in the prices of petrol and cooking gas across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
18-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst not linked to Char Dham: Government ||The Centre on Wednesday pleaded in the Supreme Court that construction of the Char Dham Road project had no co-relation with the recent glacier burst in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. Appearing for the Centre, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal rebutted the claim of Ravi Chopra, chairman of a high-powered committee, that the recent calamity was a fallout of the ongoing construction of the Char Dham project. The court has adjourned the matter by two weeks to enable the government to file its comprehensive response. Char Dham road project is a 899km-long highway project connecting the four shrines of Gangotri, Yamunotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath in the Himalayas. The project is now under the scanner of the Supreme Court over environmental concerns as it required dismantling a large number of hills and felling of trees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Will make Gangasagar Mela part of international tourist circuit, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said that he has full faith that the BJP will form the government in Bengal after the upcoming assembly polls and when it does, the Gangasagar Mela will be made part of the international tourist circuit. The 'Namami Gange' programme for cleaning River Ganga will also be ensured in the state, the Union minister said. Shah said, he feels sad about the facilities here since lakhs of pilgrims visit the site annually, and when the BJP comes to power in Bengal, all tourism projects of the Central government will be successfully implemented here. "We will ensure that the Uttarayan Mela (Gangasagar Mela) becomes part of the international tourist circuit...this place becomes a big tourist spot, and its fame spreads across the world," he said after offering obeisance at the Kapil Muni temple here. The Kapil Muni temple at the confluence of River Ganga and the Bay of Bengal is a mark of spirituality and conservation of environment, Shah said. The 'Namami Gange' programme launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2014 has been working for conservation and cleaning of River Ganga from Gangotri to Sagar, but it "gets stuck" on reaching Bengal, the minister said. "I have full faith that a BJP government will be formed in the state and then the purification of River Ganga through the Namami Gange project will be taken up till Gangasagar," he said. 'Namami Gange Programme' is an integrated conservation mission, approved as a 'flagship programme' by the Union government in June 2014, to accomplish the twin objectives of effective abatement of pollution, conservation and rejuvenation of the Ganga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Jakir Hossain was being forced to join another party, claims Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday alleged the bomb attack on state minister Jakir Hossain was part of a conspiracy as certain people were "pressuring" him to switch over to another party. Banerjee, who went to the SSKM hospital to inquire after his condition following Wednesday's incident, slammed the railways for its "lack lusture" way of functioning. "It was a preplanned attack on minister Jakir Hossain. Some people have claimed the blast was remote controlled. It is a conspiracy. Some people (party) were pressuring Jakir Hossian to join them for the last few months. I don't want to disclose anything more as investigation is on," Banerjee told reporters. The attackers apparently knew about Hossain's movement and must have been tailing him, she said. Banerjee said not just the CID, but state STF and Counter Insurgency Force (CIF) will assist in the probe. The chief minister announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh for those seriously injured in the explosion and Rs one lakh for people who received minor injuries. "How can the railways deny their responsibility over security lapses when the attack happened at a railway station? There were no security personnel at the station at the time of the attack. There was no light, it was completely dark. What was the railway police doing?" she asked. The railways should cooperate in the investigation, she said. "A railway station is a railway property. The railway police is in charge of its security. It is not under our jurisdiction," she said. Banerjee said a total of 26 people were injured in the blast. The state government has handed over the probe in the case to the CID. Banerjee refuted the opposition claim of worsening law and order situation, saying the incident took place inside a railway station, premises that belong to the Centre. The BJP leadership, meanwhile, slammed Banerjee for trying to divert public attention from the failures of the state government. "The incident proves that law and order has ceased to exist. Does the railways run the state? Such theories won't help. She has failed both as state home minister and the chief minister," state BJP vice president Jaiprakash Majumdar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
18-02-2021||West Bengal||CID to probe bomb attack on Bengal minister||The Bengal government on Thursday handed over the investigation into the attack on state minister Jakir Hossain, who was seriously injured in a bomb blast, to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). Hossain was seriously injured after unidentified attackers hurled a crude bomb at him at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district on Wednesday night. At least two other persons, who were with the Trinamool Congress MLA of Jangipur, were also injured in the incident which occurred ahead of the assembly election in the state due in April-May this year. Hossain was brought to the SSKM Hospital here on Thursday morning and admitted to the Trauma Care Unit, state minister Firhad Hakim said, adding that a medical board has been formed to look into his health condition. "The investigation has been handed over to the CID. A team of forensic experts have visited the spot this morning," a senior police officer said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and senior TMC leaders went to the state-run hospital here to inquire about his health. "Hossain is presently admitted to the Trauma Care Unit. A medical board is looking after his health. He is stable now and has injuries in his fingers and foot," Hakim said. Hossain, the minister of state for labour, was waiting at platform no 2 of the station to catch a train to Kolkata at around 10 pm on Wednesday when he was attacked, the officer said. "The incident shows that West Bengal is not safe even for ministers. The government has failed to control the law and order," state BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. Meanwhile, BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari's rally was attacked by unknown miscreants in Beleghata area of north Calcutta on Wednesday night. Two BJP activists, including party's North Calcutta district president Sivaji Singha Roy, were injured in the incident. Both are admitted to a hospital here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Fisherman mauled to death by royal Bengal tiger||A fisherman was mauled to death by a royal Bengal tiger and another is feared to have met a similar fate in separate incidents early on Wednesday in the Sunderbans. Fisherman Soumen Roy was fatally injured in the Pirkhali forest area, while in Benefeli a tiger dragged another, Atul Baidya, inside the jungle. Atul was not found till Wednesday evening. Forest officials have launched a search for Atul. With these two fresh cases, at least 20 fishermen have been reportedly killed by tigers in the Sunderbans this past year, an official of the state wildlife department said. Both Soumen and Atul had been fishing for crabs in separate groups. Sources in Jharkhali coastal police station said that Soumen, along with a team of five other fishermen, had left home to catch crabs in the forest area on Saturday. A tiger attacked the fishermen near Pirkhali when they were returning home. Soumen’s brother, Paritosh, who was also among the group of fishermen, recalled the attack: “The tiger attacked us when we were sailing close to a muddy bank. The attack was sudden and dada became its main target. We tried to resist but my brother died on the spot as he had been badly mauled.” In the other incident, fishermen, including Atul, from Kultali-Kantamari had gone to catch crabs inside the Benefeli forest area on Monday. Local sources said when team members were returning home early on Wednesday after catching crabs, the tiger dragged away Atul. “The animal was too big and strong for us (to resist). It disappeared inside the forest dragging Atul by its jaw,” a fellow fisherman said. A senior official of the state wildlife department said there was a strict ban on entry inside the jungle. “We have taken up awareness drives among fishermen, urging them not to risk their lives and try for alternative sources of income like apiculture (bee-keeping for honey), but it appears that they hardly paid heed.” Villagers said many migrant youths who had come home during the lockdown had opted for fishing and were desperate to earn a living. Bengal on Wednesday logged 249 Covid-19 recoveries, 133 new infections and two deaths, including one from the city, achieving a drop in its total active cases for the 114th day on the trot since Vijaya Dashami last year. Bengal’s total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), is now 3,736. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 117 consecutive days to touch 97.56 per cent. The national rate remained 97.3. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.86 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 90 days. On Wednesday, the state reported 14,031 tests, taking the total past 83.49 lakh, at 92,770 tests per million people. Of the total toll of 10,237, 8,594 deaths or 84 per cent were attributed by the state to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent. Bengal now has a total of over 5.73 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported on March 17 last year. It includes over 5.59 lakh recoveries and 10,237 deaths. In the 114-day period since last year’s Dashami, the state had nearly 2.49 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.19 lakh new infections detected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri turns messy as conservancy workers threaten to cease work||Heaps of garbage lay across Siliguri on Wednesday, forcing residents to negotiate with bins overflowing with smelly waste on roads and lanes, as over 2,500 conservancy workers of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) stayed off work. Workers, demanding permanent jobs at the civic body,  also threatened to cease work “indefinitely”. Some workers also piled up garbage at the entrance of the SMC. In Siliguri, around 3.5 metric tonnes of garbage are collected daily and taken to the dumping ground on the city’s northeast end. “Most of us are working as casual workers for past 15-20 years. On January 13, we urged civic authorities to take initiatives so that at least half of us are made permanent on the basis of seniority. Our demand went unheard. So we have decided to cease work till we get a concrete assurance (on permanency) from competent authorities,” said Kiran Rauth, president, Uttarbanga Safai Karmachari Samiti. According to sources, altogether 2,571 workers provide conservancy services in the civic area spread over 47 wards. They collect trash from households, marketplaces, health establishments and other commercial hubs. Only 371 are permanent employees while the rest work on a daily-rated basis. As the day rolled and trash bins piled up on streets, peeved residents raised questions at the civic body that is being run by a board of administrators (BoA). District Trinamul leaders were quick to pick up the issue and accused the BoA of inefficiency. “The Left-ruled civic board has deprived conservancy workers during their tenure. We support the demand raised by the workers but will simultaneously appeal to them to resume their duties,” said Ranjan Sarkar, Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul president. The sudden move by workers has put the civic body in a soup, particularly as there is no elected board in SMC now. “The BoA is a caretaker body and can’t take a decision on the issue,” said a source. In the evening, Mukul Sengupta, a former CPM councillor, said they would hold talks with workers on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Hill farmers seek ST status before Bengal elections||Kalimpong Krishak Kalyan Sangathan (KKKS), a federation of farmers’ organisation from the hills that had backed the BJP during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, has resolved on a hunger strike if efforts are not made by the BJP-led Centre to grant 11 hill communities the Scheduled Tribe (ST) status before the Bengal elections. The Sangathan, which has over 9,000 members in Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills, will also hold a meeting this week with representatives of tribal communities seeking the status to give a final shape to the protest. Bishnu Chhetri, president of KKKS, said: “Our organisation has adopted a resolution for hunger strike. However, other stakeholders and especially those from the 11 communities are sending us feelers to join the protest.” The communities demanding the ST status are Bhujel, Gurung, Mangar, Newar, Jogi, Khas, Rai, Sunuwar, Thami, Yakka (Dewan) and Dhimal. The BJP has in their 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto promised tribal status for these communities. The Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha, instrumental in drumming up support for the BJP, in October 2020 left the saffron camp alleging that promises stayed unfulfilled. The farmers’ protest decision also seems to be an attempt to show their dissent to the BJP leaders from Bengal. “Leaders from the Centre like Prahlad Singh Patel (minister of state, independent charge, for culture and tourism, who is also the BJP in-charge for north Bengal for Assembly polls) and even our own Darjeeling MP Raju Bista are hopeful of positive developments,” said Chhetri. “However, BJP leaders from Bengal have started saying that tribal status and the issue of permanent political solution would be looked after the Bengal elections,” he added, terming Bengal BJP’s stand “humiliating” for the hill people who voted for the BJP. “We feel that the Bengal BJP leaders are trying to sideline our issue,” said Chhetri. Observers believe a protest against unfulfilled tribal demands would send a wrong message about the BJP in the hills. “It was the BJP that inked those demands in their manifesto and we have every right to pressure them as we were with them during the Lok Sabha election,” said Chhetri. The Parliament’s second part of the budget session is expected to go on from March 8 to April 8. Bengal’s model code of conduct for Assembly elections is also likely to be announced soon. Asked if a bill (for the ST status) could be placed and passed for Bengal with the code of conduct in place, Chhetri brought in a new perspective. “Until 1954, these communities were listed as tribes. In this sense the demand is about re-listing these communities on the ST list. A simple notification by the government may serve our purpose,” said Chhetri. The Kurmis from south Bengal, now under the OBC category, are also demanding inclusion as ST as the community was also listed ST by the Britishers. Demand for tribal tag for the hill communities has been around for some time. The Union ministry of trial affairs had formed a committee in 2016, before the last Bengal elections, to examine and recommend tribal status to these communities. Since then the committee was reconstituted thrice and the final report compiled by a team headed by M.R. Tshering, joint secretary, ministry of tribal affairs. In 2019, Bishal Rai, a resident of Teesta, who is now with the Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha, had obtained some salient features of the report through an RTI query. Based on the RTI report, it was clear that the committee had passed the buck to the Office of Registrar General of India (ORGI) on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari aide cast out of TMC, to join Congress||Murshidabad zilla parishad sabhadipati Musharraf Hossain, once close to Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, was expelled by Trinamul district committee on Wednesday for “anti-party activities”. The decision to expel Musharraf was taken at an hour-long meeting in Behrampore attended by the district top brass of the party, including MLAs and MPs, said district president of the Trinamul Abu Taher Khan. Musharraf fell out of favour with Trinamul leaders since early December, when Suvendu defected to the BJP. Speaking to this paper, Musharraf said: “It had become difficult to work with district president Abu Taher Khan, so I began to take zilla level initiatives on my own. They felt offended and expelled me from the party. I am relieved.” Ruling out the BJP, Musharraf said he would align himself with the Congress to fight both Trinamul and the BJP in the coming Assembly elections. A Congress source said he was expected to join the party on Friday. Sources said Musharraf had been skipping district-level party meetings and had ignored two leadership meetings with chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Murshidabad and Calcutta last month. He reportedly refused to allow Trinamul posters or banners in panchayat events since December. The state government had withdrawn his police cover six months ago and did not reinstate it even after his written appeals to the chief minister and the governor. Khan said Musharraf’s snubbing of Mamata’s meetings was the “final straw” and his expulsion order had been forwarded to the party leadership in Calcutta. “He was regularly seen with Dada’r Anugami,” said a source, referring to Suvendu’s mid-year banner floated to counter Didi’s narrative prior to his formal induction into the BJP. “Musharraf, however, will continue to hold his rural post even though he stands expelled from the party with no recourse,” said a source. The source added that provisions of the panchayat act did not allow moving a no-trust motion against a panchayat executive till the person completed two-and-a-half years in office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Tea Board initiates move to draw SOP to transport green tea leaves||The Tea Board of India has initiated a move to draw up a standard operating procedure (SOP, or a set of step-by-step instructions) to transport and handle green tea leaves to ensure their quality is maintained till the leaves are processed in tea factories. The Board drafted the SOP and circulated it among stakeholders of the tea industry across India, while underscoring the fact that “good teas cannot be produced from badly handled leaf.” “It has been found that tea leaves mostly get damaged during transportation, that is, when the leaves are sent from plantations to factories. Thus, it is necessary to have an SOP that tea gardens as well as small tea growers can follow to avert damage to the tea leaves. That is why the initiative will eventually contribute to improve the quality of Indian tea,” said a Board source. In the draft that has been released by the tea board, a number of recommendations have been made, including for workers who pluck tea leaves in plantations. Recommendations include not to allow pluckers to hold large quantities of leaves in baskets, and to create a collection area with a shed where the plucked leaves are kept in bulk ahead of their transportation to the factory and confirm that the leaves are loaded in trailers under the shed. “It has been also mentioned that nylon bags, in which leaves are put at the collection centre, should not be stacked one above the other. There should be free flow of air for each bag or plastic crate used for the purpose,” said a tea planter. The draft recommends that tea leaves should reach the factory within four hours of their being plucked. A tea expert said the quality of tea depends mostly on the harvested shoots. “The manufacturing process can only retain the intrinsic potential of the raw material, in this case, the freshly plucked shoots. That is why, it is very important to ensure that no damage is caused to leaves,” he said. On Wednesday, S. Soundararajan, director of tea development of the Tea Board, send letters to the stakeholders seeking their suggestions on the draft document. “The Tea Board will look into the suggestions and then ready the final draft of SOP which will be notified in due course. We welcome the initiative as a specific set of procedures can help small tea growers and others associated with collection and transportation of tea leaves,” said Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president, Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta police to probe unnatural death of DYFI leader||A seven-member team of officers from Calcutta police was formed on Wednesday to probe the unnatural death of Maidul Islam Middya, the 33-year-old DYFI leader who had joined last Thursday’s Left march in Calcutta that saw clashes between the police and Left supporters. The probe team is headed by joint commissioner (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. Sources said the probe would include examination of witnesses (on-duty policemen and Maidul’s friends and colleagues), corroboration of statements with available CCTV footage and verification of findings with the nature of injuries he had sustained. The Left alleged police excesses on Thursday caused Maidul’s death on Monday, and that they would accept nothing less than a judicial probe. “We demand judicial investigation....How can we trust the SIT formed by the Calcutta police? The Calcutta police is the accused here,” DYFI spokesperson Kalatan Dasgupta told The Telegraph. The police said Maidul’s preliminary post-mortem report suggested superficial abrasion on the knee and no marks of injury on internal organs. Officers of New Market police station, under whose jurisdiction the incident had happened on Thursday, had earlier sought details of Maidul’s medical treatment history from CPM leader and doctor Fuad Halim, who had treated the youth. In another development, DYFI activist Dipankar Sengupta, arrested for allegedly assaulting an on-duty police officer in protest of Maidul’s death on Monday, was produced before a city court on Wednesday and was remanded in judicial custody till February 20. He is among the 250-300 Left supporters and leaders booked for allegedly assaulting a police officer, among others. Sengupta’s lawyer said he had shown the judge signs of police atrocity on his body following his arrest on Tuesday. The police have denied beating up Sengupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Jakir Hossain and 10 TMC workers injured in bomb attack||Junior Bengal minister and 10 Trinamul Congress workers suffered splinter injuries when unidentified people hurled around a dozen crude bombs at them at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad on Wednesday night. Police sources said Hossain, 54, the junior labour minister and Suti Trinamul MLA, was attacked while he was waiting at platform 2 to board the Calcutta-bound New Alipurduar-Sealdah Teesta Torsa Express around 10pm. Hossain, a business tycoon in the Murshidabad district, has been admitted to Jangipur subdivisional hospital, around 30km from the spot, where doctors were trying to treat injuries to the legs and the left hand. “We are trying to stop his bleeding and only then can we refer him to Calcutta for better treatment,” said a doctor. The police said the pilot car and security personnel had dropped the minister outside the station and he walked up to the platform, along with his personal guard. Asked about the reason for the attack, the police said they were investigating the incident and it was too early to comment on the probe. Two of the 10 party workers accompanying the minister have been seriously injured and admitted to the Jangipur hospital, the police said. “Police have already reached the spot. We are trying to identify the goons from CCTV footage with help of railway police. No one has been arrested so far,” said Y Raghuvamshi, superintendent of Jangipur police district. Abu Taher Khan, president of the Murshidabad unit of the Trinamul, said: “We can’t imagine a gentleman and popular politician like Jakir Hossain could have enemies who would try to kill him. We have requested the police to arrest the culprits as soon as possible.” He added that Hossain had participated in a meeting in Behrampore where Trinamul had decided to expel the chairperson of Murshidabad zilla parishad, Musharaf Hossain, for anti-party activities. State Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said: “The attack on a minister shows the real picture of law and order in the state.” BJP leaders Suvendu Adhikari and Shankudeb Panda, along with the party’s North Calcutta district president Shibaji Singha Roy, were allegedly attacked while they were marching towards the deputy commissioner’s office in Calcutta late on Wednesday evening. BJP sources said Roy had been seriously injured and admitted to a private hospital along EM Bypass.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Indian Secular Front ups ante on seats||Talks between the Abbas Siddique-led Indian Secular Front and the Left-Congress leadership hit a stalemate on Wednesday as no consensus could be reached on the number of Assembly seats the ISF would be allotted. ISF chairman Naushad Siddiqui told the meeting that the party wouldn’t settle for anything less than at least 50 seats. But the Congress insisted, sources said, it would not compromise on the number of seats it planned to contest in alliance with the Left Front. Although Congress leaders left the meeting midway, Naushad continued to hold deliberations with CPM leaders till late on Wednesday. The sources said Congress MLA Abdul Mannan and Rajya Sabha member Pradip Bhattacharya would speak to state party chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on the issue on Thursday before holding another round of talks with the ISF. The talks were held on a day Furfura-Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui announced that his party would field candidates in all 294 Assembly constituencies in Bengal unless his demand for at least 80 seats to contest was accepted by the Left Front and the Congress. “I have sent a list of about 80 seats spread across North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Nadia, Murshidabad, Malda and some other areas. I can agree to some minor adjustments in numbers. But if the demand of seats is not largely agreed upon, I will not go for any negotiations and nominate candidates to all the seats,” Siddiqui said at Chapra in Nadia district. “Nijerder sansar ghuchiye newar khamata amader achey (We have the power to organise ourselves).” Multiple sources in the Left and the Congress said that such a public assertion by Siddiqui was nothing short of blackmailing as discussions were underway to strike a deal with his party. “Time is very limited and I will not remain at the mercy of the Left or the Congress. It is a matter of rights,” Siddiqui told journalists at Chapra. He was at Chapra for holding meetings with Muslim leaders. In recent months, the ISF has emerged as a force to be reckoned with in some parts of Bengal with its claim that a significant section of minority and Dalit voters would vote for it. With his fiery speeches in Muslim-dominated areas, Siddiqui has projected himself as a champion of minority rights. Although a section in the Left considers him as a fundamentalist, Siddiqui has pitched himself as a leader of the minority community and Dalits. “Our objective is to ensure democratic and constitutional rights for the minorities and the downtrodden people….We have demanded some seats and assured our support to the Congress and Left Front in the remaining seats. We will also campaign for them. Our intention is to build a strong partnership. But they are dillydallying. It appears leaders like Adhir Babu has not understood my words,” Siddiqui said. The Congress and the Left Front announced finalisation of seat sharing in Calcutta on Tuesday after a meeting at CPM office on Alimuddin Street, but refrained from naming the constituencies allotted for each party. This angered Siddique as he alleged that the two big partners had not bothered to leave seats for the ISF. “I am not begging… Who are the Congress or the Left Front to give me seats? They are also political parties like ours. We have begged for past 74 years. Now we want our right,” a visibly angry Siddiqui said in Chapra. “They announced finalisation of seat sharing… but deliberately avoided to announce the number of seats. It appears they have not left seats for us…So, we have to take our decision fast as time is very limited,” Siddiqui said. Abbas Siddiqui said he had directed Naushad to reiterate his demands categorically at the meeting. “We also have like-minded organisations in our fold, whom we need to accommodate as well,” Siddiqui said. The sources said the Congress and the Left Front apparently found the ISF’s demand “illogical”. The ISF has demanded almost all seats in North 24-Parganas’s Basirhat subdivision as well as a large number of seats in Baruipur and Diamond Harbour subdivisions. It also wanted to contest from a chunk of seats in Nadia’s Krishnagar and Tehatta subdivision as well as in Murshidabad and Malda districts, which put both the Congress and the Left in a difficult situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Yash Dasgupta and nine other Tollywood artists join BJP ||Tollywood actor Yash Dasgupta was among nine to 10 actors and actresses who joined the BJP on Wednesday. Although no A-lister appeared to be among the converts so far, the first such  expression of solidarity from Bengal’s film and TV serial fraternity ahead of the state polls prompted the BJP to claim that it had tiptoed into the state’s cultural sphere. “I haven’t taken this decision in a hurried manner.… The BJP is a party that lays special emphasis on the young generation. I am also young and that’s why I have joined the BJP,” said Yash, who started his career in television and debuted on silver screen with the 2016 film Gangster that also starred Mimi Chakraborty, now a Trinamul MP. He, however, made it clear that he was respectful towards Mamata Banerjee. “I am joining the BJP after seeking blessings from Didi…. I can’t say bad things about her.” Other stars in the BJP camp included Papiya Adhikari, Soumili Biswas, Sutapa Sen, Atanu Roy, Ashok Bhadra and Mallika Bandyopadhyay. The party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, national vice president Mukul Roy and Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta presided over the event. “This is a very important occasion for all of us,” said Dasgupta. The BJP believes this cultural capital will help them contest the “outsider” tag that Trinamul attacks it with. “Tollywood actors and actresses will play an important role in our campaign,” said a source, adding the party was trying to rope in A-listers of Tollywood, and talks were on with actor Hiran Chatterjee. Trinamul was unfazed. “Most of those who took up the BJP flag today hardly have any star value.…Besides, we contest polls on the strength of development work carried out by Mamata Banerjee,” said a Trinamul source. Tollywood star and Trinamul MLA from Barasat Chiranjeet Chakraborty wrote to party chief Mamata Banerjee, requesting her to allow him to step down. He did not want to be in mainstream politics, he said. In 2019, about a dozen actors and actresses — including Rishi Kaushik, Parno Mittra, Kanchana Moitra and Rupanjana Mitra — from the Bengali film industry had joined the BJP at the party’s national headquarters in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul and BJP vie for Rajbanshi support ||Identity politics has become the flavour of the season in north Bengal ahead of the Assembly elections as both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP are leaving no stone unturned to woo Rajbanshis through a series of announcements and initiatives in remembrance of Panchanan Barma, the most revered social reformer of the community. The reason behind the reachout attempt is simple. The Rajbanshi population spread across Cooch Behar, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri and North Dinajpur districts is a decisive factor in around half of the 54 Assembly constituencies in north Bengal. In the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, the BJP had managed to perform exceptionally well in the Rajbanshi-dominated belts of north Bengal and won seven of the eight Parliament seats in the region. In the run up to the Assembly elections, while the BJP is desperate to retain its support base, Trinamul wants to woo them back. As both these political forces pull out all stops to draw support from Rajbanshis, The Telegraph highlights some of the announcements made and initiatives taken by Trinamul and the BJP in the past few weeks. ⚫On February 14, that is, on the birth anniversary of Panchanan Barma, the state government handed over a plot of 13 acres to Cooch Behar Panchanan Barma University (CBPBU) for the construction of a second campus at Khalishamari — the Rajbanshi icon’s birthplace — in the Mathabhanga subdivision of Cooch Behar. State ministers paid homage to Barma on that day at the venue. ⚫On February 15, chief minister Mamata Banerjee virtually laid the foundation stone of the second campus at Khalishamari. She also unveiled a bronze statue of Barma on the main campus of the varsity. ⚫On February 14, a number of Trinamul leaders and state ministers were seen offering homage to Barma at various places of north Bengal, including Siliguri and Jalpaiguri. ⚫In the vote-on-account for the next fiscal, the chief minister announced that the state government would recognise 200 Rajbanshi-medium schools and also open schools in Kamtapuri (a variant of Rajbanshi language) in the areas dominated by the community. ⚫The Bengal government has also announced formation of Narayani battalion (named after the royal troops of the erstwhile princely state of Cooch Behar) in Bengal police. It would have its headquarters at Mekhliganj in Cooch Behar. ⚫The state has also offered jobs to over 500 former militants and linkmen of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO). Most of them are Rajbanshi youths. ⚫The Mamata Banerjee dispensation has promised to look into the demand of a development board for Nasya Sheikhs who introduce themselves as Rajbanshi Muslims. Added to these, the Mamata Banerjee government had earlier established the varsity in Barma’s name and constituted two language academies and a development and cultural board for Rajbanshis. ⚫On February 11, Union home minister Amit Shah announced that the Centre would install a statue of Panchanan Barma by spending Rs 250 crore. Also, a cultural hub for Rajbanshis would be set up in Cooch Behar, on which Rs 500 crore would be spent. ⚫The home minister also announced that a Narayani battalion would be formed in central paramilitary forces. Also, a training centre of such forces would be named after Chila Roy (Chila Roy or Sukladhwaj, the younger brother of King Naranarayan, is known to be the fiercest fighter of the Cooch Behar royal family.) ⚫On February 14, as a three-day cultural fest hosted by the Union ministry of tourism and culture was opened at the Cooch Behar palace, all dignitaries, including Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, Union minister of state Prahlad Singh Patil and local BJP MP Nisith Pramanik paid homage to a portrait of Panchanan Barma on the dais. ⚫On the same day, BJP held a public meeting at Baburhat in Alipurduar district. It was the first public meeting of Suvendu Adhikari in north Bengal after he joined the BJP. The dais was named as Panchanan Barma Manch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker found hanging in Jalpaiguri||A BJP worker in the Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri district was found dead at his home on Wednesday. While the BJP has demanded a complete investigation, police suspect Sanjay Kumar Roy, 42, died by suicide. He was found hanging at his home in the Niranjanpat-Garkhuta area in the morning. A police team arrived and seized the body. Sujay Tunga, the inspector-in-charge of Dhupguri police station, and Vikramjit Lama, the deputy superintendent of police (crime) of Jalpaiguri, went to the village and spoke to Roy’s family members and neighbours. “We suspect it to be a case of suicide and can confirm it only after we get post-mortem report,” said a police officer. A BJP leader said: “The police should find out the cause of his death. If we find that any attempt has been made to hush up the truth, we will resort to protests.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
18-02-2021||West Bengal||First poll training records 90% attendance||More than 90 per cent of state government employees, who were requisitioned as polling officers, attended the first training programme in south Calcutta on Wednesday with the high turnout coming as a surprise as a good number of officials selected for election duties generally tend to seek exemption. Usually, 20 to 25 per cent employees seek exemption from poll duty citing various reasons even before the first training programme. District administration officials face a lot of trouble to engage the required number of polling officers at booths because of truancy. “But it is a relief that applications seeking exemption from poll duty are much lesser this time compared to previous years. About 10 per cent of the employees who have already been requisitioned sought exemption citing serious health conditions, which we will consider,” said a district magistrate. The development is considered significant in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic that has necessitated more polling officers to conduct the election process this year. “The number of booths has gone up to 1.01 lakh this year from 78,000-odd. Each booth requires four polling officers. And we have to keep 20 per cent polling officers in reserve considering the Covid-19 situation. A total of 5 lakh employees would be required this year,” said a source. Getting 5 lakh from a pool of 8 lakh employees in state government offices and state-aided institutions is itself not an easy task, sources said. Against this backdrop, the high turnout for training is a welcome relief, said a senior official. The sources said the tough stance of the Election Commission ahead of the polls might have created panic among a section of employees, who usually want to avoid poll duties in the past. “From the very beginning, the poll panel has made it clear that if any of the government employees is charged with negligence, he or she would have to face a stern action. In addition to this, the way the state government has transferred top officials, including district magistrates, ahead of the polls, common employees might have thought that they would not be spared too if they cite any false reason to avoid poll duty,” said a source. The Union health ministry had directed all five poll-bound states, including Bengal, to administer Covid-19 vaccine to polling officers. The Bengal government has already asked district authorities to prepare a database of polling officers, who would be administered vaccines ahead of the polls. According to the sources, the government has decided to run special camps for the polling officers during the second phase of vaccination, which is likely to start in the last week of February. The vaccination for polling officers is optional as any official can skip the vaccination. “This is an initiative to safeguard the polling officials. If anybody wants to skip this, he or she can by giving an undertaking to the authorities concerned…. The offer of vaccination may have also increased interest in logging in for poll duty,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Bomb attack on Bengal minister Jakir Hossain in Murshidabad||West Bengal minister Jakir Hossain was seriously injured after unidentified attackers hurled bombs at him in Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district on Wednesday night, police said. At least two other persons who were with him were also injured in the incident. Hossain, the minister of state for labour, was waiting at platform no 2 of the station to catch a train to Kolkata at around 10 pm when he was attacked, a senior police officer of West Bengal Police told PTI. "Jakir Hossain was seriously injured after unidentified attackers hurled bombs at him in Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district on Wednesday night," the Police confirmed. The MLA of Jangipur in Murshidabad district and the two other injured persons were taken to Jangipur Sub-divisional Hospital, he said. Assembly election is due in West Bengal in April-May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Lucky draw and LED bulb gifts at Dilip Ghosh's tea party||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh handed over LED bulbs to 10 lucky draw winners selected from those who attended a “cha-chakra (tête-à-tête over tea)” at Jodhpur Park in Calcutta on Wednesday morning, inviting ridicule from the Trinamul Congress which said the programme was a flop and the gifts had been offered to attract participants. Ghosh had launched the “cha chakra” initiative in 2019 in response to Mamata Banerjee’s “Didi ke Bolo” and as part of an attempt to reach out to people and spread the BJP’s message with an eye on Assembly elections. However, the cha-chakra at Jodhpur Park on Wednesday morning stood out as some of those who attended the session with Ghosh got coupons with tea bags. “I was not sure why a coupon with a number was given along with the tea bag... Later, I realised that the number was for a lucky draw. After the programme, the BJP president handed over LED bulbs to 10 people who were selected through the lucky draw,” said a middle-aged man who took part in the programme held near Jodhpur Park post office. The inclusion of lucky-draw in the cha-chakra offered Trinamul an opportunity to go after the BJP. “This initiative was a cheap gimmick. The cha-chakra has been a huge flop as people are not interested in it. As the polls are drawing closer, they are desperate to show that people are with them and that’s why lucky draws are held,” said Trinamul MP Sougata Roy. BJP’s South Calcutta district committee, which organised the tea session, said over 1,000 people had joined Ghosh for their morning cuppa and enjoyed the discussion. “We think there is nothing wrong in giving LED bulbs to lucky winners. The electricity tariff is very high in Bengal and the LED bulbs will help people cut monthly electricity bill,” said Shankar Shikdar, the president of the district unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
18-02-2021||North East||Four held for trying to 'malign' Himanta Biswa Sarma ||Police on Wednesday arrested four persons belonging to the news website Pratibimba Live, including editor-in-chief Taufiquddin Ahmad, for allegedly posting a “salacious” news item to “malign” senior Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma by sharing a photo of him with his minor daughter. They were arrested in connection with a case registered with Dispur police station on Tuesday under IPC Section 509 (insulting the modesty of a woman) and Section 14/21 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, Guwahati police commissioner Munna Prasad Gupta said. Besides Ahmad, Asif Iqbal Hussain, Nazrul Hussain and Nazmul Hoque have been arrested, he said. Additional DGP (law and order) G.P. Singh, tweeting about the arrest, said: “As a man in public life and father of two daughters, I take strong exception to people maligning the father-daughter bond. Society needs to wake up to such basal thought process amongst a section of people, perhaps for material gain.” Minister Sarma said his wife had lodged the case. “Since they have no issue against me, they are trying to somehow malign me. My daughter is a minor. It is really very unfortunate,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
18-02-2021||Opinion||A deeper churning ||Many of the forceful changes that the Bharatiya Janata Party is bringing about are the ones that should have come about as a result of democratic politics in India. For various reasons, they did not. Now the BJP-RSS are initiating these to build a majoritarian polity. But could they end up democratizing social hierarchies by default? The BJP is attempting to initiate change to gain popular political/electoral consent, but is also pulling it back so as to arrest social change. To begin with, the BJP initiated a renewed dialogue on the question of gender justice among Muslims. It has been raising the issue of the conflict between Shias and Sunnis to weaken a monolithic Muslim identity and create internal conflict to provide a possible justification for injustices perpetrated on the minority community. The question, however, is this. Would these debates and policy-changes offer new political and social spaces for issues that were difficult to be negotiated within the limits of a secular-progressive politics? What the debate on gender within the Muslim community has done is create a space for Muslim women to come out in big numbers to lead the protests against CAA/NRC. In doing so, Muslim women are not only resisting majoritarianism but also internal patriarchy. The BJP is caught in a bind; having initiated a dialogue on gender justice, it cannot delegitimize these protests. This has also created another problem for the BJP. Having opened up internal schisms and social differentiation among Muslims, it is becoming difficult for it to sustain the image of the conservative, aggressive Muslim resisting change. This may lead to some segments of the majority community to take a more reasonable and sympathetic view of Muslims and their everyday modes of engagement with democracy. This is something that secular politics could not deliver because it got mired in the debate of gender rights versus minority rights. Muslims lost out on both fronts in the process. The question of caste poses a similar dilemma for the BJP. By wedging open spaces internal to the Dalits and to the other backward classes, the BJP succeeded in expanding political representation to smaller sub-castes within larger conglomerates. The BJP is doing this politically for electoral success, which it is gaining, and socially  to divide castes internally so that caste identification is replaced with a more hegemonic Hindu identity. Could the smaller sub-castes emerge as aspirational social groups demanding greater opportunities for education and employment instead of settling down as silent constituents of a larger Hindu fold? This was a much-needed change that secular-democrats could not bring about on account of the pressure of the dominant castes within Dalits and the OBCs. The violence against Dalits and the cancellation of OBC reservations in the IITs prove that fear and intimidation are accompanying accommodation and representation. The BJP is pushing the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen in order to create the optics of a homogenized community that votes only on religious considerations. The AIMIM is equally apprehensive of internal assertion among the Muslims that can take them beyond its leadership to forge independent options. The Muslim-Dalit unity is a rhetoric that is helping to consolidate caste-Hindu-OBC unity as its obverse. But if cracks emerge in the unified Dalit-OBC identity due to the representation provided by the BJP, can it lead to newer kinds of political imagination instead of such consolidation getting limited to a unified Hindu identity? At another level, this is also about regional identities and federal structure. The BJP is undermining regional autonomy and disempowering regional leaders, be it KCR in Telangana or Mamata Banerjee in Bengal. Again, regional leaders are susceptible because of their own track record. The BJP is mobilizing this latent anger against local leaders who built their politics on regional and linguistic sentiments. As a result, the party is helping people, once again by default, to come out of their localized cultural imagination and think afresh. As of now, this is leading to greater support for the BJP as voting for the party is being linked to punishment of corrupt regional leaders. This sentiment is also allowing the BJP to undermine the federal structure by bringing into being weak states and a strong Centre. But the weakening of regional leaders may also have the potential for creating new political spaces for social activists, non-electoral and non-party movements. The farmers’ movement, which has distanced itself from political parties, could just be an initial signal of a larger change waiting in the wings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
18-02-2021||Opinion||Lusty chants||There are many controversies that have a habit of periodically resurfacing. One of the more interminable disputes from history that acquire contemporary political connotations is the one centred on Bankim Chandra Chatterjee’s iconic song, “Vande Mataram”. From the time of the movement against the Partition of Bengal in 1905, the cry of ‘Vande Mataram’ has epitomized nationalist and patriotic impulses in India. Nor did the resonance of Vande Mataram fizzle out with Independence in 1947. Even to this day, both the chant and the song distinguish different political traditions in India. Once the exclusive monopoly of the Congress and its numerous offshoots — such as the All India Trinamul Congress in West Bengal — Vande Mataram has increasingly come to be associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party and its larger ideological family. Although the Congress and the AITC in West Bengal still chant Vande Mataram in their street rallies, the former has seriously limited its use in the rest of the country, a reason why the old nationalist chant — along with ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’ — has come to be identified with the saffron parivar all over India. The truncated version of the song, acknowledged by the Constituent Assembly as the national song following a ruling by its chairman, Rajendra Prasad, on the final day of its deliberations, is still sung at the conclusion of each parliamentary session. However, the full version — including the contentious verses that were objected to by the pre-Independence Muslim League — still finds a place in important meetings of the BJP. The history of Vande Mataram indicates that the political symbolism associated with it has undergone a big shift over the decades. At the time of the Swadeshi movement and the subsequent emergence of militant revolutionary nationalism in the early 20th century, Vande Mataram became the acknowledged shorthand for the demand for freedom from British rule. It epitomized both defiance of authority and the clamour for self-rule. Although initially popularized by Aurobindo Ghose and the so-called ‘extremists’ in the Congress, Vande Mataram became the bridge that linked the different strands of Indian nationalism, including the one led by Mahatma Gandhi. Vande Mataram also became an expression of insolence directed at British officials and those who were perceived as loyalists of the raj. On January 18, 1906, to cite a stray but revealing example, the Inspector of Schools in the Dacca Division instructed the Headmaster of Kishoreganj High School to order pupils in the junior classes to write “It is foolish and rude to waste time in shouting Vande Mataram” 500 times as punishment. Presumably, they had welcomed the official with this subversive chant. As for the revolutionaries convicted of carrying out violent acts of resistance, many went to the gallows defiantly chanting Vande Mataram. It was the vocal opposition to Vande Mataram, particularly by the Muslim League from the late 1930s, that gave the chant another dimension. In spite of the attempts by a section of the Congress and the nationalist leadership to accommodate Muslim objections to its alleged idolatrous imagery, Vande Mataram retained its grass-roots appeal and, after 1940, also became synonymous with the opposition to the separatist politics of the proponents of Pakistan. This may explain why after Independence — and the Partition of India — there was a sustained effort by those who wanted to let bygones be bygones to ease Vande Mataram out of the contemporary nationalist imagination. Equally, it may also explain why the adherents of cultural nationalism with their belief in Hindutva as a binding force of Indian nationhood felt it necessary to insist on the continued relevance of Vande Mataram and the worship of Bharat Mata. The shifting political connotation of Vande Mataram is of great contemporary relevance. It suggests that the meanings of symbols are rarely static; they are constantly moulded and re-moulded to correspond to present day imperatives. This is also the story of ‘Jai Shri Ram’, a chant that is at the centre of a furious battle involving the supporters of the BJP and the AITC, particularly in the context of the forthcoming assembly election in West Bengal. There have been persistent suggestions by many Bengali intellectuals and the opponents of the BJP that Jai Shri Ram is alien to Bengali culture, that it is communally menacing and that it injects Hindu faith into the political arena. The West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, in a well-publicized outburst during the 2019 general election campaign that — unfortunately for her — was recorded on video, described a chant of Jai Shri Ram as a verbal abuse. She again expressed her deep irritation at the chant when a section of the crowd greeted her with Jai Shri Ram as she rose to speak at an event commemorating the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in Calcutta on January 23 this year. This, in turn, has triggered a fresh bout of controversy over Jai Shri Ram. At one level, Jai Shri Ram has its origins in a traditional ‘Siya Ram’ greeting widely prevalent in North India. However, the Jai Shri Ram chant heard today was a key feature of the Ayodhya movement that catapulted the BJP to the centre-stage of politics after 1988-89. Apart from the many kar seva programmes — including the one on December 6, 1992 that led to the demolition of the disputed 16th-century shrine in Ayodhya — Jai Shri Ram was a defining part of the BJP campaigns in 1991 and 1996. It was not so much in evidence in the 2014 general election that saw the BJP win a majority on its own, but it resurfaced in West Bengal — a state where the BJP was a relatively fringe player — in the 2019 general election. Since then, Jai Shri Ram has acquired a spectacular grass-roots popularity, much to the surprise of even the BJP leadership. Today, the BJP campaign for the state assembly election is defined by lusty chanting of Jai Shri Ram by its supporters. The AITC has responded with the argument that Jai Shri Ram is alien to Bengal’s traditions, a claim that bolsters its insistence that the BJP is a party of outsiders. That Jai Shri Ram was rarely heard in the political arena of West Bengal before 2019 is undeniable. It is also true that in an earlier phase the chant was associated with the Ayodhya movement. However, in the context of West Bengal, Jai Shri Ram has acquired a meaning of its own. In the political landscape of Bengal, Jai Shri Ram has become a symbol of both insolence and protest. The first stems from the profound irritation felt by Banerjee at the chant. With her every expression of displeasure, it has become a means to needle her and, at the same time, articulate political opposition to her. More important, it has become a convenient shorthand to express opposition to different facets of the AITC’s 10-year record in government — from corruption and political violence to the appeasement of minorities. In Bengal, Jai Shri Ram as an expression of protest has subsumed its other and earlier expression as a symbol of Hindu resurgence. It is always difficult to rationally explain why a song or even a chant captures the popular imagination. Why did Vande Mataram and a simple invocation to the motherland or even Bharat Mata inspire Indian nationalism and invoke fear in the British raj? Why did it acquire a different political meaning after Independence and yet persist in its popularity? We don’t know, but it did. This is also the tale of Jai Shri Ram that, in Bengal, has acquired a meaning quite detached from the yearning for the grand temple under construction in Ayodhya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
18-02-2021||Opinion||In violation: questionable arrest of Disha Ravi||Sir — The arrest of the 22-year-old climate activist, Disha Ravi, and the issuing of non-bailable warrants against two others in a case involving a Google ‘toolkit’ document shared by the climate campaigner, Greta Thunberg — it is alleged that Ravi is one of the editors of the toolkit — in support of the farmers’ protest is a matter of serious concern (“The hunt”, Feb 16). Ravi was picked up in a hush-hush manner from her home in Bangalore by the Delhi police and supposedly taken to the capital in violation of well laid out norms for arrests and federal principles. She has been booked on multiple charges including sedition and criminal conspiracy. The young activist is also being accused of collaborating with a pro-Khalistan outfit and conspiring to spread disaffection against the Indian State. The young woman’s arrest is yet another example of the government moving against anyone who opposes its policies. Several arbitrary arrests, as we can see in this case, have been made on unconvincing charges for which the police have scant evidence. Bail, which is supposed to be the norm, is frequently denied. This is usually followed up by a vilification campaign in the media where people opposing government policies are presented as threats to the integrity of the nation and labelled “anti-national”. The message to all citizens is brazen and clear; there is no democratic space for people to oppose the government and its actions. Freedom of speech no longer exists in New India. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The arrest of the young climate crusader, Disha Ravi, on multiple charges alleging her involvement in the farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm bills and the creation of a campaign toolkit shared by the Swedish environmental activist, Greta Thunberg, amounts to the muzzling of democratic voices. The reaction is scarily disproportionate. Globally, toolkits are used by activist groups to provide basic information about their cause and offer suggestions on social media tags and on-site protests. The government has decided to politically invest in a narrative of a foreign conspiracy against India, of which the “toolkit” is supposedly evidence. Where is the actual evidence to suggest such a conspiracy? At a time when India is facing criticism for growing illiberalism, is arresting young activists an ethical or prudent course of action? How does it sync with India’s constitutional guarantees on freedom of speech and political activity? The government should stop seeing activists as seditionists. N. Sadhasiva Reddy, Bangalore Sir — The arrest of Disha Ravi, a graduate of Mount Carmel college and one of the founders of Fridays for Future India, has come as a shock to many. Several lawyers are of the opinion that the arrest violated her legal and constitutional rights at every stage, terming it “ab-initio-illegal”, that is, illegal from the beginning. Ravi was not produced in a court in Bangalore where she was arrested, there was no transit remand and she was not provided legal counsel of her choice in Delhi, where she was remanded in police custody. The government would do well to remember that the Indian Penal Code does not mention the word “toolkit” anywhere. Moreover, creating or possessing any document with instructions and guidance for running a social media campaign is not a crime. Neither is criticizing the policies of the Indian government to a foreign audience. It is astonishing to see the Delhi police arrest Ravi on charges of sedition. The alleged lapses need to be looked into and remedied. The rule of law must be followed sincerely. The courts are expected to exercise checks on the misuse of powers by the executive. Yash Pal Ralhan, Jalandhar Sir — The questionable arrest and transportation of Disha Ravi to Delhi without following the due process of law is disconcerting. It was a relief to learn that the Delhi Commission for Women has taken suo motu cognizance of the matter. The commission has asked the Delhi police to provide a copy of the first information report, reasons for allegedly not producing her before a local court for transit as well as for not providing the accused with a lawyer of her choice when she was produced before the Patiala House court. The authorities must clarify the reasons for these missteps at the earliest. Ananya Subramanian,Bangalore Steady decline Sir — The political situation in Myanmar is taking a turn for the worse. The trial of the former state counsellor, Aung San Suu Kyi, and the deposed president, U Win Myint, began in secret with the defence attorney alleging that he was not made aware of the proceedings which ended in less than an hour. The democratically elected government of the National League for Democracy was ousted in a military coup earlier this month. Suu Kyi, along with several others, face charges that could land them in prison for a significant period of time. It is unlikely that any of the NLD leaders will get a fair trial. Rupa Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
18-02-2021||Opinion||Greener pastures: Biplab remark irks Nepal||A functionary of the Bharatiya Janata Party has said that the outfit, the most dominant political force in Indian politics at the moment, believes in winning hearts of the people in other countries too. Unfortunately, it seems that the BJP may lose a few friends in greener pastures. Kathmandu communicated to New Delhi its formal objection after the chief minister of Tripura, Biplab Kumar Deb, said that Amit Shah as party president had shared a rather expansive vision of imprinting the BJP’s political footprints in Nepal and Sri Lanka. Mr Shah, if he was serious, may have overestimated the BJP’s popularity a wee bit. India certainly seems to be enchanted with the BJP, but to hope to cast a spell on sovereign people conveys a seriously flawed understanding of political realities as well as diplomatic imperatives on the part of the modern-day Chanakya. India’s reach in the immediate neighbourhood is facing an unprecedented crisis. China’s expansionism is but one causal factor. There have been murmurs of concern among some neighbours with New Delhi allegedly preferring a more robust approach to collaborative outreach. Mr Deb’s statement — the spell in public office is yet to temper his propensity to make outrageous remarks — may add to these whispers. Kathmandu’s stern response and the terse reaction by the chairman of Sri Lanka’s Election Commission show that Mr Deb’s comment has not been brushed aside. More diplomatic heartburn cannot be ruled out given the precipitous decline in warmth in India’s ties with Nepal in particular. All of this could have been dismissed as a joke — albeit a rather poor joke — had the sangh parivar’s commitment to the principle of ‘Akhand Bharat’ not been public knowledge. Akhand Bharat, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s dream of a political entity that comprises Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and some other neighbours, is an embodiment of a template of expansionism that resonates in the statement being attributed to Mr Shah. This vision is patently in conflict with every acceptable tenet of Indian foreign policy. Respectable public figures making such frivolous remarks could be an embarrassing admission of their ignorance of India’s diplomatic positions. More damagingly, it exposes their indifference to the sensibilities of the people in nations that constitute the neighbourhood. Trampling over public sentiment, something that Mr Shah’s party excels in, may not be the best way to win friends, near or far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
18-02-2021||Opinion||Way ahead: inter-caste marriage||This is not the first time that the higher judiciary has protected an inter-caste union. Pronouncing on a case in which two teachers from different castes married in Delhi to escape the woman’s disapproving family in Karnataka, the Supreme Court reportedly said that educated youngsters were showing the way forward to reduce caste and community tensions through intermarriages. Since the case was one of inter-caste marriage, one of the two judges on the bench mentioned B.R. Ambedkar’s belief that intermarriage or the fusion of blood alone could create kinship and remove the sense of alienation caused by caste. This argument can obviously be extended to inter-faith marriages. It was hardly a desirable social exercise, felt the court, for parents to shun their children if they married outside their caste or community. Even if this were seen as a deviation from traditional social norms, it was high time that society accepted inter-caste and inter-community unions. Since young people often face threats from their families in such cases, the courts have to protect them. The Supreme Court reiterated in this context that marriage belonged to the core zone of privacy — earlier established as a part of fundamental rights — and that the right to choice was inextricable from dignity. Choice could not be surrendered to ‘class honour’ or ‘group thinking’. The Supreme Court has been consistent in its rulings on similar cases, and its remarks this time were particularly comprehensive. The reference to ‘class honour’ would bring up associations of honour killings and the way class and caste, including economic markers, are often indistinguishable in society’s perception. Especially important was the Supreme Court’s admonition to the police, which attempted to act threateningly towards the inter-caste couple. The court emphasized the need to counsel and train the police so that they are able to act correctly in cases of intermarriage where no law is being violated. Instead of trying to execute a disapproving family’s will, the police are supposed to protect the young people. Now this may be confusing for the police, which, in states such as Uttar Pradesh, are directed to do just the opposite by politicians in power. In general, too, the Supreme Court’s position on the issue of intermarriage is hearteningly different from the tendencies created by the political environment of the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Parks, cinema halls, coaching centres to reopen on March 1||Coaching centres, cinema halls with 50 percent capacity and public parks will reopen in Jharkhand from March 1 after remaining shut for about a year due to covid-19 pandemic. Also, all government offices will function with 100 percent capacity from next month onwards. State disaster management authority (SDMA) chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday has also paved the way for the reopening of schools for classes VII, IX and XI. All colleges, ITI institutes and the likes are to resume classes in accordance with the Covid-19 safety norms set by the governing bodies. Swimming pools will however continue to remain shut for the public, but it will be utilised for training players preparing for different tournaments. Sporting events have been allowed to have spectators up to 1000 people. Government has also upped the gathering limit for outdoor events to 1000 from existing cap of 300 while indoor cap for 200 has removed. For indoor events, 50 percent capacity of any specific location has been allowed. All fresh relaxations will come into force from March 1, notification released by the state IPRD department has informed. Anganwadi centres across the state however will be allowed to function from April 1 and before that women and child welfare department, which runs them, must ensure vaccination of the staffs running those them. On schools, the notification read, “Attendance is not made mandatory if parents don’t wish to send their kids. Before calling any student, schools are directed to take due consent from their parents.” Jharkhand Coaching Association secretary SD Mishra in a statement welcomed the decision. “We will follow all the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to prevent spread of any fresh infection,” he said. Cinema operators too were elated. A manager of Eylex cinemas said, “We had recently met with CM demanding reopening with 50% capacity citing the unbearable losses. We are happy that the government has finally agreed to our demands. Many may however not immediately resume as lots of maintenance works have to be undertaken to make halls public friendly again.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city ticket inspector dies under mysterious circumstances||The dead body of a 50-year-old deputy chief ticket inspector (CTI), identified as A. Karunakaran Rao, was found along the railway tracks near Rourkela station, about 280 kms away from Jamshedpur, early on Thursday morning. Rao, a resident of Kadma, was posted at Chakradharpur in the West Singhbhum district. Manish Pathak, senior divisional commercial manager of Chakradharpur, said Rao was killed under “mysterious circumstances”. “A. Karunakaran Rao who was deputy CTI posted at Chakradharpur was found lying dead along the railway track between Darposh and Sogra flag station, about 50 kms away from Rourkela station at about 4 am on Thursday, “ Pathak told The Telegraph Online. Initial investigation suggests that Rao might have fallen down from the Howrah-Pune Azad Express in which he was travelling, but he might have been victim to a foul play as well, Pathak said. He pointed out Rao had worked as a train ticket examiner (TTE) also and was an experienced person, and his falling down from a running train is near impossible. “The GRP, Rourkela is investigating the incident. The body has been sent to a morgue in Rourkela. An autopsy report may unfold the mystery,” Pathak said. However, sources in the railway said that Rao was pushed from the running train by some co-passengers. They further said that the deceased had attended his duty till Wednesday evening and had boarded the Azad Hind Express from Tatanagar at about 1.30 am on Thursday to reach Villashpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||State reports first confirmed death in Chamoli||Jharkhand reported its first confirmed death in the Chamoli tragedy after a body fished out from the muck during the search operations in Uttarakhand was identified as that of Vicky Bhagat. The 26-year-old migrant labourer from Lohardaga, was working at a National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) project in Chamoli. Vicky’s father, Karamdas Oraon identified his son’s body in Uttarakhand on Wednesday following which the mortal remains were handed over to the family, officials from the state control room in Ranchi said. An NTPC contractor conveyed the information to the state control room on Thursday and also shared evidence to confirm Jharkhand’s first casualty in the Uttrakhand disaster. “Evidence has been received in this matter,” a press communiqué from the state control room stated. Vicky was among the nine Lohardaga labourers who went missing from Chamoli when the glacial burst tragedy took place on February 7. At least four labourers from Ramgarh and one from Bokaro are also missing. So far, as many as 58 bodies have been found during the ongoing search operation in Chamoli. As per records with the state control room, all the 29 Jharkhand residents stranded in Chamoli since the disaster have returned home safely. Some of the labourers working at NTPC projects were provided financial aid by their respective contractors to return home. Meanwhile, kin of several other missing Jharkhand residents were camping in Uttarkhand to identify the bodies that are found during the search operations. The family members of all the 13 missing labourers from Jharkhand have also provided their DNA samples to the search teams in Uttarkhand to help identify the defaced and decomposed bodies. Ajay Singh, an NTPC contractor said that the migrant labourers earned around Rs.15,000 to Rs.20,000 per month for their work at the NTPC projects. Besides, they were also provided benefits of Provident Fund and other privileges. The NTPC, he said, has decided to pay a respectable compensation to the bereaved families and also offer contractual job to eligible family members of the labourers who lost their lives in the tragedy. The state control room, run by Phia Foundation on behalf of the state government, is providing mental health assistance to kin of missing labourers. “The family members of those missing from Chamoli are suffering from depression and panic attacks. A five-member team is providing psychological support to them,” said a member of the state control room.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Rail-roko: Protesters peacefully demonstrate at railway track||The four hour rail-roko stir called by farm unions under the banner of Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Samanway Samiti (JRKSS) demanding the rolling back of the three contentious farm laws went off peacefully on Thursday. There was no major impact on the movement of trains, except some minor delay in the running of a few local passenger trains. The stir was staged between 12pm-4pm, in sync with the nationwide call of farmers union, many of whom are still protesting at the Delhi borders for over three months now. Hours ahead of the stir to begin, heavy deployment of railway protection force (RPF) and other agencies was noticed at different junctions and rail tracks in and around Ranchi. At Tatisilwai station in Namkum, protesters briefly blocked the Howrah-Ranchi Shatabdi express train, however, passenger trains plying from Ranchi were on schedule, said officials at Ranchi station. In Koderma, Delhi- Howrah Poorva express was halted for 10 minutes due to the sit-in along the railway track. A senior official of Ranchi railway station unwilling to be named claimed that ‘all was well’. “The protest didn’t have much impact in Jharkhand. All trains were on time. Enough deployment of security forces ensured that the protesters didn’t hold up tracks for long during their symbolic protest,” he said. Sufal Mahato, convenor of JRKSS however termed the rail-roko as a grand success. Talking to The Telegraph Online, he said, “Protesters blocked tracks in numerous places such as Namkum, Nagri, Lohardaga, Jamshedpur, Bahragora, Chakulia, Gumani, Dumka, Gomia, Latehar among others across different railway divisions. Thousands of protestors comprising farmers, labourers, workers joined the movement against union government’s anti-farmer, anti-worker, anti-poor policies.” He added that based on the reports from different parts of the state, the agitation remained a grand success. “From here, the protests will also be intensified till the time farm laws are taken back,” said Mahto. Agreed Sushanto Mukherjee of Kisan Sangram Samiti, a Left back outfit, which was part of the protest stating that the farmers movement will only grow due to sustained indifference of the union government. “Wrong policies of the government are only forcing people across different strata of the society to wage war against it. Not just the farmers, every section of the society—common man, working class, labourers, and other marginalised are today staring at a bleak future. One by one, everyone is starting to raise voice against this government which they brought with thumping majority in 2019,” he said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi transporters decide on freight charge hike amid rising fuel prices||Concerned over the spiraling hike in petrol and diesel prices, Ranchi Goods Transporters Association (RGTA) after a meeting on Thursday decided to increase their freight charges from next week by about 30 per cent, which is likely to have ripple effects on the prices of essentials and other items. Sunil Chauhan, spokesperson of the association said that they were forced to go for increase in freight charges due to the uncontrolled rise in fuel prices in recent months. “Final rate charts will be issued soon but in-principle, we have decided to go for a 30 per cent hike from next Monday to sustain businesses. The entire 2020 remained damp squib for the business due to lockdown related restrictions. Even though essentials were kept out of the ambit of lockdown, with other markets closed for several months, good transportation has been badly hit. The ongoing fuel hikes are only making matters worse for us,” he said. The Ranchi Goods Transporters Association represents over 3,000 transporting firms that are operational in Ranchi, Lohardaga, Ramgarh, Hazaribag and adjoining districts. Currently, petrol and diesel prices in Ranchi are Rs 87.55 and Rs 84.87 respectively per litre. Of the total rate, the state government imposes Rs 17 VAT on petrol and Rs 12 on diesel. President of the outfit, S B Singh said that the rate with which fuel prices are going up, they fear that many transporters with low capital will have to ground their fleet of vehicles. He urged the state government to consider extending relief. “In some places, petrol has already touched Rs 100 while diesel too may follow suit soon. In Jharkhand, prices of petrol and diesel are inching close to Rs 90. It is high time that the state government chips in to provide some relief to lessen the burden,” Singh appealed. Bus operators too are equally concerned for the tentative hike in the fares for long distance routes. “Fare hike is imminent sooner or later unless prices come down at satisfactory levels. After the covid-19 lockdown, we didn’t hike fares to make up for the losses despite running on half the capacity in view of Covid safety guidelines from the state government and in the interest of the public. However, we can’t do it for a long time at our own losses,” remarked a bus operator between the Ranchi-Tata route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Coming soon: information kiosk at Dalmia wildlife sanctuary||With the information kiosk coming up in the next couple of months, tourists visiting the Dalma wildlife sanctuary can expect a better informed excursion. The centre will be set up at Makulakocha, the main entrance of the sanctuary, which is only 30 kilometres away from Jamshedpur. Funds for the Rs 40 lakh project have already been sanctioned and preliminary work has already been initiated at the jumbo abode. This kiosk is part of the eco development project. Talking about the information centre, Dalma divisional forest officer (DFO) Abhishek Kumar mentioned about it being a wooden structure with a resting hall for the visitors. “Entry tickets will also be sold from the kiosk. The hall will be furnished and will also have toilets. So, the visitors while buying the tickets can also take some rest,” he added. He mentioned that the kiosk will be complimenting the museum. “Visitors can also visit the museum which will be refurbished once the funds are made available. The museum is adjacent to the kiosk,” headded. “Brochures having details of flora and fauna, animals, water bodies etc found within the sanctuary would be made available to the tourists. The idea is to make information available for visitors, coming from Bengal, mostly Calcutta, Odisha, Chhatisgarh and Bihar,” said a forester on condition of anonymity. An official at the Dalma range office in Mango said that wooden planks would be used to build the entire structure. “It will be a very beautiful facility. We have the model of the kiosk with us,” he added. With air-conditioned and non-AC cottages at Makulakocha and quarters at Pinderbera the sanctuary has a lot on offer and hence witness a healthy footfall too, during the winters. However, since the pandemic broke, the sanctuary has closed its doors for the visitors. Officials are hopeful about its re-opening. “The government has to take a call in this regard,” the DFO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Two villagers killed by wild elephants in 24 hours in Hazaribagh||A herd of 24 wild elephants killed an elderly man and a woman in two separate incidents in the Daru and Tatijharia blocks of Hazaribagh, over Wednesday night and Thursday afternoon. The first incident took place when the herd killed a 70-year-old Mahavir Saw in Chirwa village when he went out to see if his crops were damaged by the elephants. According to villagers, the herd had created a reign of terror among them over the last four days, damaging houses and crops. On Wednesday, it ventured into Chirwa when Saw went to check on his crops, unaware about the elephants’ presence. His body was later sent to the Hazaribagh Medical College for postmortem. According to foresters, the herd moved to neighbouring Tatijharia block after killing Saw. “We are keeping eyes on their movement and working on the plan to push them deep into the forest,” they said. However, on Thursday afternoon, a woman Sarswati Mosomat was killed in Amnari Karmatand forest by the same herd. Mosomat had rushed to the spot near her field where the elephants were roaming to take ‘blessings’ from them, considering the animals as avatars of Lord Ganesha. Locals said she rushed to the field despite warnings, and as she neared the herd, one of the elephants caught her with its trunk, crushing her to death. A team of foresters reached Saw’s village following his death and provided Rs.50,000 cash to the family. Daru BDO  Ramratan Burnwal said his family will get additional  Rs.3.5lakh as per provisions. Saw's three sons--two in Mumbai and one in Dubai have been informed about his death. Sadar MLA of BJP, Manish Jaiswal expressed his grief over both the incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Street vendors protest anti-encroachment drive of Dhanbad civic body||Over a hundred street vendors from across the district held a mass demonstration at the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) headquarters on Wednesday against various issues, including their eviction and the civic unit’s move to charge exorbitant fees from them for garbage disposal. The protesters, who congregated at Luby Circular Road, said they had been evicted without any arrangement for rehabilitation as no vending zones were constructed as per the provisions of National Urban Livelihood. “Many of the evicted street vendors are on the verge of starvation, losing their source of income. They are also facing the burden of repayment of loans provided to them under the PM Street Vendor Atma Nirbhar Nidhi Yojna,” Shyamal Mazumder, leader of the protest told The Telegraph Online. Umesh Prasad, one of the agitators said they have been facing constant threats of eviction. “We are ready to move but no vending zone has been constructed in the district despite tall claims made by the DMC in this regard,” Prasad, who supports a family of seven, said. He also protested the civic body’s move of levying an exorbitant user charge of Rs 200 per month in lieu of garbage disposal. “We had requested the Municipal Commissioner, Satyendra Kumar during the Town Vending Committee (TVC) meet to reduce the user charges to Rs 30 per month but despite assurance no action has been taken,” Prasad said. He also raised objections over the delay in providing smart cards to the vendors, alleging that their previous identity cards were full of errors. Dilip Chaurasia, a betel shop owner said he has been spending sleepless nights of late fearing the loss of a source of livelihood due to the anti-encroachment drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI HR meet to focus on aftermath of Covid-19, power of digitisation||XLRI’s Students Association for Promotion of Personnel Management, Human Resources, and Industrial Relations (SAPPHIRE), in a bid to celebrate the institute’s long-standing culture of integrity and professionalism, is set to hold the 10th National HR Conference virtually on February 20 and 21. The conference will provide a platform for corporate leaders from various industries, academicians and legal practitioners to discuss and debate on the various challenges in India's changing HR landscape, on the lines of this year's theme " Driving Agility in the Evolving Post-Covid World." On its inaugural day, professor Wayne Brockbank from Ross Business School, Michigan, will deliver an hour-long special address on the topic “The Way Forward For The Industries In the Aftermath of Covid-19”. Two panel discussions have been scheduled as a part of the two-day event . The first panel discussion will be on “Rethinking Employer Branding and Employee Experience in Dispersed Workplace and People Analytics”,  while the second one will focus on “The Power of Digital in Driving Organisational Competitiveness”. The deliberations in two-panel discussions will be participated  by several  HR experts including R.P. Srivastava, director (Personnel & IR) Coal India;  Ira Gupa, head HR, Microsoft India; Rohit Thakur, chief human resources officer, Paytm;  Prakash Singh, chief- Capability Development, Tata Steel; Amit Vaish, director-HR, Barclays;  Krish Shankar, Group Head (HR), Infosys and  Prriti Narain, Market HR Leader, Google India. On the first day the  panel discussion will be followed by a workshop by Sidharath Tuli, CEO and founder of People Sculptors and on the second and concluding  day of the conference on February 21 there will be a guest address by Anuradha Razdan, executive director-HR, Hindustan Unilever Limited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Opportunity for East Singhbhum cagers to slot into district team||East Singhbhum Basketball Association (ESBA) wants its cagers to put up a solid show in next month’s 2nd State Games in Ranchi. After conducting a coaching camp under experienced coaches last month, the district association has switched gears to organise a senior district basketball championship (men and women) at the Dhatkidih Community Centre courts between February 19 and 21. “We are keen to put up an impression at the State Games. Our women’s team had finished runners-up in the inaugural State Games. However, our men’s outfit did not participate since we could not qualify for the event. This time we are expecting a solid show from both sides,” said ESBA general secretary  Pradip Mukerjee. According to him, the tournament is being organised under the aegis of Jharkhand Basketball Association (JBA). “ Cagers from clubs and institutions, mostly from Jamshedpur, will be part of the championship which will be conducted under the watchful eyes of selectors and coaches,” the ESBA general secretary secretary said and added they were looking forward to a hassle-free tournament. There is no dearth of talented hoopsters in the district who would leave no stone unturned to give their best and get the nod in the district squad for State Games. “Performance of cagers during the three-day district championship will be the yardstick for their selection in the district team. So we can see some exciting games. The participating players from clubs and institutions will be giving their best,” an office bearer of ESBA said. The district association, along with JBA, is on the lookout for tall cagers. “Tall players stand a chance to excel in basketball. But sadly, there are not many tall cagers in the district. We are on the look out. We will bring them under our training umbrella if we find atleast one or two in the taller category,” the district association office bearer added. In fact, the JBA is looking for tall cagers across different districts of Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Search on for permanent protest site in Ranchi||The Ranchi district administration is looking for a permanent protest venue within the periphery of the capital city, on the lines of Ramleela Ground in New Delhi, to ensure that protestors can raise their concerns and be heard without disrupting traffic or causing inconvenience to people, officials said on Thursday. A special team of officials has been constituted to search for this protest site, which would ideally be a place from where th protestors can be visible to ministers and authorities, but not be able to disrupt daily activities in the city, Ranchi SPSaurav said. “We have shortlisted a few locations. One is close to the new Vidhan Sabha building and the other one is near Dhurwa Chowk,” said Saurav, a part of the team that is conducting the search. “We are trying to finalise a site before the upcoming Vidhan Sabha session. A report will be submitted to the Ranchi Deputy Commissioner and he will take the final call,” added the city SP. As of now, there is no fixed venue for protests in Ranchi. Protestors here usually stage demonstrations either close to the Raj Bhawan or outside the old Vidhan Sabha building. Some protest rallies are also held at Morabadi at the heart of the city. However, these protests often lead to traffic congestion, disrupting normal life in the state capital. Another member of the team said that protests played an important role in any democratic structure and people have the right to protest. However, it was the administration’s responsibility to ensure that the protests are held at a strategic location so that the demands of the protestors are heard but people do not face any difficulty, he added. The month-long budget session in Jharkhand is set to begin on February 26, and several groups have already announced plans to stage protests during the time. While the 65,000-odd para teachers have threatened to demonstrate during the session demanding regularization of services, some tribal outfits are also likely to stage protests demanding the inclusion of a separate Sarna code in the upcoming Census, sources said. In 2017, the Delhi administration had also changed the official protest site from historic Jantar Mantar to Ramleela Ground at Ajmeri Gate – away from Lutyens Delhi – following a National Green Tribunal (NGT) directive which stated that protests at Jantar Mantar caused sound pollution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand achieves 64 per cent of its vaccination target, over 2.5 lakh inoculated||More than 2.5 lakh people were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand by the end of Wednesday, helping the state achieve 64 per cent of its vaccination target since the beginning of the immunization programme on January 16, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. On Wednesday, as many as 8340 people – only 35 per cent of the total registered beneficiaries – were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand, while 2148 of the registered 3029 beneficiaries were administered the second dose of the vaccine, the NHM stated in a report. The state has so far administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine to almost 30,000 people in Ranchi and over 22,000 in Dhanbad. Ranchi, however, has achieved only 50 per cent of its vaccination target, which is the lowest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, highlighted the NHM report. At least three districts – Bokaro, Palamu and Hazaribag – achieved 100 per cent target in administering the second dose of vaccine, while Ranchi achieved 94 per cent target by administering the second jab to 103 people. As many as 80 people were inoculated for the second time in Bokaro, 144 people in Palamu and 118 in Hazaribag. Meanwhile, the first Covishield jab was administered to 466 people in Ranchi, which achieved 30 per cent of its target. As many as 400 people were also inoculated for the first time in East Singhbhum on the day. However, the district achieved only 23 per cent of its vaccination target. Two cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI), both from Bokaro, were reported on Wednesday, taking the total AEFI cases in the state to 268. However, no severe symptoms were found in any of the beneficiaries that complained of adverse events, doctors said. Meanwhile, fresh cases of Covid-19 infection outnumbered recoveries on the day, taking the total count of active cases to 466, a separate bulletin released by NHM stated. The state reported 45 cases against 39 recoveries on the day. However, the number of patients dropped in Ranchi as it reported 28 Covid recoveries against 23 cases, the bulletin further stated. As per the bulletin, Godda reported one case of Covid-19 infection on the day, losing its Covid-free tag. However, Giridih and Pakur remained Covid free despite around 1000 people tested in the two districts on the day. So far, as many as 1,19,439 people have been infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand and 98.70 per cent of them have recovered. At the current pace, it would take more than 2,484 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. No fresh Covid casualties were reported in the state on Wednesday, highlights government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Flak for Athawale’s statement inviting JMM to join NDA||Members of the ruling UPA in Jharkhand have criticised Union minister Ramdas Athawale’s statement inviting the JMM to join the BJP-led NDA to ensure the development of the state. Athawale, the Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment, had come to Ranchi on Tuesday to meet the relatives of the deceased national general secretary of his Republican Party of India, K.R. Nayak, at Ramgarh. While addressing the media in Ranchi on Tuesday, Athawale said: “I appeal to Shibu Soren (JMM national president) and Hemant Soren (chief minister and JMM working president) to join the NDA. Then there will be a BJP and JMM government in the state. The JMM can also get access to power in Delhi, which can be used for the state’s development. They must think about it.” “The statement by a cabinet minister in the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre shows the desperation of the party to form a government in the state. It seems they are not able to digest the smooth functioning of the Jharkhand government. We know that no minister speaks about anything without the permission of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. We can assume that this statement also has their support,” said Jharkhand Congress executive committee member and party spokesperson Kishore Sahdeo. The Congress leader brushed aside Athawale’s statement as “childish”. “Ramdas Athawaleji should at least maintain the dignity of a MP and a minister and not utter such childish and baseless statements. We had earlier heard such statements made by BJP MP and party’s state president Dipak Prakash during the Assembly bypolls which they lost badly,” added Sahdeo. JMM central general secretary and party spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya called Athawale a “political clown”. “The minister is nothing but a political clown without any ideology who has himself said in Parliament to support that party which is in power. One should not take such statements seriously as the UPA alliance in Jharkhand is rock solid and performing well as can be seen in the last year’s performance despite the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Bhattacharya. The JMM was a partner in the NDA government in the state between 2009 and 2013, when chief minister Soren served as the deputy chief minister. The alliance broke in January 2013 leading to the fall of the Arjun Munda government. In March last year, Athawale was in the news when a video in which he along with Chinese consul-general in Mumbai Tang Guocai and Buddhist monks were seen chanting “Go corona, go corona” at a prayer meet surfaced on social media. The video was reportedly shot at Gateway of India on February 20, 2020, during a prayer session to stop the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Lethal blast makes CRPF sanitise routes||A day after a Special Action Team jawan of Jharkhand police died in a blast in rebel-hit Lohardaga district, the director-general of police said trained personnel from the Central Reserve Police Force will be sanitising frequently used routes and nearby areas for pressure-sensitive improvised explosive devices before a combing operation. The jawan identified as Duleshwar Prass, 29, died after a pressure-triggered landmine exploded at around 10am in Dundru forest area under Serendag police station of Lohardaga district, around 75km from state capital Ranchi, on Tuesday. Jharkhand DGP Niraj Sinha on Wednesday termed the incident as a “cowardly act” by the rebels. “It is a cowardly act on the part of the rebels to plant pressure IEDs along the roads on hilly terrains as it could not only lead to casualties for forces but also civilians. It shows their desperation level. We have trained CRPF bomb disposal experts whose services will be used to sanitise the roads and the nearby areas frequently used by forces and civilians on hilly terrains along with the latest bomb disposal equipment before movement for combing operations to avoid casualty,” said Sinha. The DGP had on Tuesday rejected claims that standard operating procedures were not followed during the combing operation which led to the casualty. “It was a joint operation and all the SOPs were being followed. The bomb disposal squad was moving ahead of the team to defuse any such bombs,” he had said. The DGP along with additional director-general (operations) Navin Kumar and inspector-general (operations) Saket Kumar on Wednesday visited the Maoist-hit Serendag police station area and the site of the blast. For nearly two hours, the senior police officials and Lohardaga superintendent of police Priyanka Meena discussed the strategy to flush out rebels and plug their escape routes through bordering districts during future combing operations. The DGP further said that Tuesday’s incident will only motivate the forces to strike against the Maoists with more earnestness. “We are going to organise combing operations with more aggression and intent after the incident. We want them to surrender or perish and a befitting reply would be given to the Maoists soon. We have discussed with the police forces of neighbouring Gumla district too and a joint strategy has been made for combing operations against rebels with CRPF units,” added Sinha. The Special Action Team was set up in 2013 in Jharkhand to counter Maoist insurgency. Prass was part of a joint combing operation by Gumla and Lohardaga police and CRPF’s 158 Battalion. While conducting the search operation, a pressure-triggered landmine exploded on the side of the road causing grievous injuries to both his legs. Prass was airlifted to a private hospital in Ranchi where he died during treatment. His body was laid to rest at his native village in Dumri area of Gumla district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
