19-02-2021||Calcutta||BJP youth-wing leader arrested with 100 grams of cocaine in Calcutta||BJP's youth-wing leader Pamela Goswami was arrested with cocaine from south Kolkata's upscale New Alipore area on Friday, police said. Goswami, the state secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), was along with a friend, identified as Prabir Kumar Dey, in her car when both of them were nabbed, they said. Around 100 gm of cocaine was allegedly found in her handbag, and other parts of the car, police said. Acting on a tip-off, sleuths of the New Alipore police station made the arrests when she was parking the car, an officer said. "She was involved in drug trafficking for quite some time. Today, we got information that she along with her supplier Prabir was reaching the spot to hand over the drugs to the purchasers," the officer said. A team of policemen in eight vehicles surrounded Goswami's car and made the arrests, he said. "An investigation into the matter is underway. We are trying to find out whether she is involved in any drug racket," the officer said. The BJP said that it suspects the police's role in the drugs recovery but if Goswami was wrong, the law should take its course. "We had earlier seen that the state police had named several BJP activists in arms cases. I do not have much information about this incident that is why I will not be able to say more. Pamela is a young girl. If she has done anything wrong, the law will take its course," BJP MP Locket Chatterjee said. State BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, "I do not know whether this is planted. The model code of conduct is yet to come into effect and the police are still under the state government. So, anything can be possible. We need to see whether the packets were planted inside her vehicle and her bag. I am not sure." State minister and senior Trinamul Congress leader Chandrima Bhattacharya slammed the BJP and said it was a shame that even women from the party were found involved in such illegal acts. "Earlier, we saw the involvement of several BJP leaders in child trafficking, and now drug trafficking. Every time they cannot cry conspiracy. It's a shame that their (BJP's) women leaders are involved in such illegal activities," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Amitendranath Tagore no more||Eminent Sinologist Amitendranath Tagore passed away on February 7 at his house facing DL Park. He died in his sleep of cardio respiratory failure. Son of Abanindranath’s eldest son Alokendra, Amitendranath was 98 and is survived by his wife Arundhuti and son Ayanendranath. “He complained of a discomfort in his chest and asked for a sip of water around 2.30am. I was to take him to a doctor in the morning,” Bholanath Das, his Man Friday for 32 years, told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Amitendranath had spent 19 years — 1966 to 1985 — teaching Chinese at the Oakland University in Michigan. On his return in 1987, he had settled in CL Block in a rented house with his parents while the DL Block house was being built. He was among the earliest students of Cheena Bhavana, Visva Bharati. He joined there after completing B.Com, when his grandfather Abanindranath was the university chancellor. He would get selected by the government for a study trip to China in 1947 and completed his MA at the National Peking University. He later taught at Cheena Bhavana and also at the National Defence Academy before a Fulbright fellowship took him to the United States in 1961. He was a keen golfer and had penned an autobiography called Amit Katha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Book fair in New Town ||New Town Book Fair will be held at the fairgrounds between February 26 and March 7. This will be the seventh edition of the fair and will have around 50 stalls including those by Ananda Publishers, Dev Sahitya Kutir and Penguin. The fair will be inaugurated by Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation and other eminent guests will include poets Joy Goswami, Subodh Sarkar and theatre personality Debsankar Halder. The highlight of the fair is the fifth national poetry festival, to be held on February 28 and March 1, 4pm onwards. A number of poets will congregate, recite and take part in a discussion on universality in contemporary Bengali poetry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Memorial meet for fair body secy||Kakali Mitra, who had been secretary of the New Town Book Fair for the last four years, passed away on February 3. She was 78 and succumbed to tuberculosis. Mitra was a retired college professor, in the field of nutrition. She was not married and lived by herself in Mahisgot, between New Town and Salt Lake. The book fair committee held a memorial service for Mitra at Swapno Bhor recently. “The last time I met Kakali di it was at this very room, at our AGM,” said Urmila Sen, president of the committee, who was anchoring the memorial service. “She seemed uncharacteristically restless and out of breath. Little did we know she was already sick from within. But she was happy to know that our book fair would be taking place after all this year.” Other members of the committee recalled how Mitra, cap on head, would walk all over the fairgrounds supervising affairs till the gates shut at night. Musical tributes poured in from the likes of Debasri Mukhopadhyay and Saikat Ali Molla. Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), conceded that he did not know Mitra too well but that she was always conspicuous by her activity. “Here at Swapno Bhor we talk of a second innings in life and this lady was a living example of that. My request to the fair committee is to name something — a stage or stall perhaps — after her.” Anup Matilal, curator of Rabindra Tirtha and Nazrul Tirtha, and Prasanta Majhi, the in-charge of Swapno Bhor, paid tributes too. Some spoke of the books she wrote, such as a book on nutrition called Panchatantrey Sustho Sundor Jiboner Chabikathi. One of her publishers, Gourdas Saha, of Parul Prakashani, spoke. “Once bordi had told me that she wanted no one to mourn her demise, whenever it happened. Rather, she had hoped it would inspire us to work harder,” said Sanjay Jana, assistant secretary of the committee. “It is with her blessings that we are getting positive response from publishers for the upcoming fair despite the pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Sulekha Banerjee’s roses will make you want to celebrate V-Day||One look at the huge red Roses in Sulekha Banerjee’s garden will make you want to celebrate Valentine’s Day all over again. But she also has a large collection of Petunias, that are so abundant that one can barely see the leaves underneath. Even her Bougainvillea and Hibiscus nearly cover the walls they grow in front of. My interest in gardening developed when my husband and I moved to Rourkella and then to Kulti. When we came to Salt Lake in 1997, I brought along my plants but very few survived. Heartbroken, I asked my husband to get me some more from Sealdah nurseries but little did I know how many he would order! An entire pushcart full of plants trailed my husband’s car! I was taken aback but also delighted. Thereafter almost all the plants growing in our house are but descendants of that first batch. I am most fond of flowers so Roses, Chrysanthemums, Petunias, Jasmines, Hibiscus, Bougainvillea are always around me. Some of the Roses stay in bloom for up to 15 days and some are light pink at the centre and deep pink on the edges. Some even bear red and pink flowers together. Passers-by often stop to admire the flowers at the gate and couples have sought permission to pluck a Rose or two. But I don’t have the heart to tear them off. Once when we returned from a trip to my son’s place in Mumbai, I found nine plants missing from my front yard. I was furious and upon enquiry learnt that a chap living in a nearby garage had stolen them. I went over and threatened to have him arrested. He returned the plants but not all of them survived the onslaught. We have some fruits and vegetables too. The Aata tree bears delicious fruits, the Lime tree bears more fruits than I can distribute among friends and family... Only the Litchi tree, gifted by my son from Mumbai, is yet to mature. If I had my way I would have flooded our driveway with plants but my husband grumbles for space to take the car in and out of the garage. So we have compromised. It’s not just plants that I love but the entire process of gardening, warts and all. A few weeks ago, when it had got extremely cold my family members tried to coax me into hiring someone to water the plants but I refused. What would be my contribution to the garden if I outsource the gardening?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Blooms on sale from roadside bed||This Valentine’s Day, there were Chrysanthemums on sale which were grown not in a far-away nursery but on the divider of a road, overlooking which stands Biswa Bangla Gate. And as long as there are flowers in bloom, they would continue to be sold right from the spot. “People loved the chance to choose the flowers themselves directly from the garden that they want the bunch they buy to be made with. So we plan to continue with the sales counter by the divider till perhaps Dol,” said the chairman cum managing director of the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) Debashis Sen. Hidco had harvested a two-acre stretch of the median divider with Chrysanthemum and Tuberose plants. The Chrysanthemum bed was lit up all December with LED lamps at a height of 2.5ft. Those passing the road going from the Gate towards Balaka Abasan had seen the lights aglow from 6pm to 10pm to boost their growth in the winter weeks when sunlight hours are inadequate. The Chrysanthemums were being sold in bunches of a dozen from several counters, other than by the flower bed, on Sunday — at New Town Bus stand, all the gates along the Major Arterial Road of Eco Park, mother’s Wax museum and Coffee House New Town. “We sold 300 bunches, worth Rs 6,000 on Sunday,” said Sen. But a tour of the sales counters by The Telegraph Salt Lake revealed that Chrysanthemums lagged far behind in sales compared to the bloom of choice for the day of love, the Red rose. Roses rule When 30-year-old Rajnish Roy, a resident of Baguiati, walked in quickly through Gate 1 of Eco Park on Sunday afternoon, he was carrying a cake. After buying the tickets, he suddenly noticed flowers being sold near the counter. He stepped up to ask about the prices. The choices were Chrysanthemums (Rs 20 for a small bunch or Rs 40 for a big bunch) or red Roses at Rs 30 each. But who is bothered about prices on a day when all that matters is a gesture. He opted for the Rose. “Today is Valentine’s Day. My wife is waiting inside and I have got cake that we can cut together. It’s almost sunset and I haven’t got her a gift. If I don’t buy roses, there is every chance she will not cook dinner tonight. So red Rose it must be!” he said, while paying before quickly heading in. The Chrysanthemums were being sold outside Eco Park at Gate 1, 2, 3 and 4. Not all of them sold Roses as well. Prashanta Dhar, who was in charge of the flower counter at Gate 1, said: “I have sold six bunches of Chrysanthemums since morning. People are asking for Roses. Most of them went back because we didn’t have any.” The stall at the Biswa Bangla Gate sold merely eight bunches through the day till 4pm. It did not stock any Roses either. Swapan Bagchi was selling flowers on a table outside Gate 3, beside Misti Hub. “I don’t sell flowers every day, but only on special occasions like Valentine’s Day, New Year and Christmas. On other days, I sells toys. Today I have sold Roses for Rs 50 each. All the customers come for Roses and I have them in all colours right from red to white, yellow, peach, etc. I source my flowers from Howrah and on such occasions a bunch costs Rs 450 each. Red Roses are the most expensive,” he pointed out.  Three steps further up, the Chrysanthemums were being sold by a uniformed security guard of the park. Here too sales were dismal, in single figure. Sneha Sikdar, a third year student of The Bhowanipore Gujarati Education Society and a resident of BA Block in Salt Lake, was entering Eco Park with two of her friends. They stopped to buy yellow roses at Gate 1 which she said stood for friendship. “I am here to celebrate Valentine’s Day with my friends. But Chrysanthemums are not suitable for this day. The idea is novel but not apt,” she said, when the cheaper Chrysanthemums were pointed to her. As the day wore itself out, the excited chatter died down in the park and selfie cameras flashed from unexpected corners in the bushes for the last souvenir of the afternoon. Most couples retreated into Misti Hub and Cafe Ekante for a bite before heading home walking past the unsold bunches of Chrysanthemums. “We allow salesmen to sell Roses privately outside the gates against a token fee for occupying the space. Whether Chrysanthemums would have sold better if the Roses were not available on sale is a hypothetical question but we had no intention to deprive visitors of a bit of fun and the sellers a quick buck. What is important is our Roses inside the park were unharmed,” said Sen. Indeed, the guards posted near the rose garden inside Eco Park looked relieved as dusk set in. In 2019, Valentine’s Day had proved to be quite a nightmare for them. The flower beds had been vandalised as most of the roses were mercilessly plucked by the visitors. “They were running away before we could spot them from afar and catch hold of them,” a guard recalled. This year, however, the authorities had stationed guards all along the garden so that no one could touch the roses. The outlying branches were netted in. The guards patrolled the Rose garden on all sides and kept strict vigil even on those trying to take photographs. The efforts bore fruit and the Rose garden remained unharmed till sundown. Would Hidco consider selling the Roses from its garden next year on Valentine’s Day? “We realise Roses would have worked better. That’s a learning. We will work on it,” Sen replied.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Library in coffee house||Cosy corner: Residents of Action Area IIA now have the benefit of a mini library close to home. The New Town Library at Nazrul Tirtha has started borrowing facilities at its extension counter at Coffee House New Town. The counter, open six days a week from noon to 7pm like the Coffee House, has about a catalogue of 550 books in English and Bengali which will be refreshed from time to time from the main library. “One has to become a member of the library to take books home. Individual membership costs Rs 1,000 annually while family membership fee is Rs 2,000. While an individual can borrow two books at a time, a family membership entitles one to four books and entry for four members to the main library,” said an official. The library at Nazrul Tirtha houses about 14,000 books and DVDs. Both are closed on Mondays.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Stew to steak, icons’ picks served at museum café||Some of the icons whose statues are housed at Mother’s Wax Museum have lent their names to dishes being served at a newly opened cafe on the ground floor. “Just as we have gathered the best sweets of Calcutta at Misti Hub, we are serving streetfood which are famous across Calcutta here. Be it Chicken Stew from Dacres Lane or Chilli Chicken of Tangra, we have tried to bring it all. Those who come to Eco Park do so after lunch and have dinner after going home. What they needed was a place to have snacks. This cafe will serve that purpose,” said Hidco chairman cum managing director Debashis Sen. The menu has a section called Icons’ Favourites where eight dishes have been highlighted, with names linked to personalities from Calcutta and abroad. The humble piyazi is described as a Netaji favourite and costs Rs 79 a plate. Bhuna Khichudi, at Rs 169, is linked to Sheikh Mujibur Rahaman of Bangladesh in what happens to be Bangabandhu’s centenary year. An Argentine favourite, Steak with Chimichurri Sauce, at Rs 229, is the tribute to Maradona, who has visited the city twice and stayed in a New Town hotel in 2017. The Chicken Stew, which is served with Toasted Quarter Bread for Rs 169, is linked to Sourav Ganguly. An English staple, Fish and Chips, costing Rs 159, is named after the British sitcom character Mr Bean, immortalised by Rowan Atkinson. Sweet teeth are attributed to Mother Teresa, after whom the wax museum is named, and Michael Jackson, with Date Walnut Kheer (at Rs 89) and Monte Carlo (at Rs 119) respectively connected to them. Though MWM Cafe opened on February 2, an informal opening programme was held on January 31, where live music was organised by the platform Gaanpeon. A young trio of Samuel Halder, Ankita Mitra and Suman Ruj presented refreshing songs, ranging from Anjan Dutt hits like Mary Ann to the classic Hoyto tomari jonyo to Bollywood numbers like Main koi aisa geet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Murshidabad blast a plot to kill minister: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday morning visited SSKM Hospital where the minister of state for labour, Jakir Hossain, and Trinamul supporters injured in an explosion in Murshidabad the night before were admitted and alleged a conspiracy to assassinate her cabinet colleague before the Assembly polls. Calling it a “grisly, horrific” incident, the chief minister said she had deployed multiple state-run agencies to probe the matter, which she accused the Centre of taking lightly. A special investigation team headed by the additional director-general (CID) and comprising officers from the state special task force, intelligence branch, counter insurgency force and local police has been formed to probe the attack. “I spoke to him (Hossain) just before he was taken to the operating theatre, over the phone…. His surgery isn’t over yet. I met his wife. Another 10 people who were injured, three-four of them grievously injured. Four more such patients coming here,” Mamata said at SSKM. Besides Hossain, at least 15 people injured in the blast at Nimtita station have been admitted to the trauma care unit of SSKM. Doctors said the condition of two — Shamiul Seikh and Mashem Ali — was extremely critical. On Thursday afternoon, a team of surgeons operated on a part of the minister’s heel bone before moving on to repair a few blood veins that were severed near the heel. A preliminary inquiry suggested an improvised explosive device had been used. “The matter is grave, it is grisly, horrific…. One of the boys with him, his nephew, told me… it was a remotely triggered blast…. Of course, it was deliberate,” Mamata said. “It took place at a railway station. There were purportedly no railway police personnel there at the time. The place was also dark…. Inside a railway station, the law and order is the Centre’s responsibility, not the state’s,” she said. At a party event later in the day, Mamata said she believed Murshidabad would be in the first phase of the Assembly polls, which is why “they” tried to have Hossain eliminated. She announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh for those seriously injured and Rs 1 lakh for those with minor injuries. Sources said a wire and remains of two batteries found on the railway track adjoining the blast site made the sleuths suspect that the blast was triggered using a detonator near the spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Doctors’ body seeks shots for pvt medics||Protect the Warriors, an umbrella body of doctors, has placed two demands before the health department. They are seeking the vaccination of private medical practitioners who could not register through the Co-WIN app which has stopped accepting registrations. They also want the start of vaccination of the elderly before a second wave of Covid-19 hits India. “Unfortunately it is being noticed that other than doctors or nurses or healthcare staff, non-clinical workers of hospitals who are not directly exposed to patient contact like office staff, marketing and HR personnel have been given priority. Most of the doctors are still awaiting their turn or have to request the concerned institutions...,” said their appeal submitted a fortnight ago. The central government wants the first round of vaccination for healthcare workers to be done by February 20. “Bengal has 50,000 doctors and barely 10,000 have been vaccinated. Those doing private practice are unable to access the vaccine as well as those involved in alternative medicine though they too get exposed to patients,” said a PTW office-bearer, adding that they want elderly parents of healthcare officials to be given priority in the next round. He admitted that certain extranuous circumstances might have kept some from taking the vaccine. “Those taking flu shots, for example, might have avoided the vaccine as one has to wait for at least 15 days,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Spring’s first fair||Head to Central Park to enjoy one last fair before the weather gets unbearable. State Swayangsiddha Mela shall continue there till February 23, 2pm to 8.30pm. The fair has 285 stalls representing over 900 self help groups (SHG). An initiative of the State Urban Development Agency, the fair was earlier held at Acropolis Mall before the Pujas. When it received good response, more were held across the state to support the members of the SHGs. Here is a glimpse of the items the women have brought to the fair — What: These cute dolls, made to resemble the character Chutki from Chhota Bheem, are made of three halves of coconut shells — one each for the head, torso and skirt. Wool and fabric paint complete the look. “We also have Chhota Bheem dolls made similarly which will come in soon,” says Sanchita Shaw of Baidyabati. Where: Stall 22 Price: Rs 55 What: Anupama Nandi freezes the beauty of roses, chrysanthemums and even some leaves in cube-shaped adhesives like resin. Besides paper weights, they also have these in pendants and earrings. Where: Stall 80 Price: Rs 50 to 100 for paper weights, Rs 60 for earrings and pendants What: These attractive pen stands are made of burnt clay, painted and then polished with lacre for that glossy look. “We have them in cartoon motifs like Doraemon as well as Ganeshas,” says stall-keeper Anupama Nandi. Where: Stall 80 Price: Rs 130 What: Not only is this a beautiful showpiece reminiscent of the bygone era but it is fixed with wires and contraptions, making it useable. “We have brass gramophones, irons and cars too but they are all showpieces. The phones can be used as landlines,” smiles Anwara Begum of Joynagar. Where: Stall 163 Price: Rs 4,000 What: Tanusree Sarkar has brought eye-catching wall hangings of Durga, made of clay, adorned in shola and plastered on powder blue or yellow backgrounds. The 1.5ft pieces are three dimensional and secured with glass. “We have similar artwork for veenas, boats and roses. Response is great and we have even got some orders at this fair,” says the artisan from Murshidabad. Where: Stall 206 Price: Rs 1,000 What: The problem with oxidised jewellery, says stall keeper Silpi Karmakar, is that they turn dark or even rusty with age. “But black polish metals will not change colour,” she says, adding that her jhumkas are inspired by heavy Afghani designs. Where: Stall 35 Price: Rs 180 What: Buffalo horns have been molten and flattened to create showpieces such as this. “The black portions of this piece are buffalo horns; the white are Australian cow horns. It takes me a week to make something of this size,” says Subhas Jana of Kolaghat. He also has smaller items like combs and key chains. Where: Stall 220 Price: Rs 4,000 What: These glass bottle lampshades look beautiful from afar but no one will guess that they are covered with broken eggshells. “We wash, spray paint and then break the eggshells into different shapes and sizes. Once glued to the bottle, the diffused light from within looks beautiful,” says Anita Gon. Where: Stall 32 Price: Rs 275 What: Some of these idols will fit — not just the palm but — a finger. “They are made of stone dust, mixed with water to create a clay-like substance. We then use the scalpel on it to carve out designs,” says Soma Karmakar, who specialises in Ganeshas. She has them in meditative postures as well as on swings and boats. Where: Stall 126 Price: Rs 200 What: Asmina Ahmed has packed home-made orange, mango, pineapple, litchi, guava and jeera juice into cute pencil-like pouches. “Children are especially loving these because of the cute packaging with cartoons,” says the resident of Tamluk. “The pineapple, orange and jeera flavours are getting many repeat customers.” Where: Food stall 24 Price: Rs 10 The fair also has Zero Shop, which is selling recycled clothes — children’s ones at Rs 20 and shirts, jeans and kurtis for adults at Rs 50. “The clothes have all been donated to us, which we wash and iron before selling,” says Joy Basak of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). The original Zero Shop is located opposite the bus terminus in New Town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Lorry mows down college boy on EM Bypass||A 19-year-old college student died after a lorry hit the two-wheeler on which he was riding pillion on EM Bypass, near the Maniktala Main Road crossing, around 3.20pm on Thursday, police said. Uttaran Bakshi, a resident of Belgachhia, was riding pillion on the bike of friend Soumik Roy, 21. They were returning home from college near Topsia. Both were wearing helmets, the police said. The two fell on the road and Uttaran came under the wheels of the lorry. The offending vehicle, belonging to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, has been seized and the driver arrested. Uttaran was declared dead at Maniktala ESI Hospital. Soumik was treated and discharged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Book fair to celebrate mother language day||A book fair celebrating the Bengali language and literature and Bengal’s culture will be held from February 21 at the Taltala ground, near South City Mall, to mark the International Mother Language Day (February 21). The Publishers and Booksellers’ Guild has invited chief minister Mamata Banerjee to inaugurate the fair, which will be on till February 28 (2pm to 9pm). “The need to protect the Bengali language and its culture is being felt more during these times and hence the decision to organise the fair,” said Sudhangshu Sekhar Dey, the general secretary of the guild. “Reputable publishers in English and Bengali from across the state as well as from Bangladesh will participate in the fair.” The alleged threat to the language, and more particularly to Bengal’s culture, has been at the centre of a political discourse. During the week-long fair, which is being jointly organised with the Jodhpur Park Utsav Committee and the state urban development department, the guild has lined up a series of debates in the evenings centering around the Bengali language and Bengal’s culture. On February 22, for instance, there will be a discussion on whether the Bengali language and the culture are under threat. On February 26, the deliberation will be on whether the Bengali language is undergoing a change. The next day’s topic is about fighting for a language. The chief guest at the inaugural programme on February 21 is author Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay. “Folk artistes will perform every evening. Authors, writers, booksellers, publishers, poets and artists from across the state will come to the fair,” guild president Tridib Chatterjee said. “We hope to hold this fair every year.” The 45th edition of the International Calcutta Book Fair this time will be held in July at Central Park in Salt Lake. The dates are still being worked out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid fighters feted||Some did not take a single day’s leave from their outpatient department duties through the pandemic; some got the virus themselves but joined back immediately on recovery; some performed crucial surgeries without knowing whether the patient under the scalpel would test positive for Covid-19 or not as there was no time to lose in waiting for the report… Doctors of all ages and specialisations gathered to celebrate the bravest amongst them who served society through the coronavirus crisis at a programme held recently at The Stadel. Protect the Warriors (PTW), an umbrella body of doctors created towards the start of the pandemic, had organised the felicitation of 42 frontline healthcare workers and some from other professions too. “We fought, we got hurt, some of us died. Yet we are fighting. We want everyone to get the vaccine though we are grateful that health workers have been given the priority. Many of us have taken the vaccine and we are all fine,” announced PTW vice-president Suddhasatwya Chatterjee, senior consultant, internal medicine, Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. PTW secretary Abhik Ghosh, who is a senior ENT consultant at Apollo, outlined the journey of the organisation. “We started with 25 doctors 10 months ago. When the lockdown was declared, there was not enough protective gear available for the medical community treating Covid-19 patients. Some of us decided to raise funds for the purpose. That was our first mission. Today, we have 1,000 doctors with us. It has become a social platform and we are working in eight districts.” He went on to describe the activities undertaken by Protect the Warriors, some of which have expanded beyond the ambit of Covid-19 — feeding 2,000 streetchildren in conjunction with the NGO Food Education Economic Development, taking charge of the education of 50 children in Boronti village in Purulia, reaching supply of essentials door-to-door in Diamond Harbour, offering free tele-consulation by specialist doctors to over 750 individuals and providing pulse oxymeters to 110 familes in home isolation in the Bidhannagar Assembly constituency area on a request from local MLA Sujit Bose. There was a two-minute silence in memory of those who lost their lives to Covid-19 before the felicitations began. Doing the honours were two people revered by the medical community. One was Sukumar Mukherjee, aged 84 and described as the “teacher of teachers” by Chatterjee, who was the first to take the vaccine in the state on January 16. Mukherjee reminded the gathering that exactly a year had passed since India’s first positive case was reported in Kerala. “Since then, 1.5 lakh people have sacrificed their lives.” The biggest challenge that the zoonotic virus posed, he pointed out, was that its genetic sequencing was unknown, a reason why it had taken years to discover vaccines for plague and rabies. “But it was done within 12 days in China after they reported their first case on December 31. This is a major reason why the development of the vaccines could be put on a fast track.” He warned everyone that the pandemic was not over. “The virus is craftier than the human brain,” he said, referring to the three mutants reported in the UK, South Africa and Brazil. The Spanish Flu, he said, took a greater toll on the young. “This time, it is the reverse. But if we can vaccinate fast, we can save our elderly population.” Referring to the debate over whether it was safe to take the vaccine while being on blood thinners, he said he was on aspirin while he took the shot. “I will test for antibodies in March but no one knows how long the antibody will last. Maybe yearly vaccination will be necessary for the next two years,” he said, signing off with the message: “Be positive, think positive but with knowledge”. The other guest on stage was Shyamal Kumar Basu, a former principal of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, who had many of the attending doctors pass out during his tenure. “You have saved so many lives by not just medical consultation but with social service. I’d have been privileged if I could be part of your activities,” he lauded his former students and their peers. Other than the doctors who were felicitated, there were bank employees, civic workers, firemen, police and media personnel. “All of you went out and provided service when the nation stayed locked down at home,” said PTW treasurer Anirban Dalui, who has recently joined as assistant professor, department of community medicine, RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. Among those who got the biggest applause was Prosenjit Dey, a youth who had come all the way to Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals from Arambagh to donate plasma for the Covid-affected father of a senior schoolmate, who was a stranger to him. The programme ended with Suman Mitra, consultant in medicine at Calcutta Medical Research Institute, singing Kabhi Alvida Na Kehna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Back at school||Schools have finally begun to reopen but like everything else, they’re not what they used to be. As per government orders, classes IX to XII can now hold face-to-face classes but there are plenty of precautions and still much fear about the long walk to school. Schools got the nod to start classes from last Friday but with the strike call, the weekend and then Saraswati puja shortly afterwards, the first few days have been a trial run of sorts for many institutions. Some private schools have only started practical classes for science students; others are calling students for offline exams. The government schools, however, have thrown the gates open to all students upwards of Class IX but attendance has been poor. Still, no one is happier than the students who can finally walk through the gates of what was once their second home. An emotion called school “This one year, I sorely missed my friends, teachers, labs, even the building and benches,” says Snehasish Bar of St Francis Xavier (SFX) school. “Returning to school was an emotional moment for me and I broke into a smile when we were welcomed at the gate on the first day with chocolate bars.” For Rohit Ghosh of Sri Aurobindo Institute of Education (SAIE), school isn’t just a place to learn but also socialise. “Yes, I did go out to my BB Block neighbourhood now and then but it’s nothing like having 43 peers in the room to interact with.” Silajit Chakraborty, also of SAIE, says working together in the lab allows students to help one another and gives rise to healthy competition. “This wasn’t possible studying separately at home. Plus I missed our adda — cracking silly jokes, discussing football... At home, one doesn’t always have the privacy to talk freely over phone.” Precautions aplenty Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan (BVB) has installed a sanitisation tunnel at its gate. A batch of 40 science students are being divided into two and called for practicals on different days. The 20 students are further divided into two classes — one at the lab and another at the make-shift lab. “To avoid crowding, we schedule some batches to come in after the first one leaves but they use different staircases. Teachers are on duty at the stairs to ensure students practise distancing,” says principal Sujata Ghosh. At the SFX assembly on the first day, students stood in circles marked out by the authorities and are being asked to wear two masks for safety. “I felt like hugging my friends when I met them after so long but I knew we were being watched on CCTV so had to make do by talking from afar,” said Rohini Saha of Class X, Bidhannagar Government High School in BD Block. At Hariyana Vidya Mandir (HVM), teachers are supervising even the tiffin break and students are allowed to use washrooms one at a time. Desks have been numbered and assigned to students to use. Thermal guns are being used to check temperatures and sanitisers have been handed over to guards at the entrance. “Since many students have chosen to continue with online classes, our teachers are teaching in class with the camera on for both online and offline students,” says HVM principal Sanghamitra Banerjee. “This is especially for students who are out of town and cannot come back immediately. Also, there are some others who are still scared to come to school and want to wait and watch.” At Kendriya Vidyalaya 1, near Labony Estate, less than 10 per cent of the class has been coming and teachers are teaching twice — online and then offline. “Parents are not realising how important it is for students to get practice of writing exams before their Boards,” says one of their teachers. Saltlake Point School is asking students to show up for offline exams. “We shall only make exceptions for students who haven’t returned to town or are unwell. Some parents did have reservations initially but they are welcome to come and inspect our safety measures. We are seating no more than 18 students per room for the exams,” says academic advisor Juliana Shukla. But at Salt Lake School on Monday, The Telegraph Salt Lake saw guards use sanitisers sparingly and not wear masks too while collecting projects from students. When asked about it, they evaded the question. How to get to school In the absence of the car pool, Karnika Purohit, a final year student of Our Lady Queen of the Missions (QMS), is now using app cabs to get to school. “But I’m not confident. The drivers aren’t wearing masks and there’s no point asking them to,” she sighs. AC Block’s Ria Roy is taking the public bus to Bethune Collegiate School but the crowd on the bus is freaking her out. Snehasish got jittery seeing the crowd at the bus stop on the first day of school and decided to walk for half an hour to SFX from his home near Bengal Chemicals. “If buses remain crowded this is what I’ll do,” he says. Rohit bought a cycle during the lockdown and now rides it from BB Block to SAIE. Swarnajit Bhattacharya used to take the bus to New Town’s Apanjan apartments earlier but is now getting fetched by his parents. “This is saving me a lot of time, actually. I’m not complaining,” says the BVB student. The rickshaw drivers at the stand outside BVB said they were hopeful about business picking up once schools reopened: “But very few kids are coming in the first place. And out of them, only 30 per cent are taking rickshaws. Most of them are commuting by private cars,” says rickshaw driver Debu Mondal. To wake up early again The screens were tiny and network lousy, but online classes provided a luxury offline classes could not  — time. “All these days I woke up at 11 but now I have to wake up at 7.30 for school,” Abanti Ghosh of QMS made a long face. “I didn’t miss school actually. I loved studying at home, in the comfort of my bed.” Ansruta Nandi, also of QMS, says that since online classes eliminated commuting, it gave her more time to study. “I had quite settled into the online system. Now that I have to come to school, I’m having to work out new time slots to fit tuitions,” said Swarnajit. The tutions are also online. Masked up all day Then there’s the agony of keeping the mask on for so long. “I’m having trouble breathing and it’s making me irritable,” says Rima Roy, a Class XI student of AE Block’s Bhagabati Devi Balika Vidyalaya. “I wish we had the option of continuing online classes,” laments the AC Block resident. Her sister Ria, in Class XII, says that all the hours of keeping the mask on amounts to nothing when they have to remove it anyway to eat tiffin. “It defeats the whole purpose,” she shrugs. Then there’s Soumyadeep Kar, a Class IX student of the BD Block school, who has an unusual issue with the mask. “I’ve grown a beard in the lockdown and now it itches if I wear a mask over it!” Fun and games While students are grateful to return to school, they are sorely missing sports and extra-curricular activities. On Monday during tiffin break at the BD Block School, Class IX boys were seen playing kabaddi in the corridor since they were denied access to footballs and cricket kits. They groped, kicked, rolled on the floor and laughed like they hadn’t in months. These were children who had a year stolen from them. “Our parents have lots of rules for us — don’t go close to others, don’t share tiffin — but we are leaving these sermons at the gate and coming to school,” said a student. Another one said friendship was sharing tiffin and that they were sanitising their hands before eating out of one another’s boxes. But final year students are dead serious about the situation and jokes in class are few and far between. “Maybe if someone takes off his mask to mouth pipette in the chemistry lab, we get a glimpse of someone’s face and remark at how he’s put on weight or grown a moustache,” says Rishiraj Roy of SFX. Silajit says he missed receiving a farewell the most. “Last year, we gave a grand farewell to our seniors but we barely got to see the school the whole year,” says the Class XII SAIE student. This is why the BD school students were so desperate to hold Saraswati puja. “We missed sports, functions, farewells — everything — and so pleaded with our teachers to at least let us celebrate this,” says Arijit Roy of Class XII. Thanks, but no thanks Despite the temptations of face-to-face classes, many, if not most, students have opted to continue online. Rudroprasad Bandyopadhyay of HVM is one such. “It’s not worth it,” reasons the BJ Block resident. “Our exams begin on March 1 and there’s no point breaking the routine for barely a fortnight. If I was in Class XII, I might have decided otherwise but being in Class XI I can afford to take this decision now,” he says. Sreejana Sharma, of Class XII,  (humanities), SAIE, has opted for online classes and exams. “This isn’t an ideal situation but we’ve got used to it. The end is near and so I’m just putting up with it,” said the resident of Sector V. Looming fears On Monday, about 15 parents of Class XI students of BVB had gone to meet the principal to seek an option for online exams. “Neither are our children prepared to appear for full-length exams offline nor is it safe. What if someone gets Covid after appearing for one offline exam? Will he be promoted? What about students who are still recovering from Covid? They cannot sit at a stretch for three hours and that too with masks,” the parents reasoned. Some guardians of Saltlake Point School students are in the same quandary. “The school is insisting on offline exams but we are not confident about sending my kids yet,” says a parent of a Class XI student. Some teachers mention how 150 students and 34 teachers tested positive at a government school in Kerala after it reopened earlier this month. “The urgent need was only for the outgoing Class X and XII students. What was the need to bring Class IX and Class XI?” asks a teacher of a Salt Lake-based government school. “If a class has to be broken into two groups, we don’t even have so many teachers to take separate classes or rooms,” she says. School has reopened for students of classes IX and above in state-run schools from Friday. At SAIE, the authorities had sought consent from students of Class X but barely 15 per cent parents agreed to let their wards come. “They are still scared,” says principal Debleena Bhattacharya. “We were ready to hold offline exams with distanced seating but things did not work out due to the lack of consent. There is mixed reaction in Class XII. “While in commerce and humanities streams, the positive response from guardians was barely 30 per cent, for Class XII science students the figure is almost 90 per cent as they are aware of the necessity of the practical classes. So we are taking offline exams only for them. But common subjects like English cannot be taken offline as commerce and humanities students are also involved.” Teachers suspect that “a bit of laziness” has crept into the students too. Online exam cannot be held for long hours. “They are at best for 20-25 minutes for the MCQ (multiple choice questions) tests. But we plan to have longer tests for both Class X and XII which would be a combination of objective and descriptive exams. We are asking them to mail the scanned files as well as submit the hard copies in school as it becomes difficult for the teachers to check so much on screen,” the SAIE principal says. Anindita Sil, a teacher of a government-aided school, said she has been disappointed with the poor attendance. “Nonetheless, I am overjoyed at being able to take offline classes and shall put in extra effort,” says the resident of ED Block’s Sourav Abasan. “I shall also call up the students personally and ask them to come.” Additional reporting by Showli Chakraborty and Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Bengal will not be able to vaccinate all health-care workers by Feb 20||Bengal will not be able to vaccinate all health-care workers against Covid-19 by the February 20 deadline, an official in the state health department said. Till Thursday (February 18), the official said, around 80 per cent of the target has been achieved. The Centre has said all health-care workers have to be given the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine by February 20. Health-care and frontline workers are being given the jabs in the ongoing first phase of Covid-19 vaccination. Bengal has around seven lakh health-care workers. “About 80 per cent of the health-care workers have been vaccinated. There are around 1.2 lakh who have not taken the first dose. They are being called again. We have to push back the deadline to February 25,” the health department official said. “Most of the health-care workers who are yet to be given the first dose are reluctant to be vaccinated.” Officials said chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay would hold a meeting with officials of all districts and Calcutta to discuss how to increase the pace of vaccination. “On Thursday, the 27th day of Covid vaccination in Bengal, 32,924 persons were vaccinated, against the target of around 66,600. Which means around 49 per cent of the day’s target has been achieved,” an official said. “We have to vaccinate more people every day. It should be double the existing rate.” He said each site was supposed to vaccinate 100 people every day, but only about half the target is being achieved on an average. The reluctance among a section of recipients to take the shots and lethargy among those who are administering them were the two factors responsible for the slow pace. Metro has reported that many health-care workers are reluctant to take the shots and are being counselled by those who have been vaccinated. Lack of enough data about the efficacy of Covaxin (one of the two vaccines approved for emergency use in India, the other being Covishield) is one major reason for the reluctance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||IIM students say Net link on campus poor||Some of the IIM Calcutta students who had returned to the campus because internet links in places where they lived were poor have now complained that the premises of one of India’s premier B-schools is lacking in IT infrastructure. A letter from the student council to the institute director has said: “We don’t have facilities to provide a stable internet connection to the students in their hostel rooms.” The letter, sent on February 16, goes on to add: “No steps have been taken for years to invest and update the infrastructure. Hence we have reached a point where there is a need to revamp and invest heavily in the IT infrastructure.” The students, who pay Rs 22 lakh to pursue the two-year MBA programme, have written: “Unfortunately, we don’t have one of the most important things required in today’s scenario, a good IT infrastructure.” Around 70 per cent of the 482 students of the two-year programme were recalled to the campus last November so they could stay at hostels and use on-campus connectivity to attend online classes amid the pandemic. Repeated calls to director Anju Seth went unanswered. She did not respond to text messages either. The students are also concerned about the poor IT infrastructure impacting placements because job interviews will be held online this year. The letter says: “Placement is scheduled from 25th February and the future of second-year students depends on the quality of internet they will be getting. Kindly take some immediate action.” Once second-year classes started online on August 4, students, especially the ones from tier-II and tier-III cities, kept encountering connectivity issues while attending classes. They had petitioned the IIM authorities that they be allowed to return to the campus and use the institute’s Net connectivity to attend classes. But repeated disconnections during live classes because of link failure have prompted them to again approach the director and other officials, said some students who did not want to be named. “This is happening in several rooms in the four hostels where the students have been staying since their return,” said a student. A teacher said that once a student is getting logged-off, he or she was finding it difficult to log in. “The session had started in August instead of June (when it usually starts) because the institute took time to finalise the infrastructure for online classes. Now if disruptions happen, they won’t be able to make up for the classes they have missed out on for a delayed start,” said a teacher. Listing what is lacking, another student said the institute is required to install Wi Fi routers in as many rooms as possible. “It has to be realised that reliance on digital platforms has increased manifold post-pandemic. So there is a need to improve the bandwidth facility more,” said a student. Following the absence of IT infrastructure, the students have written: “The reason our campus exists is the students community. But the problems of the students don’t exist in the eyes of the administration.” An IIM Calcutta teacher said in institutes like the London School of Economics, the authorities saw to it that the students were provided with glitch-free connections. “High-speed connectivity to the hostels is ensured at any cost. This comes from state-of-the art multiple lines for high speed internet installed across the campus. The authorities invest heavily in improving the IT infrastructure over the years,” said a teacher. At IIM Calcutta, teachers, too, had flagged concerns over “poor digital infrastructure” on the campus in a letter addressed to the chairman of the institute’s board of governors, Shrikrishna Kulkarni, in early September. The teachers had written: “The digital infrastructure on the campus is in poor shape with frequent connectivity issues and now the incoming MBAEx (one-year MBA executive programme) students will also face similar problems. We are therefore, not sure if this decision to bring them to the campus will improve the quality of online education that these students receive.” The students’ letter states: “We don’t have the required infrastructure in our classrooms to conduct hybrid classes.” In hybrid classes, some students are called to the classes and the lectures are live-streamed to the other section. Sections take turns in attending in-person classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Wetland in Howrah to shelter fishing cats||A mini-wetland is coming up inside a park in Howrah to provide a home for rescued fishing cats. The enclosure, carved out of a portion of land at Garchumuk Deer Park in Uluberia, around 60km from the heart of Calcutta, is fenced by a mesh of steel wires. Bamboo shoots have been planted inside the enclosure. An artificial shallow water body has been dug. Tall reeds like khori (Saccharum narenga) and hogla (Typha elephantina and Typha domingensis) will be planted there. Two pairs of fishing cats, rescued from Howrah, have been just released into the open enclosure, said a forest official in Howrah. Once there is thick plant cover, the enclosure will be opened to visitors. It should take a couple of months, the official said. Fish will soon be released in the pond for the cats to hunt. A spike in the death of fishing cats over the past year has had conservationists worried. At least eight fishing cats have been killed in the state since May 2020, according to conservationists. Fishing cat, baghrol in Bengali and Bengal’s state animal, is included in Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. It is supposed to receive the highest conservation measures — akin to tigers and elephants, said animal activists. Killing a fishing cat can invite a jail term of three to seven years and/or a fine up to Rs 30,000. The nocturnal animal thrives in wetlands. Though it is said to be the top predator in its habitat, fish is its favourite prey. Shrinking wetlands has dwindled their numbers and forced them to stray into human settlements and prey on fish and livestock. “Howrah is home to many fishing cats. Once the enclosure opens for visitors, both children and adults will be educated about their habitat. People can come and see the fishing cats and their fear is likely to go,” said Raju Sarkar, the divisional forest officer of Howrah. The project is being executed by the Bengal Zoo Authority in association with the state forest department. The male and female fishing cats released into the enclosure were rescued from different pockets of Howrah. The usual destination of rescued fishing cats is the Alipore zoo, where they are kept in a cage. “It is not always possible to keep them in a familiar habitat. But the enclosure in Uluberia will provide that,” said a forest official. In Uluberia, each male and female cat was kept in separate cages to start with. “The plan was to get them accustomed to each other. If they are released together at one go, there is a risk that the male would attack the female,” said Sarkar. “This open enclosure mimicking features of a wetland habitat will be unique as it will introduce residents of the area to these enigmatic felids and educate the general mass about their habitat preferences,” said Tiasa Adhya, the founder of the Fishing Cat Project, a campaign for research on and conservation of the animal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Homemaker held on jewellery theft charge ||A 43-year-old homemaker has been arrested for allegedly stealing a pair of diamond-encrusted earrings worth Rs 1.46 lakh from a prominent jewellery store at the Hudco crossing, where she had gone posing as a customer. The alleged theft happened on January 31 but was detected only two weeks later while the stocks were being reviewed, officials at the store have told the police. “We started scanning the store CCTV cameras and zeroed in on a suspect. The woman was wearing a mask and had not purchased anything after seeing a number of designs, the store staff could recall,” a senior police officer said. “Luckily, this store has a policy that every person who steps in has to remove the mask once and get photographed. We managed to get the photograph of the woman whom we suspected in this case.” On prolonged examination of the staff and guards at the store, it emerged that the store officials recorded the contact numbers of those who had special requests for any particular type of jewellery, an officer said. “One of the guards recalled that this woman had left her number so that she could be contacted once the jewellery of her choice was available.” The cops used WhatsApp to locate the suspect’s number from a list of 20-odd clients. Investigators saved mobile numbers in their phones to check if their display pictures were available on WhatsApp. The display picture of one WhatsApp account matched with the suspect’s photograph, an officer said. By analysing the details of the address registered against the contact number, the police zeroed in on the 43-year-old homemaker. She was arrested from her flat in a residential complex in Anandapur and the stolen earrings were recovered. The accused was produced in court on Thursday and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Fake passport website alert||At least nine fake passport websites have been identified by the Calcutta regional passport office through which hundreds of Calcuttans are filing their applications and getting duped, officials at the city passport office said. These websites look almost identical to the website set up by the ministry of external affairs to apply for a passport, the officials said. “We are frequently getting complaints from people who are getting duped by applying through fake websites. Applicants need to be cautious…. If they are duped by a fake website, it is impossible for the passport office to address their grievance,” said Calcutta regional passport officer Bibhuti Bhushan Kumar. The only website through which one should apply for a passport in India is www.passportindia.gov.in. “Some websites charge double and get the work done by processing documents with the original website and generating the application reference number,” said an official. However, in many cases, the applicants are completely duped as the websites do not process their papers at all. The charges for getting a 36-page passport and a 60-page passport are Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,000, respectively, Kumar said. The complaints have been forwarded to the cyber cell of the external affairs ministry. Cop report Records at the RPO show Bidhannagar police have been the fastest in Bengal in preparing verification reports. Compared with the national average of nine days, Bidhannagar police are completing the process in 10 days, followed by East Burdwan (19 days) and Calcutta police (20 days). Calcutta police were once the first on the list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Students experience learning loss during pandemic||Many students from financially deprived families, whose parents struggled to survive during the lockdown and after, have suffered “learning loss” in the past 11 months, heads of several NGOs who work with children said. The students have been promoted but some of their academic standards have remained at the level of the earlier class, a teacher in an NGO said. Teachers of some NGOs are having to counsel parents to send their children back to school. The challenge is to get them back to studies as some parents feel they are “better at home”. The senior students have started going to school in small batches after a long gap, during which many of them could not be in regular touch with books or classes. Some of the children are now involved with household chores or parents have engaged them in odd jobs to earn some extra money. Schools had been shut since March last year as a precaution against Covid. “There has been a learning loss amongst students during this period. We did an assessment to gauge the loss despite the tele-calling classes and designed a curriculum that would not just look back but look forward to covering the loss,” said Manjusmita Bagchi, the associate director of Ek Tara. There has been “an orientation and discipline loss”, said Arjun Dutta, the president of Calcutta Social Project. Many of the children have lost the habit and routine of studying regularly like they would around 11 months back. Though organisations would send them work, the system has not been foolproof because the “digital divide” is huge. “Not all children who were at home were motivated to study. Some thought they do not need to study since they are at home,” said Bijli Mallik, director, Institute of Psychological & Educational Research. Organisations are planning remedial classes and extra lessons to help the children reach the level commensurate to their age and class. The presence of fewer students in the class, because of physical distancing, is helping students get extra attention, said a teacher at an NGO. It is not an “irretrievable loss” but it would take a few months to address the setback, some teachers said. During the lockdown, the families of these students suffered huge financial losses. Some parents of first-generation learners pushed the children into marriage or work. “We got information that they have started working and education has taken a backseat. We are having to talk to parents to convince them that the children have to continue studies,” said Tanmoy Patra, who runs Howrah Vivekananda Siksha Kendra in Bagnan. Patra said the pandemic undid a lot of work that centres like theirs had done and in some cases, they have to start from scratch, including counselling parents to send their children to school. Ek Tara is also counselling parents and encouraging mothers and fathers to come to the centre to discuss their problems. “Counselling parents is taking our time and energy because parents are also under pressure to get the girls married off. We are calling the parents to the centre to try and make them realise what their children are missing and hear them out as well to help them get the right perspective,” said Bagchi of Ek Tara.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
19-02-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 435 points to close below 51,000 mark||Extending its losses for the fourth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex slipped below the 51,000-mark by tumbling 435 points on Friday, tracking losses in ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and SBI. The 30-share BSE index ended 434.93 points or 0.85 per cent lower at 50,889.76. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty gave up the 15,000 level, dropping 137.20 points or 0.91 per cent to 14,981.75. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 5 per cent, followed by SBI, Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Auto and Maruti. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, HUL, Dr Reddy's, NTPC and Reliance Industries were among the gainers. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities fell sharply as profit booking across the sectors dragged the benchmark indices. Bank and auto Indices corrected sharply by 2-3 per cent, while PSU bank index witnessed steeper correction by over 5 per cent after registering back-to-back gains in last five trading days. "A pullback in broad index was quite visible in last three days. However, investors continued to show interest in midcap and smallcap stocks given improved earnings outlook," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, markets in Tokyo ended on a negative note, while Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul closed with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the positive terrain in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.24 per cent lower at USD 63.14 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 250 points in early trade on Friday tracking losses in banking and financial stocks amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 281.86 points or 0.55 per cent lower at 51,042.83. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 87.25 points or 0.58 per cent down at 15,031.70. PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, NTPC, Bajaj Auto, Maruti, Bajaj Finance and SBI. On the other hand, HUL, Reliance Industries, Bharti Airtel, L&T, M&M and HCL Tech were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 379.14 points or 0.73 per cent lower at 51,324.69, and Nifty dropped 89.95 points or 0.59 per cent to finish at 15,118.95. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 903.07 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities do not look to be inspiring at the moment. "A pullback in broad indices was quite visible for the last two days. However, investors continued to lap-up midcap and smallcap stocks led by improved earnings outlook." US markets finished lower as weaker jobless claim data and risk of potential rise in inflation amid elevated commodity and energy prices weighed on sentiments. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.64 per cent lower at USD 62.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||Government intends to bring natural gas under GST: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that his government intended to bring natural gas under the goods and services tax (GST), opening up the fissures in central payouts to states which had been filled up to an extent by the Centre agreeing to borrow on behalf of the states to meet the GST shortfall during the pandemic. The states have a lot at stake if natural gas is brought under the GST especially as the shortfall in payout for the period April 2020 to June 2022 has been estimated at a whopping Rs 7.1 lakh crore by the finance commission. The announcement will put pressure on the GST Council, expected to meet in the middle of March, to hammer out a consensus. The states may drag their feet because of the complications with the GST compensation structure. The Centre has offered to extend the compensation cess by a few years but states want the money now rather than later. The Opposition-ruled states, in particular, are likely to resist any move to widen the ambit of the GST regime. Oil ministry officials said “natural gas can be brought within the GST regime without any significant revenue loss for states and the central government as it is being taxed at relatively low levels, although rates differ across states and between the Centre and states.” The central excise duty on natural gas is 14 per cent, while VAT rates vary from 3 per cent to 24 per cent from state to state. Crude, petrol, high speed diesel, natural gas and aviation turbine fuel is out of the GST at present. Input tax on their procurement is not set off against the output tax liability and is an additional cost to the producers of oil and gas. Tax slab The GST Council is likely to meet by the middle of March and is expected to consider the Finance Commission’s recommendation to have just three tax slabs by merging the 12 and the 18 per cent rates into one along with two other slabs viz. 5 per cent and 28-30 per cent. Meanwhile, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), which is perceived to be close to the ruling BJP, has called for a nationwide strike on February 26, saying the indirect tax regime has become the most complicated piece of legislation. Numaligarh bid A consortium led by state-owned Oil India Limited (OIL) will bid for the 61.65 per cent stake of BPCL in Assam’s Numaligarh Refinery Limited “OIL in consortium with Engineers India Limited (EIL) has decided to bid for acquiring a 61.65 per cent stake of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) in NRL. The bid is to be submitted through a formal process,” Oil India said. After Rajasthan, petrol price on Thursday crossed the Rs 100-per- litre mark in Madhya Pradesh after fuel rates were increased for the tenth day in a row.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||Centre and Cairn hold meeting for resolution of tax dispute case||The possibility of a negotiated resolution to the tax dispute between Cairn Energy and the Indian government seems to have brightened with the two sides sending positive signals after a meeting on Thursday. Cairn Energy Plc’s chief executive Simon Thomson on Thursday met finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey, CBDT chairman P.C. Mody and other tax officials in the hope of quickly resolving the issue, nearly two months after an international arbitration tribunal ruled against the Indian government levying taxes retrospectively. “We had a constructive dialogue and the dialogue is ongoing,” Thomson told reporters. He refused to comment on what transpired at the meeting. “I can’t comment more on the meeting.” Finance ministry officials said the government is keen to find an amicable solution to the controversial retrospective tax issue. “While the tax department is in favour of challenging the ruling of the Permanent Court of Arbitration, many others, including the political leadership, are aware of what it would mean for investor sentiment,” the official said. Cairn Energy has won an arbitration award from ICC Hague which directs the Centre to pay damages of $1.4 billion (about Rs 8,800 crore) for trying to recover tax dues worth over Rs 24,000 crore from Cairn Energy on account of imputed capital gains related to a corporate restructuring exercise in 2006-07. Cairn sold its stake in the company to Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta but has not been able to exit the country because of the tax dispute with the Centre which has stalled payments for the share transfer. Cairn has taken pre-emptive action to force the Indian government to pay the award amount by filing cases in the US, the Netherlands and Britain seeking to confiscate Indian sovereign assets to realise the sum if the Centre fails to pay. The Centre may challenge the award and has time till March 21 to do so. While some reports had speculated that the Centre may offer an out-of-court settlement to Cairn, others said the only option on the table for a settlement for the Indian government is to make use of the Vivad se Vishwas direct tax dispute settlement scheme. Under this, the principal tax demand is to be paid while the interest and penalty are waived. Officials had earlier hinted at filing an appeal against the December 21 ruling. Cairn has threatened to seize Indian government assets overseas if New Delhi fails to return the value of the shares sold, dividend seized and tax refund withheld by the income tax department to recover part of the tax demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||RBI tightens rules for housing finance companies||Exposures of housing finance companies (HFCs) to the capital market and to land and buildings have been capped by the Reserve Bank of India, which has regulated them since 2019. The RBI on Wednesday also strengthened the disclosure standards. Every HFC must disclose details of capital adequacy ratio and exposure to the real estate sector, both direct and indirect, in their notes to the balance sheet. They must disclose the maturity pattern of assets and liabilities and the percentage of outstanding loans against collateral of gold jewellery to their assets. They must also give details of penalty by the RBI or the National Housing Bank or any adverse comments made in writing by the RBI or the NHB on regulatory compliances. A housing finance company is an NBFC whose financial assets in housing loans constitute at least 60 per cent of its total assets. HFCs should have a minimum capital adequacy ratio of 14 per cent by March 31, 2021 which will rise to 15 per cent by March 31, 2022. According to the RBI, the Tier-I or core capital at any point of time should not be less than 10 per cent. Besides, HFCs must ensure that at all times there is full cover available for public deposits accepted by them. In case HFC fails to repay any public deposit or part thereof as per the terms, it shall not grant any loan or other credit facility or make any investment or create any other asset as long as the default exists. The central bank also barred HFCs to lend against their own shares. Capital markets The aggregate exposure of a housing finance company to the capital market in all forms, both fund based and non-fund based should not exceed 40 per cent of its net worth as on March 31 of the previous year. Within this overall ceiling, direct investment in shares, convertible bonds or debentures, units of equity-oriented mutual funds and all exposures to venture capital Funds (VCFs) should not exceed 20 per cent of its net worth. The capital market exposure will also include advances against shares/ bonds/debentures or other securities to individuals for investment in shares, including IPOs and ESOPs, convertible bonds, and secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||Cognizant plans to hire more than 23,000 freshers this year in India||Cognizant has stepped up its hiring efforts for both freshers and lateral hires in the country and expects the number of new recruits in the March quarter to be “more than ever before”, Cognizant India chairman and managing director Rajesh Nambiar said. The US-based company, which has over two lakh employees in India, expects to hire more than 23,000 fresh graduates this year in the country. “At nearly 2,04,500, our India headcount at the end of 2020 was Cognizant’s highest ever in the country. We continue to be one of the top recruiters of high-quality engineering, science, management and other talent in India,” Nambiar said. He added that the company hired more than 17,000 fresh graduates from campuses in calendar year 2020, and expects to hire over 23,000 fresh graduates in 2021 — 35 per cent more than in 2020. “Our campus commitment is all about us skilling up and these campus hires will complement our lateral hires. We’re on track to bring in more new hires in Q1 of 2021 than ever before as we ramp our hiring capacity to accommodate our growth plans for 2021 and beyond,” Nambia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||Policybazaar anticipates increase in offtake of standard life insurance policies||Insurance aggregator Policybazaar.com anticipates an increase in the offtake of standard life insurance policies despite the higher premium compared with a term policy of similar sum insured. The life insurance companies were mandated by insurance regulator IRDAI to offer standard term insurance policy — Saral Jeevan Bima — from January 2021. The SJB policy, available to all individuals in the age group of 18-65 years, offers a sum insured ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 25 lakh. There is no maturity benefit and only exclusion clause is suicide. The insurers will also not be liable for a payout if the policyholder dies within 45 days of taking the policy except for death in the case of an accident. “Earlier, self-employed people with an annual income of Rs 3-5 lakh were not able to get term insurance because of the unavailability of income proof. Now, with the launch of SJB plans, this segment is more likely to get term insurance. SJB provides the option of income surrogate where you can submit the registration certificate of your car or two-wheeler as a surrogate to your income proof,” said Santosh Agarwal, chief business office-life insurance, Policybazaar.com. “We expect the issuance rate to this segment to go up to 70 per cent which was earlier only 30 per cent. So far, we’ve seen traction around the self-employed people choosing SJB,” said Agarwal. A key concern in the industry was the pricing of the SJB policies which were expected to be higher than a standard term cover for a similar sum assured. Insurers use demography, income category, place of residence, occupation and the education level of the buyers to create and price term products. A 40-year-old person opting for a sum assured of Rs 25 lakh may find that his monthly SJB premia works out to over Rs 1,000 plus whereas he may find options at around Rs 750 for a term cover of a similar sum assured. “In SJB, no filters are allowed. So, the premium is on the higher side due to relaxation in underwriting norms. These plans are filling a need gap as a large chunk of low-income earners are unable to buy term plans. People who were not eligible to buy regular term products due to lack of income proof and required educational qualification can now avail a term insurance plan,” Agarwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||RBI allows Piramal group to acquire DHFL||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has given the green signal to the Piramal group to acquire Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL). The banking regulator is learnt to have given its nod under the “fit and proper criteria”. Lenders to DHFL will now move the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to get its clearance for the resolution plan. Last month, the committee of creditors (CoC) had approved the resolution plan submitted by Piramal group firm Piramal Capital and Housing Finance Ltd. “We understand that the RBI has approved the DHFL resolution plan from Piramal Capital and Housing Finance, submitted by the CoC,” Piramal Group said in a statement. The central bank had referred DHFL to NCLT in November 2019 for insolvency proceedings. DHFL was the first finance company to be referred to the NCLT by the RBI using special powers under Section 227 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. Before that, the company’s board was superseded and R. Subramaniakumar was appointed as the administrator. He is also the resolution professional under IBC. While the bidding process for DHFL began in October 2020, it ended in December 2020 with the CoC voting ending last month. The resolution plan submitted by Piramal Capital and Housing Finance secured 94 per cent votes against the minimum 66 per cent required. The total consideration to be paid by the group stands at Rs 34,250 crore, which includes an upfront cash payment of Rs 14,700 crore and deferred component through non-convertible debentures (NCDs) of Rs 19,550 crore. Though its offer was lower than that of Oaktree, the higher upfront amount by the Piramal group swung the resolution plan in its favour. The acquisition is in line with the group’s strategy to diversify the loan book and increase its granularity. Under the Piramal group’s plan, current shareholders of DHFL will get nothing. It now plans to merge its financial services business with DHFL once all the approvals are in place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||Traders’ body seeks government ban on Amazon||The retail trade war has intensified with traders’ body CAIT on Thursday demanding that the government impose a ban on Amazon’s e-commerce portal and its operations in India, accusing the global e-tailing giant of indulging in predatory pricing, deep discounting and inventory control. CAIT secretary-general Praveen Khandelwal demanded an “immediate ban on Amazon’s portal and its operations in India” and an investigation against the company in a time-bound manner. He also urged the government to probe the business practices of Amazon and Flipkart. The traders’ body also wrote to commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal in this regard on Thursday. “Our association has been requesting your office to investigate and penalise multinational companies such as Amazon and Flipkart (Walmart) for the blatant violation and/or exploitation of the loopholes of the FDI policy and the Foreign Exchange Management Act/Rules,” CAIT said in the letter to Goyal. CAIT has demanded a ban on Amazon after Reuters reported the e-tailer’s selective and preferential treatment to select sellers on its platform for years. According to the report, Amazon used these select sellers to circumvent India’s foreign direct investment regulations. Khandelwal said these “shocking revelations” are enough to ban the operations of Amazon in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||India||India sees record surge in coronavirus infections in 3 weeks||India on Friday reported 13,193 cases, its biggest jump in new coronavirus infections in three weeks. On the other hand in Mumbai, which is battling a recent spurt, several marshals went out to enforce mask wearing across the city. The tally of confirmed infections is 10.96 million, the second-highest after the United States, with more than 156,000 deaths. But according to a government serological survey showed the actual infections could range as high as 300 million. 75 per cent of new cases have been reported from Kerala and Maharashtra - the two states already had the highest number of reported infections. According to health experts, the key factors for the recent surge can be due to the re-opening of educational institutes in Kerala and resumption of suburban train services in Mumbai. Mumbai, after a gap of 11 months, resumed full suburban train services on February 1, which carried a daily average of 8 million people before the pandemic. The city has begun hiring marshals to enforce mask wearing. City authorities said out of nearly 5,000 marshals around 300 would be deployed on the rail network. The heath ministry tweeted: “Coronavirus ... has not yet left the country… We still need to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. No carelessness till there is a cure.” As reported by Reuters, despite the recent rise in infections, India’s daily tally of new cases remains well below a mid-September peak of nearly 100,000. Testing numbers have also fallen to about 800,000 a day from more than 1 million. Since starting its vaccine campaign in mid-January, India has administered nearly 10 million doses, aiming to cover 300 million people by August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||EU calls for early legislative assembly elections in Jammu & Kashmir||The European Union on Friday said it has taken note of recent steps such as district council elections and the resumption of 4G internet services in Jammu and Kashmir, and was looking forward to a number of other important steps, including the early organisation of the legislative assembly polls. The comments by a spokesperson of the EU came a day after a number of top diplomats from the 27-member bloc returned from Jammu and Kashmir after a two-day visit as part of a trip by 24 foreign envoys. The visit presented the opportunity to see the situation on the ground and interact with local interlocutors as part of the EU's outreach to all stakeholders, the official said, adding the EU look forward to continuing its dialogue with India on it. "We have taken note of recent steps such as the election of district development councils and the resumption of 4G internet services. The right to freedom of expression online and offline is a key value for all democracies," the spokesperson added. "We look forward to a number of other important steps to be taken in the political and economic sphere, including the early organisation of the legislative assembly elections," the spokesperson said. The statement was released by the EU mission in Delhi in response to queries about the visit of EU envoys to the Union Territory of J&K. The EU spokesperson also said the EU ambassador to India and several envoys of EU member states, among other countries, participated in the visit to J&K Kashmir on February 17-18 on invitation of the Ministry for External Affairs (MEA), and the programme included meetings with civil and military authorities, some newly elected political representatives, and selected representatives of civil society. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday said the visit by 24 foreign envoys to J&K was aimed at enabling them to witness the union territory's march on the path of inclusive development and the dynamism in the grass-root democratic institutions following the successful conduct of the recent local elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||Be ready to sacrifice your standing crop: Rakesh Tikait to farmers||Asserting that they won't return home till the farm laws are repealed, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said farmers should be ready to sacrifice their standing crop for it. Tikait said the government should not be under the impression that the movement against the laws will end as farmers will go to their villages to harvest their crop. Even if you have to set your standing crop on fire, you should be prepared for it. The government should not harbour this impression that farmers will return home. We will harvest crops and continue our agitation at the same time, he said addressing a "mahapanchayat" at Kharak Poonia village of Hisar. "There will be no 'ghar wapsi' till then," he said. Tikait also asked farmers to be ready for the next call of the unions spearheading the stir. Keep your tractors filled with fuel and facing towards Delhi's direction. You can get a call to move at any time, that will be decided by the committee (farmers unions), he said. Tikait said after Haryana, they will be holding panchayats in other parts of the country, including West Bengal, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. While earlier farmers had given a call for a tractor rally in Delhi, Tikait said the next time, they will go to the national capital with their agricultural implements. Addressing the gathering, Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni alleged, "If new agricultural laws are implemented, crops will be purchased at arbitrary prices and farmers will be forced to even sell their land." Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws will pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||Delhi court sends Disha Ravi to judicial custody for three days||A Delhi court Friday sent climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested for allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest, to three-day judicial custody. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Akash Jain sent Ravi, 22, to jail after Delhi Police produced her before the court on expiry of her five-day custodial interrogation. Police said that her custodial interrogation was not required for the time being and the agency may seek her further interrogation once her co-accused -- Shantanu Mukul and Nikita Jacob Jacob -- join the interrogation. Police said Ravi was evasive during her previous interrogation and tried to shift blame on the co-accused. The court had on February 14 sent Disha to five-day police custody after the agency said her custodial interrogation was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. A toolkit is a document created to explain any issue. It also provides information on what one needs to do to address the issue. This might include information about petitions, details about protests and mass movements. Delhi police had earlier asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email ID, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the toolkit shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers’ protest. The cyber cell had lodged an FIR against “pro-Khalistan” creators of the toolkit for waging a “social, cultural and economic war against the government of India”. The case against unnamed persons was registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The toolkit was aimed at spreading disaffection and ill-will against the government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups, the police had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||Two policemen killed by militant in Srinagar||A terrorist gunned down two unarmed policemen in broad daylight in an upmarket Srinagar area, an incident witnessed by several people and captured on CCTV cameras, police said on Friday, two days after a similar shooting targeting the son of the owner of a city eatery. The two policemen were on duty at Baghat on the high-security airport road when they were attacked. The terrorist, identified as Saqib, can be seen pulling out an assault rifle hidden inside his pheran', a loose over-garment worn during winters, and pumping bullets at them at close range. The attacker can be seen fleeing from the spot as people scatter around in horror. "We have identified the terrorist and we will soon catch hold of him," Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbagh Singh told PTI here. The two policemen were rushed to SMHS hospital. Constable Suhail was the first one to succumb while his colleague, Constable Mohammed Yusuf, lost the battle of life as he was being wheeled into the operation theatre, police said. Immediately after the incident, police teams rushed to the area and took into their possession recordings from CCTVs installed by shops and houses. This led them to identify the terrorist as Saquib from Barzulla area in the city. His affiliations were not immediately known. This is the second attack in the city in three days. On Wednesday evening, terrorists shot at and injured the son of a popular eatery owner in the city's high security Durganag area. "We have identified some people and they are being questioned by the police. I am sure the case will be cracked soon," Singh said. The attack in the city came as a 24-member delegation of envoys from various countries visited Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday to assess the ground situation in the union territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||Bodies of Unnao girls buried amid presence of large number of police personnel||The last rites of two teenage girls, found dead in an agriculture field in Babuhara village of Asoha police station area, were performed in Unnao on Friday morning amid tight security arrangements, officials said. Three girls -- aged 16, 15 and 14 -- were found in a field by the villagers on Wednesday night when they did not return after leaving their house to take fodder for cattle. The local residents had rushed the teenagers, who are all related to each other, to a hospital where two of them were declared brought dead. The 16-year-old girl was rushed to a district hospital and later referred to a Kanpur healthcare facility where she is presently undergoing treatment, police said. On Friday morning, the bodies of Komal (15) and Kajal (14) were buried in their agriculture fields in the presence of senior officials and police personnel in large numbers. The bodies were brought to their village after a post-mortem was done on Thursday but the last rites could not be performed on the day, police said. With regard to performing the last rites, Unnao District Magistrate Ravindra Kumar said talks were held on Thursday with the deceased girls' family, who were not willing to take it up immediately as they were waiting for their son to arrive from another city and had also cited that the funeral can not be done as it was already sunset. The DM refuted reports of any pressure being exerted on the family and said that the last rites were performed on Friday as per the wishes of the family. When asked if the family has made any demand, the DM said no letter has been given by the family to the administration and state government. However, some outsiders present in the village on Thursday were making the family members write a letter stating their demands and the administration had come to know about it. Our officials, including the ADM, were present on the spot but the family has so far not given any "demand letter" to us, Kumar added. The DM claimed that despite the presence of some outsiders, there was peace in the village. The district unit president of BJP, Raj Kishore Rawat and local MLA Anil Singh were present during the funeral on Friday. The district officials had made elaborate arrangements with heavy deployment of security personnel and barricades being installed. The security covered about one kilometre on the four paths reaching the village with a magistrate-level official posted at every barricade to check people. Personnel from six police stations were also deployed for cover. Director General of Police Hitesh Chandra Awasthi had said on Thursday, "The post-mortem of the two girls was done by a panel of doctors and no injury before death or external injuries were found on their bodies.The cause of death could not be ascertained and viscera has been preserved for chemical analysis." "We are taking help of forensic experts and looking into all possibilities," the DGP had said. A medical bulletin by the Kanpur hospital treating the third girl had noted that it was a suspected case of poisoning. Apart from Section 302 (murder), the FIR also lists Section 201 of the Indian Penal Code, related to causing disappearance of evidence. The case mentioning the two sections was lodged on the basis of the family's complaint, the police had stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||Efforts were made to forget Netaji, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Friday said efforts were made to ensure Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose is forgotten but his legacy of courage, patriotism and selfless service to the nation will endure till eternity and continue to inspire future generations. Shah, while inaugurating the "Shauryanjali Programme" - a tribute to the Bengali revolutionaries, urged the youth of the nation to draw inspiration from the life and struggles of the freedom fighters. "Efforts were made to ensure Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose is forgotten but failed. His legacy of courage, patriotism, sacrifice and selfless service to the nation will continue to inspire generations to come," he told a gathering at the National Library. Recalling how Bose, as a brilliant student, cracked the ICS, Shah said, the legendary freedom fighter left the job and plunged into the freedom struggle just to drive home the message that the nation was more important to him than a comfortable life under the British yoke. Shah said Bose's popularity was evident when he twice became president of the Congress, once after defeating the candidate of Mahatma Gandhi. "Netaji is still loved and respected by people like he was many, many years ago. His indomitable spirit still inspires people," he said. The home minister asked the youth of the country to read about the life of Bose and his struggles. "Only a young generation that knows history can build a strong nation," he said. He also inaugurated the 'Biplabi Bangla' exhibition on the life of freedom fighters from Bengal like Khudiram Bose and Rash Behari Bose, and flagged off a cycle rally. Divided into three teams named after Netaji, Khudiram Bose and Rash Behari Bose, the cyclists will collectively traverse 900 km to spread the message of the illustrious freedom fighters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||One more body recovered, toll rises to 62 in Uttarakhand disaster||One more body has been recovered from a flood-hit area in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, taking the toll in the glacial disaster to 62, even as search and rescue operations continued for the 13th day at the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project site. One body was recovered late Thursday night from the banks of the Alaknanda at Helang between Joshimath and Pipalkoti, Chamoli district police said on Friday. The body was found at a coffer barrage of the THDC, it said. With this recovery, the toll in the February 7 disaster has risen to 62 while 142 people are still missing, they said. The number of bodies recovered from the intake Adit tunnel of Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project where a massive search operation has been under way ever since the tragedy struck still stands at 13. Besides, 28 human limbs have also been recovered from different places in the affected area out of which one has been identified. Thirty-three bodies out of the 62 recovered so far have also been identified, police said, adding the DNAs of unidentified bodies are being preserved. The glacial burst over Rishiganga had triggered an avalanche which had demolished a 13.2 MW hydel project along the river besides causing extensive damage to the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project along Dhauliganga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||India-China disengagement complete, military commanders to hold talks tomorrow||After completing the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of Pangong lake, India and China will hold a fresh round of high-level military talks on Saturday to take forward the disengagement process in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh, official sources said on Friday. The tenth round of Corps Commander-level talks are scheduled to start at 10 am at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control, and will be the first engagement between the two sides at a senior level after conclusion of the disengagement process in Pangong lake areas, they said. Sources said pulling back of troops, weapons and other military hardware as well as dismantling of bunkers, tents and temporary structures in north and south banks of Pangong lake were completed on Thursday and both sides have carried out a verification of the same. "Both sides will also carry out a comprehensive review of the disengagement process in Pangong lake areas," said a source. Also on Friday, China for the first time officially acknowledged that four of its e soldiers were killed in the fierce clash with the Indian Army in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in June last year. India had lost 20 soldiers in the fierce hand-to-hand combat. Sources indicated that during Saturday's talks, India will insist on a faster disengagement process in remaining areas to bring down tension in the region, which has witnessed a tense standoff between the two militaries for over nine months. On February 11, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament about an agreement between India and China on disengagement in the north and south banks of Pangong lake that mandated both sides to "cease" forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. Under the agreement, he said China will pull back its troops to east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank of Pangong lake while the Indian personnel will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region. Similar action would take place on the south bank of the lake, he said. The sources said troops of both sides have retreated to positions that were agreed to by both sides. The disengagement process began on February 10. The Indian delegation at Saturday's talks will be led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps while the Chinese side is expected to be headed by Maj Gen Liu Lin, the commander of the South Xinjiang military district of the People's Liberation Army (PLA). In his statement in Parliament, the defence minister also said that it was agreed to convene the next meeting of senior commanders of both sides within 48 hours of completion of the disengagement in the Pangong lake areas so as to resolve all other remaining issues. Days later, the defence ministry said other outstanding "problems" including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra will be taken up at the upcoming talks between military commanders of the two countries. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as the two sides continued military and diplomatic talks. Last year, the Chinese military built several bunkers and other structures in the areas between Finger 4 and 8 and had blocked all Indian patrols beyond Finger 4, triggering strong reaction from the Indian Army. In the nine rounds of military talks, India had specifically insisted on withdrawal of Chinese troops from Finger 4 to Finger 8 on the north bank of Pangong Lake. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. On its part, the Chinese side was insisting on withdrawal of Indian troops from several strategic peaks on the southern bank of the lake. Around five months back, Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rechin La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank after the Chinese PLA attempted to intimidate them in the area. Both sides had rushed a large number of battle tanks, armoured vehicles and heavy equipment to the treacherous and high-altitude areas of eastern Ladakh region after tension escalated following a deadly clash in the Galwan Valley in June last. On Tuesday, the Indian Army released short videos and photographs showing thinning down of troops and dismantling of bunkers, camps and other facilities by the Chinese military in the areas around the Pangong lake. The visuals also showed Chinese military using a bulldozer to flatten some structures, and vehicles with troops and equipment preparing to retreat to rear bases as part of the infantry disengagement. The photos and videos largely depicted fast-paced disengagement process in both north and south banks of Pangong lake that included withdrawal of troops, removal of machinery and dismantling of temporary structures like bunkers, posts and tents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||Modi hails Visva Bharati, says it should help farmers, artisans find global markets||Extolling Visva Bharati for its inspiring legacy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked its students to help farmers and artisans in villages adopted by the institution find global markets for their products. He said Guru Rabindranath Tagore had not envisioned the university as a typical educational institution but one that will help Indian culture realise its full potential. Addressing the convocation of Visva Bharati, the country's oldest central university, Modi said knowledge was not a "still and static but a dynamic concept". "I urge the students and teachers of this inspirational institution to help farmers, artisans living in villages adopted by the institution to find global markets for their products. That will be a step towards building an 'Atmanirbhar' (self-reliant) Bharat," he said. He told the gathering that with knowledge comes responsibility and the knowledge attained by them was not theirs alone but a legacy for future generations. "Your knowledge and skill can make society proud but it can also push it into the darkness of ruin. There are many examples in history and in the present. "You will find some highly educated, skilled people among those who are spreading terror and violence in the world. On the other hand, some people are toiling day and night to free the world from a global epidemic like corona. What matters most is the mindset," he said. The prime minister said the National Education Policy was a major step towards building a self-reliant India as it gave impetus to research and innovation. India, he said, cannot become 'Atmanirbhar' without the self-confidence of its daughters. New National Education Policy having a gender inclusion fund was a major step towards building a self- reliant India, he said. He encouraged the youth to take risks without the fear of failure. "If your intentions are clear and your loyalty is to 'Ma Bharati' every decision of yours will take you towards finding a solution. Success and failure do not determine our present and future. You may not get the results you thought after taking a decision, but you should not be afraid to take a decision," he said. Altogether 2,535 students received their degrees at the convocation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Delhi HC asks media not to broadcast any leaked information||The Delhi High Court on Friday said certain media coverage of investigation in the FIR against climate activist Disha Ravi for her alleged involvement in sharing a toolkit backing farmers' protest indicates "sensationalism and prejudicial reporting", but declined to order removal of any such content at this stage. Justice Prathiba M Singh said the interim plea for removal of such news content and tweets by Delhi Police would be considered at a later stage. The court, however, asked media houses to ensure that no leaked investigation material is broadcast as it could affect the probe and directed Delhi Police to abide by its stand on affidavit that it has not leaked nor intends to leak any probe details to the press. The court also said that police would be entitled to hold press briefings in the matter in accordance with the law and the agency's 2010 office memorandum with regard to media coverage of cases. To media houses, the court said they should ensure the information received from their sources is authentic and only verified content ought to be publicised as also that the investigation is not hampered. The court was hearing Ravi's plea to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material in relation to the FIR lodged against her. The petition also sought to restrain the media from publishing the content or extract of any private chats, including those on WhatsApp, between her and third parties. The police, represented by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) S V Raju, placed an affidavit before the court categorically denying leaking of any information to the media. It also assured the court that it has no intention of leaking any information to the media. The ASG during the hearing said that the possibility of leakage by some officer of the agency cannot be ruled out entirely. The court however directed that the police has to abide by its affidavit. The media houses, one of them represented by advocate Mrinal Bharti, told the court that the source of information in the present case was the Delhi Police and its tweets. ASG Chetan Sharma and central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul, appearing for the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, told the court that the petition was not maintainable as no complaint was first made to it for taking action against any TV channel or media house for any alleged incorrect reporting of the case. The News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) told the court that it can take any action only if a complaint is made to it regarding the media houses named in the plea. It further told the court that media houses named in the plea were members of the News Broadcasters Association (NBA). Ravi, in her plea, has said she is "severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation, where she is being viscerally attacked by the respondent 1 (police) and several media houses". She has claimed that her arrest from Bengaluru on February 13 by a Cyber Cell team of Delhi Police was "wholly unlawfully and without basis". She has also contended that in the present circumstances, it was "highly likely" that the general public will perceive the news items "as being conclusive as to the guilt of the petitioner (Ravi)". "In these circumstances, and to restrain the respondents from further violating her privacy, her reputation, and her right to a fair trial, the petitioner is moving the present petition," the plea has said. Her petition has alleged that investigative matters have been leaked to the media and the press briefings by the police are "prejudicial" and "grossly violative of her right to a fair trial and presumption of innocence". It has claimed that the police first "leaked investigative material" -- like alleged WhatsApp chats -- the substance and details of which were only in the possession of the investigating agency. Thereafter, the "private alleged WhatsApp chats" were published and disseminated by various media houses which was a violation of the provisions of the Cable Televisions Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 (CTN Act), the Programme Code and the Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines, the petition has contended. It has also claimed that the "media houses have published one-sided defamatory, suggestive innuendos, and half truths about the petitioner". Ravi's plea has further contended that the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the NBSA "have failed to exercise their statutory and self-regulatory powers in ensuring compliance with the Programme Code under the CTN Act and the Code of Ethics of National Broadcasting Standards Association". Delhi Police, probing the "toolkit Google doc" backing the farmers' agitation shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, had arrested Ravi while Mumbai lawyer Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk have been granted pre-arrest bail by court. A Delhi court had on February 14 sent Ravi to five- day police custody after it said her custodial interrogation was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. A toolkit is a document created to explain any issue. It also provides information on what one needs to do to address the issue. This might include information about petitions, details about protests and mass movements. The Cyber Cell had lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the toolkit for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the government of India".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||Modi pays tribute to Maratha empire founder Shivaji||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tributes to Maratha empire founder Shivaji on his birth anniversary, saying the stories of his indomitable courage, rare valour and extraordinary wisdom will inspire the countrymen for generations. Fondly called by admirers as Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the Maratha king was born in 1630 and carved out his kingdom and successfully expanded it in the face of hostile Muslim rulers, including Mughals. The Maratha empire went on to become the country's strongest empire before being finally subdued by the British. Tributes to the immortal son of "Maa Bharti" Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj on his birth anniversary, Modi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases above 13,000 after 19 days||Daily new cases of Covid-19 in the country climbed to over 13,000 after 19 days taking India's tally of cases to 1,09,63,394, while the recoveries surged to 1,06,67,741, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. A total of 13,193 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. The death toll increased to 1,56,111 with 97 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,67,741 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.30 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. The total Covid-19 active cases remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,39,542 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.27 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,94,74,862 samples have been tested up to February 18 with 7,71,071 samples being tested on Thursday. The 97 new fatalities include 38 from Maharashtra, 14 from Kerala and 10 from Punjab. A total of 1,56,111 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,669 from Maharashtra followed by 12,444 from Tamil Nadu, 12,282 from Karnataka, 10,896 from Delhi, 10,239 from West Bengal, 8,709 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,166 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||Four military officers, soldiers killed in Galwan clash with India, admits China||Four Chinese soldiers were killed in the fierce clash with the Indian Army in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in June last year, the People's Liberation Army (PLA) officially acknowledged for the first time on Friday. Five Chinese frontier officers and soldiers stationed in the Karakoram Mountains have been recognised by the Central Military Commission of China (CMC) for their sacrifice in the border confrontation with India, which occurred in the Galwan Valley in June 2020, the PLA Daily, the official newspaper of the Chinese military reported on Friday. The CMC, the overall high command of the PLA headed by President Xi Jinping, has awarded Qi Fabao, the regimental commander from the PLA Xinjiang Military Command, the title of "Hero regimental commander for defending the border," Chen Hongjun with "Hero to defend the border," and awarded first-class merit to Chen Xiangrong, Xiao Siyuan and Wang Zhuoran, state-run Global Times quoted the PLA Daily report as saying. According to the report, three PLA soldiers were killed in the combat while another soldier died while crossing the river when he went to support the others. Qi Fabao, the regimental commander of the Chinese military, sustained a serious head injury, the report said. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong Lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the fierce hand-to-hand combat on June 15 in Galwan Valley, an incident that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in over four decades. The Chinese soldiers used stones, nail-studded sticks, iron rods and clubs in carrying out brutal attacks on Indian soldiers after they protested the erection of a surveillance post by China on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control in Galwan. The PLA Daily report claimed that the Indian soldiers attacked the Chinese military personnel with steel tubes and cudgels and threw stones. This is the first time China has acknowledged casualties and details of these officers and soldiers' sacrifice, four of whom died when dealing with the Indian military's "illegal trespassing" of the Galwan Valley Line of Actual Control (LAC), the report said. While India has announced the casualties immediately after the incident, China did not officially acknowledge the casualties until Friday. The Russian official news agency TASS reported on February 10 that 45 Chinese servicemen were killed in the Galwan Valley clash. According to an American intelligence report last year, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. The Global Times, a tabloid, part of the ruling Communist Party of China-run People's Daily group of publications, said the PLA Daily while acknowledging the Galwan Valley casualties stated that the five were killed fighting the "foreign military". It is noticeable that the PLA Daily report used "foreign military" to refer to the Indian military, a move that showed China's kindness of not inciting sentiments of the people against the background of the current disengagement of troops from China and India along the border areas , the Global Times report said. Commenting on the Chinese casualties, Qian Feng, director of the research department at the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University, told the Global Times that China unveiled the details of the incident to refute previous "disinformation" that stated China suffered greater casualties than India or China "incited" the incident. Both countries had rushed a large number of battle tanks, armoured vehicles and heavy equipment to the treacherous and high-altitude areas of eastern Ladakh region after tension escalated following a deadly clash in the Galwan Valley in June last. The admission of the casualties by the PLA coincides with the ongoing disengagement of troops by both sides at the North and South banks of the Pangong Lake, the most contentious part of the standoff which began in May last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||Opposition members boycott Odisha governor's address ||The budget session of the Odisha Assembly began on a stormy note here on Thursday with the Opposition members boycotting the customary governor’s address alleging the speech failed to address concerns of the state, particularly those relating to safeguarding its borders and irregularities in paddy procurement. After staging the walkout from the House, the Opposition members sat on a dharna near Mahatma Gandhi’s statue on the Assembly premises. While the political debate over the Odisha government’s alleged failure on various issues created a storm inside the House, a woman tried to immolate herself near the Assembly building alleging the police had failed to arrest those involved in the murder of her son. Though governor Ganeshi Lal painted a rosy picture of Odisha’s socio-economic situation in his speech on “Healthy Odisha, Happy Odisha”, the Opposition BJP and Congress members staged a walkout stating it had failed to address the various issues, particularly the state government’s failure to stop Andhra Pradesh from holding panchayat elections in disputed border villages under Kotia panchayat of Koraput district. The Supreme Court will hear the petition of the Odisha government on the issue on Friday. The court has already issued notice to the Andhra Pradesh government. The governor described how Odisha had been successful in managing the situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. He also stressed on Odisha’s achievement in clearing investment proposals worth Rs 1.20 lakh crore. Besides, the governor highlighted the fiscal management of the government. As soon as the governor started his address, the BJP members trooped into the well of the House and said in one voice that the speech had failed to focus on what steps the state government had taken to check the Andhra Pradesh government from holding elections in Kotia panchayat and its failure to lift paddy from various mandis (regulated wholesale markets). Leader of the Opposition Pradipta Nayak said: “The state government has totally failed to safeguard the interests of Odisha in the bordering areas. The Odisha government needs to address the issue.  Similarly farmers are sitting on the streets with their paddy in front of various market yards. But the state  government has failed to procure paddy.” Boycotting the governor’s speech, Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra said: “The Odisha government remained a mute spectator and Andhra Pradesh went ahead with rural polls in Kotia panchayat in Koraput district.” While the government failed to protect the state’s border, it also failed to protect farmers’ interests. There is gross mismanagement in the mandis. However, the ruling BJD assured that the government was committed to protecting the state’s boundaries. While the House witnessed an uproar and marshals were on their toes to ensure that nothing went wrong, security personnel had to be alert to stop a woman who tried to immolate herself near the Assembly building. As soon as she poured kerosene on her body, the security personnel whisked her away to an undisclosed location. Sources said she was forced to take the extreme step to highlight the alleged failure of the police in her native Jagatsinghpur district to arrest the accused involved in the murder of her son. After the governor’s address, though the Opposition members returned to their seats, there was continuous uproar. As the stalemate continued, Speaker Surya Naryan Patro adjourned the House till Friday. The budget session will continue till April 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||UGC wants students to take online test on the cow’s miraculous abilities||If physics undergraduates studying electromagnetic waves take a break over the next few days to try and grasp how the gau mata radiates an “aura of mystical power”, none will be more pleased than the higher education regulator. Medical students can do their bit by devoting themselves to analysing the therapeutic properties of the “panchgavya, a mixture of cow’s milk, curd, ghee, urine and dung”. The University Grants Commission wants all university and college students to take an online test on the cow’s miraculous abilities, to be held by a government body on February 25. The exam is open to all citizens. The UGC has written to the country’s 900 universities asking them to encourage their students and those of their affiliated 40,000 colleges to appear in the Kamdhenu Gau Vigyan Prachar Prasar Examination. The examination will be conducted by the  Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA), an organisation under the ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying. All information on the exam is available on the RKA website, the UGC letter said. The RKA website has uploaded study material for the test and said that successful candidates will receive certificates and the “meritorious” will be given awards. Two science professors described the material as pseudoscience and questioned the UGC’s endorsement of the test. Some of the claims made in the study material: Indian cows have the “special power to absorb the sun’s energy with the help of the ‘solar pulse’ (a blood vessel) situated on their humps running through the spine”. “The Suryaketu Nadi, located in the cow’s back, absorbs many positive and medicinal energy (sic) from the sunlight and the atmosphere, leading to more nourishing milk, cow dung and urine.” On a similar vein (no pun intended), Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh had claimed a little over a year ago that the Indian cow’s milk is “slightly yellow” because it contains gold, produced by a blood vessel with the help of sunshine. If anyone was wondering about the objective of producing “more nourishing... cow dung and urine”, the study material has an explanation. It says the panchgavya, whose ingredients include cow urine and cow dung, is traditionally consumed during religious rites and is used as a medicine to cleanse body and mind as advised by Maharishi Charaka. The cow stands for fertility, prosperity and life “in world traditions”, and is often called the mother-ancestor, perhaps because it was the first mammal domesticated by humans, claims the reference material. According to britannica.com, the website of the Encylopedia Britannica, the dog was the first mammal domesticated by humans. “She (the cow) has an aura of holiness and of mystical power,” the RKA material says. “The cow is Aditi ‘the boundless’, the embodiment of a goddess who supports the universe.... It is, therefore, not surprising that the word aghanya — ‘not fit to be killed’ — is used 21 times for the cow in the Rigveda, the earliest scripture known to mankind.” The material cites religions other than Hinduism too to campaign against cow slaughter. It quotes 11th-century Muslim theologian Al Ghazali as saying: “The meat of a cow is disease, its milk healthy, and its ghee, medicine.” “Maharishi Swami Dayananda Saraswati, Madan Mohan Malaviya, Vinoba Bhave and others, who held the cow in great reverence, and professed non-killing, as in the Epistle to Romans (14.20): ‘For meat, destroy not the work of God’.” Sunil Mukhi, chair of the committee of scientific values at the Indian Academy of Sciences and a professor at IISER Pune, said the study material was a mix of basic factual information (for instance, on cow breeds), opinions and unfounded claims glorifying the cow. “The claim that the cow has an aura of holiness and mystical powers is unscientific. Nor is there any scientific basis to the claim about the cow’s hump absorbing the sun’s energy with the help of the ‘solar pulse’, or the one about the medicinal value of panchgavya,” Mukhi said. He said the material seemed more religious than scientific, and criticised the UGC’s endorsement of the exam and its syllabus. “According to academic ethics, the UGC should have provided evidence for these claims about cows, and explained what scientific methods and statistical analyses were used to arrive at these claims, which they have not done,” Mukhi said. Aniket Sule, a professor at the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, said the objective behind the exam seemed to be to spread unscientific claims dressed as accepted knowledge. “It seems they are trying to ensure that students and the public memorise these materials unquestioningly and pass them on to others,” Sule said. “This is how the tradition of a minority section that believes in Sanskrit culture will be imposed on the whole nation.” Sule too questioned the UGC’s endorsement of the test. “The UGC’s job is to maintain the standard of higher education in the country. The standard of higher education cannot be maintained by endorsing an examination whose syllabus carries pseudoscientific claims,” he said. This newspaper sent emails to the RKA and UGC chairman D.P. Singh early on Thursday afternoon, seeking their comments on the concerns expressed about the test and the endorsement of pseudoscience. No responses had arrived till late night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
19-02-2021||India||We will take our tractors to West Bengal: Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday raised the spectre of the protesting farmers moving to poll-bound Bengal if the Centre did not accept their demands. “Crop prices have not been increased but fuel prices have gone up. If the Centre ruins the situation, we will take our tractors to West Bengal as well,” Tikait told a mahapanchayat in Hisar, Haryana. The warning came a day after the BJP and former ally Akali Dal were wiped out in the Punjab municipal elections, reflecting the impact of the farmers’ movement even among town and city dwellers. All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah said there was no plan yet to move with tractors to Bengal and get involved in the Assembly poll narrative. However, he said, farmer leaders will visit Bengal like they are visiting other states to generate awareness about the harm that the new farm laws will cause the farmers. Such mobilisation is nearing completion in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. After similar exercises are wrapped up in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, the SKM leaders will move to other states. “Whether that benefits any political party or harms any other party is not our concern. This is a survival issue for farmers,” Hannan Mollah said. Tikait said the Narendra Modi government should not think that the farmers would abandon their protest and return to the fields during harvest time. He reaffirmed there would be no ghar-wapsi (return home) without law-wapsi (repeal of the three laws) and urged farmers to be prepared to set fire to their standing crop if necessary. He, however, added that the farmers would find a way to continue their protest and also harvest their crop. While Tikait again upped the mobilisation rhetoric, urging farmers to keep their tractors ready to proceed towards Delhi at short notice, he took care to say the final decision lay with the collective leadership. On Thursday, farmers blocked trains across the country in response to the Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s “rail roko” call, pressing their demands for repeal of the new farm laws and the enactment of a law guaranteeing minimum support prices for their crops. Farmers sat on railway tracks between noon and 4pm. True to their role of “annadatas” (food providers), they provided food to stranded travellers at many stations and apologised for the inconvenience caused by the blockade. They also tried to explain to the passengers why they were protesting and how the farm laws would affect food security in the country. Railway ministry sources said the blockade had had “negligible or minimal impact” on the running of trains, with no disruption in eight of the country’s 17 railway zones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
19-02-2021||India||Shah's annual payout of Rs 6,000 for fishermen if BJP voted to power in Bengal||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday promised an annual payout of Rs 6,000 for fishermen if the BJP is voted to power in Bengal, hurting the pride of at least a section of fisherfolk who later said the rising diesel prices were undermining their toil to earn a living. “After forming the government in Bengal, we will launch a Machhuare Samman Nidhi Yojana from which four lakh fishermen of Bengal will get Rs 6,000 annually just like (farmers do from) the Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana,” Shah told a rally at Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas. Shah’s eagerness to reach out to the 2-lakh-plus fishing community members in the district was evident from his decision to lunch at the home of Subrata Biswas, a fish trader at Narayanpur village in Kakdwip. Later, some members of the fishing community told The Telegraph that they would be happy to earn their livelihood and not depend on government dole. Instead they wanted the Centre to contain the rise in diesel prices so that they could venture into the sea on their trawlers. Diesel, which cost Rs 66.79 a litre in February last year, is selling for Rs 83.84 a litre in Calcutta now. Kamal Das from Kultali in South 24-Parganas said he owned two trawlers but had to halt his trade because of the continuous hike in fuel prices. “I faced repeated losses and stopped sending out trawlers since last November because of the high price of diesel. To earn Rs 55,000 by selling fish, I need to burn fuel worth Rs 1.2 lakh. I cannot afford that. I had taken a loan of Rs 36 lakh from the market and around 40 people worked for me. They have either left for Kerala or are sitting idle with no income,” Kamal said. “What good will the government do by promising adequate prices for our produce if we can’t catch fish because of the high price of diesel?” asked Kamal, who has spent 38 years in the trade. Hiralal Das, 48, who used to work for Kamal, said if Shah took the initiative to reduce the price of diesel, it would have helped more than the promised dole. “I earned Rs 40,000 a month by catching fish. But I have been unemployed for the past four months. Will an annual dole of Rs 6,000 help?” asked Hiralal. Shah had said a BJP government would set up a dedicated department within the state fisheries department to ensure adequate prices for the catch. Subrata, who hosted a lunch for Shah on Thursday, later said that his business was not doing well but he could not tell the “big man” about it. The rising fuel prices have become a talking point across the country, prompting many citizens to dig out the barbs Narendra Modi and his supporters used to aim at the government when he was in the Opposition. The backlash has reached such a level that the Prime Minister was compelled on Wednesday to indirectly blame his predecessors for failing to reduce the dependency on imports. Joykrishna Haldar, general secretary of the West Bengal United Fishermen Association that represents 64 unions across Bengal, put matters in perspective. “We don’t need a dole. Fishermen work hard and are happy to earn a living. The rising price of diesel has become an impediment and the Centre should subsidise the fuel. Almost 90 per cent of trawlers have stopped venturing into the sea because of the high diesel price. Thousands of fishermen sit at home; they have no income,” Haldar said. Fishermen are planning a demonstration in Calcutta on February 22 against the rising fuel prices. The association said it had written thrice since the lockdown to Modi and Shah about fishermen’s problems and that its members felt let down as there was no mention of these issues on Thursday. Diesel prices apart, the association wants the Centre to lift the prohibition on the export of crabs and fish that had been imposed during the lockdown. Shah assured the fishing community that the BJP’s paribortan yatra would bring an end to the practice of fishermen being shaken down for bribes. “This yatra is to stop the practice of exacting bribes from fishermen brothers,” he said. Sources in the fisheries department said around 4.2 lakh people in the state were directly involved in fishing in rivers and seas, mainly from South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas, East Midnapore and Howrah. Around 6 lakh people depend indirectly on fishing in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
19-02-2021||India||SC closes suo motu proceedings to probe conspiracy to frame ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi||The Supreme Court on Thursday “closed” the suo motu proceedings to probe an alleged corporate-underworld conspiracy to frame then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi in a sexual harassment case but cited a retired judge’s report that said a plot “cannot be completely ruled out”. The top court said “it is not possible to find corroborative evidence” of a conspiracy against Justice Gogoi, now a Rajya Sabha MP, as a long time had passed since the case emerged in 2019. The three-judge bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian arrived at the conclusion on the basis of a report submitted in a sealed cover by former Supreme Court judge A.K. Patnaik. Justice Patnaik had been tasked with probing the conspiracy alleged by advocate Utsav Singh Bains after Justice Gogoi was accused of sexual harassment by a female court employee. Justice Gogoi was subsequently cleared of the allegations by an in-house panel headed by the present Chief Justice of India, Justice S.A. Bobde, and including Justices Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee. The accuser had withdrawn from the proceedings of the in-house panel on the ground that she was not being allowed legal representation. She had accused Justice Gogoi of using his influence as the senior-most judge in the country to terminate her employment at the Supreme Court. In January last year, it was reported that she had been reinstated. Justice Gogoi had retired in November 2019 and was nominated to the Rajya Sabha in March 2020. Justice Patnaik had submitted the report in October 2019. On Thursday, the Supreme Court bench said: “…The report also acknowledges that the existence of a conspiracy cannot be completely ruled out and this has been so opined as Justice A.K. Patnaik has not been able to obtain various records including electronic records of WhatsApp, Telegram, etc….” The bench noted that Justice Patnaik had recorded in the final paragraph of his sealed-cover report that the director of the Intelligence Bureau had in a letter dated July 5, 2019, stated “that on account of the then Chief Justice of India taking serious tough decisions like in the case relating to the National Register of Citizens (NRC), there was strong reason to believe that persons who were unhappy with those decisions hatched a conspiracy against the then Chief Justice of India”. Justice Kaul said a reference had also been made to “certain tough administrative decisions taken to streamline the process in the registry”. Bains, the lawyer, had claimed in a Facebook post on April 20, 2019, that he had been approached by a person for help to hold a media conference in exchange for money to accuse the then Chief Justice of sexual harassment. The media conference did not take place. Before Bains made the claim, the employee had already levelled the allegations against Justice Gogoi. After Bains made the allegations, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra (now retired) took suo motu cognisance and appointed Justice Patnaik to investigate the claims. Justice Kaul, heading the bench that passed the order on Thursday, said that after going through the Justice Patnaik report, “…we find that it is quite comprehensive” and had “dealt with the scope of the enquiry, the materials and the findings and the conclusions along with the list of annexures and articles”. “We have to keep in mind that the remit of the committee was not to enquire into the merits of the allegations made by the complainant against the then Chief Justice of India and this aspect has been noted in the report itself. The learned judge has thus recorded in the report that he has confined his examination to only one aspect i.e. the veracity of the version put forward by Mr Utsav Singh Bains,” the order said. “The report has also taken note of the limited investigative powers and access to records which it had and based on those materials and evidence before him, it has been opined that it is not possible to find corroborative material qua the allegations of Mr Utsav Singh Bains made in the affidavit. “We are also of the view that two years having passed and the possibility of recovery of electronic records at this distance of time is remote, especially since the scope of the enquiry and the power of the learned judge is limited, no useful purpose will be served by continuing these proceedings. “As a result of our observations aforesaid, the proceedings are accordingly closed and the suo motu petition is disposed of. The report which has been opened be placed back in a sealed cover.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
19-02-2021||India||Nana Patole threatens to stop Amitabh, Akshay’s film shoots ||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Thursday threatened to stop the screening and shooting of movies of actors such as Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar if they didn’t clarify their stand on the savage increase in the prices of fuel. Patole said: “Actors like Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar used to comment on every issue during the Manmohan Singh government. They had tweeted on petrol price hike during the previous government. But they are silent on the issue when petrol has crossed Rs 100 per litre. If they do not take a stand now on the injustice meted out by the Narendra Modi government, we will not allow any films or shootings of Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar in Maharashtra.” While Bachchan had shared couplets and jokes about fuel price hike in 2012, Kumar had tweeted the same year: “Guys, I think it is time to clean up your bicycles and hit the road. Social media users had noticed in 2018 that Kumar may have deleted the tweet. Sample this nine-year-old tweet from Bachchan: “Petrol up Rs 7.50. Pump attendant: Kitne ka daloon? Mumbaikar: 2-4 rupye ka car ke upar spray kar de bhai, jalaana hai (Spray petrol worth Rs 2 or 4 on the car, I have to burn it).” While the Shiv Sena used to adopt strongarm tactics in the past and the Congress never supported such acts, Patole’s stand now has put the party high command in a fix. Most senior Congress leaders avoided discussing Patole’s threat on record. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “We are happy the media has developed interest in petrol-diesel-LPG prices because of one comment (by Patole) even as the common people and farmers suffered miserably for years as the Modi government blatantly resorted to profiteering by increasing the prices despite low crude oil rates in the international market.” Asked if the central leadership would support disruptive tactics by the Maharashtra unit, Khera said: “There is no tactic. We just want the voices of consumers to resonate in the media. The ordinary people had made up their minds against the UPA government because celebrities had been tweeting against us. People look up to their views. They are opinion-makers. “Now they are silent even as (the price of) petrol has crossed the 100 mark for the first time. While crude oil in the international market was around $115 (a barrel) when petrol reached Rs 70 (per litre) during Manmohan Singh’s time, it is Rs 100 when crude oil is barely $60 per barrel. It had gone down to $20. Are these celebrities silent now because of the government’s pressure? Their silence is deafening.” The Congress is avoiding dealing with Patole’s threat explicitly because nobody supports such tactics and they hope the state unit will not resort to any violent method despite being in power in Maharashtra. While one senior leader described the threat as “crazy”, another said: “He is new in the Congress and has just been appointed the (state) party chief. He may be desperate to draw the people’s attention.” Many Maharashtra leaders refused to comment but hoped shootings would not be disrupted. Khera said: “The Modi government indulges in all sorts of tricks to create distractions from real issues. The media too is playing along. Imagine what the BJP and the media would have done if petrol had crossed Rs 100 and diesel was sold at such a costly rate in the Congress regime. “We are grappling with an abnormal situation — the voices of the Opposition and the civil society do not reach the common people. These actors and other celebrities also have been blatantly partisan; they freely criticised the Congress governments but have shown no concern on any issue in the Modi regime. It is good if their real face gets exposed.” A section of younger leaders in the Congress believe there is a need to “expose” the celebrities who are either aligned to the BJP or are working under pressure. The Congress had last week demanded a probe into the tweets of certain celebrities echoing the Modi government’s sentiments on an alleged international conspiracy to defame India. A young Congress functionary told The Telegraph: “We don’t want these guys to criticise the government. If they think petrol-diesel-LPG price hikes are justified, let them support the government. Their honest positioning will help their fans understand them better. If they are RSS-BJP supporters, why are they shy of their association?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
19-02-2021||India||SC notices to Centre and EC on plea to allow postal and e-voting by NRIs, internal migrants||A sceptical Supreme Court on Thursday issued notices to the Centre and the Election Commission on a plea to allow postal voting and e-voting by all non-resident Indians and internal migrants who live outside their constituencies. “What kind of plea is this? Sitting in England, you will vote here? If you can’t care enough to go to your constituency, why should the law help you?” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde asked advocate Kaleeswaram Raj, appearing for the Kerala-based petitioner Sathyan Naravoor. “When a voter chooses to stay out of his constituency and does not come for voting, there is no denial of right (if they can’t vote). He cannot sit in the US and say, ‘I want to vote in Kerala’.” Postal voting is now allowed to the armed forces, those engaged in essential services, people with physical disabilities, voters aged 80 or above, and Covid-19 patients. India has no provision for e-voting, where ballots are transmitted securely over the Internet. Raj argued that making physical presence mandatory at the voting booth violated a citizen’s fundament right under Article 19 to live and work in any part of the country. Citing the 2011 census, he said that NRIs and internal migrants now numbered an estimated 45 crore. He said people shouldn’t have restrictions imposed on their right to vote just because they have left home in connection with their occupation, studies or marriage. The bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, then issued notices seeking responses from the government and the poll panel. The petition cited several Supreme Court judgments, including PUCL vs Union of India (2013) and Jyoti Basu vs Debi Ghosal (1982), to argue the right to vote is fundamental and indispensable to democracy. It referred to Section 60 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, which enables the government to allow voting through postal ballots. “The respondents are bound to exercise the power under Section 60(c) of the 1951 Act, and to extend the benefit of voting through postal ballots to the citizens who are unable to come back to their constituencies,” the petition said. Denying them the right is “arbitrary and violative of their fundamental rights under Articles 14, 19(1)(a), 19(1)(d), 19(1)(g) and 21 and the right to vote under Article 326”, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
19-02-2021||India||Unnao: Priyanka Gandhi accuses Yogi govt of suppressing dalits||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has described the deaths of two Dalit girls in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao as “heart-rending” and alleged that the Yogi Adityanath government had “detained” members of the victims’ families to “create hurdles in the legal process”. Priyanka accused the state government of not only suppressing the Dalit society but also crushing the honour and human rights of women. “The Unnao incident is heart-rending. It is necessary for the sake of the investigation and the process of justice to listen to the family members of the girls. The third child should get immediate good treatment,” the Congress general secretary wrote in Hindi on Facebook on Thursday. Two minor girls, their hands and feet allegedly tied, were found dead about 150 metres from their home in a bush near a mustard field in a village in Unnao around 9.30pm on Wednesday. The third girl, also a minor and belonging to the same family, was found unconscious. Her condition was stated to be critical on Thursday. “As per news, the victims’ family members have been detained. It is an effort to create hurdles in the legal process. What will the government achieve by detaining them?” Priyanka asked. According to some reports and accounts of neighbours of the victims, the police had taken the male members of the girls’ family for questioning on Wednesday night and they returned on Thursday afternoon. The police denied having detained any family member. “I request the UP government to listen to the families and shift the third girl to Delhi for treatment,” Priyanka said. “The UP government is not only crushing Dalit society, but also the honour and human rights of women. But they should remember that I and the entire Congress party will stand as the voice of victims and will endeavour to get them justice,” she tweeted. Priyanka used the hashtag “Save_Unnao_Ki_Beti” with her tweet. Chandrashekhar Azad, the Bhim Army president, demanded better treatment and security for the surviving girl, who is the only eyewitness. “The child should immediately be brought to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, by an air ambulance…. We will not allow a repetition of Hathras in Unnao.” The post-mortem report found no injury marks on the two teenage girls and the cause of their death could not be immediately ascertained, Uttar Pradesh police chief Hitesh Chandra Awasthi said on Thursday. The third girl, admitted in a critical condition to a Kanpur hospital, was being treated for suspected poisoning, sources in the healthcare facility said. A police officer rejected suggestions that the hands of the victims were tied, citing the absence of any injury marks. Viscera samples of the two victims have been preserved for further examination, Awasthi said. Paramjeet Arora, the public relations officer of a private hospital in Kanpur where the 17-year-old third girl is on ventilator support, said: “The condition of the girl is critical. It is a case of suspected poisoning.” Villagers who had accompanied the girls’ parents during the search said the hands and legs of the victims were tied with their dupattas and they were unconscious when found. While two of them, aged 13 and 16, were declared dead on arrival at Unnao district hospital, the 17-year-old third girl was first admitted to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital, Kanpur, by the police and later shifted to the private hospital. The police have registered a case against unknown persons based on the complaint lodged by the girls’ family. A villager said the police had taken the male members of the victims’ household to the police station at night and allowed them to return on Thursday afternoon. The villagers said the girls belonged to a joint family. S.A. Kulkarni, the superintendent of police of Unnao, said: “It is a suspected case of poisoning. But we are probing every possible angle on the basis of the information gathered from the villagers.” Kulkarni denied that the victims’ family members had been detained. Additional director-general of police S.N. Sabat said: “The doctors have said prima facie it is a case of poisoning. Their clothes were intact and there was no sign of any struggle.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
19-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Delhi High Court hears Disha Ravi's plea against media leaks ||Delhi police on Thursday told Delhi High Court that it had not leaked any material to the media in relation to its probe in the FIR against climate activist Disha Ravi for her alleged involvement in sharing a toolkit backing the ongoing farmers’ protest. The court was hearing Disha’s plea to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material in relation to the FIR lodged against her. The submission was made before Justice Prathiba M. Singh by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the police. The court asked the police to file an affidavit containing its submission that it had not leaked any material relating to the investigation to the media. Since there were no counsel representing the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) and some of the media houses named in Disha’s petition, the court issued notice to them and said it would hear the matter on Friday. The petition has also sought to restrain the media from publishing the content or extract of any private chats, including those on WhatsApp, between her and third parties. Disha said she was “severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation, where she is being viscerally attacked by the respondent 1 (police) and several media houses”. She claimed that her arrest from Bangalore on February 13 by a cyber cell team of Delhi police was “wholly unlawfully and without basis”. She also contended that in the present circumstances, it was “highly likely” that the general public would perceive the news items “as being conclusive as to the guilt of the petitioner (Disha)”. “In these circumstances, and to restrain the respondents from further violating her privacy, her reputation, and her right to a fair trial, the petitioner is moving the present petition,” the plea has said. Disha’s plea has further contended that the ministry of information and broadcasting and the NBSA “have failed to exercise their statutory and self-regulatory powers in ensuring compliance with the Programme Code under the CTN Act and the Code of Ethics of National Broadcasting Standards Association”. Delhi police, probing the “toolkit Google doc” backing the farmers’ agitation shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, had arrested Disha while Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk have been granted pre-arrest bail by court. A Delhi court had on February 14 sent Disha to five-day police custody after the agency said her custodial interrogation was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. A toolkit is a document created to explain any issue. It also provides information on what one needs to do to address the issue. This might include information about petitions, details about protests and mass movements. Delhi police had earlier asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email ID, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the toolkit shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers’ protest. The cyber cell had lodged an FIR against “pro-Khalistan” creators of the toolkit for waging a “social, cultural and economic war against the government of India”. The case against unnamed persons was registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The toolkit was aimed at spreading disaffection and ill-will against the government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups, the police had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
19-02-2021||India||Scientists recover DNA from remains of mammoths more than million years old||Scientists have recovered DNA from the remains of mammoths more than a million years old and reconstructed the evolutionary history of the extinct creatures that shared ancestry with modern-day elephants. The researchers announced on Wednesday that they had extracted and analysed DNA, or genetic material, from the molars of three mammoth specimens from northeastern Siberia — about 1.6 million, 1.3 million and 800,000 years old. Their study, based on the world’s oldest DNA recovered so far, provides insights into the origins of two mammoth species — the Columbian mammoth that was widespread across North America, and the woolly mammoth, the last of the mammoths before they went extinct around 4,000 years ago. The genome analysis has shown that the oldest specimen belonged to a previously unknown lineage of mammoths that diverged from other Siberian mammoths over two million years ago. The scientists have called this the Krestovka mammoth. “This was a complete surprise to us — all previous studies had indicated there was only one species of mammoth, the steppe mammoth, in Siberia at that time,” Tom van der Valk, a scientist at the Centre for Paleogenetics, Stockholm, Sweden, and the study’s first author, said in a media release. The study, published on Wednesday in the journal Nature, has also suggested that the Columbian mammoth was a hybrid — around half of its genome came from the woolly mammoth, the other half from the previously unknown Krestovka mammoth. The analysis has shown that the genetic variants associated with extreme cold in the Arctic such as extra body hair, fat deposits and tolerance for cold were present in the 1.2 million-year-old mammoth long before the origin of woolly mammoths. The findings imply that the steppe mammoth evolved into the cold-adapted woolly mammoth through a slow process and not through a relatively quick burst of adaptive changes, said Love Dalen, the lead author of the study. Scientists say the study illustrates the potential of combining paleontology with modern genome science to recover DNA from species from the period of Homo erectus, a predecessor of modern humans. “One of the big questions is how far back in time can we go — we haven’t reached the limit yet,” said Anders Gotherstrom, professor of molecular archaeology at the Centre for Paleogenetics and co-author. The mammoth DNA was recovered from molars excavated by a Russian paleontologist in the 1970s and now kept in Moscow. Scientists say they could recover the DNA as the molar specimens were preserved in permafrost, or ground that remains frozen. Although the DNA was degraded and fragmented into tiny pieces, the scientists used software to compare the available genetic material with genomes of African and Asian elephants to reconstruct the mammoth DNA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
19-02-2021||India||Janata Dal United inducts 208 senior leaders of the Lok Janshakti Party||Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United on Thursday inducted 208 senior leaders of the Lok Janshakti Party, executing what many said was revenge for the Chirag Paswan-led outfit’s move to queer the pitch for the JDU in the Assembly elections last year. Sources said this was just the beginning of Nitish’s “operation” against the LJP and that several of its MPs and the lone MLA of the party could follow suit. Those who joined the JDU included dozens of state general secretaries, 18 district presidents, district vice-presidents, heads of various cells of the party, spokespersons, leaders of frontal outfit Dalit Sena and many of those who contested the Assembly elections in October-November. The induction was done in the presence of JDU national president R.C.P. Singh and state president Umesh Kushwaha. “We assure that all the newcomers will be accorded appropriate honour and respect in the JDU. Our party rewards people on the basis of their merit. Ours is the only party with a socialist ideology where family and dynastic politics is not practiced,” Singh said while addressing the LJP leaders. The JDU national president pointed out that several other parties claiming to follow the socialist ideology had reserved the topmost posts for the family members of their key leaders or founders. The prominent LJP leaders who embraced the JDU included Keshav Singh, Dinanath Kranti, Ramnath Raman, Parasnath Gupta and Subhash Paswan. Keshav alleged that LJP chief and Jamui MP Chirag owned eight companies and four trusts, was not paying the income tax that he should have and was giving prominent positions in the party to builders, scamsters and non-political persons. Keshav said his party would release documentary evidence. Another LJP leader who joined the JDU, Ramnath Raman, claimed that Chirag was cheating the party leaders and promoting people from Punjab. Chirag has relatives in Punjab. JDU founder and chief minister Nitish has held Chirag and his LJP responsible for the poor performance of his party in the Assembly elections. The JDU could win only 43 seats out of the 115 it contested in the 243-member House. In comparison, ally BJP won 74 of 110 seats, relegating the JDU to the second position in the NDA. Chirag and his LJP, which were also a part of the NDA till a couple of weeks prior to the Bihar polls, had criticised Nitish for several months before the elections. The LJP fielded candidates in all the seats that the JDU contested, cutting into the votes of Nitish’s party. Many had suspected that the effort had the BJP’s patronage. Nitish and other senior JDU leaders had vented their ire against the LJP several times after the election results, and there was speculation that they would focus on breaking Chirag’s party to avenge the poor performance. The LJP was founded by Ram Vilas Paswan in 2000 and came to be considered as the foremost party catering to the interests of the Dalits. The party has six Lok Sabha members and an MLA in Bihar. The LJP tried to play down Thursday’s developments. Spokesperson Ashraf Ansari said: “Nitish Kumar and his JDU have committed yet another scam. Only 10 or 12 persons who joined it were earlier members of the LJP and had been thrown out for indulging in anti-party activities. The rest of the 208 people who have been masqueraded as LJP leaders were never in our party.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
19-02-2021||India||New protocols for international travellers||India’s health ministry has issued new protocols for incoming international travellers intended to ensure that anyone infected with either the UK, South African or Brazilian coronavirus variants — a source of concern among scientists worldwide — are detected and isolated. All incoming travellers who have been to the UK, South Africa or Brazil over the previous 14 days would need to be tested at airports on arrival, according to the protocols to come into effect from February 22. Passengers in transit would be able to leave airports after they are found negative. Incoming travellers from these countries found positive would be isolated and their samples sent for viral genome sequencing. Disembarking passengers who are found negative would need to home quarantine themselves for seven days after which they would be tested again. The protocols would also require airlines to segregate passengers with a travel history from the UK, South Africa or Brazil in flight and on disembarkation. They also require all passengers on flights from the UK, Europe or West Asia to take self-paid molecular tests at their airports of entry. Under existing protocols, passengers from the UK are already being tested on entry and — if detected positive — their samples sent for viral genome sequencing. All incoming passengers should carry an RT-PCR negative test result obtained within 72 hours before the flight. The new protocols come amid growing concerns that the coronavirus variants from the UK, South Africa and Brazil are driving epidemics in their country of origin. The UK variant has spread to 86 countries, the South African to 44 countries and the Brazilian to 15 countries. Health officials had announced earlier this week that they had detected the UK variant in 187 people who had tested positive, the South African variant in four travellers who had arrived from African countries and the Brazilian variant in one traveller. A senior scientist associated with the sequencing effort had told The Telegraph earlier this week that there was no evidence so far that either the UK or the South African variant have had any effect on the epidemic in India. There is no evidence of clustering or unusual trends or reinfections, he had said. Scientists believe that in addition to the special screening of travellers from the three countries, there is also a need to document coronavirus variants circulating within India and determine how, if at all, they might be influencing the epidemic’s patterns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal court sends Amit Shah notice for comments against Abhishek||A designated MP/MLA court in Bengal issued summons to Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday to appear either personally or through a lawyer before it on February 22 in connection with a defamation case lodged against him by Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee. The special judge of MP/MLA court at Bidhannagar directed that Shah is "required to appear in person/by pleader" at 10 am on that day. The judge directed that Shah's attendance either personally or through a lawyer is necessary to answer to a charge of defamation under section 500 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In a press note, Abhishek Banerjee's lawyer Sanjay Basu claimed that Shah had made certain defamatory statements against the TMC MP on August 11, 2018 at a rally of the BJP at Mayo Road in Calcutta. Shah had accused Abhishek indirectly of putting money allotted by the Centre during the 14th finance commission in his own “pocket”. "During the 14th finance commission, the Narendra Modi government allotted Rs. 3,59000 crore to Bengal as compared to Rs. 1.32,000 crore given by the UPA government during the previous finance commission. Where did all the money go? Did it disappear in the pockets of syndicates and the nephew," he had asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata likely to skip Niti Aayog meet on February 20||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to skip the Niti Aayog's governing council meeting to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 20, sources said on Friday. The council, the apex body of the government's think tank, includes all chief ministers, lieutenant governors of Union Territories (UTs), several Union ministers and senior government officials. The prime minister will chair the Saturday's meeting, where issues related to agriculture, infrastructure, manufacturing and human resource development will be discussed, according to an official statement. "Mamata Banerjee may not attend the Niti Aayog's February 20 meeting," a senior TMC leader said on condition of anonymity. Banerjee had earlier skipped the Niti Aayog's meetings and termed it as a "fruitless" exercise, alleging that the body has "no financial power" and cannot support the state plans. The sixth meeting of the governing council will witness the entry of Ladakh for the first time, in addition to the participation of Jammu and Kashmir as a UT, the statement said. This time, other UTs headed by administrators have also been invited to join, it added. The governing council meets regularly and its first meeting took place on February 8, 2015. However, the council did not meet last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Rail rage in Bengal||Supporters of the Left Front and the Congress blocked railway tracks for almost an hour across Bengal on Thursday to protest against the death of DYFI leader Maidul Islam Middya and demand the repeal of farm laws enacted by the central government. Bankura resident Maidul, who died on Monday, had allegedly been beaten by police during a protest march demanding jobs by Left student and youth wings on February 11 in Calcutta. The picture shows the rail blockade at Serampore in Hooghly district. Responding to a call by the DYFI and the SFI to stand by the family of Maidul, who was an autorickshaw driver, actor Badshah Moitra and secretary of the CPMbacked All Bengal Teachers’ Association Sukumar Pyne called on his relatives in Bankura on Thursday and extended financial help to them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Man guns down son in Raiganj||A four-year-old boy from Jhitkia village on the outskirts of Raiganj town died after being shot in the head by his father on Wednesday night. Sahil died in hospital. His father Nastar Ali fled. Sources said Ali shot his son after a fight with his wife and demanding money from her parents. They said Ali, who got married seven years ago, would often fight with his wife and ask her to bring money from her parents and torture her. “The past few days, he had been making similar demands and on Wednesday, around 11.30am, they got into a fight. Suddenly, Ali took out a firearm and fired at his son,” said Shamsuddin Ahmed, a relative. The bullet, police said, hit the head of Sahil Sheikh, the little boy. Though rushed to Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital, Sahil succumbed to his injuries. As the news spread, Ali fled while a team from Raiganj police station went to the area to start an investigation. “Nastar Ali was involved with anti-social activities and often resorted to highhandedness. Residents here are fed up with his activities,” said Biswanath Deb Sharma, a local panchayat member. On Thursday, angry villagers gathered near his house and decided that Ali would never be allowed to enter the village. “Even if he is arrested and spends years in jail, we will not allow him into the village. What he did is unpardonable,” said a villager. Police officials investigating the case said the boy was fired from point blank range. “It is evident that the bullet was fired to kill the boy,” said a police officer. "We suspect he has sneaked into Bihar as the interstate border is a few kilometres away." At least 30 passengers in an NBSTC bus, on its way to Balurghat from Malda, were injured after it collided head on with a truck in Rampur-14th Mile area under Tapan police station of South Dinajpur on Thursday afternoon. Passengers alleged rash driving led to the accident. Local residents rescued the passengers, and when police and firemen reached the spot, helped them too in the rescue work. The injured, some critical, have been admitted to super-specialty hospitals of Gangarampur and Balurghat. Police have seized the bus and truck.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Malda: tainted Trinamul leader joins BJP||A Trinamul leader of Malda with many police cases pending against him joined the BJP in presence of state unit chief Dilip Ghosh and the party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya in Calcutta on Wednesday. Sheikh Yasin, appointed a secretary of Malda district Trinamul in December last year, switched loyalties along with three zilla parishad members, four panchayat chiefs and 23 panchayat samiti members of the district, all from Mamata Banerjee’s party. Yasin, a bahubali or strongman in Ratua area of Malda, was accused of rigging poll booths in the 2018 panchayat elections. Ballot boxes were looted at gunpoint, dumped on the roads and were set on fire in Ratua. The incidents allegedly orchestrated by Yasin drew flak from many quarters and made the state election commission order re-polling in over 50 booths of Malda district. Parties in Opposition, including the BJP, had shrilly accused Yasin of looting votes. Yasin’s spouse Payel Khatun is an elected member of zilla parishad. A couple of months back, Yasin hit the headlines when violence erupted in a flat in Calcutta owned by Payel and one person died in the incident. Again, BJP among all other Opposition parties had made the shrillest protest seeking police action against Yasin. BJP leaders in Malda when asked about Yasin’s joining, reacted briefly. “Such activities would not be allowed in the BJP. Maybe he wants to change himself,” said Ajay Ganguly, a vice-president of BJP in Malda. Trinamul’s reaction was mixed. While district INTTUC president Manab Banerjee said “the party has been purged with voluntary departure of such a history-sheeter,” district Trinamul chairman Krishnendu Choudhury said “the party should look into the causes behind the departure of leaders and workers”. Trinamul insiders revealed Yasin wanted the Ratua Assembly ticket and humiliated Samar Mukherjee, the sitting Trinamul MLA, many times. “It did not go well with the party leadership and they did not entertain his demand. This perhaps made him decide to join the BJP,” said a source. Sources said that Yasin was initially close to the Left but after being refused a nomination in the 2013 panchayat polls, he contested as an Independent and win in the panchayat samito tier. Later, he joined Trinamul and was appointed as a district secretary of the party. “However, after some years, the state Trinamul leaders realised that he was developing a larger-than-life image (as a strongman). In fact, at a public meeting on March 4, 2020, chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked district leaders to rein in Yasin,” said a source. Along with BJP, the Congress leadership also flagged Yasin’s alleged involvement in illegal activities. Recently, Mostaque Alam, a Congress MLA of the district, published a list of police cases pending against Yasin and demanded stern police action against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Maintain discipline: Gautam Deb’s message to TMC, INTTUC||State tourism minister Gautam Deb on Thursday asked representatives of over 30 trade unions affiliated to Trinamul workers’ front INTTUC and based in New Jalpaiguri (NJP) area to stay disciplined and refrain from violence. Deb was speaking at a public meeting organised by INTTUC at Netaji More in NJP area, the first political activity of Trinamul after some INTTUC supporters led by local leader Prasenjit Roy on February 4 barged into the inland container depot in NJP and vandalised the premises. Roy, ousted from Trinamul and INTTUC, is still at large. “I would like to remind everybody that no one is above the organisation. We have to follow guidelines of the party and INTTUC and cannot take part in any undisciplined activity that can affect the party’s image,” Deb said. The vandalism, Trinamul insiders said, led to a loss of face for the party and Deb, the MLA of Dabgram-Fulbari under which NJP falls. Deb will contest from the same seat in the coming polls for the third time. An insider said in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul lagged behind the BJP by over 85,000 votes in this Assembly segment, which made this election crucial for Deb. The minister wanted to tell INTTUC-backed trade unions — there are 32 affiliated ones in NJP — to abstain from any activity that could hurt Trinamul. An INTTUC leader in NJP also said that as Roy was no longer with them, they also had to ensure trade unions functioned and its members stayed with Mamata Banerjee’s party. “It is indeed a challenge to retain support base. We have planned to convene a meeting with representatives of all these trade unions and INTTUC members of NJP during the next few days. The tourism minister will be here at the meeting,” the INTTUC leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Medical teachers’ sit-in for pay hike, promotion in Nadia||Nearly 150 teachers attached to the JNM Hospital and College of Medicine, Kalyani, staged a day-long sit-in in front of the principal’s chamber on Thursday, demanding their inclusion in the West Bengal Health Scheme, implementation of a revised pay structure already in place for state government and university employees and their time-bound promotion among other demands. The doctors held the demonstration without hampering academic activities in the college and allied medical services and submitted a memorandum to the principal under the banner of the Kalyani Medical Teachers’ Association. The memorandum was to draw the attention of the West Bengal University of Health Sciences (WBUHS) and the state government. KMTA joint secretary Kaustav Chakraborty, who is also the head of the psychiatry department, said: “The college became operational in 2009. But since it has been brought under the control of the WBUHS, little has been done for the teaching doctor community. The most unfortunate part is that we are still being denied benefits of the West Bengal Health Scheme, which has already been provided to teachers of other medical colleges in Bengal. Facilities of the health scheme remain elusive despite our repeated appeals, even amid a pandemic.” “At the same time, WBUHS authorities did not bother to implement the revised pay benefits announced by the state government. This is sheer denial of our legitimate rights,” said KMTA president Subikas Biswas, adding that the university authority also denied them career advancement scope with no timely promotions in place. The aggrieved doctors said they would continue the demonstration until and unless the WBUHS or the state government fulfilled their demands. They also sought the intervention of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, assuring her that there would be no disruption in academic and medical services in the college and the attached JNM Hospital owing to their demonstration. Acting principal Suman Kumar Roy said: “The grievances of the faculty doctors are quite genuine. As a faculty member, I also wholeheartedly support their demands. I have conveyed the grievances to the higher authorities and sought their immediate intervention so that the faculty staff can work here happily.” An official of the WBUHS said the issue of inclusion of the faculty in the WBHS had been considered. “A process has started to provide the benefit but nothing has been finalised about the other demands,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah seeks presence at Bengal yatra||Union home minister Amit Shah has issued an appeal to BJP supporters to be “united in their presence” along the route of the “paribartan yatra” that he flagged off from Namkhana in South 24-Parganas on Thursday. The call comes at a time attendance at the party’s rath yatras — an unfamiliar feature in Bengal — has flagged after the initial enthusiasm. Shah was in Namkhana to launch the last of the five paribartan raths — decorated air-conditioned vehicles. “Mothers, brothers and sisters, this yatra starts today…. I urge you all to be united in your presence while the yatra passes through the villages and the cities. Stand in support of the yatra,” Shah told a public meeting on Indira Maidan in Namkhana before flagging off the chariot. The party’s poll strategists had planned five rath yatras, one from each of its organisational zones, to cover all the 294 constituencies to help facilitate a mood for change. While two of these, including the one that began on Thursday, were inaugurated by Shah, three others were flagged off by J.P. Nadda, the party’s national president. The rath launched by Nadda on February 9 from Tarapith was received by a mere 200 people at Rampurhat after travelling almost 90km through the district. Sources in Birbhum BJP said the party had initially planned to invite Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to participate in the rally on February 13. However, the plan was abandoned purportedly because of the poor response. “It isn’t possible for the poor party workers to be present at the rally every day. They’ve told us that it affects their work,” a source in Birbhum BJP said. Not just poor turnout along the routes of the rath yatras, the flag-off sessions have also failed to create the excitement that matched the expectations of BJP leaders, sources said. The turnout was less than expected on Indira Maidan on Thursday. Empty patches of the field reminded party leaders of the lukewarm response the flag-offs received at Tarapith, Nabadwip and Lalgarh. Although Shah paid his respects to the crowd for turning up in “large numbers”, images from the Maidan did not entirely reflect such a rosy picture. State BJP vice-president Raju Banerjee said over 50,000 people had gathered on the Indira Maidan but another leader claimed in private that the count did not exceed 25,000. The more or less lukewarm response prompted a senior BJP leader, who is also an office bearer in the state committee, to wonder whether the state government castled the party by allowing the rallies. “Before the 2019 polls, our rath yatras were denied the permission. There was a lot of fuss about it and we gained political mileage out of it,” the leader said. “But now that we can take our rallies out, the interest among the people is subsiding after the inauguration.” However, BJP MP and state general secretary Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato denied that the yatras had failed to draw crowds. He said the turnout had surpassed expectations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Garbage piles up in Siliguri||Residents of Siliguri continued to bear the brunt of the garbage lying in heaps and piles and the obnoxious smell emanating from the trash for the second day in succession on Thursday as conservancy workers of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) went ahead with the ceasework. The situation was so miserable at markets that shopowners and traders joined hands to clean their areas. In residential areas, heaps of garbage piled up on almost every street, much to the inconvenience of the people. Every day, 2, 571 workers are engaged to clear around 3.5 tons of garbage from across the civic area. On Wednesday, they stopped joining their duties, demanding that they be provided with permanent jobs at the civic body. To end the stalemate, Asok Bhattacharya, the chairman of the board of administrators at the SMC, held a meeting with a delegation of the workers on Thursday and urged them to resume their services. The workers, however, demanded that even if their jobs were not made permanent, they be given a hike of 20 per cent in wages with effective from next month. “We have requested the civic authorities to increase our wages by 20 per cent and it should be implemented from March. We will not join the work unless our demand is met,” said Kiran Routh, president, Uttarbanga Safai Karmachari Samiti. The conservancy workers, sources said, not only continued their ceasework but even stopped a couple of dump trucks from carrying the garbage to the dumping ground. Bhattacharya, who is also the Siliguri MLA, said the BoA didn’t have the authority to increase the workers’ wages. “We have told the conservancy workers that the BoA cannot make a decision. When the elected civic board was in power, a decision was made to increase the wages by 10 per cent from April this year. They are demanding that the hike be doubled and made effective from March. This is beyond our capacity. We hope they will understand the situation and withdraw the ceasework,” Bhattacharya said. People from across the society sounded disgruntled over the halt in conservancy services. Khokan Bhattacharya, president, Seth Srilal Market Byabsayee Samiti, who along with others, took the task of cleaning the market on Thursday, said the workers might have some demands but they should resolve it through talks. “The way they carried out their movement by preventing the dump-trucks and dumped the waste on the streets is unacceptable. We appeal to the civic authorities to take necessary steps for the restoration of the garbage collection and disposal service,” he said. Sources at the SMC said state tourism minister Gautam Deb was likely to have a meeting with the workers on Friday. “There might be some positive developments at the meeting,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata touches on Abhishek’s political upbringing||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday took head on the principal thrust of the saffron ecosystem’s election campaign for Bengal as she dismissed allegations of nepotism against her over the apparent elevation of nephew Abhishek Banerjee as her heir-apparent. At a rally in Pailan, South 24-Parganas, the Trinamul Congress chief rolled out an anecdote from his childhood to explain why her nephew had a legitimate place in politics. “Remember, when I was beaten up in Hazra (in 1990)… shortly after he was born (in 1987). He saw my head and hands were bandaged. He used to ask why, and my mother used to tell him how his Didi (what he addresses Mamata as) got beaten up by the CPM,” said Mamata. “He used to wield a Congress flag and conduct a rally alone, in the room… barely a couple of years old then. Didi k marley kyano, jobab dao (Why did you beat up Didi, answer),” she added to loud cheers from the audience. “He used to do this from when he was an infant. Seeing that kind of interest in him….” The Diamond Harbour MP was on the dais at the rally. “In my family, everybody has been in politics. Maybe they haven’t been in high places. When we were in the Congress, back when Indira Gandhi lost (1977 Lok Sabha polls), eight of us — six brothers and two sisters — used to participate in rallies….,” said Mamata. “Abhishek gets no special priority from me…. I did not make him the deputy chief minister, nor the chief minister,” she added, responding to repeated assertions from Union home minister Amit Shah and other BJP leaders that her only goal now was to make him the chief minister. The chief minister said she had given her nephew the option of working for the people without contesting elections, and the choice of going to the Rajya Sabha directly. But, she said, he had put his foot down, choosing to face elections and go to the Lok Sabha as a duly elected representative of the people. “Those who don’t know these things saying all sorts of things today,” she said.Mamata also brought up the 2016 road accident on the Durgapur Expressway near Singur when Abhishek suffered serious injuries and reiterated that it was part of a conspiracy to have him killed. “He virtually lost an eye in that…. Because it’s all in the same household, I know the pain…. The entire eyeball had been uprooted… was there a strong chance of survival? No,” she said, before asserting that the Banerjees of Harish Chatterjee Street in Kalighat would never do anything to harm people or bring them disrepute. She added that every family takes a few generations to prosper and hers took four, over 50 years, and nothing was handed to anybody overnight. “I feel so bad. Daily, because of me, he has to listen to so much. I really think whatever abuse you want to hurl, hurl them at me. Spare the wives and young ones of the family, at least. Say whatever you want to about the seniors, we will tolerate it,” said the chief minister. Abhishek’s wife Rujira has been a frequent target of attacks by the BJP. She threw a challenge at the Union home minister to contest against Abhishek in Bengal. “Only Didi and bhatija (nephew), all the time. Fight Didi later, fight the bhatija first. I challenge you, Amit Shah. First you contest against Abhishek Banerjee,” she said. Mamata then brought up Shah’s son Jay Shah — whose sudden elevation to the key post of BCCI secretary and exponential increase in wealth during the Narendra Modi government’s tenure have been the subject of many a controversy — and accused the father of hiding the son. “Your son, Amit bhaiya (elder brother), is my bhatija too. How did he rise to the top of cricket (the BCCI)? How did he make hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of crores suddenly? What, bhaiya? The mother of a thief has the loudest voice,” said Mamata, before challenging Shah to also bring his son to politics and work for the people, the way her family has. “Do not play with fire. Basic courtesy is mutual, give and take…. Remember, an injured tigress is lethal. You will not be able to handle me.” Mamata peppered her 32-minute address with rebuttals against Shah’s allegations, levelled earlier in the day, in the same crucial district of South 24-Parganas with 31 Assembly seats, and urged its voters to hand the BJP a 0-31 drubbing. She discarded Shah’s predictions about the election results and vowed to secure a third consecutive term in power, this time with record-shattering margins.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Bharat Sevashram Sangha red-carpet welcome for Amit Shah||Home minister Amit Shah on Thursday visited the Bharat Sevashram Sangha’s head office here  to pay tributes to its founder Yugacharya Swami Pranavananda Maharaj. Monks led him to the main hall of the Sangha down a red carpet, garlanded him and gifted him a shawl. Shah said Bharatiya Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Swami Pranavananda shared similar ideologies. Shah, who lit a candle and performed an aarti of Swami Pranavananda, spoke of being influenced by a Sangha monk in Ahmedabad. “I used to visit Bharat Sevashram Sangha in my younger days. Swami Ganeshananda of the Sangha’s Ahmedabad unit influenced me immensely,” Shah said to a small gathering of monks in the 45-minute event. “The Bharat Sevashram Sangha through its seva (service), samarparan (surrender) and tyaag (renunciation) has set a great example to all other institutions serving mankind,” he added. Senior BJP leaders including Kailash Vijayvargiya, Dilip Ghosh and Mukul Roy had accompanied him to the Sangha’s Rashbehari Avenue address. “We had formally invited him to come down on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Swami Pranavananda Maharaj. That was nearly a year ago, and he had then said he would come,” said Dilip Maharaj of the Sangha. “On his (Shah’s) way out (on Thursday) he said he gathered strength after visiting the Sangha and paying tribute to Swami Pranavananda.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who inaugurated the 125th birth anniversary celebrations of Swami Pranavananda last February, had then said: “These days, a strange idea of religion has cropped up among a few...that says ami thakbo, tumi baad (I’ll stay and you are out)....Ami etar pokkhey noi (I’m not in favour of this).” “Their (those who believe in such a concept of religion) brains have turned into a morubhumi (desert). Aamra morubhumi chai na (We don’t want deserts),” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Blast witness talks about ‘bulky white bag’ ||Trinamul Congress supporter Ejaz Hossain, 24, was with junior labour minister and Suti MLA Jakir Hossain when a bomb exploded at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district around 10pm on Wednesday. Ejaz was one of the approximately 50 youths who had gathered at the railway station to send off Hossain who was to board the Calcutta-bound Teesta-Torsa Express around 10.03pm when explosives hidden inside a bag went off on the platform, injuring the minister and at least 26 others. Speaking from his bed at Murshidabad Medical College in Behrampore, Ejaz, who suffered splinter injuries to the right leg, said: “The minister alighted from his SUV at Nimtita railway station around 10pm on Wednesday to jubilant cries from us praising him and the party. He was on his way to Calcutta for a meeting with chief minister Mamata Banerjee.” The Trinamul supporter said the minister took the same train whenever he travelled to Calcutta and they were used to the routine. “We began following him from his vehicle up to platform number two to wait for the train to chug in. The atmosphere was a positive one. Once we reached the platform, a few of us noticed a bulky white bag sitting conspicuously almost on the edge of the platform and where the AC Tier-II compartment of the Teesta-Torsa Express is usually positioned,” Ejaz said. “As the train was to arrive any moment, I asked one of my comrades to move the white bag. He did so and then everything happened in a flash. I still cannot believe I am alive. There was a loud bang, and then smoke and screams of pain and desperate plea to save lives. It was nothing less than a nightmare,” said Ejaz. “I have returned from the mouth of death. I heard my friend has lost his arm on the spot. I have suffered injuries to the leg. In hindsight, I feel the device was either a time bomb or a remote-controlled explosive. Those who carried out the blast must have been keeping a watch on our movement,” he added. Police officers from Suti, 4km from Nimtita railway station, were the first to reach the site of the explosion on Wednesday night. They rushed 13 grievously injured victims in two ambulances to Jangipur subdivisional hospital. An officer who had rushed to the Nimtita railway station said: “By the time we reached the platform, the minister had already been rushed by his aides to the hospital. But the sight was unthinkable, straight out of a horror movie. Maimed and screaming people, bloody body parts, and a burning smell filling the air. People were crying.” Asima Biwi, 65, who lives 30m away from the station, said the sound of explosion was something she had not heard in her life. “A massive noise shook us late at night. A noise like I had never heard. We were too frightened to even find out what had happened. So, we locked our doors and closed our windows,” Asima said, adding she did not find out until Thursday morning about the attack on the minister. “We could barely sleep because of fear,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Heckled, Bimal Gurung keeps calm||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung faced pro-Anit Thapa slogans while on a visit to a Kurseong temple early on Thursday, but did not react. Gurung, with a perception of being a “tough” person since his Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council election win, has seldom been heckled on his face. On Thursday morning, supporters of the rival Morcha camp played a song eulogising Thapa and Binay Tamang when Gurung’s convoy reached the temple. As Gurung alighted from his vehicle, pro-Thapa slogans were raised. Gurung did not react and simply walked towards the temple. The incident triggered shadow-boxing on social media. A section circulated videos to show Gurung’s reaction to pro-Anit Thapa slogans in a bid to dent his “tough” persona. Another section circulated another clip to prove Thapa supporters had problems with Gurung visiting a temple. This video is complete with a commentary to suggest that protesters were allegedly reeking of alcohol. Hill observers said that the incident was reflective of the present political contours. "It is obvious that Anit Thapa's group tried to prove that they are no longer intimidated by Gurung's perceived tough personality. Gurung's reaction also suggests he has mellowed for the moment," said an observer. The observer also recalled that a similar heckling at Gurung's convoy in the middle of Kurseong town some years back that had resulted in an angry backlash in full public view. The two youths at the receiving end had not filed any police complaint against Gurung, the observer added. Both Thapa and Gurung are now in alliance with Trinamul. "The state government will not want any law and order situation in the hills," the observer added on the condition of anonymity. Many in the hills also noted that while both parties were with Trinamul, their bitterness towards each other was evident. In reaction to Thursday's incident, Thapa said he was appealing to his supporters to maintain peace in the hills. "I was told that Gurung's supporters raised slogans against us at Subedar busty in Kurseong last night. I think our supporters are reacting to that incident but I have appealed for peace," said Thapa, general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha of the Tamang camp. Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Gurung camp, countered: "Their (Tamang-Thapa) base is being eroded and the act was triggered out of frustration."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
19-02-2021||Opinion|| India needs a new roadmap for improving bilateral relations with Sri Lanka after port project cancelled||The unilateral scrapping of the East Coast Terminal (ECT) project at the Colombo port is the latest example of how far trust levels between India and Sri Lanka have plummeted in recent years. India, Sri Lanka and Japan had signed a tripartite agreement back in 2019 to develop the terminal. Both India and Japan got a rude shock when the Sri Lankans suddenly announced that the project would be scrapped and they’re still looking for ways to salvage it. Instead of going ahead with the ECT project, Sri Lanka’s cabinet has cleared a plan to develop with India and Japan the West Container Terminal (WCT) as a public-private partnership.  This move is seen as a bid to mollify and compensate India but it’s not clear yet whether our government will accept the proposal. From India and Japan’s point of view, Sri Lanka has clearly reneged on its commitment to the 2019 tripartite agreement. The Sri Lankans are unfazed by the charges of bad faith levelled against them. The cancellation has brought to the fore the disarray in Sri Lankan government ranks, especially when it comes to its dealings with India. The blame must rest squarely with non-state actors in Sri Lanka who have for reasons best known to themselves derailed a major project that was intended to bring big rewards to the country. Step back a bit and recall that India and Japan were two of the countries originally singled out by President Gotabaya Rajpaksa as partners for his rapid economic development plans. The other countries listed by him will no doubt take note of these developments and carefully chart out their investment and other plans for Sri Lanka. The president, according to insiders, had thrown his support behind the trilateral ECT project, and had made a commitment to India at the highest political levels. This was also in keeping with his vision articulated in a media interview with Nitin Gokhale, the New Delhi-based journalist, soon after winning the presidential polls in October 2019. To be fair to him, he has not changed his position on the subject. What’s more, Basil Rajapaksa, the third member of the ruling family triumvirate, also backs the president. It is Mahinda Rajpaksa, the former president, who’s apparently worried that awarding the ECT project to the joint India-Japanese collaboration in the face of mounting opposition would have severe repercussions for the ruling party both in parliament and outside. It seems he’s keen to safeguard the government and the ruling party from the adverse effect of “going against popular sentiment”. A politically shrewd strategist, Mahinda is aware of the government, the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) party’s and also Gotabaya’s declining popularity. Internal political developments within the ruling party and the state of the economy coupled by unpopular measures have exposed the fault lines in political governance and management of the economy. Opposition to the ICT project emanates from diverse elements such as trade unions, left-wing groups and minor parties including those in the ruling coalition. The powerful Buddhist clergy is of the same opinion as the trade unions. It is important to note that the cabinet and council of ministers is divided on the subject with a clutch of leaders of the Marxist former Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (People's Liberation Front) or JVP, the nationalist erstwhile nationalist Jathika Hela Urumaya (JHU) and the Trotskyist Jathika Hela Urumaya (LSSP) leading the anti-India charge. It’s no secret that the JVP has always opposed Indian projects and participation in Sri Lanka’s development. In addition, there are more checks and balances expressed by these circles as far as India is concerned. Chinese involvement in the evolution of the anti-India campaign and influence among the non-state actors is an open secret despite denials seen in the media. The all-powerful clergy too has thrown its weight behind the opposition to the ECT project. It is another thing that there is an impression being created that a lobby close to or identified with the Mahinda faction is not averse to India being allotted the West Container Terminal. The moot issue is whether the same clutch of trade unions which are opposed to India will agree to this proposal? Further, there is opposition to the involvement of Adani group in the port building activities. An influential political adviser suggested that trade unions and fringe elements are imposing their views on national strategic and foreign policy, even though it’s the responsibility of the government to protect the country’s “sovereignty” and “territorial integrity.” Another school of opinion points to the complicity of some civil service elements in creating obstacles to India’s plans. It’s another thing that Gotabaya may have already reached out to New Delhi in a fire-fighting exercise to salvage the situation with the West Container Terminal proposal. He cannot obviously be seen as weak and indecisive in matters of state policy and administration. This is not the only item on the agenda there are others too, especially the fate of the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA). New Delhi will have to consider some “out-of-the-box” solutions to remove the irritants in the bilateral relations. From India’s standpoint, the choice of the Adani group as a party to the West Container Terminal project is a strategic one as India requires major players in such high-profile projects. The Adani group must stay the course and the thwart machinations of the JVP and others who are believed to be acting at China’s behest. India requires a few more heavyweights to look at Sri Lanka as a manufacturing base. This means India’s corporate sector has a major role to play in this direction. Sri Lanka is an important strategic partner for India and is in the process of developing -- so it says -- a non-aligned foreign policy. Aides close to President Gotabaya have repeatedly stressed the importance attached by him to non-alignment -- in fact, this has been reiterated by him on several occasions. There may not be any doubt on this score. But the actions and utterances of some members of his inner circle seem to convey a different message. Sri Lanka has a critical political calendar ahead this year. The new constitution is on the anvil and will hopefully meet the aspirations of all sections of the population. There are prickly and tricky issues to navigate ahead. While these events will no doubt evoke considerable international interest, the manner in which legal experts and political pundits address the devolution of powers remains to be seen. Last October, Gotabaya won strong approval from lawmakers to restore the concentration of powers in his office as part of plans to draft a new constitution. But even on the future of the 13th Amendment, there’s no consensus within the government and the parliamentary party. A government minister is reportedly in favour of the abolition of the provincial councils. But it’s not clear yet whether he’s espousing a personal view or articulating the collective views of vested interests in the party. (The 13th amendment created provincial councils in Sri Lanka and made Sinhala and Tamil the official languages and English the "link language"). Whatever be the position of the various functionaries on the abolition of provincial councils or major changes to the 13th Amendment, the present leadership will have to contend with growing fault lines in political governance and national commitments. India, on its part, will need to build on its “vaccine diplomacy” and expand the ambit of its present range of interlocutors. While Prime Minister, Narendra Modi set the trend for more interaction with the Buddhist clergy, this needs to be followed up vigorously. There are several points of leverage available to both sides to arrest the slide in bilateral relations and importantly address the deficit trust issues. It’s clear that while India is concerned with the accretion of Chinese influence in Sri Lanka, we must evolve measures to strengthen our interests and objectives where we have advantages and create more opportunities in other areas. Development of bilateral relations has more stakeholders now than before.  Additional involvement of the corporate and business sector, education and information technology are some potential areas of greater interaction. These should be complemented by periodic visits or interaction between parliamentarians and legislators of both sides. This is very important, especially in the case of Sinhala Buddhist politicians of other parties.  Sri Lanka can also become an important destination for MICE (meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions) projects, given the excellent connections between the tourism industries of both sides, including religious tourism and medical tourism. P. M. Heblikar is Managing Trustee, Institute of Contemporary Studies Bangalore (ICSB) and Former Special Secretary, Government of India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
19-02-2021||Opinion||At long last: removal of Kiran Bedi||Sir — The removal of Kiran Bedi as the lieutenant-governor of Puducherry must have come as a great relief not only for the chief minister, V. Narayanasamy, but also for a large section of the people of the Union territory who were fed up with the tantrums of Bedi who put spokes in the functioning of the elected government and scuttled all welfare measures announced by the government (“Kiran Bedi sacked”, Feb 17). Right from the day of her appointment to the day of her removal, she exhibited only a confrontational attitude and animosity towards the government and did everything that made one believe that she was less of a constitutional head and more of an active member of the Bharatiya Janata Party, vociferously promoting the interests of the saffron party. However, she, with her autocratic and arrogant moves, has done such damage to the BJP in the Union territory that it is going to reflect in the upcoming regional elections. It is unfortunate that the BJP government at the Centre has decided to remove Bedi from the gubernatorial post only after allowing her to continue with her anti-government activities that have brought the Puducherry government to a grinding halt. If it were really interested in the welfare of the people of the Union territory, it would have sacked her long back. The president, Ram Nath Kovind, who deserves appreciation for his decision to remove Bedi, should not commit another mistake by making her the governor of any other non-BJP state. She has clearly proved during her stay in the Raj Nivas that she does not deserve to hold any constitutional post or, for that matter, any tall position in the government. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai Sir — There is little reason to rejoice the fact that Kiran Bedi has been removed from the position of lieutenant-governor of Puducherry. Clearly, the BJP understands that the people have been displeased with Bedi for long. Removing her before the elections is only a ploy to earn the trust of the electorate. Pradyut Sinha,New Delhi Stand together Sir — In Thailand, the artist, ‘Headache Stencil’, has put up a controversial exhibition criticizing the clampdown on dissenters by the authorities — 58 activists have been charged with insulting the royalty at protests since November. While the state of freedom in this monarchy is worrying, one wonders if the situation in New India, a democracy, is too different. Many artists, even comedians, are being persecuted for their dissenting views. The people must stand by such artists just as they have taken a stand for the people. Reba Guha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
19-02-2021||Opinion||Fatal ride: road accident deaths||The consequences of a tragedy often endure long after the mishap is over. Take, for instance, the findings of a study by the World Bank on road accidents: it revealed that every death in India caused by a road accident leads to the depletion of nearly seven months’ income in the households of poor families and pushes the victims’ kin into a vicious cycle of poverty and debt. Predictably, low-income rural households are hit the hardest. They reported twice the number of deaths as a result of an accident than high-income households did; the risk of a survivor having to deal with a disability was also twice as likely among poor families. Women, the report suggests, bear a disproportionate share of the burden as well, having to take on additional work alongside caregiving activities. While 50 per cent of women reported being severely affected by the decline in their household income, around 11 per cent said they had to take up more work to deal with the financial crisis. A key takeaway from the study is that the long-term effects of road mishaps remain — deliberately? — unaddressed in policy interventions. This is perhaps because road accidents are largely viewed through the lens of public safety and infrastructure, with interventions being designed accordingly. This is not to say that such aspects need to be ignored given that India witnesses 53 road crashes every hour, many of which are a result of the flagrant disregard commuters display towards road safety. This collective indifference is represented by the sightings of helmet-less children riding pillion on motorcycles, a common occurrence on India’s roads. Recent data from the National Crime Records Bureau showed that 83 per cent of road fatalities were on account of speeding and rash driving. But the collateral damage — debt traps for families, depression and added burdens on women — cannot be disregarded. Accidents can be reduced but not completely prevented. There is thus a case for making road safety a matter of public responsibility in India. But this must be complemented by an administrative push to redress the accompanying financial challenges. One way of achieving this could be by broadening access to insurance. Insurance policies must be designed to be affordable and easily accessible to survivors and their kin. But policies would be of little use — perhaps not even availed of — unless the government creates awareness campaigns encouraging citizens to insure themselves and their families, arranges for funds to be disbursed easily during emergencies and, crucially, ensures that insurance companies do not indulge in profiteering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
19-02-2021||Opinion||First sign: Congress sweeps Punjab polls||One possible reason behind the Bharatiya Janata Party’s stubborn refusal to relent on the controversial farm laws is that the farmers’ protest, till recently, had not managed to extract its pound of political flesh. However, the outcome of the civic polls in Punjab may cause some concern to the BJP. The Congress swept the polls piggybacking on the public anger directed at the BJP. Interestingly, the Aam Aadmi Party and the Shiromani Akali Dal proved to be collateral damage. The SAD suffered for its partnership with the BJP, while the AAP was perceived to be tepid in its initial resistance to the BJP forcing the contentious farm laws down the throat of unwilling farmers. The results would come as a shot in the arm for the Congress, especially the chief minister, Amarinder Singh, who was expected to battle anti-incumbency. The BJP, meanwhile, would strive to ensure that the political winds from Punjab do not lead to inclement weather in other states, especially Uttar Pradesh. Its decision to mobilize Sanjeev Balyan — he belongs to the same khap as Rakesh Tikait who is spearheading the spirited protests by farmers — betrays jittery nerves. It has been reported that the Centre’s refusal to budge on the demands of farmers could lead to political reversals in as many as 40 Lok Sabha seats in the Jat belt. The BJP would be desperate to contain the damage in UP, a prized state and, allegedly, an ideological laboratory of the sangh parivar. It is too early to map the extent of the potential damage that the farmers’ stir can cause to India’s ruling party. Mr Tikait has warned that the farmers would extend the agitation to other states, including Bengal, but the political impact of the agitation would depend on two things. First, the Opposition would have to generate greater public engagement without monopolizing the movement. Second, solidarities need to shift on the turf, with Jats, Dalits and Muslims forming a formidable electoral alliance to neutralize counter-mobilizations on religious lines. All these outcomes are speculative at the moment. But one thing is evident. In India, political parties are unlikely to concede to public demands unless the protests begin to hurt electorally. This is a sad testament to the perversions that populism has introduced to democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
19-02-2021||Opinion||Warming up: India-China relations||The defence minister, Rajnath Singh, announced in Parliament last week that India and China had agreed to “disengage” from the conflict fault lines at Ladakh. But with the winter chill receding, attention is riveted on another sector and there is more than the weather adding heat to India’s frontier with its northern neighbour. Late last month, a Chinese patrol tried to enter Sikkim’s territory and was forced back, official reports said, adding that while said sticks and stones were used, there were no gunshots. An army statement called it “a minor face-off at Naku La area of North Sikkim on 20 January 2021 and the same was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols.” The pass is at an altitude of over 14,000 feet. This is not the first time that China has tried entering Sikkim. In the same area last summer, at least 12 Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured in stone pelting and fisticuffs along the Line of Actual Control after a patrol party of China’s People’s Liberation Army personnel was stopped. Officers at the local level later intervened and resolved the stand-off. Prior to that came the skirmish at Doklam. China has also been building infrastructure along the McMahon Line along the border with Arunachal Pradesh too. There has been concern over reports that China has allegedly built a village on the bank of the Tsari Chu in Upper Subansiri district. Apparently, the PLA has constructed homes, recreational facilities and roads in the guise of civil infrastructure. This is being seen as China’s tactic to enhance its military network as these integrated model villages are an extension of Chinese cantonments (there are no civilians there). Since the bitter winter in the Himalayas has been no deterrent, the advent of spring and summer does not bode well. The Eastern Air Command’s public relations officer in Shillong told me that “our forces are always prepared for any eventuality.” Since the terrain in the Northeast is far more hostile than in Ladakh (my helicopter ride to Arunachal Pradesh was fraught with foreboding), the air force uses advanced landing grounds in Arunachal and helipads in Sikkim. India is not taking these developments lightly, going by the spate of visits by the defence brass to the region of late. When the chief of defence staff, General Bipin Rawat, visited forward areas of Arunachal Pradesh recently, he was briefed on the operational preparedness by the lieutenant-general, R.P. Kalita, the general-officer-commanding, Spear Corps, as well as other commanders. General Rawat also visited the forward outpost in the Subansiri valley in Arunachal and interacted with soldiers deployed along the LAC. In end-December, the air marshal, Amit Dev, AOC-in-C, Eastern Air Command, visited the forward bases with advanced landing grounds in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. He “interacted with [a]ir [w]arriors and reviewed the operational capabilities and preparedness of these bases and ALGs,” the air command said. There are seven ALGs in Arunachal, now upgraded and reinforced — at Vijaynagar, Walong, Tuting, Ziro, Pasighat, Aalo and Mechuka. The Tawang ALG is still incomplete. Describing the challenges in this sector, Nitin A. Gokhale, editor-in-chief of StratNews Global, said, “Indian military planners assess that the new threat from China may come in the eastern sector, comprising Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. Unlike Ladakh, jungles exist in Arunachal Pradesh, the climb is steep and in many places, India’s infrastructure leaves a lot to be desired.” There was a time when Indian and Chinese forces exchanged pleasantries at Bumla. China continues to dispute the boundary and has constructed villages barely 5 km from this trijunction between the two countries and Bhutan. As long as the spectre of Mao Zedong’s five-finger foreign policy (of ‘liberating’ Ladakh, Nepal, Sikkim, Bhutan and Arunachal) looms, our defence preparedness must remain at an all-time high.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
19-02-2021||Opinion||Persons with disabilities: a persecuted people||I studied in a boarding school. Every day, two hours of the evening were scheduled for outdoor games. Before we could begin playing, our sports teacher would instruct us to run two rounds of the playground as warm up. A few of us, including myself, were exempted from it. Sometimes we would have to clean parts of the ground for others to play there. I have a locomotive disability with a case of Spastic Diplegia Cerebral Palsy because of which I could run slowly for only a few hundred metres during these warm-ups. After that, I would watch others play and never participate in any game. This and the task of cleaning the ground were like a form of physical segregation and I would feel excluded. I hated those two hours. This is just one incident among many others that made me think I was lesser than others. The constant need to fit in and improve myself put an extra burden on me. Over the years, these experiences contributed to developing a severe inferiority complex and a lack of self-confidence. The perception of disability in our society is unidimensional, conservative and narrow. Let us examine the words that are used to describe persons with disabilities: ‘Apang’, ‘Viklang’, ‘Handicapped’, ‘Specially-abled’, even ‘Divyang’. These terms lead to a stigma against disability in two ways. First, they identify and isolate PwDs from society. Second, they allot less personhood to these identified persons by addressing them with terms that mean, quite literally, weak and crippled. Else, they glorify them by according divinity (Divya — divine, Ang — body). These phrases prevent society from acknowledging their complete personhood and accepting them as human beings first. According to the World Report on Disability, 2011, there are more than one billion people (around 15 per cent of the global population) living with some form of disability. PwDs and their families, the report says, are more likely to experience economic and social disadvantages than others. They have lower employment rates and educational attainment. The report pointed out that working-age people with disabilities were found to be twice as likely to be unemployed. When employed, they are more likely to work part-time. Studies have shown that children with disabilities are almost four times more likely to face violence. Similarly, women with disabilities are three times more likely to experience domestic violence. Barriers — inaccessible social spaces along with the misbehaviour of people — hinder PwDs from full and effective participation in society on an equal basis as well as scar them emotionally and psychologically. They are more likely to experience loneliness, fear, anxiety, depression — the outcomes of discrimination and prejudice. Along with making physical spaces accessible to them, it is thus crucial to understand the mental health challenges faced by PwDs. To honour the principles of the signed convention of the United Nations — the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, 2006 — India brought two legislations into force: Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and Mental Healthcare Act, 2017. Both legislations pay scant attention to the mental health of PwDs. The RPwDA talks extensively of universal design, accessibility in the public sphere and the protection and safety of PwDs, but there are no provisions to address their needs of and access to mental healthcare services. The RPwDA and the MHA fail to address the intersection between caste and disabilities: PwDs hailing from the oppressed castes bear a double burden. Some other invisible barriers find no mention in the MHA. These include training and sensitizing of mental healthcare professionals to address the concerns of PwDs; the need to provide mental healthcare professionals with communication devices, technology and medium required by persons with sensory impairment. The existing data on disability in the 2011 census are vague and the phenomenon is under-reported. For example, according to the World Report on Disability, 15 per cent of the global population is living with some sort of disability, whereas the 2011 census says only 2.21 per cent of the Indian population is ‘disabled’. Clearly, the data do not give the complete picture. No effort should be spared to correctly collect data on disability during the 2021 census. Making the social environment inclusive for PwDs is the first step to integrate them fully into society. Disability cannot define a person. This kind of insensitivity renders PwDs disadvantaged and vulnerable. Unless society kicks away the stigma that is attached to disability, efforts at inclusion will remain incomplete.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
19-02-2021||Opinion||Alternative vision||Ninety-nine years ago this month, to the dismay of a significant section of the leadership of the freedom struggle, Mahatma Gandhi called off the Non-Cooperation movement. A Congress resolution passed in Bardoli on February 12, 1922, instructed its workers to stop picketing, start paying taxes, and suspend all forms of mass civil disobedience. The reason for this sudden volte-face was “the inhuman conduct of the mob at Chauri Chaura in having brutally murdered constables and wantonly burned the police thana...” Two weeks earlier, at Chauri Chaura, outside Gorakhpur, volunteers were picketing the local market, preventing the sale of fish, meat and liquor. Gupteshar Singh, the sub-inspector, had frustrated their attempts, leading to an altercation. A few days later, an enraged crowd gathered, 1,500-2,000 according to a UP government communiqué. They marched to the police station, armed with bamboo clubs, bricks and kankar from the adjoining railway tracks. When the police fired into the air, the protesters assaulted the officers, hurled bricks and kankar at the station and, ultimately, set fire to it. Twenty-one police officers and a little boy, the servant of the sub-inspector, were killed (numbers vary slightly in different accounts). “The kingdom of Mahatmaji has come” was, apparently, the chant ringing in the air in the aftermath of this brutal act. One hundred and seventy-two persons were convicted by the sessions court of murder and sentenced to death. The high court confirmed the sentences of 19 persons, acquitting or commuting the sentences of the rest. The reduction of sentences, according to the high court, was necessitated by the law — apart from the 19 ringleaders, the others were simply part of the crowd. Without condoning their lawlessness, the high court nonetheless spared them the gallows for being accessories to murder rather than its perpetrators. However, Abdulla, Bhagwan Ahir, Lal Muhammed and 16 others were not shown any clemency. Chauri Chaura is remembered for the wrong reasons in India’s history textbooks. Jawaharlal Nehru labelled the protesters “a mob of excited peasants”; Netaji called them “exasperated villagers”. There was a palpable sense of all-round resentment. Little of this was directed against the protesters who, despite having committed the act of violence, were considered a footnote. The disquiet was against Gandhi himself for calling off a resurgent Non-Cooperation movement because of a sporadic act of violence. Seeking to restore the pride of the protesters and give them their ‘rightful’ place in history, the Uttar Pradesh government has organized a year-long series of programmes to celebrate the centenary of Chauri Chaura. The grand inauguration repeatedly lauded the shaurya (bravery) and balidaan (sacrifice) of the men. Speakers at the function said that the fire in their hearts that burnt down the police station and took them to the gallows ignited millions of fires in the country. To commemorate Chauri Chaura without any significant reference to Gandhi, Non-Cooperation and the setback it caused to the national movement is a calculated attempt to revise India’s nationalist history. This would not be the first time such revisionism has taken place. Local accounts have always portrayed the Chauri Chaura martyrs as heroes defying the raj rather than failed satyagrahis. They were celebrated with the establishment of a memorial in 1991, where they feature side-by-side with Motilal Nehru, who is supposed to have represented the accused in court (Shahid Amin has written excellently about these local accounts). But never before has such an alternative retelling received such weighty national endorsement.  Earlier, there may have been a good reason for this. Motilal Nehru may have been the finest lawyer in the Allahabad High Court, but there is no record linking him with the defence of the Chauri Chaura accused. Neither is there any evidence to back the claim that Chauri Chaura played any significant part in inspiring the freedom movement, as was claimed earlier this month. Freedom, when it did arrive, did not come from the barrel of a gun but rather from actively abjuring its use. It is likely that the organizers of the commemorative celebration knew these facts. It is equally likely that they chose to go ahead with a grand spectacle to capture the zeitgeist of our times — that a post-truth society is fertile ground for alternative histories. When confronted with such events that are unapologetically designed to rewrite history, one can react with outrage and cite the facts from historically ‘authoritative’ sources. These facts would show that the Chauri Chaura protesters were volunteers who had taken a pledge of non-violence before joining the Non-Cooperation movement, a pledge they failed to keep. It would show that while brave in paying the ultimate price by taking the law into their own hands, they did the freedom movement a disservice, bringing to a grinding halt the hitherto successful Non-Cooperation campaign. It would be rational to be outraged that these facts have been glossed over. But this only adds further grist to the post-truth mill, prompting more strident endorsement of alternative truths. This does not mean that fidelity to recorded accounts should be abandoned; instead we must be cognizant that merely recounting long-held facts is unlikely to upset retellings in a post-truth world. The grand celebration of Chauri Chaura may more usefully be seen as an indicator of the emergence of a new kind of nation state in India. India has, for the last seven decades, been on a quest to find its authentic post-colonial self. One might have imagined that a post-colonial State secure in its acceptance of its British legacy while charting its own sovereign course might have emerged by now. But any such prospect has been consciously jettisoned to create the foundation of a republic that is a reactionary child of colony — a republic that celebrates violence, is at war with itself and, while claiming to look ahead, has its gaze firmly fixed on what has passed. So when the prime minister and the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh hail the Chauri Chaura heroes, they are, in one stroke, creating new icons and denigrating old ones to build a New India. And who are these new icons? Nineteen volunteers, and countless others like them, who fought their colonial masters with political violence, an act as brave as it is old. While their sacrifice has never been in doubt, what is striking is the lack of originality of their act. In selecting these men as icons, no real vision of a post-colonial republic is proffered or even attempted. An indubitably brave but ultimately pedestrian act repeated millions of times in scores of countries across the world is being held up as a symbol of New India. New India, on this account, feels rather old and unoriginal. In stark contrast, Mahatma Gandhi’s call to non-violence was not only revolutionary at the time, but also continues to be recognized as a truly original ‘Indian’ contribution to global movements. One may endorse it or resent it — that is a different matter. In the government’s celebration of Chauri Chaura is a clear message that Gandhian India and its unique ideal of non-violence have run their course. The government’s vision of New India needs a new Father of the Nation whose name isn’t Mahatma Gandhi. The author is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand on alert as Covid-19 cases resurge in Kerala and Maha||Fear of another wave in the wake of the UK, Brazilian, and South African strain of the contagious virus, is making the Hemant Soren government take the best precaution to contain the virus. The state health department issued an alert for all its 24 districts, to step up covid-19 surveillance and testing capacities amid concerns of Covid-19 cases resurging in Kerala and Maharashtra. Buoyed by a steady decline in Covid cases in recent months, the Jharkhand government on Thursday announced the reopening of coaching centres, parks, cinema halls, schools for classes VII, IX, and XI. It also provided a host of other relaxations to simplify lives and bolster economic activities. The health department, however, is being cautious and working out fresh plans to curb the hike in the number of Covid cases that have flattened over the weeks now. A senior official in the state chapter of the National Health Mission on Friday said, “Unlocking is okay, but going by the trends of a few highly populated states of India, we can’t afford to put down our guard at this stage. During the start of 2020, when the virus broke, there was a similar pattern— began spreading from Kerala to other big states and town and eventually it spread to other parts of the country including Jharkhand by March. We have to break that chain.” Amravati in Maharashtra was has been put under lockdown over the weekend from Saturday till Monday. Yavatmal another Marathi district has also announced a host of fresh curbs. “Sustained curbs or lockdown in big cities will force migrant workers from Jharkhand to return. In such a situation, we have to be more vigilant in scanning the returning workers. All districts have been asked to ensure proper testing, special those coming from vulnerable areas,” said the official. In the wake of fresh guidelines issued by the Union ministry on Covid-19 testing being made mandatory at airports from February 22 onwards, Jharkhand too will resume Covid-19 testing at Ranchi airport and other major transit points. “Securing transit points — roads, rail, and airports — will be the key since there aren’t any more travel restrictions within the country. Our efforts are getting channelized towards that direction,” he said. The recent advisory issued by the union health ministry to all states has made it mandatory for incoming visitors directly or via transit from UK, Middle East, or Europe to undergo ‘self-paid covid-19 testing at airports’ from February 22. Significantly, Ranchi’s Birsa Munda airport doesn’t have any direct connection with international destinations but it is well connected with key cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, and Bangalore that are international transit points. NHM mission director Ravi Shankar Shukla on the other hand maintained that the health department is combating with Covid on two fronts — meeting inoculation targets and detecting infected persons. “All the districts have again been asked to strengthen its surveillance units to maintain the declining trend of the infected cases in the state,” he maintained. Notably, chief minister Hemant Soren last night has asked the general public to follow the basic Covid safety norms while announcing fresh unlock. He said, “With Covid-19 cases drastically declining in our state, we felt it was right time to reopen those which remained closed but the virus threat is still not over. Hence, I appeal to everyone to continue wearing masks, washing hands, and following all the protocols prescribed by the governments. I have also directed officials to start collecting Covid-19 samples at the airport again.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police identify woman’s body dumped in trolley along NH-33||Decomposed body recovered from a trolley bag dumped in a ditch along NH-33 near Jamshedpur on February 14 night, has been identified as that of one Kajal Kumari hailing from Telco locality of steel city. The Seraikela-Kharsawan police solved the mystery behind the murder. On Friday, they arrested two men and a woman for having professionally murdered the victim. Those arrested in the murder case have been identified as Muhammad Mansur Alam alias Badshah (34), Kaushik Dutta (28), and Salma Bibi, all are residents of Kitadih locality which falls under the suburban Parsudih police station area. While arresting the trio, police recovered three cell phones, a stick, a ‘duppata’, and a motorcycle that had been used to murder Kumari. Elaborating on the breakthrough, Seraikela-Kharsawan district superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi said, “The accused Badshah, a married man was in a live-in relationship with Kajal Kumari for the past two years. “Similarly, Badshah’s wife Salma was in a relationship with Kaushik for the past six months. She also was aware of her husband being in a live-in relationship with Kajal. She wanted to teach her a lesson and had pressed her lover Kaushik to help her in eliminating Kajal,” said Arshi while addressing newsmen at Seraikela police office on Friday. He added that while Salma and Kaushik were hatching a conspiracy to kill Kajal, Badshah joined them to eliminate her. According to Arshi, the trio ‑ Badshah, Kaushik, and Salma strangulated Kajal at her rented house in Telco on January 22 night. The following morning Badshah and Kaushik stuffed the body in a trolley bag and dumped it in a ditch behind Pardih Kali temple along NH-33. According to the senior police officer, the trolley had been dumped at a secluded place and hence it stayed undetected for 21 days. “A rag-picker had spotted the trolley while scavenging. The stink made him alert the police. His lead made Chandil police recover the body on February 14,” he said. All the three accused have been sent to Seraikela divisional jail after being produced before a judicial magistrate on Friday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Plantation drive to counter air pollution in coal city||As per the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), Dhanbad gears up to control air pollution with a plantation drive planned by the forest department. The district forest department is carrying out intensive plantation drives of more than 4000 saplings in different parts of the district including the worst affected areas of Jharia coalfield region. Apart from this, the tendering process for procuring a continuous ambient air quality monitoring station (CAAQMS) has also been initiated by pollution regulator Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB). Notably, as per the NCAP under which Dhanbad has been selected among 102 cities or towns of the state pollution has to reduce by 20-30% by 2024 in comparison to the pollution level of 2017 through various interventional measures. Jharkhand State Pollution Control has also provided Rs 3 crore during January last year out of Rs 10 crore approved for the purpose of various interventional measures to reduce pollution including intensive roadside plantation, installation of paver blocks on roads, installation of Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring station, etc. Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) has purchased two trucks with a water sprinkler of Qualitative Enviro Engineers last month at a cumulative cost of Rs 50 lakh which sprays atomized water up to 50 feet in air developing mist which in turn sticks with the pollutant and brings it down on the ground. Giving details of the plantation drive being carried out by the district forest department, division forest officer of Dhanbad, Bimal Lakra said, “An amount of Rs 1.35 crore out of a Rs 3 crore fund has been approved for step by step plantation work and we have spent around Rs 1.27 crore for the purpose.” “We have planted saplings of fruit plants as well as flowering plants and timber,” he said and added that they have been provided with the fund in October last year for preparing the iron made sapling guard. He also added that the majority of plantation work has been carried out on both sides of Phusbunglow Putki Road which is around 9 km in length. “The first year of sapling plantation exercise will be completed by March-end and for the next two years protection of those plants would be ensured,” said Lakra and added that the other activities planned at the district level included the installation of paver blocks on the roadside to be carried out by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation while installation CAAQMS will be carried out by JSPCB. Echoing sentiments regional officer of JSPCB, Ram Narayan Chaudhary said, “We have already initiated the tendering process for installation of two CAAQMS for ensuring regular monitoring of the air pollution level in different areas. One CAAQMS is already in operation at Digwadih in Dhanbad.” Due to high PM10 level, Dhanbad has been ranked among the worst polluted cities or towns of the country for the last several years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation carries out an anti-encroachment drive in a high-security zone||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation along with the district administration on Friday carried out an anti-encroachment drive in the high-security zone of Luby Circular Road, a day after several traders carried out a protest in the same area for evicting them without proper rehabilitation. Led by City Manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation Md Anis and supervised by Sub Divisional Officer Surendra Prasad, the two-hour drive was carried out on the basis of complaints received from the management of SSLNT Women’s College and BSS Women’s College. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Anis said, “We have received complaints earlier from several persons about the assembly of unwanted youths outside the women’s colleges because of these shops, posing difficulty to the students.” Besides housing the two women’s colleges, Luby Circular Road is home to the regional centre of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University, several girl’s hostels, the official residence of top officials, the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Senior Superintendent of Police, Deputy Development Commissioner, and the Chairman of the District Board. The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation had carried out a comprehensive beautification work on the road a couple of years ago, which had cost around Rs 2 crore. Several green zones were made, and seating areas were constructed for residents. However, the cropping up of more than a hundred shops like roadside eateries, old book shops, clothing stores, cosmetic shops on the road during the last two years gave it a clumsy look. Anis further said that the civic body had carried out announcements in the area multiple times, asking encroachers to go away but there was no response from them. “The whole stretch of footpath laid on the roadside had been encroached, leaving no space for pedestrians to walk thereby posing a safety risk for them,” he added. Raju Kumar, a cosmetic shop owner said that the drive has snatched the source of income from his family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to experience extended winter||Winter in Jharkhand to is likely to get an extension, said weatherman on Friday. The season of chill usually lasts till the second week of February. But, the frequent western disturbances are likely to extend the winter season for the state. The chill is here to stay till February end. “Another western disturbance is brewing in the northern part of the country and it is likely to impact the weather condition of Jharkhand and Bihar around February 24. Therefore, this year we are expecting winter's stay in Jharkhand as well as in Bihar till February end,” said a climate analyst at IMD’s Patna Meteorological Centre. Meanwhile, weathermen at IMD’s Ranchi Meteorological Centre today said that the minimum temperature during the next 24 hours would experience no change but thereafter it is expected to witness a fall by three to four degrees Celsius across the state. Both IMD’s Ranchi and Patna Met Centres on Friday also issued an alert about rain and thunderstorm occurring in isolated pockets of the state especially in the north-western, central, and southern parts of Jharkhand during the next 24 hours. This has been triggered by the passing western disturbance at higher altitudes. Several parts of the state including Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Bokaro, and Hazaribagh on Friday woke up to overcast conditions with haze and moderate fog. Weathermen said the cyclonic circulation prevailing over southern Uttar Pradesh between 5.8 Km and 7.6 Km above the mean sea level was responsible. Meanwhile, the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore, Calcutta, also confirmed a long winter for Jharkhand. “Such western disturbances have impacted Jharkhand’s weather in February, thereby prolonging the winter season,” explained a weather official at the Calcutta-based Regional Meteorological Centre. Meanwhile, the Indian Meteorological Department has officially bid adieu to winter with minimum readings rising over 13°C for a consistent number of days, across India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||India’s top archers to compete at state recurve archery championship||The SAIL stadium in Kasmar block of Bokaro district is geared up to host the state archery championship, which kick-starts on Saturday. The two-day event has been organised by Bokaro District Archery Association (BDAA) under the aegis of the Jharkhand Archery Association (JAA). Over 150 archers from different districts will be participating in the event. JAA vice-president SC Mohanty, during a telephonic conversation with this correspondent, mentioned that some top senior archers including the likes of Arjuna awardees Mangal Singh Champia, Jayanta Talukdar, Olympian Laxmirani Majhi, national medalists Gurucharan Besra, Binod Swansi, and Dilip Swansi will also be participating in the championship. “The state meet will be conducted in under-9, mini, sub-junior, junior, and senior categories. We are looking forward to a hassle-free event in Bokaro,” said Mohanty, who is also the joint secretary of Archery Association of India (AAI). Karan Karmakar, who is looking after the technical aspects of the state meet, said that archers have started arriving for the meet. “Most of the archers have arrived, the remaining participants are expected to reach by tomorrow morning,” he added. Mohanty said, “We already have had the state meet for the compound and Indian round (read shooting with traditional bows and arrows). We will be announcing the state squads for the Indian round, compound, recurve, and national meet in due course of time. We have some very good archers who stand a chance of bagging medals at the national meet,” he added. The junior national meet is scheduled in Dehradun between March 8 and 15, dates for the sub-junior and senior events are yet to be announced. According to JAA officials the state squad for the junior national is likely to be announced by next week, while the ones for sub-junior and senior national events by early next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand High Court denies bail to Lalu in fodder scam case||Jharkhand High Court denied bail to fodder scam convict and former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad in connection to Dumka treasury case on Friday, rejecting his counsel’s argument seeking respite on the grounds that he has served half of the total sentence. The RJD supremo’s conviction in Dumka treasury scam involves illegal withdrawals of Rs 3.13 crore. Other financial irregularities against him are related with Ranchi, Chaibasa and Deoghar treasuries, in which he had secured bails. In Dumka treasury, he was awarded a total of 14 years jail term—seven years each under two different sections — by a CBI court. While hearing Lalu’s petition on Friday, court of justice Apresh Kumar denied the bail stating that there was still time left for him to finish half the jail term. Lalu’s lawyer Prabhat Kumar told reporters that they can move a fresh petition after two months. “Court is of the view that two months are left for half of the jail term of Lalu to get over. In that case, a fresh petition will have to be moved in high court for the grant of bail,” he said. Lalu also has the option of approaching the Supreme Court but his lawyers didn’t say anything concrete on this immediately. Currently, he is in All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi for age-related ailments after being referred to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi on January 23. He was detected with pneumonia. The entire fodder scam case, in which Lalu got convicted involves embezzlement of Rs 970 crore. However, since January 2018, Lalu had been in hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||L&T officer dies after unidentified men fire at moving SUV||Unidentified men gunned down Satyendra Singh(46), equipment in-charge of Larsen and Toubro company at Pundri Mor on Hazaribagh-Barkagaon road on Friday. Out of the four rounds of bullets fired, one hit Singh’s back, which turned fatal for him. He was brought to Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. The criminals fled the spot after the bullet hit Singh when he was travelling to the L&T office at Patra village in the Keredari block, his driver Pankaj Kumar said. According to police, Singh was going to Patra when two bike riding criminals opened fire on his moving SUV at 9:45AM on Friday. SP Karthik S said a probe was launched to nab the accused. A police team, comprising Karthik, sub-divisional police officer Kamal Kishore, officers-in-charge, Ganesh Singh and Vipin Yadav reached the hospital upon getting the news. Barkagaon DSP Bhupendra Prasad reached the crime and started the investigation after the incident. Raut and Karthik said it was not clear as to who was behind this killing. A team of three doctors has been constituted at the hospital to perform an autopsy of the dead body. Singh was a resident of Vaishali district in Bihar and was living in Hazaribagh town in a rented house for work. Sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal termed the incident unfortunate and termed this as an example of deteriorating law and order of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad theatres unlikely to open from March 1 due to losses||Several single screen cinema hall operators of coal town are not willing to resume operations owing to acute losses suffered last year after the lockdown, despite the government’s nod to open theatres from March 1. Already facing issues like decreased occupancy and stiff competition from multiplexes, the lockdown has completely broken the backbone of these operators. Operators are thus demanding a 6 per cent GST relief from the state government, in line with Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. They have also asked for a on the electricity bill for the three months of lockdown and moratorium for the remaining period of closure, as has been provided by Andhra Pradesh government. “We have sent the authorities a copy of the notification of the Andhra Pradesh government where it has  provided a moratorium of six months on loan repayment and further decided to bear 4.5% subsidy on loan interest. We demand incentives on similar lines,” Puja Talkies owner Prashant Singh told The Telegraph Online. “The government has allowed us to operate with 50% capacity but is not providing any relaxation. On the top of that, we are also receiving daily calls from the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation to pay our holding tax,” he added. Singh further said that the situation in neighbouring Bihar is relatively better as Bhojpuri movies draw good viewers but in Jharkhand there is no traffic for such films. “A year-long waiver of the state share of 6 per cent GST could have helped the cinema hall operators to stand on their own feet amid the stiff competition from television and multiplexes,” Nitesh Shahabadi, owner of Ray Talkies said. Dhanbad had six operational cinema halls during the pre-lockdown period, out of which Usha Talkies in Jharia is not likely to resume operation from March 1. Till early nineties there were 30 cinema halls in Dhanbad, majority of which had closed down due to losses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Traders demand rebate on delayed payment surcharge of electricity bills||Coal town traders are upset with Jharkhand Bijli Nigam Limited (JBVNL) for imposing delayed payment surcharge (DPS) for nonpayment of electricity bills for the lockdown period. They are also miffed over the non-waiver of fixed electricity charges from April to June 2020 despite Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC) issuing an order in this regard on September 21, 2020. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Amit Sahu, President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce who also runs Sahu Lodge said, “All the shops, business, establishments, and industries remained closed during the lockdown period as per the government order. We made no income during that period.” “Those running rental accommodation face the additional burden of paying the rent and the staff payment despite having zero income. As a consequence, many of them couldn’t pay the electricity bills. And now, when they are trying to pay, they are being compelled to pay the exorbitant late payment surcharge. This is putting an extra financial burden on them,” said Sahu. He added that they have decided to raise the issue before the Managing Director of JBVNL Rahul Kumar Purwar and General Manager of Dhanbad supply area of JBVNL, Ajit Kumar, soon. “At a time when the trade industry is struggling to recuperate from the losses it suffered during the lockdown period, government-owned power company seeking high late fees will only affect trading bodies,” said Sahu. Ajay Narayan Lal, Vice president of the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce said, “The brief wedding season (November 25 to December 15) was the only time that we did little business. The profit made back then is insufficient to pay the exorbitant delayed payment surcharge. The government needs to waive off a portion of it soon.” Rajiv Sharma, general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association (JITA), said, “Not just DPC, the government should also consider waiving off of fixed charges for the three months of April to June as per JSERC order, for industries like hard coke factories. Many of the factories are still non-operational due to lack of proper supply of coal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi may soon have its traffic park to create awareness||Ranchi may soon come up with a Traffic Park, a first of its kind arena in the country, to create awareness about road safety rules, provide training on different modules of road discipline and serve as a one stop destination for all kinds of exposure related to responsible conduct of commuters while being on the move. Chief minister Hemant Soren gave his nod to the concerned departments while chairing a meeting of the state road safety council at Project Building on Thursday night. In the first phase, traffic park is conceptualised in Ranchi and will later be set up gradually in other districts to promote traffic sense among the public. The move, officials said, is among several measures which is being undertaken by the state government to curb road accidents besides routine works of vehicular checking drives, identification of black spots among others. Soren said that the idea is to instil road sense among people. "The Traffic Park should be a place of attraction for people so that they can throng here to seek tips on do’s and don'ts about traffic rules. The park should also have provisions for on-spot training facilities," he said. Soren has directed the traffic department to begin work on the park on priority basis, a communique from state IPRD department added. A senior official of Ranchi police said that they will soon identify the place for the project. "Place for setting up a traffic park will not be a problem. It can be planned at unused lands at any of the four traffic police stations in the city. We will soon hold a meeting to draw up a plan and prepare budget estimates," he said. To minimise casualties of road accidents, Soren also directed police to make police stations equipped with basic life saving gadgets like an oxygen cylinder, two stretchers and mandatory first aid kits kept at every station. He also directed police for strict implementation of the “Good Samaritan'' policy introduced by the state government recently. As per the policy, the police would not force anyone who is injured to hospital to reveal their identity if they are not willing to disclose it or detain them for interrogation. The policy also prescribes reward for such good samaritans. If two persons help in hospitalising road accident victims, they will get Rs 2,000 as incentive. An amount of Rs 5,000 would be given if more than two persons help in the hospitalisation so that the amount could be equally distributed among them. In case the police need to contact such persons in the course of enquiry or name them as witnesses under special circumstances, they should be called a minimum number of times only and the police must also deposit Rs 1,000 in their bank account every time they are called, the policy says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
