20-02-2021||Calcutta||Pamela Goswami accuses Vijayvargiya aide of conspiracy day after getting arrested||BJP's youth-wing leader Pamela Goswami, arrested in a drugs case, on Saturday demanded the arrest of party colleague Rakesh Singh, accusing him of conspiracy, and sought a CID probe into the matter. Goswami, the state secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), was arrested along with a friend, Pradip Kumar Dey, and her personal security guard from south Kolkata's New Alipore area on Friday after around 90 gm of cocaine worth lakhs of rupees was allegedly found from her handbag and car, according to police. "I want a CID investigation. BJP's Rakesh Singh, the aide of Kailash Vijayvargiya, should be arrested. This is his conspiracy," Goswami told reporters while being taken to lock-up from a city court. Singh, a BJP state committee member, alleged that the ruling Trinamul Congress and the Calcutta Police were conspiring against him and have "brainwashed" Goswami. He said that he has not been in touch with Goswami for more than a year and was ready to face any investigation. "If I am involved, they can call me or Kailash Vijayvargiya or Amit Shah. I think the police have brainwashed her. I am not in touch with Pamela for more than one-and-a half-years now," Singh told PTI. "This can be that the Calcutta Police is following the Trinamul Congress's instructions. They are conspiring against me. These are baseless accusations and I am ready to face any challenge," he added. The Trinamool Congress said that the whole episode portrays the "true character" of the BJP. "Earlier, one of their leaders was arrested for involvement in child trafficking. Now another one is arrested in the drugs case. This only proves what the BJP and its leaders are up to," TMC's secretary-general and state minister Partha Chatterjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
20-02-2021||Calcutta||Track  set for vroom fest at Shyam Business Park in Singur||Four-wheelers, two-wheelers, some with four-wheel drive gear boxes, some with just two-wheel drive gear boxes, will kick up some dust on the dirt track of Shyam Business Park in Singur this weekend. A bunch of Cedias, Polo GTs, Swifts, old Esteems, Royal Enfield Himalayas will burn rubber at the Kolkata Moto Fest 2021 in association with The Telegraph. The 900m track is a combination of dirt and tarmac, said organiser Debasish Bhattacharjee. The circuit has three straight laps ending with a circuitous lap. “There is a path of 80m that is tarmac, the rest is gravel. Four-wheelers will do two laps of this track, while two-wheelers will do five laps. There will also be a sand track that the vehicles will need to negotiate,” he said. The four-wheel contest has three categories — Modified, Open and Pro-Stock. According to engine capacity, these categories have further sub-categories like up to 1400cc, up to 1650cc and over 1651 cc to 2000 cc. Vehicles are further categorised on the basis of four-wheel drives and two-wheel drives. In the Open category, there is no restriction on engine capacity but vehicles need to be four-wheel drives to negotiate the partial sand track. The two-wheel contest has three categories — Modified, Stock and Partial Sand Track. Here, too, participants will compete according to engine size and two-stroke or four-stroke engines. Two-wheelers have been classified into up to 165cc and upwards of 165cc and 260cc groups. Trophies that will be awarded to the top three participants in every category.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
20-02-2021||Calcutta||Danish lesson for Calcutta’s water use||Only about 4 per cent of water pushed into the distribution system in Denmark is unaccounted for, the Danish ambassador said. The figure stands in stark contrast to that of Calcutta, where unaccounted for water is nearly half of what is injected into the network. “Only 4 per cent of the water that is pushed into the distribution network in Denmark is unaccounted because of leaks and other factors, whereas in most Indian cities it is about 50 per cent,” ambassador Freddy Svane told The Telegraph on the sidelines of an interaction with industry leaders at the Bengal Chamber of Commerce on Thursday. “Our endeavour is to reduce the volume of unaccounted water. We would love to work with Indian cities. We can share our knowledge in reducing the waste of water.” The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) sends 488 million gallons of water into the city’s distribution system every day, officials said. But nearly half of it goes to waste or is unaccounted for. Water resources experts said about 250 million gallons of water should be adequate to meet the daily needs of Calcutta. Unaccounted for water is the volume that is lost because of leaks in pipes. It is also the water that overflows from a reservoir. Experts have warned that non-judicious use of water will reduce the scarce resource sooner. “We are very fortunate that we have the Hooghly next to the city, which is why we are still not feeling water scarcity in a way cities like Chennai are facing. But if we keep wasting water, we will soon lose this advantage,” said Asis Majumdar, a professor of water resources engineering at Jadavpur University. A project undertaken by the CMC has revealed that Calcuttans consume abnormally high volumes of water, far surpassing the limit set by the Central Public Health and Environmental Engineering Organisation. The limit is 150 litres per person per day in metropolitan cities. As part of the project, the CMC installed water meters in wards 1 to 5 in north Calcutta to read the volume of water entering into houses. It was found that households were consuming up to 900 litres per day. “A person does not need 900 litres a day. It can only happen if water is wasted abnormally,” said a CMC engineer. Majumdar said the turbidity of the Hooghly water had increased over time. “The water that is collected from the river is more turbid and saline than before. It is pushing up costs of treatment. A time will come when the treatment costs will become so high that the government will find it difficult to increase production. That will lead to water scarcity. So it is time we stopped wasting water and use it judiciously,” Majumdar said.   Smita Bajoria, the honourary consul general of Denmark in Calcutta, will be conferred the Order of Danneborg on Saturday. The medal will be handed over to Bajoria by Svane.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
20-02-2021||Calcutta|| BJP leader Pamela Goswami held over ‘powder’||A secretary of the state unit of the BJP’s youth wing, Pamela Goswami, was arrested on Friday for allegedly carrying a white powdery substance in her bag. “Acting on a tip-off, New Alipore police station conducted an operation and spotted a Honda BR-V car in front of Parameswari Bhawan on Nalini Ranjan Avenue, Block B, in New Alipore. On searching, approximately 90g of suspected cocaine worth approximately Rs 10 lakh was found,” said deputy commissioner (south) Sudheer Kumar Neelkantam. Goswami, 23, Prabir Kumar Dey, 38, and Somnath Chatterjee, 26, have been arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, he said. They will be produced in Alipore court on Saturday. Dey has been identified as Goswami’s friend, while Chatterjee is a private guard engaged for her protection. The police said some white powder in small packets was found inside Goswami’s handbag and some were found on the front seat of the car. Senior police officers said the charges were drawn only after prima facie confirmation that the white substance found in the car was a banned psychotropic substance. According to the rule, a chemical is used to carry out an indicative spot test to confirm whether a white powder is cocaine. A positive result is enough to register a case. For an assertive test, a sample of the seized material will be sent to the forensic laboratory, whose reports will be considered as evidence in court. Goswami, who joined the BJP in 2019, is one of the state secretaries of the BJP Yuva Morcha and an observer for the youth wing’s Hooghly zone. An active member of the party, she rose through the ranks over the past few months and had become a regular face in party meetings and gatherings in Calcutta, sources in the BJP said. The Yuva Morcha’s state president, Saumitra Khan, was a mentor to the young leader, said sources in the party. When a lot of attention was directed towards Khan on Friday, he rubbished the allegations against his party colleague and dubbed her arrest a “political conspiracy”. “This is nothing but a political conspiracy. They felt threatened by Pamela because she is young and yet doing good political work in south Calcutta and Bhowanipore. We will provide legal support to her on behalf of Yuva Morcha,” Khan said. The punishment for carrying up to 100g of cocaine, under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, can vary from six months to 10 years in jail. Carrying more than 100g of cocaine invites a jail term varying between 10 and 20 years. Senior officers in the narcotics department said one gram of cocaine is enough for an individual to snort and it was rare for a person to procure 90g at a time for personal use. “It is extremely expensive and not many can afford such a large quantity at a time,” said an officer of the narcotics department. BJP leader Locket Chatterjee said the allegations were false. “The police used to frame our leaders with ganja (cannabis) cases. Now they are framing women leaders with cocaine. This is how they want to stop the BJP. This is absolutely a conspiracy against us,” Chatterjee alleged. Goswami, Dey and the guard were taken to New Alipore police station for examination. Sources said they allegedly failed to explain the presence of the banned psychotropic substance in their possession. The red vehicle in which they were travelling was intercepted in the middle of Nalini Ranjan Avenue in New Alipore by eight police cars, apparently waiting after a tip-off, police sources said. As the red vehicle came to a halt and its occupants stepped out, wondering why they were stopped in the middle of the road, women police officers in plainclothes emerged out of the police vehicles and started searching the car.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
20-02-2021||Calcutta||JEE forms to be submitted online between February 23 and March 23||The students planning to write the Bengal joint entrance examination have to submit forms online between February 23 and March 23. The pen-and-paper exam, which one has to crack to gain entry into an engineering college in the state, will be held on July 11. Details in the application can be corrected online from March 24 to 26 and admit cards can be downloaded from July 6 to 11. The state JEE board announced the schedule in its information brochure, which has been uploaded on the board’s website www.wbjeeb. nic.in The candidates will write the mathematics paper in the first half (11am to 1pm) and physics and chemistry in the second half (2pm to 4pm). “The date for the publication of the results will be notified later,” JEE board chairman Malayendu Saha said. The information brochure states that “all dates are tentative and can be changed in extraordinary circumstances’’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
20-02-2021||Calcutta||Car hurtles into water, one dead in Thakurpukur||A car apparently lost control and broke through the fencing of a water treatment plant in Thakurpukur and plunged into the water around 10feet below on Friday afternoon. A man’s body was fished out of the water an hour later. Police said they would continue searching the water body on Saturday in case there was anyone else in the car. A driving license found in the car read “Sonai Ghosh”, a resident of RN Tagore Road in Thakurpukur. The police said late on Friday the victim was Sanjit Das and he was driving his friend’s car. The incident happened around 3.45pm when people at Dhalipara Jheelpark spotted a car travelling fast towards the water treatment plant, the police said. “The car was moving at a high speed. Before any of us could react, it rammed into the mesh fencing of the water body and fell into the water,” aid an eyewitness. Personnel of the disaster management group started the rescue operation around 4.30pm, the police said. “All the windows and doors were closed when the car was pulled out of the water. On opening the driver’s door, water gushed out of the car and a man was found in an unconscious state on the driver’s seat,” said an officer of Haridevpur police station. The man was taken to hospital, where he was declared dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
20-02-2021||Calcutta||Tough time for Covid-19 vaccine counsellors||⚫I have taken a Covid vaccine and so have hundreds of others. Nothing untoward has happened to any of us. So, it’s safe for you, too. ⚫We have all treatment facilities at the hospital. If you fall sick after taking a vaccine dose, we can take care of you. ⚫Since you are a government employee who has to take part in public interactions, it’s your duty to take a vaccine to keep yourself as well as those who come in contact with you safe. In the absence of much knowledge about possible adverse reactions and efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines, these are the only words of motivation used by the authorities at various hospitals across Bengal to motivate potential recipients who are still reluctant to take a dose. Doctors and public health experts said they were unable to answer a lot of queries in the absence of enough data. The Centre has said all health-care workers should be given the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine by February 20. Till Thursday (February 18), only about 80 per cent of the health-care workers were inoculated. A doctor at a private hospital was suffering from herpes infection on the day he was to get a shot. Another doctor at the hospital, who counsels potential recipients, said he had no idea whether someone suffering from herpes could take a Covid vaccine. So he advised his colleague to defer the vaccination. Several others said that in the absence of guidelines, they were asking potential recipients to defer the vaccination when faced with similar situations. “The health ministry has issued guidelines for Covid vaccination. But many recipients are approaching us with situations that are not covered by the guidelines or during the training sessions. In such cases, we are not taking chances and are asking them not to take the shots for the time being,” the CEO of a private hospital said. Some doctors who are counselling colleagues to take vaccines said they were banking on clinical judgements to answer many queries. “There are a lot of unexpected situations which the guidelines do not mention. Someone with a health condition is asking whether he can take a Covid vaccine. We are using our clinical judgement to guide such persons but in most cases we are advising them to delay the vaccination,” infectious disease expert Chandramouli Bhattacharya said. “For some people who are on long-term significant immunosuppressive drugs, it is better to delay the vaccination if the treating doctor says the dosage of the drugs will be reduced soon. Because otherwise, the vaccine might not be very effective,” he said. At a meeting on Friday, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay asked senior officials of the health department to increase the number of vaccination sites and ensure that all potential recipients get to know about their vaccination date and time. “The chief secretary asked us to ensure that everyone gets the communication about the vaccination date and time. He stressed the need to send the message to all healthcare workers that they have to get the first dose of a vacc-ine by February 25,” said an official of the health department. “Opening more vaccination sites will mean taking the inoculation closer to a health-care worker’s home,” the official said. Officials, however, pointed out that there were already enough sites in most districts. Two officials said Calcutta and North 24-Parganas have 70 sites each and they felt the numbers were quite high. “There are many sites where the number of people turning up is much lower compared with the targeted figure,” said an official. The reluctance among a section of recipients to take the shots and lethargy among those who are administering them were the two factors responsible for the slow pace. Lack of enough data about the efficacy of Covaxin (one of the two vaccines approved for emergency use in India, the other being Covishield) is one major reason for the reluctance. According to health department officials, out of more than 6.5 lakh doses administered, only 26,500 were of Covaxin. On Friday, only about 60 per cent of the targeted vaccine doses could be administered. “Many recipients do not want to take Covaxin. Also, there is a lot of documentation involved, including signing a consent form. All these are preventing Covaxin numbers from going up,” said a health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
20-02-2021||Calcutta||Compensation order to Calcutta hospitals||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Friday asked BM Birla Heart Research Centre and Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) to pay Rs 2 lakh each to the families of two patients who acquired infections while in hospital. Both patients, who were admitted for other illnesses, passed away, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. A 58-year-old man was admitted to BM Birla Heart Research Centre in September 2019 to undergo a surgical procedure. The surgery was conducted but he acquired an infection at the hospital. Banerjee said the man did not have the infection when he was admitted. “We examined the medical records and found that he had acquired the infection while he was admitted there. Since this happened inside the hospital, we asked the hospital to pay the family Rs 2 lakh as compensation,” said Banerjee. A similar complaint was lodged against RTIICS by the family of a 67-year-old man who was admitted with neurological ailments but developed pneumonia in the hospital, said Banerjee. “We asked RTIICS to pay Rs 2 lakh to the man’s family because the patient got infected with pneumonia after he was admitted in the hospital. The patient died eventually,” said Banerjee. KPC Medical College was asked to pay Rs 1 lakh to the family of man who developed bedsores while in hospital. The commission also asked Institute of Neurosciences to pay Rs 1 lakh to the family of an 80-year-old man who was not allowed to be taken into the hospital from the ambulance in the early days of the pandemic because doctors who examined him said he had no neurological ailments. “The man’s family said that doctors said he had cardiac ailments and since the hospital was a place for neurological treatment, they cannot admit the patient,” Banerjee. “We told the hospital that it was not possible for the family to know if it was a cardiac ailment or neurological ailment. When the man was taken to the hospital it was their responsibility to give primary and arrange to shift the man to a hospital that would treat cardiac ailment.” The commission asked the hospital to pay Rs 1 lakh to the family as it did not find the hospital’s conduct proper. Lila Hospital in Berhampore was asked to pay the family of a woman Rs 3 lakh. The woman died after giving birth to a child. Banerjee said that though the woman had developed complications post-surgery, the hospital had failed to notice that and take appropriate steps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
20-02-2021||Calcutta||The Telegraph Auto Weekend Carnival revs up to a flying start||The first day, first show of the much-awaited The Telegraph Auto Weekend Carnival revved up to a flying start. The latest models from the major marquees drew crowds as potential buyers made a beeline to check out the variants and the deals on offer at the Carnival, which will be held at City Centre Salt Lake till February 21 (11am to 8pm). Some booked test drives, others did test rides and gathered price lists as personal mobility is on a post-pandemic surge. Electric vehicles, internal combustion engines (ICEs), diesel powertrains — customers can take their pick. Hyundai, the South Korean auto major which completes 25 years of operation in India, is at the carnival with its latest transmission technology, the iMT (intelligent Manual Transmission) that does away with the clutch. MG’s ZS is the electric vehicle to watch out, while Kia, Hyundai’s sister company, is luring buyers with its seven-seater Caravan and small SUV Sonet, which also has an iMT. “We are participating in such a physical event for the first time since the pandemic started. We are eager to have our customers come and see, touch and feel our cars,” said the Hyundai representative at the carnival. The just launched Renault Kiger, a compact SUV from the French company, drew a lot of gaze. “We are old participants in this carnival and we knew that if physical marketing were to begin, it had to be here,” said a Central Renault spokesperson. It was MG’s ZS EV that stole the show with its charging port in the grille. Visitors milled around this electric vehicle asking for its range and price. “I am interested in EVs but am not sure if there will be enough charging stations on roads,” said Aniruddha Sen, a visitor. At the centerstage of the Kund was Japanese maker Nissan’s baby, the Magnite, the most affordable B-segment SUV. The company is also betting on its SUV Kicks to draw some enquiries. Also, the newly launched Volkswagen Polo together with its premium SUV Tiguan All Space drew customers. Premium bike maker BMW Motorrad is participating in the carnival for the first time. “We have come here with our 300cc bikes, the 310 R and 310 GS, the most affordable range. We want Calcuttans to be familiar with our brand and our products,” said a dealer representative. Both the bikes from Motorrad are for a pocket pinch of Rs 3,15,000 and Rs 3,55,000, respectively. Giving Motorrad company was Piaggio Vespa and Aprilia. The sunshine yellow Vespa ZX, a 125 cc scooter, was a show stealer as was the Aprilia Storm and Aprilia SXR, a 125 cc and a 160 cc motorbike from the Italian maker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
20-02-2021||Business||Mamata Banerjee to skip PM Niti meet||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to skip the Niti Aayog’s governing council meeting to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 20, sources said on Friday. The council, the apex body of the government’s think tank, includes all chief ministers, lieutenant governors of Union Territories (UTs), several Union ministers and senior government officials. The meeting will discuss  issues related to agriculture, infrastructure, manufacturing and human resource development. “Mamata Banerjee may not attend the Niti Aayog’s February 20 meeting,” a senior TMC leader said on condition of anonymity. Banerjee in 2019 had skipped the Niti Aayog’s meetings and termed it as a “fruitless” exercise, alleging that the body has “no financial power” and cannot support the state plans. She had stated that the Planning Commission was more effective than the Niti Aayog and sought its return. Banerjee had said that the Planning Commission had a bottom-up approach where the body would hold regular meetings with state governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||WhatsApp sticks with changed privacy rules  ||WhatsApp will display a banner on the app providing users with more information on its privacy policy and terms of use update that has drawn massive criticism over concerns on data sharing with parent Facebook. The contentious policy — whose rollout date was pushed to May 15 from February 8 — however, remains unchanged. In a blogpost on Friday, WhatsApp said: “We’ve also included more information to try and address concerns we’re hearing. Eventually, we’ll start reminding people to review and accept these updates to keep using WhatsApp.” The Facebook-owned company, in an e-mailed response, said the new in-app notification looks different from the one users saw in January and that has been redesigned based on feedback from users. “...but the terms of service and privacy policy remain the same. As a reminder, this update does not change the privacy of people’s personal conversations and does not expand our ability to share data with Facebook,” WhatsApp said. A raging debate erupted last month after WhatsApp said it will update its terms of service and privacy policy around how it processes user data and partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant's products. The Indian government had asked WhatsApp to withdraw the changes, saying unilateral changes are unfair and unacceptable, and that not giving users an option to opt out raised “grave concerns regarding the implications for the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens”. It had also questioned why Indian users are being subjected to differential treatment when compared to their European counterparts where the changes do not apply. After the public outcry, WhatsApp had decided to delay the rollout of its new policy update to May 15. “After May 15, people who haven’t accepted the privacy policy can still receive calls and get notifications, but they’ll need to agree to the update to send messages,” it said. It added that in accordance with its policies, user accounts will remain active to allow them to accept the new terms of service and updates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||Semiconductor crunch leaves carmakers with stark choice||The semiconductor crunch that has battered the auto sector leaves carmakers with a stark choice: pay up, stock up or risk getting stuck on the sidelines as chipmakers focus on more lucrative business elsewhere. Car manufacturers, including Volkswagen, Ford and General Motors, have cut output as the chip market was swept clean by makers of consumer electronics such as smartphones — the chip industry’s preferred customers because they buy more advanced, higher-margin chips. The semiconductor shortage — over $800 worth of silicon is packed into a modern electric vehicle — has exposed the disconnect between an auto industry spoilt by decades of just-in-time deliveries and an electronics industry supply chain it can no longer bend to its will. “The car sector has been used to the fact that the whole supply chain is centred around cars,” said McKinsey partner Ondrej Burkacky. “What has been overlooked is that semiconductor makers actually do have an alternative.” Automakers are responding to the shortage by lobbying governments to subsidise the construction of more chip-making capacity. In Germany, Volkswagen has pointed the finger at suppliers, saying it gave them timely warning last April - when much global car production was idled due to the coronavirus pandemic — that it expected demand to recover strongly in the second half. That complaint by the world’s No.2 volume carmaker cuts little ice with chipmakers, who say the auto industry is both quick to cancel orders in a slump and to demand investment in new production in a recovery. “Last year we had to furlough staff and bear the cost of carrying idle capacity,” said a source at one European semiconductor maker, who spoke on condition of anonymity. “If the carmakers are asking us to invest in new capacity, can they please tell us who will pay for that idle capacity in the next downturn?” Low-tech customer The auto industry spends around $40 billion a year on chips — about a tenth of the global market. By comparison, Apple spends more on chips just to make its iPhones, Mirabaud tech analyst Neil Campling reckons. Moreover, the chips used in cars tend to be basic products such as micro controllers made under contract at older foundries - hardly the leading-edge production technology in which chipmakers would be willing to invest. “The suppliers are saying: ‘If we continue to produce this stuff there is nowhere else for it to go. Sony isn’t going to use it for a Playstation 5 or Apple for its next iPhone’,” said Asif Anwar at Strategy Analytics. Chipmakers were surprised by the panicked reaction of the German car industry, which persuaded Economy Minister Peter Altmaier to write a letter in January to his counterpart in Taiwan to ask for more chips. No extra supplies were forthcoming, with one German industry source joking that the Americans stood a better chance of getting more chips from Taiwan because they could at least park an aircraft carrier off the coast — referring to the ability of the US to project power in Asia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||Bank locker rules to be recast||The Supreme Court on Friday said banks cannot wash off their hands towards customers for the operation of lockers and directed the RBI to lay down regulations within six months, mandating the steps to be taken by banks to manage lockers. A bench comprising Justices M. M. Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran said with the advent of globalisation, banking institutions have acquired a very significant role in the life of the common man as both domestic and international economic transactions within the country have increased multiple folds. The top court said people are hesitant to keep their liquid assets at home as “we are moving towards a cashless economy”. “Thus, as is evident from the rising demand for such services, lockers have become an essential service provided by every banking institution. Such services may be availed of by citizens as well as by foreign nationals,” the bench said. Moreover, due to rapid gains in technology, “we are now transitioning from dual key­operated lockers to electronically operated lockers”, the top court said. In the electronically operated lockers, though the customer may have partial access to the locker through passwords or ATM PIN they are unlikely to possess the technological know­how to control the operation of such lockers, the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||Gold dips to its lowest in 8 months||Gold prices in India fell to an eight-month low on Friday and dipped below Rs 46,000 per 10 gram, tracking global rates as a rise in US treasury yields and a recovery in the US economy have dimmed the lustre of its appeal as a safe-haven asset in times of crisis. The yellow metal is now cheaper by Rs 10,000 per 10 gram from its August 2020 highs when it was over Rs 56,000. On Friday, prices in the national capital fell Rs 239 to Rs 45,568 per 10 gram, according to HDFC Securities. In the previous trade, it had closed at Rs 45,807 per 10 gram. In the global market, the metal was quoting lower at $1,774 per ounce. At the MCX, gold futures were trading at Rs 46,126 per 10 gram after hitting a low of Rs 45,861 during intra-day trade. Tapan Patel, senior analyst (commodities) at HDFC Securities, said that prices of the precious metal traded weak with Comex spot gold prices trading near $1,774 per ounce. Patel added that gold was under pressure because of the rise in bond yields which dampened demand for the safe-haven investment. Further, the risk-on sentiments have driven investors out of precious metals with gold ETF holdings at SPDR gold shares falling to 1,132 tonnes. After hitting record peaks last year, gold prices have softened in 2021. According to Nish Bhatt, founder and CEO of Millwood Kane International, the rise in the US treasury yields and stronger dollar, optimism of a larger economic stimulus package and the vaccination drive have led to downside pressure on gold prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||Ford puts on hold all projects with M&M||Ford Motor Company has reportedly frozen all its ongoing projects with Mahindra & Mahindra as it draws  up a new strategy for India. Ford and Mahindra at the turn of the year had said they had stopped their negotiations on a joint venture citing changes in the global economic and business conditions, partly because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Since then the two companies said they would reassess their capital allocation priorities. Consequently, Ford said it would continue with its Indian operations independently. In October 2019, Mahindra and Ford had announced the signing of a definitive agreement to create a joint venture that will develop, market and distribute Ford brand vehicles in India and Mahindra brand vehicles in high-growth emerging markets around the world. The joint venture, in which Mahindra was to hold a 51 percent controlling stake, would have seen Ford transferring its India operations to this enterprise, including its personnel and assembly plants in Chennai and Sanand in Gujarat. They had also planned to develop at least three sports utility vehicles (SUVs) for India and the emerging markets as well as powertrains and technology. A Reuters report citing sources said that Ford is weighing options which could include working out a new relationship with Mahindra or ending their relationship and related vehicles completely. The report added that a decision could be taken in a month on whether to join hands with Mahindra in a different form or not. This comes at a time Ford’s current CEO Jim Farley wants Indian operations to be more profitable. Among the SUVs which were to be built was a mid-sized vehicle that would be made by Mahindra on its platform and powertrain. This was scheduled to be launched in 2022. Here, the report added that Ford is also negotiating new terms for an engine M&M was to supply for its EcoSport SUV later this year. When they terminated their joint venture on January 1, Ford said that it was actively evaluating its businesses around the world, including in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||Centre unveils LNG policy prop for trucks||The government has unveiled a draft LNG policy that seeks to incentivise truck fleets in the country to switch to LNG use. It also aims to raise the LNG regasification terminal capacity to 100 million tonnes (mt) per year by 2040 from 40 mt and build LNG filling terminals across the country’s highways. The policy said LNG as an import substitute of petrol and diesel can save foreign exchange worth $200 million per mt per annum. The policy set a target to increase the country’s LNG re-gasification capacity to 70mt by 2030 and 100mt by 2040. The policy prepared by the petroleum ministry aims to set up a framework for the promotion of gas and find ways for LNG adoption in sectors which currently does not use it as a fuel. The policy targets to convert 10 per cent of long haul heavy duty trucks to ply on LNG. The timeline to achieve the target has not been specified in the draft document. The automotive companies will be incentivised towards manufacturing LNG-based heavy vehicles and creating ancillary manufacturing units through tax exemptions and green certifications, the draft policy said. There is also a plan to create enabling infrastructure to transport LNG through railways and trucks. The policy envisages promotion of dedicated highways with extensive LNG infrastructure. Besides, there are plans to establish 1,000 LNG outlets for long-haul, heavy-duty trucks and other vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||ED to probe Amazon deals for irregularities||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is understood to be examining the reports of Amazon.com Inc giving preferential treatment to a small group of sellers on its India platform for years and using them to evade the country’s foreign investment rules, weeks after the agency initiated a probe against the e-commerce giant. The first one was whether Amazon violated any provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema) in a 2019 deal with the Future group. On Wednesday, a Reuters report based on internal Amazon documents between 2012 and 2019 said around 33 sellers made for about a third of the value of all goods sold on its platform in early 2019. The report added that two sellers Cloudtail and Appario in which Amazon held indirect stakes contributed to around 35 per cent to the website’s sales revenue in that same period. Effectively, close to 35 of Amazon’s more than 400,000 sellers in the country made up for two-thirds of its sales. However, Amit Agarwal, Amazon India chief, told its employees in an internal email that the report was factually incorrect. An Amazon India spokesperson also said the company remained compliant with all the Indian laws. But on Thursday, a Reuters report quoting a senior ED official said the enforcement agency would examine the findings of the story and that the matter “was not entirely new’’ to it. Traders body Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has urged the Centre to impose a ban on Amazon’s e-commerce portal and its operations in India even as it accused the company of indulging in predatory pricing, deep discounting and inventory control. CAIT secretary-general Praveen Khandelwal demanded an “immediate ban on Amazon’s portal and its operations in India” and an investigation against the company in a time-bound manner. Amazon at present is engaged in a legal battle with the Future group on the latter’s Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. Last week, Amazon challenged an order of the division bench of the Delhi high court that had stayed an earlier order of the same court directing Future Retail Ltd and other statutory authorities to maintain status quo on the deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||Centre to contest Cairn Energy award||The Modi government has decided to challenge the international arbitration award that went in favour of Cairn Energy plc even as the finance ministry held talks for the second day with the officials of the exploration company. The government is likely to file an appeal against the Cairn arbitration award insisting on its sovereign right to taxation, sources said. Soon after the second meeting in as many days between Cairn CEO Simon Thomson and finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey ended, official sources said the government intended to defend its sovereign right and would file an appeal against tribunal order asking India to return $1.4 billion to the British company. The government will also strongly contest other suits filed by Cairn Energy at various international courts, they said, adding any dispute resolution by Cairn must be within already existing laws. However, sources said the option of India appealing against the verdict did not figure in the talks between the two sides either on Thursday or Friday. Cairn on its part remained tightlipped on the discussions it had only initiated to recover the sum. “Constructive dialogue is continuing,” Thomson said after the meeting on Friday. He did not elaborate. Sources said the government was aware of the legal consequences and was weighing all its options. “The fact that a second round of meeting was sought by the finance ministry indicates their eagerness to avoid any legal consequences and look for a resolution,” they said. The options discussed at the meeting were not immediately known. An international tribunal in December had unanimously ruled that India violated its obligations under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty in 2014. The income-tax department had slapped a Rs 10,247-crore tax assessment using legislation that gave it powers to levy taxes retrospectively. The verdict meant the Indian government would have to pay an overall $1.4 billion in damages for wrongfully claiming it was entitled to capital gains tax of Rs 24,000 crore on a corporate restructuring exercise conducted in 2006. The payout stems from an initial tax demand of Rs 10,247 crore on Cairn U.K. Holdings Ltd that rose to over Rs 22,000 crore with penalties and interest. The tax department recovered part of the dues via the sale of Cairn assets. Cairn sold its stake in Cairn India to Anil Agarwal's Vedanta in 2011 but retained a rump stake that was impounded by the govt preventing the its exit from India. Cairn Energy has filed suits in the US, UK and the Netherlands in an attempt to get the court to allow it to claim possession of the Indian government’s assets to realise the arbitration which the Centre has shown no sign of paying the money. It had filed a petition in a Washington DC federal court on February 12 and followed that up with filings in the UK and the Netherlands. India had previously lost another major international arbitration case against Vodafone over a $2 billion retrospective tax dispute. The government has challenged the verdict. In a letter to the Indian government last month, Cairn had said its shareholders “expect an early resolution, failing which they will expect Cairn to pursue the award in conformity with its rights under the treaty”. Earlier this month, minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur had told the Lok Sabha that the Cairn arbitration award was “under consideration of the government”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
20-02-2021||India||Air India Express plane hits electric pole while taxiing at Vijayawada airport||A Boeing aircraft of Air India Express suffered minor damage on its right-wing after it hit an electric pole while taxiing on the runway at the Vijayawada airport on Saturday evening, but all 64 passengers aboard were safe, airport officials said. The flight landed at the airport at Gannavaram from Doha, en route Tiruchirappalli in Tamil Nadu, when the mishap occurred, according to airport director Madhusudana Rao. Of the 64, 19 passengers were to disembark at Vijayawada while the rest were bound for Tiruchirappalli. One of the passengers, Reshma of Nidadavole, said it was a happy landing finally though there was a bit of panic when there was a sudden jerk during taxiing. "By God's grace there was nothing untoward. The airlines staff said the mishap was only minor, which came as a big relief to us," another passenger Varalakshmi of Kakinada said. The aircraft had been grounded in Vijayawada even as the authorities were making alternative arrangements for flying the 45 passengers to Tiruchirappalli later tonight, airport sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
20-02-2021||India||Covid cases rise in 5 states, Centre issues statement||Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have been witnessing a rise in daily Covid cases, the Centre informed on Saturday. The upward spiral comes after an ebb which began in November-December and amid a race to push forward the vaccination process. The Centre has said that more than 1.07 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far to health workers and frontline workers for Covid. "In the past week, Maharashtra has exhibited a spike in the number of daily new cases, accounting for highest number of daily new cases in the country today. In last 24 hours, 6,112 daily new case has been reported in the state," the Centre said. "Similar to Maharashtra, Punjab has also shown a sudden spike in the number of daily new cases reported in last 7 days with 383 daily new cases in last 24 hours," read the statement from the government. The authorities in Maharashtra have attributed the rise to a laxity in implementing ]safety measures, especially since local trains started running. On Thursday, strict measures were announced in Mumbai and the two districts of Amravati and Yavatmal. Mumbai Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said citizens flouting rules for home isolation, weddings and public gatherings will be prosecuted. Besides, 300 marshals will be appointed to take action against passengers travelling without mask in suburban railways, the city's civic body said. The aim will be to catch 25,000 offenders every day. Since, Feb 13, 2021, Madhya Pradesh is also witnessing a rise in number of daily new cases. In last 24 hours, 297 daily new cases have been registered in the state, the Centre said. Over the last seven days, Chhattisgarh has also seen a rise in daily active new cases. In last 24 hours, 259 daily new cases have been reported, the Centre said. "Adherence of Covid appropriate behavior is strongly reiterated for breaking the chain of transmission of the virus and containment of spread of the disease," the statement read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
20-02-2021||India||This government is weak and will have to back down: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Likening Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the character of an arrogant king, ahankari raja, from stories of yore, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday said he is unable to understand that the jawan' who has kept the country safe is also the son of a farmer. Addressing a kisan mahapanchayat attended by thousands of people in Muzaffarnagar, the Congress leader attacked the prime minister on a range of issues, including the price of diesel, and alleged that he did not listen to farmers demanding a rollback of the agri laws because his politics were aimed only at himself and his billionaire friends. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra urged the protesting farmers to stay strong; "this government is weak... this government will have to back down," she said as reported by NDTV. She said the arrogant king from old stories would confine himself to his palace as his rule expanded. People started feeling afraid of telling the truth in front of him they would be grovelling. It seems our prime minister has also become an arrogant king of that type." "He is unable to understand that the jawan who has kept this country safe is a son of a farmer," she told the gathering. Launching a scathing attack against the prime minister, Priyanka Gandhi said government mandis' and the minimum support price (MSP) system would come to an end with the new farm laws. “Your rights will also end. The way in which he has sold the entire country to his two-three friends, in the same way he wants to sell you, your land, and earnings to his billionaire friends," she alleged. In 2018, Priyanka Gandhi said, the cost of diesel was Rs 60 and today it is Rs 80 somewhere and Rs 90 elsewhere. "The electricity bill has increased, the price of the gas cylinder keeps on increasing, but you are not getting the price for your sugarcane. It is at the same place," she said. "The BJP government earned Rs 3.5 lakh crore by imposing tax on diesel last year. I want to ask where the money has gone. Why has the person who works day and night for the country, and irrigates it with his blood and sweat not got this money?" she asked. The Congress leader said there was nobody to listen to the farmer who is being harassed. Referring to the ongoing farmer protests against the agri laws at various Delhi border points, she said "The Delhi border is five-six kilometres away from the residence of Narendra Modi-ji. And the prime minister, who can go to the United States, China and Pakistan, and tour the entire world he could not go to the lakhs of farmers, nor wipe their tears, nor listen to their views. Why? Because his politics are only for himself and his billionaire and capitalist friends." Priyanka Gandhi told the gathering they would be surprised to see how much one or two billionaire friends had earned at a time the entire country is groaning and payments have not been made. "Crores were earned, and you are sitting on roads, fighting for your rights and agitating, and no one is there to listen to you," she said. Elaborating on the farm laws, the Congress general secretary said the prime minister maintained the laws were made for the farmers. So can they say, which farmer has made it, which farmer was consulted. And if the farmers of the entire country are saying that Pradhan Mantriji, we do not need these laws, then why these laws are not withdrawn, why are they not scrapped?" Priyanka Gandhi asked. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops. The government has denied allegations that it was trying to put an end to the MSP and the mandi system. Modi has also assured farmers that the MSP would continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||Unleash 'animal spirits' and increase investments to make India fastest growing economy: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday exhorted the private sector to take advantage of corporate tax rate cut and other initiatives of the government, and unleash 'animal spirits' by enhancing investments to make India one of the fastest-growing economies of the world. The government has been waiting for the expansion by the private sector, she said while reminding India Inc of various measures including corporate tax rate cut, policy consistency, ease of doing business, among others to facilitate investment. “We need capacities to be ramped up, we need expansion, we need more production of many such items which are required for the economy. I would invite business leaders...post the corporate tax rate reduction I've been waiting to see expansion happening,” she said. In the biggest reduction in 28 years, the government in September 2019 slashed corporate tax rates by up to 10 percentage points to attract private investment and reinvigorate the sagging economy. The tax break resulted in financial implication of Rs 1.45 lakh crore on the exchequer. Base corporate tax rate for existing companies was reduced to 22 per cent from 30 per cent, and to 15 per cent from 25 per cent for manufacturing firms incorporated after October 1, 2019, and starting operations before March 31, 2023. "So I would like to see now that the policy is clear, tax rates have been brought down, policy consistency has been underlined and ease of doing business is still going further. I would now like to see private investors and private industry...coming forward with the so called 'animal spirits' to show that it is possible to pull India up and keep it high as one of the fastest growing economies. It is now on your shoulder entirely," she said. Addressing industry leaders at an All India Management Association (AIMA) virtual event, the Finance Minister said the recent Budget has addressed several issues which were so critical for India to have a clearer path for the next decade or more. The Budget 2021-22 comes against the backdrop of the pandemic and contraction of the economy to give a sense of certainty to businesses that policies will remain predictable and therefore businesses can continue to concentrate on their core activities, she said. With regard to disinvestment, the Finance Minister said the government has identified the core sector where it will have bare minimum presence and the rest will be allowed for public-private partnership. The past strategy of disinvestment in trickles has not really been so successful in spreading the ownership pattern, she said, adding, it was not enthusiastically received. "So, I want to have an efficient, more meaningful, purpose serving way in which our taxpayers' money should be spent...the disinvestment of units or privatisation of units is not because we want them to be closed down," she said. The government wants these units to be running, to be kept up and running professionally as the economy has very high demand for many of these items of production such as steel, coal or copper, or many such things in which PSUs are there for decades now. She urged the industry to make best of the disinvestment policy announced in the Budget. Earlier this month, the Finance Minister presented a Rs 34.8 lakh crore-Budget for 2021-22. The Budget has laid emphasis on increasing capital expenditure, raising allocation for healthcare capacity building and development of agriculture infrastructure, among others, which are expected to have a multiplier effect on the economy. Sitharaman said spending is required this year as well as next year for sustaining growth. Therefore, the government has committed to spend on infrastructure and capital expenditure over the next several years which will give the multiplier effect, she added. About 7,000 projects have been identified under the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) with projected investment of a whopping Rs 111 lakh crore during 2020-25. On the fiscal deficit management, she said, the government has given a glide path and asked the rating agencies to see the Budget numbers in the light of pandemic. Hit hard by the pandemic, fiscal deficit the excess of government expenditure over its revenues is estimated to hit a record high of 9.5 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2020-21. For 2021-22, the deficit has been pegged at 6.8 per cent of GDP, which will be further lowered to 4.5 per cent by the fiscal ending March 31, 2026. "We are very clearly telling even the credit rating agencies that every country is going through this pandemic, and every country has to spend to keep the stimulus going. "So every country's ratings will have to be in relative terms..However, because we've given the glide path, fiscal deficit is something which we'll watch, probably after the stimulus has shown clear impact on the ground," she said. Speaking at the event Kotak Mahindra Bank Managing Director Uday Kotak said the government in coordination with the RBI has played a role to ensure that the interest rates remain stable. He also expressed hope that rates would remain stable over the next 12-18 months. "We need to ensure that as the size of the borrowing goes up, we are able to keep the long-term interest rates stable, on the basis of which business and industry take the investment decisions," Kotak said. Exuding confidence that the future of India is bright, Kotak said: "We now really need to get our animal spirits back... and the time has come for us to walk the talk."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||Delhi court reserves Disha Ravi’s bail plea order for Tuesday||There is no evidence to show that the toolkit on farmers' protest is responsible for the violence on January 26, activist Disha Ravi's counsel told a Delhi court which reserved for Tuesday its order on her bail plea. "If highlighting farmers' protest globally is sedition, I'm better in jail," Ravi said through her counsel on Saturday. Ravi's counsel was submitting arguments after the Delhi Police opposed her bail plea, alleging she was preparing the toolkit with those advocating Khalistan and was part of a global conspiracy to defame India and create unrest in the country in the garb of farmers' protest. "This was not just a toolkit. The real plan was to defame India and create unrest here," the police said before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana. It alleged that Ravi deleted WhatsApp chats, emails and other evidence and was aware of legal actions she could face. Why did Disha Ravi cover her track and delete evidence if she did not commit wrong, the police said, alleging that this shows her guilty mind and sinister design. Ravi "was part of the Indian chapter of the global conspiracy to defame India and create unrest in the garb of farmers' protest," it alleged, adding she was in touch and preparing and sharing toolkit with those advocating Khalistan "It shows there was a sinister design behind this toolkit," the police told the court. However, Ravi's lawyer rejected the allegations. "There is no evidence to link me with Sikhs For Justice, a banned organisation. And even if I (Ravi) meet someone, there is no symbol on him that he is a secessionist," the defence counsel said. "The Delhi police gave permission for the farmers' march, which they're claiming that I (Ravi) asked people to join, so how did I become seditious," the lawyer said in court. There's nobody arrested in connection with violence at Red Fort who says he was inspired for the same because of the toolkit, Ravi's counsel claimed, adding there is no evidence to show that the toolkit is responsible for violence during farmers' march. The counsel also questioned the contents of the FIR and asserted that people can have a different point of view on a subject. "There is an allegation in FIR that Yoga and Chai are being targeted. Is it an offence? We are now reducing the bar that somebody can't have a different point of view," Ravi's lawyer said. "The talk about alleged genocide in Kashmir has been going on for years. How talking about it suddenly becomes sedition," the lawyer said. A trial court had on Friday sent Ravi to judicial custody for three days after her five-day police custody expired. The Delhi high court on Friday heard Ravi's plea to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material concerning the FIR lodged against her. The high court, in its order, asked media houses to ensure that no leaked investigation material is broadcast as it could affect the probe and directed Delhi Police to abide by its stand on affidavit that it has not leaked nor intends to leak any probe details to the press. Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday and brought to Delhi. She was booked on sedition and other charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||PM Modi to launch several projects in Assam and Bengal on Monday ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit the poll-bound states of Assam and West Bengal on Monday to launch and lay the foundation stones of several projects. The PMO said he will dedicate to the nation important projects of the oil and gas sector in an event organised at Silapathar in Assam, and also inaugurate and lay the foundation stones of engineering colleges during the event. Later in the day, he will inaugurate several railway projects at Hooghly in West Bengal. In Assam, the PMO said, Modi will inaugurate the INDMAX unit at Indian Oil's Bongaigaon refinery, Oil India Limited's secondary tank farm at Dibrugarh and a gas compressor station at Hebeda village in Tinsukia. He will also inaugurate the Dhemaji Engineering College and lay the foundation stone for Sualkuchi Engineering College. These projects will usher in an era of energy security and prosperity, and open bright avenues of opportunity for local youth, the PMO said, asserting that they are in line with Modi's vision of "Purvodaya" to drive eastern India's socio-economic growth. The INDMAX unit at Bongaigaon leverages the technology developed indigenously to produce a higher LPG and high-octane gasoline yield from heavy feedstocks. The unit will increase the refinery's crude processing capacity from 2.35 MMTPA (million metric tonnes per annum) to 2.7 MMTPA. Its commissioning will also significantly enhance LPG production from 50 TMT (thousand metric tonnes) to 257 TMT and motor spirit (Petrol) production from 210 TMT to 533 TMT. In Bengal, the prime minister will inaugurate the extension of the metro railway from Noapara to Dakshineswar, and flag off the first service on this stretch. The PMO said this 4.1-km extension has been constructed at a cost of Rs 464 crore and is fully funded by the central government. This extension will ease up access to the two world famous Kali temples at Kalighat and Dakshineswar for lakhs of tourists and devotees, it noted. Modi will also inaugurate a third line between Kalaikunda and Jhargram over a stretch of 30 km of the 132-km-long Kharagpur-Adityapur third line project of south eastern railway, which was sanctioned with an estimated cost of Rs 1,312 crore. The four stations between Kalaikunda and Jhargram have been redeveloped by constructing four new station buildings, six new foot-over-bridges and eleven new platforms, along with renovation of the existing infrastructure, the PMO said. This will help ensure seamless movement of passenger and freight trains on Howrah-Mumbai trunk route, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||MP’s Hoshangabad city to be renamed as Narmadapuram: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has announced that Hoshangabad city in the state would be renamed as Narmadapuram and a proposal to that effect would be sent to the Centre. He made the announcement during the Narmada Jayanti programme held in Hoshangabad on Friday evening. While addressing a gathering on the banks of Narmada, Chouhan asked whether the government should change the name of Hoshangabad, to which the people present there replied in the affirmative. "What should be the new name?" Chouhan asked, and the people replied, "Narmadapuram!" The chief minister then said, "We are now sending a proposal to the Centre to change the name of Hoshangabad as Narmadapuram." The state government will not allow "cement-concrete structures" to be built along the Narmada river, he said, adding that sewage treatment plants are also being constructed in the cities located on its banks. Meanwhile, BJP workers, led by protem Assembly Speaker Rameshwar Sharma, expressed happiness over Chouhan's announcement and burst firecrackers on Saturday morning. Sharma had earlier made the demand to change the name of Hoshangabad. "This is a historic moment. Narmada is the lifeline of Madhya Pradesh. Hoshangabad was so far named after an attacker Hoshang Shah, but will be known after the lifeline Maa Narmada, which is a matter of happiness. I thank the CM for making this announcement by respecting the public sentiments," he said. State BJP president VD Sharma and several other leaders also thanked the chief minister for the decision. However, state Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta termed the announcement as the ruling BJP's ploy to divert the attention of people from important issues like inflation and rising prices of fuel. "BJP only changed the names related to the Mughals, but not of those linked to the British rulers. Why the name of Minto Hall (old Vidhan Sabha building) has not been changed? This is just to divert the attention. Instead, it should focus on development and give relief to people," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||Disha part of global conspiracy to defame India: Delhi Police to court||Opposing activist Disha Ravi's bail plea in the toolkit case, the Delhi Police on Saturday alleged in a court in the city that she was preparing the toolkit with those advocating Khalistan and was part of a global conspiracy to defame India and create unrest in the country in the garb of farmers' protest. "This was not just a toolkit. The real plan was to defame India and create unrest here," the police said before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana. It alleged that Ravi deleted WhatsApp chats, emails and other evidence and was aware of legal actions she could face. Why did Disha Ravi cover her track and delete evidence if she did not commit wrong, the police said, alleging that this shows her guilty mind and sinister design. Ravi "was part of the Indian chapter of the global conspiracy to defame India and create unrest in the garb of farmers' protest," it alleged, adding she was in touch and preparing and sharing toolkit with those advocating Khalistan. "It shows there was a sinister design behind this toolkit," the police told the court. A trial court had on Friday sent Ravi to judicial custody for three days after her five-day police custody expired. The Delhi high court on Friday heard Ravi's plea to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material concerning the FIR lodged against her. The high court, in its order, asked media houses to ensure that no leaked investigation material is broadcast as it could affect the probe and directed Delhi Police to abide by its stand on affidavit that it has not leaked nor intends to leak any probe details to the press. Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday and brought to Delhi. She was booked on sedition and other charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||India, China hold 10th round of talks to bring down border tension||India and China on Saturday held another round of military talks with a focus on taking forward the disengagement process in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh and bringing down the tensions in the region, official sources said. The 10th round of Corps Commander-level talks are taking place two days after the Chinese and Indian militaries completed the withdrawal of troops, weapons and other military hardware from the North and South banks of Pangong lake areas as part of an agreement. The meeting started at 10 am at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control and it was continuing, the sources said. They said India will insist on a faster disengagement process in remaining areas like Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang to bring down tension in the region that has witnessed a tense standoff between the two militaries for over nine months. "The focus of the talks is on carrying forward the disengagement process," said a source. On February 11, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced in Parliament that India and China reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South banks of Pangong lake that mandates both sides to "cease" forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. Under the agreement, he said China will pull back its troops to east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank of Pangong lake while the Indian personnel will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region. Similar action would take place on the south bank of the lake as well, he said. The sources said troops of both sides have retreated to positions that were agreed upon by both the sides. The disengagement process began on February 10. The Indian delegation at Saturday's talks is being led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. The Chinese side was to be headed by Maj Gen Liu Lin, the commander of the South Xinjiang military district of the People's Liberation Army (PLA). In his statement in Parliament, the defence minister also said that it was agreed to convene the next meeting of senior commanders of both sides within 48 hours of completion of the disengagement in the Pangong lake areas so as to resolve all other remaining issues. Days later, the Defence Ministry said other outstanding "problems" including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra will be taken up at the upcoming talks between military commanders of the two countries. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as the two sides continued military and diplomatic talks. Last year, the Chinese military built several bunkers and other structures in the areas between Finger 4 and 8 and had blocked all Indian patrols beyond Finger 4, triggering strong reaction from the Indian Army. In the nine rounds of military talks, India had specifically insisted on withdrawal of Chinese troops from Finger 4 to Finger 8 on the North bank of Pangong Lake. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. On its part, the Chinese side was insisting on withdrawal of Indian troops from several strategic peaks on the southern bank of the lake. Around five months back, Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rechin La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank after the Chinese PLA attempted to intimidate them in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||Covid upsurge in five states, Centre stresses need of sticking to safety protocols||Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have recorded an "upsurge" in daily new cases of Covid-19, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. In a statement, the ministry said in the last seven days, Chhattisgarh has also seen a rise in daily active new cases. In the last 24 hours, 259 daily new cases have been reported, it said. Kerala continues to report a high number of daily new cases and in the past week, Maharashtra has exhibited a spike in the number of daily new cases, accounting for the highest number of daily new cases in the country on Saturday, the ministry said in the statement. "In the last 24 hours, 6,112 daily new cases have been reported in the state," it said. Similar to Maharashtra, the ministry said Punjab has also shown a sudden spike in the number of daily new cases reported in the last seven days with 383 fresh cases recorded in the last 24 hours. "Since February 13, Madhya Pradesh is also witnessing a rise in the number of daily new cases. In the last 24 hours, 297 daily new cases have been registered in the state," the ministry said. The ministry stressed the importance of adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour for breaking the chain of transmission and containment of spread of the disease. Only two states, Maharashtra and Kerala, account for 75.87 per cent of total number of active Covid-19 cases, the ministry added. The ministry said 18 states/UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Telangana, Haryana, J&K (UT), Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura, Assam, Chandigarh, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Meghalaya, Ladakh (UT), Mizoram, Sikkim, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu . The ministry said a total of 1,07,15,204 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered through 2,22,313 sessions, as per the provisional report till 8 am today. These include 63,28,479 healthcare workers (first dose), 8,47,161 healthcare workers (second dose) and 35,39,564 frontline workers (first dose), the ministry said. The second dose of Covid-19 vaccination started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose. Vaccination of the frontline workers started on February 2. The ministry said nine states have administered more than five lakh doses each. These are Uttar Pradesh (11,52,042), Maharashtra (8,60,386), Gujarat (8,56,657), Rajasthan (7,99,719), Bengal (6,50,976), Karnataka (6,29,420), Madhya Pradesh (6,26,391), Bihar (5,50,433) and Odisha (5,01,713).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||Will not compromise on issues affecting common man, says Mallikarjun Kharge||Opposing the government just for the sake of doing so was not his style of functioning, new leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said, but made it clear there would be no compromise on issues affecting the common man. "We are not opposing the government just for the sake of opposition. We oppose the government's wrong policies affecting the common man," he told PTI to a query on how he would function as Leader of the Opposition. Kharge, who became LoP this week following the retirement of Ghulam Nabi Azad,flagged the ongoing farmers stir demanding repeal of the three farm laws enacted by Parliament last year, "flouting all procedures" and demanding that they be withdrawn. He suggested that the government come up with fresh proposals after withdrawing these controversial laws and refer them to a parliamentary standing committee for scrutiny. The senior Congress leader visited Kerala on Friday to address a public meeting organised in Kollam as the Congress- led UDF's 'Aiswarya Kerala Yatra', led by senior party leader Ramesh Chennithala arrived in Kollam. The yatra is being organised to reach out to people ahead of the assembly polls likely to be held in April-May. Kharge, a hardcore Gandhi family loyalist, said his party leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi had asked him to "highlight the issues of the poor people" on the floor of the House. "We raise the issues (in Parliament) not to become famous. We take up the issues affecting the poor. Somebody should talk", the senior Congress leader said. The 78-year-old veteran leader, with over 50 years' experience in politics, urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP to listen to the voices of agitating farmers and address their grievances. "The farmers have been agitating against the new farm laws for past few months and demanding that they be withdrawn as it abolishes the MSP and the Mandi system We are all supporting their demand. The government has failed to satisfy the farmers, the major stakeholders, while bringing in these laws and should withdraw them," he said. Kharge came down on the Centre on the issue, alleging that the government was using all its machinery to divide the farmers by terming them as 'Khalistanis' and 'Pakistanis.' The LoP alleged that the incidents at the Red Fort on January 26 was a planned conspiracy by the government was one such move to cause divisions among the farmers and was done to 'hide its failures.' He also flayed the government over the increasing fuel prices, saying they were doing "a great injustice" to the people. "Petrol prices are at an all time high, while international crude oil prices have touched a record low. By hiking prices day by day, the central government is doing a great injustice to the people of this country", he said. Kharge also urged Kerala's ruling CPI(M)-led LDF government to reduce state taxes on petrol and diesel to ease the burden on the people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||Private sectors should be made part of Aatmanirbhar Bharat drive, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday made a strong case for repealing archaic laws and making it easier to do business in India, stating that the centre and states need to work closely to boost economic growth. Addressing the sixth Governing Council meeting of Niti Aayog, the Prime Minister said that the private sector should be given full opportunity to become a part of government's Aatmanirbhar Bharat programme. The whole country succeeded when the state and the central government worked together during the coronavirus pandemic, he said, adding that "the basis of the country's progress is cooperative federalism and today's meeting is to brainstorm to make it more meaningful and move towards competitive cooperative federalism." Modi said there is a need to bring competitive cooperative federalism not only among states but districts too. The Prime Minister also underlined the need for reducing compliance burden and repealing obsolete laws. He asked the states to form committees to reduce regulations which are no longer relevant in the wake of technology growth. Observing that the positive response received on the Union Budget for 2021-22 expressed the mood of the nation, he said, "the country has made up its mind, wants to move fast and does not want to waste time." Modi further said that the private sector of the country is coming forward with more enthusiasm in this development journey of the country. "As a government, we also have to honour this enthusiasm, the energy of the private sector, and give it as much opportunity in the AatmaNirbhar Bharat campaign," he added. The campaign, he said, "is the way to develop an India that produces not only for its own needs but also for the world and this production also stands the test of the world." Modi said that the initiatives taken by the government would provide opportunity to everyone to participate in nation building to its full potential. Referring to the farm sector, the Prime Minister said that efforts should be made to produce agriculture items like edible oil and reduce their imports. "About Rs 65,000 crore is spent in the import of edible oils which should have gone to our farmers. This can be done by guiding farmers," he said. The Prime Minister said government policies will help farmers raise productivity and cut imports, adding that reforms needed to provide funds and technology for the farm sector. He said the central government introduced production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes for various sectors providing an excellent opportunity to increase manufacturing in the country. The states, he added, should take full advantage of this scheme and attract maximum investment in themselves and also reap the benefits of reduced corporate tax. He said the government is spending on infrastructure to boost demand and create jobs. Further, the Prime Minister noted that bank accounts, free electricity and gas connection and proper vaccinations have brought changes in the lives of the poor. Stressing on need to strengthen start-ups and MSMEs, Modi said, "Aatmanirbhar Bharat is not just to make India self-reliant, but also to meet the world's needs." He also urged states to form committees to celebrate India's 75th Independence Day. The Prime Minister said the campaign to provide a pucca roof to every poor is also going on now and added that, since 2014, construction of more than 2.40 crore houses has been completed in both cities and villages put together. He said over 3.5 lakh rural houses are provided with piped drinking water within 18 months of the launch of Jal Jeevan mission and the Bharat Net Scheme for internet connectivity in villages is becoming a medium for a big change. "When the central and state governments work together in all such schemes the speed of work will also increase and the benefits would also reach the last person," the Prime Minister said. He further said that keeping in mind the aspirations of a young country like India, modern infrastructure has to be built. "Innovation has to be encouraged and more technology should be used to provide better opportunities for education and skills," he said, adding there is a need for strengthening businesses, MSMEs and startups. He said shortlisting the products of hundreds of districts of the country according to its speciality has led to a healthy competition among the states. These initiatives have to be taken to the block level, making full use of the resources of the states and increasing the exports from the states, he said, while underlining the need for a better coordination and policy framework between the centre and the states. He also announced that there would be a major increase in the economic resources of local bodies in the 15th Finance Commission. The council, the apex body of Niti Aayog, includes all chief ministers, lieutenant governors of Union Territories, several union ministers and senior government officials. In a first, Ladakh is also participating in the sixth edition of the Governing Council meeting, in addition to the participation of Jammu and Kashmir as a UT. This time, other UTs headed by administrators have also been invited to join. The meeting is also being attended by the ex-officio members of the council, union ministers, vice chairperson Rajiv Kumar, members and CEO of Niti Aayog Amitabh Kant, and other senior officials from the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 caseload touches almost 14,000 after 22 days||Daily cases of Covid-19 in the country climbed to about 14,000 after nearly 22 days, taking India's tally to 1,09,77,387, while the recoveries surged to 1,06,78,048, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. A total of 13,993 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. The death toll increased to 101 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. On January 29, 18,855 daily cases were recorded. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,78,048 which translates to a national recovery rate of 97.27 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,43,127 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.27 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,02,61,480 samples have been tested up to February 19, with 7,86,618 samples being tested on Friday. According to health experts, the key factors for the recent surge can be due to the re-opening of educational institutes in Kerala and resumption of suburban train services in Mumbai. Mumbai, after a gap of 11 months, resumed full suburban train services on February 1, which carried a daily average of 8 million people before the pandemic. The city has begun hiring marshals to enforce mask wearing. City authorities said out of nearly 5,000 marshals around 300 would be deployed on the rail network. The heath ministry tweeted: “Coronavirus ... has not yet left the country… We still need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. No carelessness till there is a cure.” As reported by Reuters, despite the recent rise in infections, India’s daily tally of new cases remains well below a mid-September peak of nearly 100,000. Testing numbers have also fallen to about 800,000 a day from more than 1 million. Since starting its vaccine campaign in mid-January, India has administered nearly 10 million doses, aiming to cover 300 million people by August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||Kashmir: army human rights record raises barrier before German arms exports||Concerns over the security forces’ human rights record in Jammu and Kashmir have raised a barrier before Germany’s small arms exports to India. German regulations and covenants restrict, and often prohibit, arms sales to nations or regions where their use might cause direct or collateral damage to civilian populations and institutions. Two Indian security officials familiar with the bar on German small arms producers said these companies had failed to obtain export licences from their government on account of the “poor human rights record” in Kashmir. Defence ministry spokesperson Bharat Bhushan Babu did not respond to messages sent by this reporter. An Intelligence Bureau official said a Belgian arms manufacturer too had recently walked out of a deal to supply arms to India’s army amid concerns in the Belgian government that the weapons would be used in Jammu and Kashmir. Belgium’s FN Herstal had signed the Rs 70-crore deal in 2020 to supply small arms and assault rifles to the army’s Special Frontier Force (SFF). Reports have said that German arms manufacturer Heckler and Koch, whose MP5 submachine guns have been part of the armoury of the National Security Guards (NSG) and Marine Commando (Marcos) units, has withdrawn from the Indian market saying it lacked approval from the German government. “After being rebuffed by Germany, the defence ministry has decided to procure US-made assault rifles,” a security official said. The SFF was raised in 1962 with Tibetan refugees for covert operations behind Chinese lines. It is part of the RAW (the external intelligence agency) set-up but, when deployed with the army, it comes under the military’s operational control. The army prefers to keep the relationship under wraps. In November 2019, three months after the Centre had revoked Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and restricted movement and communication, Germany had expressed reservations about the clampdown and concern for the people of the region. Germany had earlier too restricted arms export to India citing poor human rights records in states such as Gujarat, Manipur, Jammu and Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. A defence ministry official recalled that Germany had, during the Kargil conflict of 1999, halted technology transfer for India’s indigenously made Advanced Light Helicopter Dhruv and withheld replacement parts and supplies for German equipment. Germany is India’s sixth-largest trading partner and its largest trading partner from the European Union. India was the world’s second-largest importer of major arms between 2014 and 2018 and accounted for 9.5 per cent of the global imports, according to a report published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute in 2019. According to the report, Russia accounted for 58 per cent of Indian arms imports between 2014 and 2018, while Israel, the US and France too increased their arms exports to India during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||4 soldiers were killed in Galwan Valley clash, says China||China’s military on Friday said four of its soldiers had died in the June 15 Galwan Valley clash, breaking eight months’ silence on the number of casualties it had suffered in the hand-to-hand fight that had killed 20 Indian soldiers. The statement comes a day before a tenth round of military talks during which the future course on the outstanding friction points, including Depsang Plains, is expected to be taken up for discussion. A troop disengagement is under way from the north and south banks of the Pangong Lake where India is widely perceived as having given away too much to the Chinese. China sought to explain the timing of the announcement by claiming it was “clarifying the truth” when India had “repeatedly hyped up the casualties”. The PLA Daily, mouthpiece of China’s People’s Liberation Army, said “five Chinese frontier officers and soldiers stationed in the Karakoram Mountains have been recognised by the Central Military Commission of China for defending national sovereignty and territorial integrity” and added that one of them was “injured”. The PLA Daily said battalion commander Chen Hongjun and three soldiers -- Chen Xiangrong, Wang Zhuoran and Xia Siyuan -- were killed in the “fierce struggle” and were given posthumous awards. An award was given to the regimental commander of the PLA Xinjiang Military Command, Qi Fabao, who was seriously injured in the clash, it added. The Chinese communist party-run People’s Daily tweeted: “Four Chinese soldiers, who were sacrificed in last June’s border conflict, were posthumously awarded honorary titles and first class merit citations, Central Military Commission announced on Friday. A colonel, who led them and (was) seriously injured, was conferred with honorary title.” The aftermath of the clash had witnessed a controversial statement from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who told an all-party meeting on June 19 that no one had entered or was occupying Indian territory, prompting China to immediately imply the Indians were the transgressors. On Friday, too, the Chinese state media said the PLA soldiers had died during a “fierce struggle” against “foreign military” who had violated an agreement and crossed into the Chinese side. PLA Senior Colonel Ren Guoqiang, spokesperson for the Chinese defence ministry, said: “It should be noted that since last June, Indian troops illegally crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) for deliberate provocation, and even violently attacked the Chinese officers and soldiers who went there for negotiation, thus intentionally triggering the fierce physical conflict at the Galwan Valley and causing casualties on both sides,” he said. “The responsibility of the skirmish at the Galwan Valley lies entirely with the Indian side.” Col Ren added: “Public coverage of the heroic deeds of Chinese border troops by the Chinese media is the responsibility of the media to objectively tell the facts. It is conducive to clarifying the truth and letting the world see the rights and wrongs.” He alleged that India had “repeatedly hyped up the casualties, distorted the truth, misled international public opinion, and slandered the Chinese border troops”. While India had announced its 20 deaths shortly after the clash, the chief editor of a communist party-run newspaper in China had acknowledged PLA casualties but mentioned neither any deaths nor numbers. Beijing had till Friday never officially acknowledged Chinese casualties, preferring till now the ambiguous word “losses”. On Wednesday, India’s northern army commander had cited the figure of 45 Chinese casualties, as reported by Russian news agency TASS on February 10. Among the Indian casualties was the commanding officer of the 16 Bihar Regiment, Colonel Santosh Babu, who was posthumously awarded the Mahavir Chakra, the second-highest war-time gallantry award. Several Indian soldiers were taken prisoners of war following the clash, which happened during a “de-escalation process”, but were later released.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||Social activist moves SC asking for sedition case to be filed against V.K. Singh||A social activist has moved the Supreme Court asking for a sedition case to be filed against junior minister V.K. Singh for suggesting India had crossed the Line of Actual Control more often than China. “Let me assure you, if China has transgressed 10 times, we must have done it at least 50 times,” Singh, a former army chief, has been quoted as saying. China had termed the statement “an unwitting confession” by India. Tamil Nadu-based Chandrasekaran Ramasamy said that if Singh did not resign or was not removed, the court should “initiate suitable action against him as per the anti-national law” and set the standard for those in power on what to  say and how to give statements “carefully and correctly”. Ramasamy’s petition pleaded that Section 124A, dealing with sedition, be invoked. Section 124A says: “Whoever, by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise, brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the Government established by law in India shall be punished with imprisonment….” According to the petition, Singh’s comments are at variance with India’s official position. After the Galwan clash in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed last June, the government had said “the Indian side has never undertaken any actions across the LAC”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||Culture ministry tweets praises for Gowalkar oh his birthday||The worst-kept secret in India has been officially acknowledged: a source of inspiration and a guiding force now are the thoughts of M.S. Golwalkar, the second sarsanghachalak of the RSS. Make no mistake: Given a choice, it will be so for “generations” to come. “Remembering a great thinker, scholar, and remarkable leader #MSGolwalkar on his birth anniversary. His thoughts will remain a source of inspiration & continue to guide generations. @prahladspatel @secycultureGOI @PMOIndia @PIBCulture @pspoffice,” the Union culture ministry tweeted on Friday, the birth anniversary of the erstwhile Sangh boss. Former culture secretary Jawhar Sircar responded: “As former culture secretary, I hang my head in shame to see RSS chief Golwalkar being falsely praised by @MinOfCultureGoI. Golwalkar & RSS opposed Gandhi’s Freedom Struggle. In his Bunch of Thoughts, Golwalkar opposed India’s tricolour too. Sardar Patel jailed him, banned the RSS.” UK-based academic Priyamvada Gopal sought to draw the world’s attention to the official handle lauding Golwalkar, who essentially spelt out the ideology of the RSS, the ideological parent of the ruling BJP. “Dear world. India’s **government** wishes us to celebrate a ‘great thinker’ who said ‘To keep up the purity of the nation and its culture, Germany shocked the world by purging the country of Semitic races — the Jews. National pride at its highest has been manifested here’.” The Union ministry’s tweet did not elaborate on which of Golwalkar’s thoughts remained a source of inspiration. Parallels have been drawn between some of Golwalkar’s views and those of Hitler’s Nazis although a modern-day drive had been launched to airbrush such a past. Some of Golwalkar’s known “thoughts” follow: Internal threats Bunch of Thoughts — written in 1966 — has a section on “Internal Threats”, which lists them as Muslims, Christians and communists. In contrast, he maintains that Hindus have no divided loyalties. “…Hindus are a hundred per cent national society here. To call them ‘communal’ and to place them at par with those people whose loyalties are divided and at times questionable is unjust and unwise,” the book says. Women The book adds: “There is now a clamour for ‘equality for women’ and their ‘emancipation from man’s domination’! Reservation of seats in various positions of power is being claimed on the basis of their separate sex, thus adding one more ‘ism’— ‘sexism!’ — to the array of casteism, communalism, linguism, etc.” Caste The book says: “Castes there were in those ancient times too, continuing for thousands of years of our glorious national life. There is nowhere any instance of its having hampered the progress or disrupted the unity of society. It, in fact, served as a great bond of social cohesion.” Elsewhere, it says: “The other main feature that distinguished our society was the Varna-vyavastha (caste system). But today it is being dubbed ‘casteism’ and scoffed at. Our people have come to feel that the mere mention of Varna-vyavastha is something derogatory. They often mistake the social order implied in it for social discrimination. “The feeling of inequality, of high and low, which has crept into the Varna system, is comparatively of recent origin. The perversion was given a further fillip by the scheming Britisher in line with his ‘divide and rule’ policy. But in its original form, the distinctions in that social order did not imply any discrimination such as big and small, high and low, among its constituents. On the other hand, the Gita tells us that the individual who does his assigned duties in life in a spirit of selfless service only worships God through such performance.…” Asuras The book says: “If one were to dispassionately observe the characteristics of the present-day so-called civilised modern societies, they appear to tally, almost word to word, with the attributes of the asuras as detailed in Bhagawad Gita!” Unitary pitch The Narendra Modi dispensation’s preoccupation with having a unitary system is rooted in Golwalkar’s writings. Golwalkar was in favour of a unitary state as opposed to the quasi-federal structure adopted by the framers of the Constitution. The book says: “We are one country, one society, and one nation, with a community of life-values and secular aspirations and interests; and hence it is natural that the affairs of the nation are governed through a single state of the unitary type. The present federal system generates and feeds separatist feelings. In a way, it negates the truth of a single nationhood and is, therefore, divisive in nature. It must be remedied and the Constitution amended and cleaned so as to establish Unitary Form of Government.” On Friday, some social media users cited references from the We or Our Nationhood Defined, which Golwalkar penned in 1939 and which the RSS distanced itself from in 2006. We mentions Hitler. Bunch of Thoughts, written in the mid-1960s when few dared express open admiration for the routed Nazis, has no direct reference to Hitler. Putting out a series of tweets on Golwalkar’s quotes, CPIML politburo member Kavita Krishnan said: “RSS claims to disown Golwalkar’s pro-Nazi ‘We’. But his BoT (Bunch of Thoughts) isn’t different in content, just more carefully worded. ‘We’ asked minorities to ‘Merge in The Hindu race’. BoT asked them to ‘merge themselves in the common national stream’....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||Activists demand release of Disha Ravi dropping all charges ||Environment and rights activists from across the country on Friday demanded the immediate release of climate activist Disha Ravi and the dropping of all charges against her and co-accused. Addressing the media via the Zoom digital platform, the activists said the 22-year-old Bangalorean’s arrest was a warning to the youth to “shut up and stay at home” and to parents to rein their children in. They urged the Centre to hold an open dialogue with the youth and all those supporting the farmers’ agitation, and sought repeal of the sedition law and the anti-terror UAPA. A Delhi police team had taken Disha from her Bangalore home to Delhi on February 13 and booked her on sedition and other charges for allegedly editing and sharing a social media toolkit on how to express support for the protesting farmers. Disha is part of the Fridays For Future global initiative started by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg. The National Alliance of People’s Movements, Coalition for Environmental Justice in India and the People’s Union of Civil Liberties also demanded the cancellation of the arrest warrants against Disha’s co-accused — Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Beed-based engineer Shantanu Muluk. Kavita Srivastava of the PUCL said Disha’s constitutional rights had been violated. “She was editing and sharing a document. She was on a Zoom call. Isn’t that enabling young people to know more about the farmers’ struggle?” she asked. Srivastava described the sedition law and the UAPA as “tools for the Modi government (to harass critics) whenever it is in trouble”. “Every time they face a challenge, the rest of us become anti-national,” she said. Carnatic singer T.M. Krishna said: “For long we have been told that fringe groups are the ones that target those who express (their views). Then it became very clear that the state itself is the aggressor and targets anyone who asks questions.” Krishna termed Disha’s arrest a “warning to parents” to keep their children at home. “There are two kinds of attacks. One is frontal, basically saying, ‘Shut up and stay at home’. The other is poisoning young minds.” Nagraj Adve of Teachers Against Climate Crisis said that youths were scared after Disha’s arrest. “I spoke to some young people yesterday. All of them talked about their fear and anxiety,” he said. “Those in the 10th and 11th standard are particularly terrified. I’m really worried about what these arrests will do for climate change in this country.” He added: “For years there was no real movement. But over the last two or three years we have seen hundreds of young people making clear demands in the context of the climate crisis in many towns.” In response to a question, Abhilasha Singh, former student of Mount Carmel College from where Disha graduated in business administration, said youths had their way of surmounting such challenges. “If you believe in something and have certain convictions you will push against whatever stands in your way,” Singh said. “That is the only thing we can do now. With the solidarity that we have built along the way, I see this as a fight that we can pull off.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi and Sachin Pilot lead farmer rallies ||The Congress’s central leadership has asked all state units to extend their fullest support to the farmers’ movement across the country to demolish the BJP propaganda that it is a Punjab-centric protest, but leaders in only Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have so far demonstrated the resolve to hold big rallies. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is leading the charge in Uttar Pradesh, will address a kisan mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on Saturday. Sachin Pilot has taken the lead in Rajasthan. Although the Rajasthan Congress unit has also organised four farmers’ conferences attended by Rahul Gandhi during his recent two-day tour of the state, Pilot’s initiative indicates the factional feud hasn’t yet been resolved despite the reconciliation last year that stabilised the Ashok Gehlot government. Pilot has held two massive kisan mahapachayats in Dausa and Bharatpur and a rally in Jaipur’s Chaksu without the presence of chief minister Gehlot and state party chief Govind Singh Dotasara. The MLAs considered loyal to Pilot, who had been part of the rebellion last year, were present on stage, giving credence to the perception that the young leader might be showing his strength despite losing his ministerial berth after the unseemly episode. The farmers’ rallies have established Pilot’s popularity; he has also taken care not to attack the chief minister, rather concentrated his energies on creating awareness about the problems involved in the three controversial farm laws. The stages have had the photographs of party president Sonia Gandhi, general secretary in-charge Ajay Maken, Gehlot and Dotasara to make them look like Congress events. The official Twitter handle of the Rajasthan Congress, however, doesn’t refer to these rallies, bolstering the impression that these were Pilot’s personal shows. While the central leadership doesn’t nurse any grudge against Pilot for the effort to destabilise the government last year and has indicated that he will be accommodated soon in the high command structure, there is no denying the fact that the two factions haven’t buried the hatchet in Rajasthan. But the farmers’ movement has provided an opportunity to Pilot to showcase his strength and brought into focus the failure of other leaders to organise protests in other states. On Friday, general secretary in charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal wrote to all the state units to organise protests at the block and district levels against the farm laws and the steep rise in petroleum prices. A senior Congress told The Telegraph: “While Rahul Gandhi has repeatedly expressed full support for and cooperation with the farmers, the organisational machinery has restricted itself to tokenism except in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Although farmers have been picketing Delhi’s borders, the party’s failure to organise any major programme in the capital to demonstrate the party’s solidarity with the peasants is pathetic. Even in states like neighbouring Haryana, and Maharashtra where the Congress is in government, the party hasn’t done anything spectacular.” The Congress has not been able to organise a big movement in Haryana because of factional feud. Top leaders like Bhupinder Singh Hooda and state chief Kumari Selja usually work at cross-purposes. Most other states units have also failed to rise to the occasion. The Congress has a strong rural base in Gujarat and many leaders believe a major farmers’ rally in the state would have sent out a message to the country, countering the BJP’s claim of a Punjab-centric movement. But the impending civic polls in Gujarat have been used as an excuse to restrict the protests to symbolism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||All India Kisan Sabha offers model farm law, rebuts govt on MSP||The All India Kisan Sabha on Friday released a model farm bill to counter Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s contention that farmers are anti-reform. Drafted in keeping with the Constitution’s federal structure, the model bill seeks to ensure fair prices for farm produce through procurement, facilitate processing and conversion to value-added products, and ploughing back a share of the surplus value to farmers and farm workers. Briefing journalists, AIKS general secretary Hannan Mollah said the enactment of a law guaranteeing a minimum support price (MSP) did not mean the entire financial burden would fall on the government. All it meant was that anyone buying from farmers — the government or a private player — would be mandated by law to pay the minimum price. “We are not saying the government should purchase everything that is grown by the farmers,” Hannan Mollah said, referring to home minister Amit Shah’s contention that the government lacked enough money to afford a legally guaranteed MSP. “By refusing to enact a law, the government is essentially trying to secure the profit margins of their corporate friends; they want to help a handful of big companies maximise their profits,” Hannan Mollah said. The AIKS leadership said the thrust of the draft bill was on creating farmers’ cooperatives on the lines of Amul, which had helped farmers fight off milk companies and turn their cooperatives into a force to reckon with. “The government can play the role of a facilitator.” The Samyukta Kisan Morcha has, in keeping with its efforts to build solidarities across segments of society, demanded an unbiased investigation into the mysterious deaths of two Dalit girls in Unnao and the grievous injuries suffered by a third. The protesting farmers have also demanded proper medical treatment for the surviving girl.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||‘Metroman’ eyes Kerala CM chair if BJP voted to power||Technocrat E. Sreedharan, better known as “Metroman”, has said he is ready to be the chief minister of Kerala if the BJP is voted to power in the upcoming elections. Set to join the BJP in a few days after having accepted the party’s offer, Sreedharan, 88, told PTI on Friday: “If they want (me to become chief minister), certainly. To tell you very frankly, unless I am chief minister these (ideas) cannot be achieved.” He was referring to some development initiatives he wanted to implement in Kerala. The engineer was the brain behind landmark projects such as Metro train networks and the Konkan railway line that connects north Kerala to Goa. Sreedharan said the ruling Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led United Democratic Front had failed to usher in any development. “They have taken turns to rule the state all these years, but failed to bring any major development.” He made it clear that he was not open to gubernatorial positions. “I have not discussed anything with them (the BJP). But I don’t want to become a governor,” said Sreedharan, who is leading a retired life at his native Ponnani in Malappuram district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||India remains vulnerable to localised coronavirus outbreaks||India is unlikely to experience a second nationwide wave of the novel coronavirus epidemic but remains vulnerable to localised outbreaks such as in Maharashtra where average daily counts of new cases have more than doubled over the past week, experts have said. Maharashtra’s seven-day average daily new cases increased from 2,395 on February 11 to 5,427 on February 18, contributing to the rise in India’s daily cases from 11,095 to 11,827 over the past week, according to Friday’s data from the Union health ministry. But public health experts say the epidemic’s growth in Maharashtra would have a limited impact on the nationwide epidemic curve. For a second nationwide wave to emerge, the experts say, multiple states with large populations would need to experience simultaneous surges as they did last year. Maharashtra is India’s second most populous state after Uttar Pradesh, but in seven of the top 10 populated states, the epidemic has continued to shrink over the past week. In Uttar Pradesh, for instance, daily new cases fell from 135 on February 11 to 80 on February 18. Bihar, Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Karnataka have recorded declines in their daily cases over the past week. Among the top 10 populated states, the epidemic grew only in Maharashtra, Gujarat (255 to 263) and Madhya Pradesh (168 to 215). “I would consider a second nationwide wave extremely unlikely — a significant fraction of our population is already infected and therefore protected,” said Sanjay Rai, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. A nationwide survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research has indicated that around 25 per cent, or one in four people across the country, have already been infected by the coronavirus. Surveys within cities such as Delhi, Pune and Mumbai have pointed to pockets of over 50 per cent infection prevalence. “The vaccination campaign will increase the number of people protected,” Rai said. The health ministry said on Friday that over 7 million (70 per cent) of India’s around 10 million healthcare workers have already received the first doses of Covid-19 vaccines. Over 750,000 have received their second doses. Experts believe localised outbreaks — within cities, districts or states — of the type that Maharashtra is currently experiencing will continue to occur wherever people are susceptible and where the virus gets opportunities to spread person-to-person. “What we’re seeing in Maharashtra likely reflects the reality that Covid-19 is heading towards becoming an endemic disease,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. An endemic infection is one marked by a steady trickle of cases through the year, and occasional localised clusters, mainly driven by superspreader events where the virus gets opportunities to infect multiple people who spread it to others. Efforts to curb the growth of such clusters need to focus on early detection and containment. “If we don’t have optimal testing — for whatever reasons — we will not pick up the local outbreaks until they overwhelm the health delivery capacity,” John said. “We won’t really know what is happening on the ground unless we comprehensively test, document circulating coronavirus variants, and analyse how or whether variants might be influencing patterns of infection and disease.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||Congress brands Narendra Modi ‘tax-jeevi’, says oil production falling||The Congress on Friday said domestic crude oil production had reduced under Narendra Modi’s rule, confronting the Prime Minister’s claim that consumers had been saddled with skyrocketing prices because previous governments had not remedied India’s dependence on imports. Congress spokespersons Randeep Surjewala and Gourav Vallabh said in a statement: “India’s crude oil production has fallen by 53.66 lakh metric tonnes in Modi’s regime. During the Congress-led UPA regime, domestic production of crude oil was 23.4 per cent of total consumption. Between 2014 and 2020, the domestic share of crude oil consumption is 15.3 per cent. In fact, domestic production in 2020 was the lowest in the last 18 years.” Although 2020’s production might have been affected by the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the domestic production of crude oil has seen a downward trend in recent years, demolishing the basis of Modi’s argument that his government was more concerned about dependence on imports than previous dispensations. Surjewala said: “The Prime Minister speaks a lot but never speaks the truth. The Modi government has reduced the budget of ONGC, the company that produces crude oil, from Rs 32,501 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 29,800 crore in 2021-22.” The Congress spokespersons also accused the Modi government of destroying ONGC by compelling it to buy the sinking Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation, saddling ONGC with a debt of Rs 24,881 crore. Even the oil exploration budget, which was Rs 11,687 crore in 2014, was Rs 4,330 crore in 2020. On the day when petrol price crossed Rs 100 a litre for the first time in the history of independent India a few days ago, Prime Minister Modi had said: “India imported over 85 per cent of its oil needs in the 2019-20 financial year. Can a diverse and talented nation like ours be so energy import dependent? I do not want to criticise anyone but I want to say that had we focused on this subject much earlier, our middle class would not be burdened.” The price of petrol has crossed Rs 100 a litre in Rajasthan’s Sriganganagar and Madhya Pradesh’s Anupur. While the Prime Minister seemed to be arguing that the price increased because of crude oil rates in the international market, Modi has been exceptionally lucky on this front with import prices being almost half or even less during his regime compared to what his predecessor Manmohan Singh had faced. The Congress put out a detailed comparative chart on Friday, saying that diesel was sold for Rs 57.28 a litre when crude oil was $108 per barrel in 2014 but it is Rs 80.60 a litre now when crude is $63 per barrel. While the import price has come down by 41 per cent, the domestic price has jumped by 40 per cent. Surjewala said: “The government is buying petrol at Rs 32.72 per litre and diesel at Rs 33.46 per litre. But the tax-jeevi Modi is looting the people. Its motto is: Hum do hamare do/diesel nabbe, petrol sau.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
20-02-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to withdraw CAA cases||Tamil Nadu chief minister K. Palaniswami announced here on Friday that cases filed in the state for participation in the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act would be withdrawn. Around 1,500 cases were filed early last year for holding protests in violation of prohibitory orders, damaging public property and preventing policemen from doing their work, he said. Except cases related to violence, further legal action in all other cases was being dropped, the chief minister said. Cases filed for violation of lockdown norms and spreading Covid rumours last year will also be withdrawn. Around 10 lakh such cases were filed. Barring cases linked to violence, prevention of police personnel from discharging their duties, and use of fraudulent means to obtain e-pass during the lockdown, all other cases would be withdrawn, the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
20-02-2021||India||UP police bars journalists, Opposition politicians from entering Unnao village||Uttar Pradesh police on Friday barred journalists and Opposition politicians for six hours from entering the Unnao village where three minor Dalit girls were allegedly found poisoned on Wednesday night, prompting allegations the authorities were “hiding something”. By the time the visitors were let into Baburaha village around 3pm, the two dead girls — aged 12 and 16 — had been cremated. The third, aged 14, is on ventilator at a private hospital in Kanpur.  The police, who say the post-mortem report has revealed poisoning, arrested two young men from a neighbouring village on Friday. State police chief H.C. Awasthi has denied any injuries on the girls — not even stricture marks – although villagers say the victims, found in a mustard field, had had their hands and legs tied with their dupattas. The villagers also claim that a corner of the field had been destroyed, implying a struggle. Clampdown Police and paramilitary blocked the entry points to Baburaha from 9am till 3pm, holding journalists and Congress, Samjawadi and Bahujan Samaj Party workers at bay. Villagers said the two dead girls were cremated an hour apart and in the presence of about 200 cops who outnumbered residents at the funeral. Led by former MLA Udai Raj, Samajwadi workers held a dharna outside the village and alleged a cover-up. “The police didn’t protect the crime scene, allowing everyone to visit the spot,” Raj said. “They also detained the girls’ parents for about 12 hours and released them when we protested on Thursday. What are they hiding now by stopping us outside the village?” The victims’ parents and other villagers have alleged 12 hours’ detention since Wednesday night by the police, who deny the charge. Savitri Bai Phule, former Bahraich MP from the BJP who joined the Congress last year, met the families after 3pm. “There’s certainly something fishy. We need to know what the police want to hide,” she said. “The police haven’t explained why they did not take the family members to hospital along with the victims.” Additional SP Vinod Pandey said: “Outsiders were stopped because the forensic team was at work in the village. It was also necessary to maintain law and order.” DGP Awasthi said there were “no injury marks on the bodies of the girls and their clothes were intact”. The accused Vinay Kumar aka Lambu, 22, and a 17-year-old boy from neighbouring Keuna village have been arrested. Inspector-general Laxmi Singh said Vinay had confessed to offering the girls water poisoned with insecticide. Singh said Vinay had recently asked one of the girls for her mobile number but she had refused. Vinay then allegedly called the girl to the field. She arrived with the two other girls and the boys offered them all chips and the poisoned water, Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
20-02-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan under fire over CAA cases ||Hundreds who protested or criticised the Citizenship Amendment Act have been booked in Kerala, RTI replies have revealed, triggering charges of a “double standard” against the Left Democratic Front government whose constituents too had demonstrated against the new citizenship regime. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had assured the state Assembly in early February last year that no cases had been registered against the anti-CAA protesters. His government had got a resolution passed in the Assembly saying Kerala would not implement the new citizenship act. Left parties had organised marches and human chains against the act. However, the Kerala chapter of National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations, the NGO that filed the RTI pleas, says 519 cases were registered against anti-CAA protesters in Kerala between January 1 and March 23 last year. Several of those booked have alleged they did not participate in the demonstrations but only expressed moral support. For instance, many social activists, writers and scholars who had issued a joint statement supporting a state-wide strike against the CAA on December 17, 2019, but say they never hit the streets figure among the 46 accused in a case registered in Kozhikode city. “A huge majority of the 46 accused had only expressed solidarity in a joint statement.... They were not present at the protest,” Sajeed Khalid, state secretary of the Welfare Party of India (WPI), one of the organisers of the strike, told The Telegraph on Thursday. “This shows the double standard of the LDF government, which says one thing and does something else,” said N.P. Chekutty, veteran journalist and activist who figures among the 46 accused. “This government got the Assembly to pass a resolution against the CAA, and yet its police booked so many of us who had only extended support to the cause.” The December 17 shutdown was organised by four parties deemed to enjoy Muslim and Dalit support: the WPI, Social Democratic Party of India, Bahujan Samaj Party and the Dalit Human Rights Movement Party. Sunni Muslim leader Nasar Faizi Koodathayi, scholar J. Devika, writer T.T. Sreekumar, rights activist Gro Vasu, and writer and Dalit activist K.K. Baburaj are among those named in the Kozhikode case. They have been booked under penal sections 109 (abetment), 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), and 283 (obstruction in public way or line of navigation), which can entail a maximum punishment of two years. Sajeed said no sedition or terror charges had been invoked. Reny Ayline, national secretary of the rights organisation that filed the RTI pleas, said the NGO had collated the data from answers sent by various police authorities, including individual police stations, from the middle of last year till January 2021. Ayline said a few among the 519 cases had been filed in connection with protests organised by Left groups such as the CPI as well as the CPM’s student and youth wings, the SFI and the DYFI. “I had no idea about the (Kozhikode) case until I got a call from the local police station about eight months ago,” Chekutty said. “Recently, the court of the judicial magistrate first class summoned me to appear on February 16. I didn’t go and have asked my lawyer to seek some time.” He added: “The government is trying to silence independent voices in public life.” A writer accused in the Kozhikode case accused the ruling CPM of “selective Islamophobia”.  “The CPM can organise strikes on anything. But they feel threatened when the Welfare Party or the SDPI do the same. They identify these two small parties with Muslim extremism,” the writer, who declined to be named, said. But he faulted the organisers too. “I had told them to secure police permission, but I understand that they waited till the last minute and went ahead without permission.” State WPI president Hameed Vaniyambalam said the Kozhikode administration had denied permission for the December 17 protest despite allowing anti-CAA demonstrations by other groups on other dates. “We had tried our best to obtain permission. I see this as the double standard of the LDF government, which supported the anti-CAA movement but slapped cases on us,” he said. Kozhikode North MLA Pradeep Kumar of the CPM said: “It could be because of the Kerala High Court order that no hartal (shutdown) can be held without seven days’ notice and police permission.” He added: “My understanding is that these are the penal sections usually invoked for participating in strikes without permission. Even pro-government strikes lead to such cases.” A lawyer, however, said the charge of abetment — which enables the police to implicate a large number of people — is not usually invoked in such instances. This section would have been used to charge those who had not physically participated in the protests. MLA Kumar said he would take up the concerns of those booked without having participated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
20-02-2021||India||National Human Rights Commission rap for delay in child death FIR||The National Human Rights Commission on Friday iterated its recommendation that the Rajasthan government initiate disciplinary action against police officials responsible for the delay in registration of an FIR on the complaint of parents of a fifth standard student that the child died after he was beaten up by a teacher in his school in Kota on December 3, 2017. It has also asked the state government to pay relief of Rs 2 lakh to the mother as the delay in the registration of an FIR on her complaint in a cognizable offence amounted to the violation of human rights, the NHRC said in a statement. The mother had complained that her son was brutally beaten with a bamboo stick by a teacher for not completing his homework. When her son came back home, he found it hard to recognize his mother and brother and was having hallucinations about the teacher coming to stab him with a knife. He also stopped eating. He was rushed to hospital and died later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul launches its election slogan ahead of assembly polls||The Trinamul Congress on Saturday launched its slogan for the upcoming assembly elections -- 'Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chaye', adding to the shrill insider vs outsider debate while portraying Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as the daughter of Bengal. The slogan, which translates to 'Bengal wants its own daughter', with Mamata’s photo was put up on hoardings across Kolkata as the state's ruling party officially launched it from its headquarters off EM Bypass. "The people of the state want their own daughter who has been by their side for the last several years as their chief minister. We don't want outsiders to call the shots in Bengal," TMC secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said. The Trinamul Congress is engaged in a bitter political fight with the BJP, pitching the opposition party's leaders as outsiders who are on "election tourism" to the state. "The upcoming election is not a big factor for the Trinamul Congress. The entire country is watching how the Constitution can be protected and the outcome of the polls will prove that," TMC's Rajya Sabha MP Subrata Bakshi said. He said the chief minister has already submitted a report card of the work done in the last ten years to the people of the state. "Which state has done so much? None," Bakshi added. State Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee said that while other parties are struggling to find a chief ministerial face, the Trinamul Congress has Mamata who knows the pulse of the people of Bengal. Mukherjee said she knows how to protect the women. Mamata also has a soulful connection with rural Bengal and has built 34 lakh houses in the villages while providing electricity to 96 lakh households, he said. Total 1.18 lakh km of rural roads were built in the last ten years, Mukherjee said. The party's slogan of 'Bodla Noy Bodol Chai', meaning 'don't want revenge but change', ahead of the 2011 polls turned out to be crucial in reaching out to the masses who toppled the 34 years of Left rule in Bengal. The slogan of 'Chup Chap Fuley Chap' (vote for TMC in silence) during the Left rule is also considered iconic. However, 'Ma, Mati, Manush' -- the slogan Banerjee gave during the land agitation of the mid-2000s became the ideology of the party, helping it win rural Bengal along with the urban areas, election after election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal court calls Amit Shah on Abhishek Banerjee’s petition||A special court for MP/MLA in Calcutta on Friday ordered Union home minister Amit Shah to appear before it personally or through a representative at 10am on February 22 to clarify on what basis he had made “defamatory” remarks against Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee. The court issued the order on a petition by Banerjee seeking penal measures against Shah for making “untrue and defamatory” remarks against him at a public rally in 2018. The Diamond Harbour MP also claimed that Shah’s remarks had tarnished his image as well as that of Trinamul. Speaking at the rally in Calcutta on August 11, 2018, Shah had allegedly linked Banerjee to deposit collection scams. In the same month, Banerjee lodged the defamation petition which came for hearing on Friday. Shah will have to either come to the court personally or send his representative or he has the option to move Calcutta High Court to challenge the order. The state legal cell of the BJP said the party was yet to decide on the future course of action. BJP leader Samik Bhattacharya, however, said the case would be fought legally and in the court of the people. Trinamul Congress leader Kunal Ghosh said: “Now, Shah should come to court with proper documents to prove that Abhishek Banerjee was involved in activities as claimed by the Union home minister. If he fails, the people of Bengal would not spare him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 194 cases and 3 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Friday logged 238 Covid-19 recoveries, 194 infections and three deaths as total active cases dropped for the 116th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 3,625, back almost to where it was 261 days ago, on June 3. None of the three deaths on Friday was from Calcutta. Bengal now has 2.58 per cent of the national total of active cases, with the share having come down to nearly a third of what it was even a couple of months ago. The recovery rate rose for 119 consecutive days to touch 97.58 per cent. The national rate is 97.25 now. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.84 per cent, having fallen steadily for 92 days. On Friday, the state reported 20,528 tests, taking the total past 83.88 lakh, at 93,209 tests per million people. Of the total death toll of 10,242, 8,597 (83.9 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Job for Bankura DYFI leader’s wife||The state government handed over an appointment letter for the post of homeguard to the wife of deceased DYFI leader Maidul Islam Middya in Bankura’s Kotulpur on Friday. Maidul, a unit secretary of CPM’s youth wing DYFI, died in Calcutta on Monday. The DYFI leader had allegedly suffered injuries during a protest march when Left supporters and police clashed in Calcutta on February 11. Minister of state and Trinamul’s Kotulpur MLA Shyamal Santra, along with Bankura district magistrate K. Radhika Aiyar and police chief Koteswara Rao, went to Maidul’s home at Chorkola village in Kotulpur on Friday to hand over the appointment letter to Aleya Biwi in the presence of hundreds of villagers. “Within five days of the assurance of our chief minister, we have handed over the appoint letter to the wife of Maidul Islam Middya. She will join duty at Kotulpur police station as a homeguard soon. We are happy to have been able to help the family consisting of Maidul’s wife and mother and his three daughters,” said Santra. After receiving the appointment letter, Aleya thanked chief minister Mamata Banerjee for the employment. “I want to thank our chief minister as the job will help us survive. I hope the government will be with us in future,” she said. Mamata had on Monday announced that the government would provide a job to Maidul’s kin and a team led by Santra had called on the bereaved family the following day to collect necessary documents. Maidul had taken part in the march to Nabanna demanding jobs for youths and Left Front leaders pointed to the irony that Aleya got employment but at the cost of losing her husband. “Maidul wanted jobs for all and the government gave his wife a job after snatching her husband away. It is also an irony that Aleya has been given a job in the police department as homeguard while her husband died because of police brutality. The government is trying to erase the crime as no step has been taken to identify and punish the cops responsible for Maidul’s death,” said Pradip Panda, DYFI’s Bankura secretary. Santra, however, said: “We had to appoint her as homeguard as she needed a job near her house. There is a police outpost around 1.5km away from her village and we will request that she is posted there.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Prime Minister ties central education policy to Tagore ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday tried to draw a parallel between Rabindranath Tagore’s vision of education and his government’s controversial New Education Policy saying both sought to build a modern India, but critics said the two ideas were as different as chalk and cheese. Addressing the Visva-Bharati convocation virtually from New Delhi on Friday, Modi said: “The education system and process that Gurudev ensured in Visva-Bharati helped the then education system get rid of the shackles of subordination and make India modern. The New Education policy…will also help break the old shackles to give students freedom to show their excellence.” Friday’s speech comparing the NEP to Tagore’s idea of education is Modi’s second attempt to link the vision of Visva-Bharati’s founder with the programmes of his government. Barely two months ago, while speaking at the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati, Modi had tried to connect his government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat project with Tagore’s idea of inclusiveness and self-reliance. The attempt of the Prime Minister, who is also the varsity chancellor, to use Tagore as a tool to justify schemes of his government has run into criticism from Visva-Bharati alumni and senior officials of the university. The critics said the two ideas were not one and the same as Gurudev believed in making education inclusive and holistic, while the NEP sought to make it exclusive and inaccessible. They also raised questions about the varsity administration’s faith in the ideas that Tagore propagated. “It is interesting that the chancellor is finding the ideology of Tagore to relate policies of his government schemes. Ironically, I have doubts whether the present varsity administration and the Prime Minister himself are practicing Tagore’s ideals. Tagore’s ideology of truth, courage, welfare and development for all is not followed by the government but contradicted when we see thousands of farmers fighting in Delhi against the farm laws and Modi refuses to listen to them,” said Dikshit Sinha, who retired as professor of sociology from Visva-Bharati. Modi’s praise for his education policies came on a day when state education minister Partha Chatterjee criticised the NEP and said through it, the Centre wanted to privatise the education sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Central forces set to beat Bengal poll dates||The Union ministry of home affairs has decided to send 12 companies of central paramilitary forces to Bengal by Friday night and another 113 companies by February 25 for the purpose of area domination ahead of the Assembly polls. The unprecedented early despatch of the troops has come as a surprise for the state administration. Sources said the chief electoral officer of Bengal had already sent a detailed deployment plan of the forces and based on it, Nabanna had asked district authorities to make required arrangements. Multiple sources in the state administration said they could not recall an instance of the central forces getting deployed even before election dates were announced. “So far, a few companies of central forces were sent to the state for area domination after election dates were declared. I can recall that about 30 companies were sent to the state after dates of 2016 Assembly polls had been declared and around 40 companies were despatched following the announcement of the 2019 Lok Sabha election dates,” said an official. “But sending 125 companies even before poll dates are declared is unprecedented in the recent past.” Each company of the central force — headed by an assistant commandant — has 80 to 100 men. The state government has to bear the expenses incurred by the forces sent by the Centre. A section of state government officials said the Election Commission had sent a stern message to the Bengal government by deploying 125 companies of central forces ahead of the polls. “This sends a message that the poll panel is not satisfied with the law and order in the state. It also makes it clear that the poll panel was taking note of the complaints lodged by the Opposition, mainly the BJP, about the state’s law and order,” said another official. A source said that jawans of the 125 companies — 60 of CRPF, 30 of SSB, 25 of BSF and five each of CISF and the ITBP —would be deployed across 35 police districts in Bengal. Deployment of a large number of central forces much before the poll dates are declared also drops a hint the EC would initiate all possible measures to hold an incident-free election in the state this year. The sources also pointed out that it also gave a clear hint that the EC was laying special emphasis on Bengal ahead of the polls this year. “I am not sure whether central forces were sent for area domination in Assam, Tamil Nadu or Kerala where polls would be held alongside Bengal. It is interesting that forces were sent soon after Union home minister Amit Shah told a rally in South 24-Parganas on Thursday that no Trinamul goon would be on the streets on the day of the polls,” said a minister. Sources in the home department said usually central forces deployed for area domination undertake route marches to build confidence among people ahead of the polls. “This is something unusual that forces would be deployed in all police districts. Usually, central forces are deployed in trouble-prone areas. It is unacceptable that the law and order is worse in all districts,” said another official. The EC had earlier given hints that it was keeping a close watch on the law and order in Bengal as it had asked the district authorities to send detailed reports to the poll panel on a regular basis about two months ago. “This was also something unusual. Now, deployment of 125 companies of central forces drops a clear hint that the EC has acted according to the memorandum of the BJP as it had demanded deployment of central forces at the earliest,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah flags off cycle rallies in Bengal||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday flagged off three cycle rallies, each of which will visit the homes of almost 400 unsung freedom fighters from Bengal in distant corners of Bengal. The initiative is a part of a series of programmes undertaken by the Centre to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. “This is a very important event…The people of India still remember Subhas babu with the same kind of love and respect as they did when he was alive and fighting. Several attempts were made to remove Subhas babu from our memories. But his work, his patriotism and his supreme sacrifice will remain in the minds of Indians for ages to come,” Shah said in his address during the event held at the National Library in Calcutta. “The Union government has decided to dedicate his 125th birth anniversary to not only Subhas babu, but to everyone who sacrificed their lives and quit their studies for the freedom struggle,” Shah added. Before the Union home minister spoke, a cultural show was staged at the library. He congratulated the fleet of more than 300 cyclists who would be marshalled across Bengal in 30 days and would cover a distance of over 900km. The three teams of cyclists have been named after Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Rasbehari Bose and Khudiram Bose — three of Bengal’s most iconic freedom fighters. The central initiative, however, has drawn criticism from the Trinamul Congress, which alleged that Shah was using a government event for electoral benefits. “In the BJP’s scheme of things, the party and the government are not separate. What happened on Friday was a part of that tradition,” said Trinamul spokesperson and minister Bratya Basu. “This event was a complete eyewash.” The Friday’s event was criticised by the Left Front-backed National Library Employees’ Association as well. The association released a press note condemning the programme. “The iconic National Library isn’t a public place. Only acknowledged readers can enter its premises other than the employees,” the press note read. The association said that it wasn’t acceptable that a few thousands of people gathered on the library premises where the number of readers have been capped to abide by the Covid-19 protocols. It also condemned the unchecked movement of vehicles carrying “the flags of a particular party” on the premises in connection with a government event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Birbhum boy to attend global science meet||Aniruddha Das, a Class X student from Birbhum’s Kaitha High School, will represent India at the International Science and Engineering Fair this year. Aniruddha, the son of a medicine shop owner from Kaitha, a remote hamlet 90km from Santiniketan, bagged the grand jury prize this January at a virtual award ceremony organised by the Initiative for Research and Innovation, organised by the Centre's department of science and technology. The 16-year-old last year came up with a unique innovation producing mosquito repellent from extracts of the acacia fruit. “I was surprised after receiving the letter from Delhi and a proposal that my project will be taken to the international stage,” said Aniruddha, who will be the only representative from Bengal, and one among 20 young innovators from India, who will compete with over 1,800 youths from 80 countries. On Thursday, Aniruddha came to Bolpur with his teacher Syed Imtiaz Ahmed and the coordinator of the National Children Science Congress in Birbhum, Tarak Banerjee. He had to qualify three tiers at the district level in the National Children Science Congress before participating in the national fair. Aniruddha, whose annual family income is around Rs 50,000, had to struggle with poverty to continue his studies, said he got the idea about the mosquito repellent on the way home from school in 2019. “I saw one of our neighbours cutting a dozen akashmoni (Acacia Auriculiformis) on the banks of his pond. When I asked him the reason, he claimed hundreds of fish in his pond died because the fruits of the tree were falling into the water. After talking to local experts, my neighbour had decided to fell the trees. The incident sparked a thought of using the flower as a repellent,” he said. Aniruddha thought if the fruit of akashmoni could kill fish, then its extract could be used to kill mosquito larvae in stagnant water. “Aniruddha informed me about his idea and I asked him to experiment with it. After his experiment, we found that it was really working. Later, we planned to submit the project before the district level National Children’s Science Congress,” said Syed Imtiaz Ahmed, a teacher in his school, who also guided Aniruddha’s friend Ramiz Akbar in preparing another project. Tarak Banerjee, the district coordinator of National Children Science Congress in Birbhum, said: “We are overwhelmed that Aniruddha is going to be the first student from our district to compete at the international level of the fair.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri garbage collectors up ante||The ceasework by conservancy workers of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation continued for the third day on Friday, which worsened the situation across the city as more and more garbage piled up in different corners. Since Wednesday, over 2,500 workers of the civic body have been on strike. Under the banner of the Uttarbanga Safai Karmachari Samiti, they have raised a number of demands, which include permanency of their jobs and hike in wages. “The civic authorities have said that they are helpless and have passed on the buck to the state government. It is their problem as to how they obtain funds and approval from the state government. We will not budge from our stand unless there is a specific assurance from the SMC or the state government that our demands would be met immediately,” said Kiran Rauth, the president of the samiti. On Thursday, they had a meeting with Asok Bhattacharya, the chairperson of the board of administrators at the SMC. But no decision was made at that meeting. State tourism minister Gautam Deb had called them for talks on Friday but none of the workers turned up at the meeting. “He is the tourism minister and we believe that he can only forward our demand to the state municipal affairs department. That is why we did not join the meeting and sent a letter to the minister (Firhad Hakim) concerned instead for his intervention,” said Rauth. Altogether 2,571 workers provide conservancy services in the SMC area. Among them, 371 are permanent employees while the remaining workers serve on daily basis. The permanent employees have also joined the ceasework, which has led to complete collapse in the waste collection and disposal system in all 47 wards of the city. In fact, an effort by the civic authorities to engage new workers for clearing the garbage has also faced resistance from the agitators at a number of places. They have also stopped SMC vehicles from carrying away the garbage. The SMC authorities as well as the subdivisional administration held emergency meetings to discuss the situation. “Specific complaints will be lodged against the workers who have damaged some vehicles of SMC and have threatened some of our workers as they joined their duties. Also, if the permanent workers do not join their duties from Saturday, we will mention that there has been a discontinuation of service in their service books,” said Asok Bhattacharya, who is also the Siliguri MLA. He also mentioned that on Saturday, a meeting with civic employees’ and workers’ unions affiliated to Citu, Intuc and Inttuc would be held in SMC. “We are trying to end the stalemate and have also sent a letter to the agitating workers, asking them to withdraw the movement and resume their services,” added Bhattacharya. Meanwhile, the sub-divisional administration of Siliguri held a meeting in the Mainak Tourist Lodge complex here on Friday. State tourism minister Gautam Deb was present at the meeting. After the meeting, Deb said that they have sympathy with the conservancy workers but their cease work can lead to serious consequences as the Covid 19 pandemic is not over. “If required, along with all the ward coordinators irrespective of their political affiliation, will come out and initiate a cleanliness drive in the city,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad's Nimtita station blast probe yields no clue||No incisive leads indicating the origin or the grade of explosives used in the blast at the Nimtita railway station were uncovered till Friday even though the CID, bomb squad and forensic experts have been scouring the area. Junior labour minister Jakir Hossain and 26 people accompanying him were injured in the blast at the railway station in Murshidabad district around 10pm on Wednesday. The minister had reached the railway station to board the Calcutta-bound Teesta-Torsa Express when explosives suspected to have been kept on the platform went off. “We are collecting blood-smeared soil and rock samples hoping for a lead, but as of now, we are still unclear about the sophistication of the explosives or their origins. The remains and splinters will help our probe,” said scientist Chitrankar Shankar of the Forensic Science Laboratory who arrived with his team at Nimtita from Calcutta on Friday. Separate teams of CID and bomb squad officials from Calcutta had reached the site on Thursday morning and sealed off the area, disrupting train services for a day for their investigations that spanned the surrounding areas. On Friday, the probe teams recovered splinters, suspected to have been used to make the explosive, 30 metres away from the station. The portion of a human finger was found 100 metres away from the roof of the railway station’s ticket counter. “The recovery of a part of the human finger 100 metres away from the blast site goes to show the power of the explosion,” a CID sleuth said. Inspector general of police (south Bengal) N.K. Varma and other senior police officers also inspected the blast site on Friday but refused to comment on the status of the probe. Divisional railway manager (Malda) Jitendra Kumar also visited the site and issued a press release later on Friday. Sources said the Government Railway Police had filed a fresh report on Friday at Azimganj police station in connection with the incident. Nimtita station was sanitised and thrown open to the public on Friday evening but the CID and the police continued with the investigations. Behrampore MP and state Congress chief Adhir Chowdhury demanded that the inquiry be handed over to the CBI. Chowdhury suggested that “partisan” forces could hamper the outcome if the investigation remained in the hands of the CID, which works under the state government. “We are demanding an immediate CBI inquiry into the incident,” he said while speaking to reporters after inducting Trinamul turncoat and Murshidabad zilla parishad chairman Musharraf Hossain into the Congress on Friday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
20-02-2021||North East||Manipur Anganwadi worker dies a week after taking first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||A 48-year-old Anganwadi worker in Manipur has died a week after receiving her first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, officials said on Saturday. W Sundari Devi of Kumbi Terakha area in Bishunpur district had received her first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine on February 12 at Kumbhi primary health centre (PHC), they said. She was taken to the Moirang community health centre (CHC) on February 18 as she had breathing problems and died at the CHC on Friday. Health Department officials said that a special team will conduct the post-mortem of the deceased to ascertain the true cause of the death. Meanwhile, Chief Minister N Biren Singh met the family members of Sundari and heard their grievances. He expressed deep condolences and assured the family members of suitable compensation duly considering the post-mortem report. "Heard the grievances of family of Anganwandi Worker W Sundari of Kumbi Terakha, Bishnupur District and expressed my deep condolences. Assured suitable compensation duly considering post mortem reports and instructed for taking strong action against defaulting officials," the chief minister tweeted. The Deputy Commissioner of Bishnupur, Neeta Arambam said that the family members of the deceased claimed that at the time of vaccination, Sundari had told the "vaccination team that she has allergy problem. However, the vaccination went ahead."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
20-02-2021||North East||Assam: Narendra Modi lays foundation stones for two bridges||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid foundation stones for two bridges in Assam, one of which will be the country’s longest river bridge, through the virtual mode in a push to improve connectivity in the poll-bound state. Modi said bridges such as Dr Bhupen Hazarika Setu, Bogibeel and Saraighat in Assam are not only making the life of people easy but also strengthening the security of the country by facilitating the smooth movement of troops. On Thursday, the foundation stone was laid for the 19km Dhubri-Phulbari bridge and the “bhoomi pujan (earth worship)” performed for the 6.8km Majuli-Jorhat bridge. “The campaign to connect Assam and the Northeast has been carried forward today,” Modi said, lauding the efforts of chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and his government for the work on getting the projects moving. The bridge from Dhubri in Assam to Phulbari in Meghalaya will improve connectivity by reducing the distance between Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram and Assam. Modi pointed out that the distance between Meghalaya and Assam is around 250km, which will be reduced to just 19-20km after the completion of the bridge, as on day India’s longest river bridge. The bridge will be built at a cost of around Rs 4,997 crore. The current longest river bridge in India, at 9.15km, is the Bhupen Hazarika Setu which connects Dhola with Sadiya. The two-lane bridge on the Brahmaputra between Kamalabari in Majuli (north bank) and Neematighat in Jorhat (south bank) too has been a long-pending demand of the people of Majuli who for generations have been dependent on the ferry services for commuting like those living in Dhubri and Phulbari. Sonowal termed the day as historic as the dream of Majuli’s people for a bridge is going to be realised and he thanked the Prime Minister and Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari for this initiative. Sonowal represents Majuli constituency. The promise for the bridge was made in 2016. The chief minister also said that the Rs 3,200 crore Mahabahu Brahmaputra project would harness the potential of the Barak and the Brahmaputra rivers and strengthen the economic foundation of the state. Dwelling on the project, Modi said this will strengthen connectivity on the Brahmaputra through port-led development. The three Ro-Pax (passenger roll-on and roll-off) ferry services which were also launched online makes Assam a front-runner state to be connected with such services at this scale. This, along with the four tourist jetties, will significantly improve Assam’s connectivity with the Northeast, the Prime Minister said. Modi, who will visit Dhemaji on February 25, lamented that the neglect to connectivity issues over the years had deprived the state of its prosperity. The infrastructure deteriorated and waterways almost got wasted, which the Prime Minister said led to unrest. “The course correction started during the tenure of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee... In recent years, steps were taken to re-establish multi-modal connectivity in Assam. Efforts are on to make Assam and the Northeast the hub of our cultural and business relations with other East Asian countries... today’s connectivity related launches will open new avenues of tourism and Assam could emerge as a major destination for cruise tourism. We have to work collectively to make Assam and the Northeast a strong pillar of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” Modi said. Gadkari said road and infrastructure work worth Rs 1 lakh crore are being undertaken in Assam. He also said that the construction of the 55km-long road from Serampore in Bengal to Dhubri in Assam will begin in October, saving the distance and time needed to travel to Bhutan and Bangladesh. Congress queries The Opposition Congress was not enthused by the developments on Thursday. According to the party, the much-hyped launch of the Mahabahu Brahmaputra with the flagging off the Ro-Pax ferry services between Majuli and Neematighat, South Guwahati and North Guwahati and Dhubri to Hatisingimari by the Prime Minister had to be taken with a “pinch of salt” as a similar service launched in Gujarat in 2017 by Modi had “flopped badly”. “Now the question arises whether the technical details have been planned and laid out for the Ro-Pax ferry services in Assam? Or will it face the same fate as the much hyped Ro-Ro ferry in Gujarat which is dysfunctional? Given the negative reports of the ferry service in Gujarat, it is suspected that the much hyped Ro-Pax service in Assam is nothing but an election stunt,” PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma said. “It is also noteworthy to mention that the foundation stone for the Neematighat-Majuli bridge was laid on February 27, 2016, by Gadkari near Majuli College playground. Today another foundation stone was laid for the same bridge! What was the government doing in the last five years?” she further asked. With the Election Commission likely to announce the poll dates by February-end, the government has stepped up its activities by launching or inaugurating one project or scheme after another in Assam that goes to polls in April-May. Modi’s visit will be followed by that of Union home minister Amit Shah to Nagaon on February 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
20-02-2021||North East||Nagaland Assembly adopts resolution urging Centre, political groups to conclude peace process||The Nagaland Assembly on Thursday adopted a four-point resolution urging the Centre and the Naga political groups to conclude the ongoing peace process for an honourable and inclusive solution without further delay. Chief minister Neiphiu Rio moved the resolutions drafted by a seven-member committee constituted on Tuesday for consideration and adoption in the House. One of the resolutions urged the stakeholders involved in the peace process to sit across the table for the conclusion of the negotiation that is “honourable, inclusive and acceptable to people as One Solution without any further delay”. The ongoing peace process started in 1997 and a framework agreement was signed in 2015. However, talks have stalled with the NSCN (I-M) sticking to its demand for a separate flag and constitution. During the special discussion on the Naga political issue on Tuesday, Rio had not only hailed that deliberations as “highly” fruitful but also delved into a brief history about the political movement dating back to 1918 when the first political organisation of the Nagas took birth in the form of the “Naga Club”. He had also explained in detail the numerous landmark events that took place over the span of a century, events that had defined the course of the long-standing political issue. The first of the four-point resolution adopted on Thursday “endorsed” and reiterated all past resolutions of the Assembly on the political issue while resolving to work “unitedly” in facilitating the political negotiations. Thursday was the seventh time the Assembly had adopted resolutions on the Naga political issue, the earlier ones being taken on December 12, 1964, August 28, 1970, September 16, 1994, December 18, 2003, July 27, 2015, and September 20, 2018. The 60-member House further appreciated the efforts of the Centre to resolve the issue through peaceful means, for “acknowledging” the “unique” history and identity of the Nagas by upholding the political talks. The Assembly also hailed the efforts of Naga political groups, political parties, civil society organisations, the Church and NGOs towards finding a peaceful resolution and urging them to continue working towards strengthening Naga unity and come together for the larger interest of the Naga people. The resolution passed in 2018 called for integration of the contiguous Naga-inhabited areas, appealing to all sections of Nagas to sustain and participate in the negotiations for an inclusive solution. In 2015, the Assembly had adopted a five-point resolution on the issue, reiterating the resolutions adopted in the past which called for integration of Naga-inhabited areas, withdrawal of Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act from the state and an appeal to all sections of Nagas to work unitedly for an early solution. Naga-inhabited areas fall in neighbouring Assam, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and some portions in Myanmar. All the neighbouring states have objected to any move that could affect their territorial integrity. Assembly Speaker S. Longkumer had on Tuesday constituted a seven-member committee to draft a resolution on the Naga political issue after a special discussion in the House. The members were Neiba Kronu and Toshi Wungthung of the ruling NDPP, Pangnyu Phom and Jacob Zhimomi of the BJP, Chotisuh Sazo and Imkong L. Imchen of the Opposition NPF and Tongpang Ozukum, an Independent. The members met on Wednesday afternoon to finalise the draft of the resolution. “Three-fourths of the Assembly time was devoted to discussing the Naga political issue. All members were unanimous on how to take the long-drawn peace process forward,” Sazo had told The Telegraph on Tuesday. Rio had said on Tuesday that “it was time to rise above our differences and come together for the greater cause of our land and our children” and urged all sections of the society to continue to strive towards true and genuine unity. Opposition leader T.R. Zeliang of the NPF had said the Naga political issue “is not about who is right but what is right for the Nagas”. He had said that for decades they have struggled to find an amicable and early solution which is the desire and aspiration of “all Nagas spread across four Indian states and two nations”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
20-02-2021||North East||NRC: Youth League delegation promises to strive for adequate compensation for homeless||A Muslim Youth League delegation that recently visited Assam has promised to strive for ensuring adequate compensation for those who lost their houses and offer legal help to restore National Register of Citizen papers destroyed in arson in Kachurthal village bordering Mizoram. A delegation of the youth wing of Indian Union Muslim League had visited the village and took stock the situation after alleged rioters burnt down houses of villagers from a minority community who lost all their belongings, including the NRC papers that establish their citizenship. The village falls under Ramnathpur police station in Katlicherra revenue circle of Hailakandi district that has witnessed communal tension over several years. More than a 100 houses have been damaged or destroyed in the recent arson attacks that left more than 20 people injured. The delegation visited the injured admitted to Silchar Medical College and Hospital, the Muslim Youth League said in a statement  issued on Tuesday. “The total failure of the state government in controlling the situation was what led to the riots. The situation was quite peaceful in recent times,” it said. The delegation led by Youth League national president Asif Ansari and general secretary C.K. Zubair had embarked on the trip after IUML leader E.T. Mohammed Basheer raised the matter in the Lok Sabha recently. The visiting team provided emergency assistance of dry rations to the riot victims who had lost all their belongings. According to the statement, the villagers apprised the delegation of the larger conspiracy behind the rioting and arson that left them without the crucial NRC documents. “The villagers are in a state of shock after having lost the documents that prove their citizenship and their homes,” the statement said. The delegation headed to the village under an armed escort of Assam police and CRPF since the situation remained tense. The team met senior police officials and sought adequate security for the villagers living in fear since the attacks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
20-02-2021||Opinion||Welcome to the Great Indian cow knowledge fest||Holy cow! It seems nearly half a million people have signed up for the government’s online exam to test their knowledge about “cow science” and the “advantageous” qualities of the 51 breeds of Indian Gau-Mata like the Kasaragod dwarf cow and the Red Kandhari over foreign “exotic” breeds such as the Jersey cow. The agency is holding a mock test this Sunday to be followed by the final exam four days later on February 25 and it’s offering prizes to “successful meritorious candidates” and certificates to all exam participants. People from virtually every district in India have registered for the test which is being offered in Hindi, English and 12 regional languages. And there’s been keen overseas interest. Some 15 per cent of the exam hopefuls are from abroad, says the government agency Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA). “We’ve got people from every continent from countries like Malaysia, UAE -- and even Pakistan” to join the Indian cattle knowledge fest, says RKA spokesman Pureesh Kumar. The aim of the one-hour multiple exam exercise is to “infuse the curiosity into all Indians about the cows, and make them aware of the unexplored potential and business opportunities a cow can offer, even after it stops giving milk”. So what’s in store as far as questions? Turns out quite a lot. The golden rule to remember for this exam is that Indian cows are superior in every way. For how superior, check out the exam ‘syllabus’ which makes some fairly eyebrow-raising claims, such as attributing earthquakes to cow slaughter. Desi cows are also cleaner than foreign ones. And they display impressive  respect:: “Whenever any unknown  person comes near a desi cow, she will immediately stand. And, of course, make sure you know what the exam syllabus lists as the five great contributions cows make to mankind -- milk, ghee, curd, urine and dung. But again, cow dung and urine of foreign breeds are “comparatively of inferior quality, says the syllabus. It goes without saying that Indian cows’ milk is superior to the milk from foreign cows and with its slightly yellow tinge even contains traces of gold. To be specific, RKA asserts that the milk from the Jersey, Holstein Friesian and other foreign-bred cows, imported from Western countries, have been linked to diseases from diabetes, heart disease and schizophrenia to autism. The milk produced by desi cows poses none of these dangers. Also, the Jersey cow, so the RKA says, suffers from a litany of  problems from being lazy to not being “emotive.” To get the highest number of exam participants, the Kamdhenu Aayog has gone all out, persuading the University Grants Commission (UGC) to lean on colleges around the country to take part in the exam. Letters have also gone out to the Kendriya Vidyalayas to persuade school-going children to take part (it’s going to be slightly dumbed down for kids). Got a yen to participate? It’s not too late to sign up as today’s the last exam registration day. And there won’t be any nail-biting wait for the results which will be declared immediately on the website of the RKA. The Kamdhenu Aayog was set up back in 2019 to focus mainly on the protecting, developing and promoting Indian cattle breeds. It’s other key mandate is to keep a close watch on the “implementation of the prohibition of the slaughter and/or cruelty to cows. Then there is the business potential from cows via itself milk, ghee, curd, cow dung and urine which have “immense potential for generating huge revenue by utilizing its milk, ghee, curd, cow dung and cow urine base.” Also to be explored, there’s the concept of “cow hugging” in the west for health benefits. In Rajasthan, the RKA notes there are already guest houses with walls and floors made from dung. In addition, indigenous breeds have some unique features like hump on their back that has the special power to absorb the sun’s energy with the help of the ‘solar pulse’ situated on their humps running through the spine, a unique colour and a curved backline, the RKA says. The Suryaketu Nadi, located in the cow’s back also absorbs many positive and medicinal energy from the sunlight and the atmosphere, leading to more nourishing milk, cow dung, and urine. The RKA’s overarching aim is to communicate to the public that the cow “is not just a milk-giving animal” but that its.so-called “waste products” --  like cow-dung and cow-urine, which are cheap and abundantly available, are bio-degradable and environmentally friendly. Also, aside from being used for fuel, cow dung is an excellent antiseptic, skin tonic and toothpaste.  And interestingly, the RKA researchers say, drop a Ganesh idol made of cow dung from 30 floors, it won’t break whereas if you drop a Ganesh made from foreign cow dung, from a lower floor, it will shatter.  Meanwhile, desi cow urine stops gas disorders, bile, stomach acidity as well as cures leprosy and other skin problems, the RKA says. As far as cow slaughter, don’t even let it cross your mind as you could be facing some pretty unpleasant karma, according to the RKA syllabus. So now you have the lowdown on the exam contents. What are you waiting for? Don’t be a cynical “pseudo intellectual” as the RKA says. Go ahead -- and gau for it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
20-02-2021||Opinion||Shining examples: Serena Williams and Naomi Osaka||Sir — The thrill of watching the tennis legend, Serena Williams, and the immensely talented player, Naomi Osaka, play against each other on the tennis court is unparalleled. It was mesmerizing to watch Osaka beat Williams in straight sets — 6-3, 6-4 — in the semi-final of the Australian Open to reach her fourth major final. With this win, the Japanese tennis star has extended her winning streak to 20 matches. It is clear that Osaka is destined for greatness in the game; it is no mean feat to beat the younger Williams sister, who is easily the best tennis player of all time alongside Roger Federer. Osaka had, in fact, beaten Williams once before, in 2018, in the final of the US Open, a victory which catapulted her into the spotlight. It is a treat to observe her game: she has an offence-heavy playing style that is complemented by her powerful forehand and strong backhand. She is recognized as an aggressive baseline player; some of her fastest serves have been clocked in at 125 miles per hour. Given that she is just 23 years old, one can look forward with great anticipation to all the upcoming achievements in her career. But sport is as much about goodwill and mutual respect as it is about fierce and healthy competition. As such, it is heart-warming to observe not only the camaraderie between the two players but also Osaka’s clear admiration and awe for Williams. “I was a little kid watching [Williams] play,” said Osaka, “and just to be on the court playing against her, for me, is a dream.” One hopes that tennis lovers get more chances to watch the two formidable stars play against each other in the future; both of them set a magnificent example for young girls who aspire to play the game. Ronit Ganguly,Calcutta Sir — It is sad that the legendary Serena Williams has once again lost an opportunity to equal Margaret Court’s record of 24 Grand Slam titles. She has now missed 11 chances to win her 24th Grand Slam; her last win was in 2017, at the Australian Open. At the same time, one must congratulate the young Naomi Osaka, who has proved to be a stumbling block in Williams’s path, bouncing back in the semi-final match to defeat her opponent in straight sets. Will Williams be able to equal Court’s record in the future? Janaki Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — Serena Williams may have lost the Australian Open semi-final to Naomi Osaka and her chance to win her 24th Grand Slam title, but there is no reason for her fans to despair. This is the woman who won the Australian Open in 2017 while being pregnant. There is no doubting her greatness or her capabilities. Ankit Gandhi,Calcutta Be careful Sir — It was both distressing and infuriating to watch the video of an elderly woman in Rohtak who had to lie low on a railway track as a goods train passed over her. It was a relief to see her emerge unscathed — the local people advised her to lie still till the train had passed — but this is a case of extreme carelessness on the part of the woman. Passers-by and the signalman had reportedly tried to stop her from crossing the tracks with the train approaching, but she disregarded their warnings as she was in a hurry. While serious train accidents often take place owing to the negligence of the railway authorities, are not ordinary citizens also expected to behave responsibly? Aditi Khosla,Delhi PARTING SHOT Sir — The residents of two co-operative housing societies in Kankurgachi were practically immobilized for almost 13 hours a couple of days ago on account of a political meeting that was organized on the main road. The road was blocked by a podium as well as chairs and barricades, making the movement of cars and other vehicles impossible. Luckily no emergency arose during that period, but what would the residents have done if it had? The authorities and organizers of such meetings should think about the inconveniences caused to ordinary people before allowing such gatherings to take place in this fashion. That is, if they care about the people at all. Priyanko Mukherji,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
20-02-2021||Opinion||Enter the master: politics and education||Politicians in India believe that power is equal to mastery in every sphere. Education, for example, is firmly in their hands, irrespective of their experience of academia. Usually governments are reluctant to lose the chance of inserting the ruling party’s point of view — mildly or aggressively — into teaching materials or methods. Funding education, a public good, becomes a route for control, which is why autonomy has remained elusive for educational institutions. One positive feature of the Trinamul Congress government in West Bengal is that it did not try experimenting with school syllabi, such as postponing the learning of English till Class V, as an earlier government had done. That changed the future for a whole generation of students. Rather, the present government has shown some positive achievements: according to the Annual Status of Education Report from Pratham last September, Bengal ranked first in the country in reducing the percentage of school drop-outs. Government schemes and policies have helped. Different reports and accounts suggest that not just the proper distribution of midday meals — during the Covid-19 shutdown of schools the government distributed uncooked midday meal items with masks and soap — but also that of shoes, clothes, bicycles, textbooks — Bengal was the fastest in reaching books to pupils during the pandemic — have resulted in the growing numbers in schools. The Kanyashree scheme, by which government funds help parents educate girls until they are 18 and not marry them off, has been widely acknowledged. In the bleak scene of learning outcomes in India, the 2018 ASER indicates another improvement — if the ability to read Class II texts by students of Class V can be so called. But happy endings are rare. The state government’s pride in the growing number of schools, colleges and universities built in the last decade seems misplaced in the context of the lack of teachers. A teachers’ association has said that around 87,000 teachers’ posts are vacant in the secondary and higher secondary levels. This does not augur well for pupils. It is not just delays in recruiting teachers already empanelled by the School Service Commission but also the thrust to appoint politically preferred candidates that are eroding the positive effects of the government’s declared schemes. And when managing committees in schools reportedly have a ruling party-affiliated person imposed on top, academics are unavoidably tainted by politics and the independence and dignity of teachers are hurt. It is no coincidence that teachers and teacher candidates are growing increasingly unhappy. Universities and colleges are complaining of similar political interference, which has not lessened at all since the last regime. Perhaps the tragedy at the school level is more poignant, since the government has obviously tried hard in this sector. But all its efforts will go to waste unless the ruling party stops interfering — through the government route or otherwise — and higher education is no longer sabotaged from more than one direction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
20-02-2021||Opinion||Plot twist: Trisha Sakhlecha’s recently published novel||I won’t give away the twist in Trisha Sakhlecha’s recently published novel, Can You See Me Now? but I was so shocked I had to read it again. The tale is about 16-year-olds, Noor Qureshi and Sabah Khan, at Westcott, an exclusive school in India, who are joined by Alia Sharma, an arrival from London. They become best friends but then dark things happen, ending up with Noor’s funeral. Trisha laughs and assures me these girls are nothing like her own best friends from Delhi Public School, where she went before studying fashion in Mumbai and Bangalore. At 22, when she settled in London, she did a creative writing course at the Faber Academy. A “sex scandal” incident similar to one which had happened at her school is woven into the plot. Trisha thinks it’s unfair that the girl — rather like Noor — was pilloried, while nothing much happened to the boy. Her intriguing novel moves backwards and forwards 15 years, which explains why Trisha used a spreadsheet to cope with the “many moving parts”. Trisha should be at her home in London, but is in lockdown in Bhopal, where her father, Om Prakash Sakhlecha, is an MLA. Her late grandfather, Virendra Kumar Sakhlecha, was once the Madhya Pradesh chief minister. Trisha chose not to go into politics — though she features communal tensions in her novel — but to combine writing with fashion. As a child she enjoyed Enid Blyton’s Famous Five and The Secret Seven stories and “adored” Agatha Christie. “Donna Tartt’s The Secret History has also been a huge source of inspiration and Jhumpa Lahiri and Kamila Shamsie are two authors I keep going back to again and again.” I discovered we love one poem in common — “The Highwayman” by Alfred Noyes. Girl’s got groove Perhaps as a treat to listeners on Valentine’s Day, Malala Yousafzai was a guest on BBC Radio 4’s Desert Island Discs, where guests reveal something of their private lives while picking eight pieces of music. Malala’s choices were mainly Pakistani compositions, but she did pick Justin Bieber’s “Never Say Never”; “All I Ask Of You” from the musical, The Phantom of the Opera; and Peter Asher’s “Love Always Comes as a Surprise” from Madagascar 3. She admitted she had become a big fan of British TV comedy, such as Yes Minister. Malala, now 23, graduated in PPE from Oxford last year. She picked Plato’s The Republic, as her book, and lip balm as her luxury item. As for her moments of joy, she said: “When I’m watching a cricket match between India and Pakistan — and Pakistan wins — I am really, really happy.” Listening to her moving interview, full of life and laughter, some listeners could almost have forgotten what Malala refers to as “the incident” on October 9, 2012 when the Taliban shot her in the head. She spent months at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham. When she regained consciousness, the first thing she requested was for her father to bring her physics books “because I was worried that I might be a bit behind in my revision for my exams in Pakistan”. Maybe it is a blessing in disguise that Malala, who intends to continue to fight for girls’ education, has no memory of the assassination attempt.Under attack In the light of Black Lives Matter, many British institutions have decided now is the time to subject the history of the Empire to ever closer scrutiny. Churchill College, Cambridge, held a second discussion to examine Winston Churchill’s policies towards India, with academics alleging his notions of “white supremacy” were not so different from those of the Nazis. Deeply upset, Churchill’s grandson, Sir Nicholas Soames, responded: “I think Sir Winston’s reputation will withstand, with some ease, this sort of rant. I do think it’s terribly disappointing that views like this are advanced at Churchill College... I’m afraid to say I have nothing but contempt for what these people have said.” And according to the National Trust, Lord Curzon pursued racist policies as Viceroy of India from 1899 to 1905. The trust, which looks after the Curzon family home, Kedleston Hall in Derbyshire, says: “Like most of his contemporaries, British rule in India was to him a ‘civilising mission’: a euphemistic and racist ideology used to justify colonial supremacy.” Supporters of the Empire will be delighted to learn that Curzon’s statue still remains at the Victoria Memorial Hall which retains its name.Birthday boy Lord Swraj Paul, who has long been a sort of spokesman for Indo-British relations, turned 90 on Thursday. He was born in Jalandhar on February 18, 1931, moved to Calcutta in the 1950s when he was 24 (“Calcutta was and is a lovely city”), married Aruna Vij in 1956 within a week of meeting her although she was engaged to someone else, and settled in London in 1966. Although he has had both doses of the Pfizer vaccine, Swraj remains in lockdown. “I miss going to work.” Even though Swraj says, “I am 100 per cent Indian and 100 per cent British,” he adds, “On some things you have to choose. So I still get up at 5.30 am, have a cup of tea and am in the office by 8 am. Very Indian.” Footnote Taking part in the debate at Churchill College, Cambridge, the historian, Madhusree Mukerjee, said Sir Winston Churchill was a white supremacist guilty of aggravating the effects of the 1943 Bengal Famine, and also that Hitler “was inspired by the British Empire”. She added: “Hitler’s favourite movie was The Lives of a Bengal Lancer... in which British officers in the North-West Frontier perform these heroic feats. He made it compulsory viewing for SS trainees.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
20-02-2021||Opinion||Seize the moment||The nearly three-month old farmers movement has managed to make a dent into the carefully maintained image of the ruling party. Yet whether that dent translates to something of electoral significance depends on the response of opposition political parties. If this moment leads to a political turning point, it would have less to do with what these protests meant for the BJP, and more about with what they did to the opposition. Put simply, this is a rare opportunity for revival provided to a largely comatose opposition. The crucial state of Uttar Pradesh, known for its fierce political contestations, had in the last few years entered a phase of unusual political quiescence. That spell has now been broken with a string of kisan mahapanchayats put together by the SP and the RLD. Priyanka Gandhi has kicked off her own ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan Abhiyan’ in the state with a farmer rally at Saharanpur. Can these parties use these protests alone to inflict electoral damage on the BJP? Can these parties use the energy of these protests to rebuild their political capital? The answer to the first question is unclear, but the answer to the second question is yes- it is indeed a unique opportunity for opposition parties to replenish their depleted ideological and organisational resources. The first question is unclear because there have been other farmer agitations in the last few years and farm distress has long beenprophesised as the Achilles Heel to the BJP dominance. Yet, the BJP substantially enhanced its vote share among both farmers and rural areas in 2019, compared to 2014. In fact, as a proportion, more farmers voted for the BJP than non-farmers. Only in the 2017 elections in Gujarat do we see concrete evidence of farmer distress playing a key role in hurting the BJP. In some other states, farm distress has been misattributed as a major reason for BJP’s reverses. In rural Haryana, for instance, it was Jat backlash over political marginalisation that dragged down the BJP, not wider rural distress. And in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, as the political scientist Neelanjan Sircar demonstrated,  the BJP’s victory strike rate dwindled as much in urban seats as in rural seats, indicating a wider disenchantment. In fact, contrary to the narrative of BJP’s waning control over rural India, the larger political story since 2014 has been the steady expansion of the BJP, both in terms of organisation and support base, into the rural hinterland. As the scholar Diego Maiorano has convincingly argued, the “2019 elections mark the culmination of a decades-long process of ruralizationand ‘proletarianization’ of the BJP”. It is not hard to figure out why. Political analysts can make overwrought contrasts between the mindset of urban and rural voters. But the political divide between the two has been rapidly shrinking over the last few decades. The improvement in rural infrastructure and connectivity, heavy migration, and diversified, rising incomes have meant that rural Indians are subject to the same political concerns and ideological currents as urban Indians. In the 2019 Loknitipost-poll survey, only 5% of farmers cited issues related to farming as a driver of their vote. Many more cited unemployment and development, much like their urban cousins. Farmer politics, that reached its high noon in the 70s, when peasant-based parties (dominated by middle peasant castes) such as Chaudhary Charan Singh’s BLD displaced the rural hegemony of the Congress, has been declining since the 90s. The pincer movement of the Mandir and Mandal on one hand and the Market on the other has meant that, since the 90s, the political salience of farming issues ebbed away in favour of a sharper contestation on issues of caste and religious identity. The BJP has built its rural base both on ideological messaging of ethno-nationalism that appeals particularly to the middle peasant castes and upper castes, along with well-publicised and effectively delivered welfare schemes that binds them to the rural poor. Unlike the vertically arranged networks of patronage that formed the bedrock of Congress’ rural hegemony till the 60s, the BJP’s system of dominance in rural India is thus structurally more resilient to occasional cycles of protests. That the protests have remained largely confined, outside Punjab, to the Jat belts of Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh, suggests that there is no widespread rural anger against the BJP. However, as earlier mentioned, these protests have succeeded in denting the image of the government and have provided a fortuitous opening to the Opposition parties. They can capitalise on the protests in two ways. Firstly, it can help them in ideologically repositioning themselves in opposition to the BJP. The “Adani Ambani government” (to borrow the words of Rahul Gandhi) against the pious poor farmer is a potent political narrative. The caste-based parties in the Hindi heartland had started running out of steam even before the rise of the BJP. This political moment can enable them to recalibrate their political mobilizational strategies from caste to class, thus increasing their catchment area to a wider array of castes. This is particularly important in Uttar Pradesh, where the numerically strong but scattered Most Backward Castes have drifted rapidly towards the BJP. The protests have already given the impetus to the Congress, which is often charged with lacking ideological clarity, into adopting a shaper left populist rhetoric. Rahul Gandhi has situated the farmer protests in a larger anti-capitalist narrative, repeatedly stating that the government cares for their friends “Ambani and Adani” more than the ordinary people of the country. Unlike the Rafale issue, which dealt with the remote issue of French aircrafts, the farmer protests present an emotionally powerful political canvas on which to paint his populist attacks on crony capitalism. When P Chidambaram, a member of the liberal camp in Congress, tells Parliament that the government only works for the top 1% ‘parijeevi’ (parasites) who control 73% of the country’s wealth, the party’s lurch further Left is unmistakably highlighted. A key challenge to this ideological repositioning is that opposition parties must integrate their diagnosis of the farmer crisis with their larger thesis on economic precarity, joblessness, and development. This is because farmers are equally concerned with these issues as their urban counterparts. In fact, some of the largest agitations of peasant castes in recent years, the Patidars in Gujarat, the Marathas in Maharashtra and the Jats in Haryana, have been on the issue of jobs. For instance, Rahul Gandhi must also explain how crony capitalism of the BJP threatens jobs and development, and what is the alternative vision of the Congress in addressing those challenges. Secondly, the present moment can provide opposition parties with the necessary push to refurbish their organisational resources.  Indian political parties are known to be organisationally weak, and reliant on local elites to act as a bridge between them and the public. This weakness has been made painfully apparent in recent years, where opposition organisational inactivity and ruling party hyper-visibility has reinforced the impression of the hegemonic irresistibility of the BJP. A more proactive engagement with the farmers movement, such as holding rallies and public events in solidarity, with recharge the dormant workers of opposition parties, and activate party structures at all levels. It is perhaps with this objective in mind that the Congress party has planned to hold padyatras in every district this month. Opposition political parties are right to lament that the media has become overly biased towards the BJP, which impedes their message from reaching the public, or that BJP’s control over networks of funding have left them strapped for cash. But righteous laments have little use in politics. The need for an active organisation in between elections becomes even more acute, in the face of a compromised media, to act as a consistent andreliable channel of communication with the people. And organisations can be overhauled,even in the absence of adequate funding, through harnessing the mobilizational potential of protest movements. The BJP essentially built up its organisation base in many states on the back of the Ram Janambhoomi movement, when it was in power no where in the country. The BJP has successfully shifted the centre of gravity of Indian politics. It will not organically swing back towards the opposition parties. Therefore, when the contradictions in BJP’s system of rule presents the opposition with an opening, they must exploit it to the hilt to claw their way back towards the main stage. The farmers protests represent their biggest such opportunity over the last six years. Given the political shrewdness of the BJP, it might be a long while before they are presented with one again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
20-02-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI conducts annual convocation virtually||XLRI hosted its 64th annual convocation on Saturday evening, the first-ever virtual degree day, to bid farewell to the 2018-20 batch. Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director of Hindustan Unilever, graced the convocation ceremony as chief guest. T. V. Narendran, chairman, Board of Governors at XLRI and managing director of Tata Steel, Fr. P. Christie, director of XLRI,  Ashis K. Pani, Dean (Academics) at XLRI, graduating students and their parents all connected virtually. In all, 527 XLRI students received their graduating certificates and medals, including  182 and 180 students of Postgraduate Programmes in Management - BM, and HRM; 104  students of 15-months PGDM (General Management) Programme; 13 students of Fellow Program in Management (FPM) and  48 students of  2017-2020 batch of  PGDM-BM Programme (Evening). The first five rank holders in the two-year postgraduate diploma in Human Resource Management (HRM) 2018-20 batch were Abhishek Goyal, Subham Agarwal, Urmi Arora, Aditya Kompella and Sana Azeem, respectively. The first five rank holders in the two-year postgraduate diploma in Business Management (BM) 2018-20 batch were Utkarsh Bahuguna, B Raja Reddy, Madhavi Gupta, Srenevasan M N, and  Geetanshu Sethi, respectively. The first five rank holders in the postgraduate diploma in General Management (GM)  15 -months programme 2018-19 batch were Arijit Kar, Aditi Raina, Satish Kumar, Manav Bhargava, and Zafar Ali Kanchwala, respectively. The first five rank holders in the Three-Year Postgraduate Diploma in Business Management  Evening Programme 2017 - 20 batch were Korivi Sravan Kumar, Poornima Radhakrishnan, Randeep Singh, Rahul Sharma, and Anubha Priya respectively. Congratulating the students, T. V. Narendran, chairman, Board of Governors, XLRI said, "As you join the remarkable network of XLRI alumni let the valuable education that has been imparted to you in the preceding two years be a guiding force to help enable you to make this world more sustainable and livable for future generations. I urge you to espouse a professional and ethical attitude in your work-life journey and try to give back to society to the extent possible." Fr. P Christie, director, XLRI, advised the graduating students to uphold the values they have imbibed at XLRI  to be responsible leaders who are extraordinary professionals with a sensitive conscience. This year,  XLRI conferred the prestigious Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Social and Industrial Peace on Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director of Hindustan Unilever. Accepting the medal, Mehta said, "I would like to express my gratitude to the governing board of XLRI for bestowing on me the prestigious Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Social and Industrial Peace. It is a big honour and a great privilege to receive this medal." Delivering the convocation speech to the graduating students, he said, “I am delighted and deeply honoured to be with you today. My heartiest congratulations to the graduating class. This is a day of celebration; this is a moment of pride and high emotion and joy for all of you, who are at the threshold of realizing your aspiration and potential. Today marks a new beginning when you are moving out to face the real world's ups and downs." The medal, instituted by XLRI in 1966, in honour of the Late Sir Jehangir Ghandy, former chairman of the Board of Governors - XLRI is awarded to those business leaders who have contributed towards the growth of their respective organizations and also impacted the growth of the nation in a significant way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
20-02-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant calls for Sarna Adivasi Dharma code in Census 2021||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren reiterated the state’s demand for a separate category for tribals in the national census data during the sixth meeting of the governing council of NITI Aayog on Saturday via video conferencing. The JMM national executive president, who is heading the JMM-led coalition government of Congress and RJD in Jharkhand, had played a pivotal role in November last year when the state Assembly passed a unanimous resolution for a “Sarna Adivasi” religion code in the 2021 Census at a special one-day session. The resolution was then sent to the Union government for consideration for inclusion in the 2021 Census. The tribals’ demand for a separate column in the Census was also raised on Saturday during the interaction with Prime Minister Modi and chief ministers of states and Union Territories (UTs). “Adivasi society is a society whose civilization, culture and systems are completely different. The demand has been in existence for years to establish a place for tribals in the census. We have sent a proposal related to the demand for a Sarna Adivasi Dharma code duly passed by our Assembly. We believe that the Government of India will consider it sympathetically. Separate columns should be arranged for them in the census as well,” said Hemant. The Sarna code has been a demand for the tribal populace of Jharkhand ever since it was created in 2000. Saturday’s meeting, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and attended by chief ministers of states and Union Territories (UTs), also saw the participation of Sikkim and Kashmir for the first time as UTs. Hemant also pressed for a universal pension scheme which the state had announced while commemorating one year of his government in December last year. “During my field visits, senior citizens complain about not getting pensions. When we enquire with the concerned department officials we are told that the target has been completed. Can we not benefit this population by giving them a universal pension?” asked Hemant. The chief minister said the pension had not been increased by the Union government since 2007, although the state government had increased its share of the scheme. Hemant also stressed on increasing the daily wage rate of MGNREGA workers.  “The central government has marked the wage rate of Rs 202 in Jharkhand which is lower than other states of the country. At present, Jharkhand workers are not able to reap optimum benefits from the MGNREGA. The central government should increase the minimum wage rate and also rethink the law made for workers. In the absence of strong legislation, middlemen and central government undertakings also ignore interests of workers, the latest instance being workers facing harassment at NTPC site in Uttarakhand and Border Roads Organisation along Indo-Chinese borders,” Hemant said. Hemant also raised the issue of fund cuts by the Union government during the time of the pandemic. “The share given by the central government to Jharkhand is Rs 1750 crore but it has been reduced to Rs 1200 crore and during the Covid-19 pandemic, DVC deducted Rs 2131 crore from the state government. This was the first time this has happened with any state in the country. This fund was necessary for the state to control the spread of the pandemic,” he said. The chief minister also suggested flexible forest clearance. “It is difficult to get forest clearance for state government industries and entrepreneurs whereas central government undertakings easily get forest clearance. The Central government should work towards making forest clearance flexible which would help Jharkhand in establishing industries,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
20-02-2021||Jharkhand||Special Olympics Jharkhand organises final floorball camp from Feb 25||After participating in the first floorball preparatory camp last month, three special athletes are geared up for the second and final training stint before they proceed to try their luck in Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh in March. Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) has lined up the second preparatory camp at JRD Tata Sports Complex from February 25 to March 3. The intellectually impaired players Sital Sikka, Rakesh Bagh (both from East Singhbhum) and Rahul Kumar Sharma (Giridih) will be working under coach Abhiranjan Kumar (Ranchi) during the camp. The camp in Bilaspur will start on March 6. SOJ assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota said, “It will be the final camp before the special athletes and coach leave for Bilaspur to attend the national floorball preparatory camp for the Special Olympics World Winter Games to be held at Kaza, Russia from January 22 to 28 next year.” "The special athletes had worked hard at the first camp organised by us in January. The upcoming training stint is important as the special athletes will be off to Bilaspur on March 5. Rakesh Baug, who injured his leg after a road accident, has recovered quite well. Though he (Rakesh) is still limping a little, we will send him to the national camp since we want all three to attend the exercise. After all, the Indian floorball team for the World Winter Games will be selected after the Bilaspur camp," Sahota, a former international cyclist added. On the prospects of the three special athletes, the SOJ assistant area director said they were hopeful of a selection of two athletes. "Rahul Sharma is a promising floorball player and stands a chance of getting selected in the national squad. He is doing stretching exercise in Giridih and also working out with the hockey stick we presented to him when Rahul was in Jamshedpur for the first training camp. Rakesh has also shown promise but his injury has played spoilsport. Sital is also promising. It all depends on how our players perform during the national camp," said Sahota, a resource person (in cycling) with Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national organisation which promotes the intellectually impaired. According to him, the SOB will organise more training camps for the selected players after the completion of the one in Bilaspur. "These camps will be held in different cities across the country. The effort is aimed at keeping the special athletes well-tuned before they leave for the World Winter Games," Sahota said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
20-02-2021||Jharkhand||JMM takes out rally supporting farmers’ protest in Jamshedpur||The JMM on Saturday took out a huge tractor rally supporting the demands made by the farmers — to roll back the farm bills and to not leave farmers at the mercy of capitalists. Party activists led by JMM legislator Ramdas Soren first assembled at the Gandhi Maidan in Mango where they participated at a meeting condemning the Centre for the new farm laws. Around 1,000 activists who had come from different parts of the district later took part in the rally, which began around noon. Some activists preferred to travel on tractors while others walked all the way from Gandhi Maidan to the  district collectorate in Sakchi, a distance of around four kilometres. On reaching the district collectorate the rally later transformed into a sit-in demonstration. JMM's Jugsalai legislator Mangal Kalindi and  Ichagarg Savita Mahto also participated in the dharna. Later, a party delegation handed over a memorandum to the deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum  Suraj Kumar, addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind .JMM leader Ramdas  Soren said the rally was a way to express solidarity with the protesting farmers, who have hit the street in a bid to compel the government to roll back - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, that were passed by both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, last year. The huge turnout at the rally resulted in the disruption of traffic on the busy Mango bridge and the two connecting roads - Old Purulia Road and Subernarekha Link Road, for about two hours from noon to 2 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
20-02-2021||Jharkhand||Worst-hit by Covid, Ranchi among districts with lowest vaccine recipients||Ranchi, the  Jharkhand district with the highest number of Covid-19 cases,  is also one of the poorest performers in terms of vaccination turnout, reveals data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM). By Saturday morning, the district had 263 active cases of Covid-19, which is more than 56 per cent of the total 467 cases in the state. On the other hand, Ranchi has achieved only 55 per cent of its vaccination target so far, which is only better than Dumka’s 51 per cent and lower than all the remaining 22 districts in the state. Ranchi, however, has administered the first jab of Covishield vaccine to 32,507 people – the highest among districts in Jharkhand. But almost 30,000 registered beneficiaries in the state capital have given the first dose of the vaccine a miss. The number of defaulters in Ranchi was higher than the total number of registered beneficiaries in each of the remaining 23 districts in Jharkhand, NHM data reveals. While officials say that efforts made by the district administration here to improve the vaccination turnout have shown results, the district was still lagging when compared to the pan-Jharkhand vaccination rate of 68 per cent. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chavi Ranjan had recently directed that beneficiaries opting out of the free vaccination will have to submit a declaration specifying that they have voluntarily opted out the immunization programme. The order was passed on February 9 when Ranchi had achieved only 26 per cent of its vaccination target. “The turnout is improving in Ranchi. We are taking the necessary steps to encourage people not to miss the jab on the day they are called to the vaccination centre. Our teams are also in touch with beneficiaries who get the first jab to ensure that they get the second dose as well on time,” said Dr. Ajit Prasad, the immunization officer of Jharkhand. On an average, Ranchi has accounted for more than half of the fresh Covid cases in the state every day in February. On Friday, the district reported 29 of the 51 cases in Jharkhand, and the fresh cases outnumbered recoveries here on the day. As per government data, of the total 1,19,528 people infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand, almost 33,000 were residents of Ranchi. The district has also reported 242 Covid fatalities, only second to East Singhbhum with 356 Covid deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
20-02-2021||Jharkhand||NDRF team to remove dead body found in water tank in Adityapur||A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been called to recover a human corpse from a water tank found in Adityapur industrial area under RIT thana area of Adityapur on Saturday. The body has decomposed and is yet to be determined whether it is that of a male or a female. Only the legs of the deceased can be seen and the rest of the body is trapped inside the pipe that is linked to the supply line from the water tank. Rajesh Kumar Bhokta, OC of RIT thana said, “The water supply from the tank was affected for the past four days. This lead to the inspection of the tank by the officials of the Drinking Water & Sanitation Department (DW&SD) and they discovered the body. DW&SD looks after the drinking water in the area including the residential area.” “As the body was trapped in a pipe, DW&SD had asked the private pipe laying agency to remove the boy immediately but they failed to do so. We had to decide for intimating the NDRF through the Seraikela-Kharsawan district administration,” informed the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online on Saturday. Bhokta also informed that the NDRF team has left Ranchi in the noon and they are expected to reach the spot by 3 pm. The body has reduced to almost a skeleton as it had been there in the water tank for a long time. As the residents of the locality, including the students of NIT, would consume water supplied from the same tank, the discovery of the human corpse in the water tank has triggered a sensation there. “We are wearing masks and getting our hands sanitized regularly in fear of getting infected with coronavirus but unfortunately we had been consuming highly contaminated water supplied from a tank containing a decomposed human corpse,” said Himanshu Shekhar, a resident of NIT Colony, while talking to this website. Shekhar, who is a high school teacher said all the residents, including children who reside in the water supply ambit of the tank in question should contact medical consultants immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
20-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Students from Class VIII can attend offline regular classes from March 1||Students from Class VIII can attend offline regular classes across Jharkhand from March 1, almost a year after Covid-19 induced lockdown led to closure of schools in March last year. Significantly, the state government had allowed classes for 10 and 12 students from December 21, 2020, because of the board examinations. The state government took the decision at a meeting of the state disaster management authority, chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren at Ranchi on Thursday late evening. According to a circular issued by the state public relation department of the Chief Minister’s office, schools can restart classes for eighth, ninth and eleventh grades from March 1. Besides, colleges, coaching institutions, cinema halls, multiplexes, swimming pools, parks, sports events and training institutions can also resume their services from March with certain restrictions. “Cinema halls have been allowed to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity while gatherings for fairs and sporting events have been restricted to a maximum of 1,000 people. Schools have been permitted to re-start classes for Class VIII, IX and XI with certain Covid-19 precautions. Students would be allowed in the schools with written consents from their parents and detailed guidelines will be issued by the state department of school education and literacy unit soon,” said a senior official at the chief minister’s office. Sources said that the existing guidelines of ensuring hand sanitisation before entering school premises, written declaration by students to abide by Covid-19 protocols and maintaining social distance at classes which is being done for class 10 and 12 will continue to be adhered for other classes. Higher education institutions, colleges, polytechnic would be reopened under the prescribed guideline from the University Grant Commission (UGC). However, state Covid-19 guidelines, such as wearing masks and social distancing would be mandatory for all the operations. Jharkhand Cine Exhibitor Association (JCEA) also expressed happiness. JCEA secretary Prashant Singh said, “Almost all the states in the country had allowed cinema halls to operate with 50 per cent capacity in October and November last year but it was pending in our state. We are happy to be given a new start.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
