21-02-2021||Calcutta||Hari Vasudevan: A scholar in demand among bureaucrats||A scholar in demand among bureaucrats. An incredible travel companion. A teacher who gave his students boundless freedom. An evening to remember historian Hari Vasudevan celebrated many facets of the man. Vasudevan, who was an authority on Russian history and politics, passed away on May 10 last year after being diagnosed with Covid-19. He was 68. Vasudevan was associated with a host of institutions but his career was built at the department of history, Calcutta University, where he joined in 1978 and taught for four decades. At Gorky Sadan on Thursday, everyone had his or her own “Hari Vasudevan story” to share. While Vasudevan’s erudition, the vast range of his scholarship and his craft as a historian was hailed by every speaker, the evening regaled with delightful personal anecdotes on his warmth, affection and genial nature, qualities that endeared Vasudevan to one and all. “Historians, teachers, scholars and institution builders will come and go. But what is becoming increasingly rare today is humanism and broad-mindedness, which were towering in Hari’s personality, disposition and temperament,” history professor Suranjan Das, vice-chancellor of Jadavpur University, said at the outset of his speech. “Hari was one of those very few people no one spoke ill about. That is a rare quality. Not that he did not lose his temper, not that he would not give it back. He did, but at the end of it you would realise that there was no malice in it,” said Jawhar Sircar, former Prasar Bharati chief. At the start of the programme, Tapati Guha-Thakurta, Vasudevan’s wife and a professor of history, launched a new website dedicated to him. Some excerpts from the session. Teacher to friend Jayanta Sengupta, secretary and curator at the Victoria Memorial, met Vasudevan at Calcutta University, during his MA course. Vasudevan came across as a “handsome and dapper man with a French-cut beard who looked erudite and classy and spoke with a clipped British accent that became for me a template back then about how the English language should be spoken”. He was “Professor Vasudevan” to Sengupta, a figure of “reverence and admiration”. But soon enough, he got to know the other side of his teacher. “As a research scholar, I dropped by at the Hazra Law College campus fairly often, especially since I was dating my future wife, Aparajita, Hari’s student, and present here this evening. “On one of those afternoons, as I strolled into the college, it was Hari, of all persons, who stopped me in my tracks, with a twinkle in his eyes and a wide, knowing smirk on his face, asking, ‘Hey, listen, what brings you here now? Shouldn’t you be working in the National Library or something?’ I mumbled something and he laughed it off, giving me an encouraging pat on my back,” Sengupta recalled. “That was a moment when we seemed to strike up a secret bond, and for the first time, this guy called Professor Hari Vasudevan suddenly transformed into a friend called Hari, who I realised had many things under his watch other than the teetering fortunes of the Soviet Union.” Travel buddy Vasudevan joined Calcutta University in 1978, the same year Suranjan Das completed his master’s. The “incredibly parochial (with hardly any non-Bengali teacher) place” that Calcutta University “was, and still continues to be”, Vasudevan’s joining the history department in 1978 was news, said Das. The two went on to have a four-decade-long association. Das called Vasudevan an “excellent editor” who often edited his “academic papers and convocation speeches”. Having made several trips together, Das also remembered Vasudevan as an “incredibly enjoyable, informative and affectionate travel companion”. “He would advise us on what to wear, where to eat, which sites to visit and whom to meet. Whenever we travelled abroad together, I would inevitably fall back on his advice in selecting gifts for my family, especially for my daughter….  The absence of Hari has been an irrevocable personal loss to me, all three members of my family,” Das said, his voice choking. Delhi’s delight Sircar, who retired from the civil services in 2016 after a four-decade career in the administration, said Vasudevan was highly rated in Delhi, not only among scholars but bureaucrats as well. “Even in the bureaucracy of the foreign service, which I can assure you is more of a bureaucracy of bureaucracies, Hari was accepted without sneer. Once people get in there, they start sneering at the rest of the world…. Hari was an acknowledged resource person to the ministry of external affairs. He was rated not because he had once studied east European or Russian history but because he was up to date, analytical and unbiased,” said Sircar. The “most precious memory” that Sircar has of Vasudevan remains “bottled in a bottle”. From a trip to China, Vasudevan got a bottle of Maotai (a potent Chinese alcoholic beverage). “It’s half empty, half full, whichever way you look at it. I shall preserve it till I join him upstairs,” said Sircar. Trip to remember A documentary film on an expedition that Vasudevan directed, titled Footsteps of Afanasii Nikitin, was screened at Gorky Sadan on Thursday. The film is the record of an expedition organised by the New Delhi-based Adventurers and Explorers’ Society between November 2006 and March 2007, that was conceived of and led by Vasudevan. It retraces the epic 15th century journey of the first major Russian traveller to India, Afanasii Nikitin. The expedition led later to his own book, In the Footsteps of Afanasii Nikitin: Travels Across Eurasia and India in the Twenty-First Century.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
21-02-2021||Calcutta||Auto carnival draws serious buyers||The Telegraph Auto Weekend Carnival, on its second day, drew some serious buyers who braved the pandemic to arrive at the Kund area of City Centre Salt Lake, compared specs, chose colours, collected price lists, and had a dekko of the latest models, all under one roof. From compact SUVs like the new Kiger, the Magnite  the Venue and the Sonet to the extra spacious Carnival and Tiguan Allspace, and the Kicks, the carnival had something for all. With post-pandemic cost cuts, some of the visitors opted to check out the hatches like the Glanza, the Polo, and the i20, others enquired about the range of MG ZS. Two-wheeler lovers whetted their appetite with most premium brands present at the carnival, the BMW Motorrad and the Aprilia and Vespa. The carnival is on till February 21 (Sunday), from 11am to 8pm. Events ⚫ The Telegraph Auto Weekend Carnival, at City Centre Salt Lake, 11.30am to 8pm. ⚫ TCL India Women’s League — 2, partnered by The Telegraph, at TURF XL, New Alipore, 7.30am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
21-02-2021||Calcutta||Drug trafficking: Pamela Goswami names BJP leaders at Alipore court||BJP youth wing leader Pamela Goswami, who was arrested on Friday for alleged possession of a white powdery substance, shouted the names of two BJP leaders while she was being produced in court on Saturday. She said: “Ami chai CID tadanta hok, ebong BJP’r Rakesh Singh jeno arrest hoy. Eta onar chakranto. Kailash Vijayvargiya ghonishtho Rakesh Singh jeno arrest hoy, eta onar chakranto (I want the CID to probe this case and Rakesh Singh to be arrested. This is his conspiracy. Rakesh Singh, who is close to Kailash Vijayvargiya, must be arrested. It is his conspiracy).” When she was escorted out of the Alipore NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) court, Goswami again shouted out Singh’s name saying he had sent someone to frame her and plant the narcotics in her car. Goswami, her friend Prabir Kumar Dey and private security guard Somnath Chatterjee were remanded in police custody till February 25. Asked about the allegations, BJP leader Rakesh Singh said he was not in contact with her for the last few years. “She has been tutored by Calcutta police…. Why was she silent when she was arrested yesterday and after eight hours suddenly take my name? This is a political conspiracy by the ruling party and the police are hang-in-glove with them,” Singh told Metro. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, on being asked about Goswami's allegations, told TV reporters: “I am not aware about this (that Goswami has taken his name). I will not comment.” Asked about the charges against Goswami, he said: “I have faith in the law. If someone is wrong, law will take its own course. I will not comment on this matter.” Police had intercepted Goswami’s car on NR Avenue in New Alipore on Friday afternoon and allegedly seized 90 grams of suspected cocaine worth around Rs 10 lakh from her handbag and the front seat of the car in which she and the two others were travelling. The state’s lawyer said the police needed Goswami’s custody to establish the drug trail and find out if there was a larger racket. He said that her remand may help the police get information that could lead to the recovery of more banned psychotropic substances. According to the rule, the presence of psychotropic substances inside the vehicle was enough to arrest all the occupants of the car. “In such cases it is presumed that all occupants had knowledge about the presence of the banned drugs in the vehicle. Hence all are arrested,” said an officer. Goswami’s defence lawyers pleaded before the court that their client had been framed. They, however, did not mention anyone’s name. They blamed the police for some “procedural lapses” while registering the FIR and making the general diary entry when the police team had started from New Alipore police station for the operation on Friday. “Our client has told the police that there was another man in the car who had got off some time before this incident happened. She has been framed by that man,” one of her lawyers, who did not wish to be named, told Metro. The police said they had kept the investigation open and “all angles will be probed”. The court granted the prosecution’s prayer and sent Goswami and her two associates to police remand till February 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
21-02-2021||Calcutta||New Market traders threaten agitation against hawkers||Traders in the New Market area have threatened an agitation against hawkers who they allege have taken over two-thirds of the road space, making it difficult for buyers to reach their shops. The Joint Traders Federation, an association of traders of markets in the area, including SS Hog Market, Sreeram Arcade, Simpark Mall, Traders Island and standalone shops, will hold a rally on Wednesday. They also plan to submit a list of demands to the police and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. “If there is no action against the hawkers, we will have no other option than to shut down our shops,” said Ashok Gupta, the president of Joint Traders Federation, who owns a kitchen appliances shop in New Market. The numbers of hawkers have increased in the last few months and even the doors of the shops and the gates of the markets are not being left free, the traders alleged. Parking cars along Bertram Street, Lindsay Street, Fenwick Bazar Street or Humayun’s Place — roads in the area — is now impossible because of the hawkers, the traders alleged. A visit to the area on Saturday showed that hawkers had spread out their wares on  roads, placed stands to display items. The footpath along all the roads were occupied, leaving hardly 3-4ft space for pedestrians. The state government had framed rules in 2018 that barred hawkers from occupying the metalled road. The rules also mentioned that two-thirds of a pavement must be left free for pedestrians. But in the New Market all these rules have been violated. Shaktiman Ghosh, the all India general secretary of the National Hawkers Federation said he was opposed to cars being allowed on the roads in the shopping hub. But said hawkers should not encroach the footpath in front of a gate or door. “We are not in favour of hawkers sitting on a  roads or occupying more than one-third of a footpath’s width,” he said. Nearly 1200 shop owners in the shopping hub went on a three-day strike in 2013 against the encroachment but the traders said situation has worsened. “The police act only when we raise some hue and cry. Within days things again return to the ways. If this continues, the shopowners will also start sitting on the road with our wares,” said a shopowner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
21-02-2021||Calcutta||Plea against skywalk encroachment in Dakshineswar||Members of the Dakshineswar Kali temple trust have appealed to police to not allow stalls owners on the skywalk that leads to the temple to encroach on space meant for pedestrians. In 2018 chief minister Mamata Banerjee had inaugurated the skywalk to ensure that devotees can reach the temple smoothly, avoiding the narrow Rani Rashmoni Road below. The skywalk links the suburban railway station at Dakshineswar to the temple. This week, once the Dakshineswar Metro is inaugurated, the temple authorities fear the footfall will go up sharply. “More cops are needed on the skywalk to ensure that no stall owner encroaches on the pedestrian space for smooth movement of visitors,” said Kushal Chowdhury, secretary, Dakshineswar Kali Temple and Debottar Estate. Officers of the Barrackpore police commissionerate said they have already re-examined the arrangements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
21-02-2021||Calcutta||ICSE, ISC will announce schedule for Class X and XII board exams when poll dates are out||The ICSE council will announce the schedule for the Class X and XII board exams as soon as the Election Commission announces the dates for the Assembly polls, council chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon said on Saturday. “As soon as the election dates are announced we will announce the schedule of the Class X (ICSE) and XII (ISC) boards. It could be within a day or two from the announcement. We are ready and waiting for the dates (of the election),” Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), told Metro over the phone. On Saturday, Arathoon addressed about 150 principals of schools from across the country at the annual conference of the Association of Heads of Anglo-Indian Schools in India. The 99th edition of the conference was held online this year because of the Covid pandemic. During his session, Arathoon also discussed the ISC practicals with the principals. The dates for the practical exams (for subjects like physics, chemistry, biology, biotechnology, Indian music and fashion designing) will be finalised by the visiting examiner in consultation with the head of the exam centre (the school’s principal) and the supervising examiner of the centre. “This is so that schools can maintain proper distancing during the practicals (because of the pandemic). In the old pattern when the council would fix the dates for practical exams, one set of students would appear for the practicals and another set would be locked up in a room. But this cannot happen now,” Arathoon told Metro. The schools will have to divide the examinees into batches depending on the number of students and the capacity of the laboratories, a principal said. “The visiting examiners would be required to visit the Examination Centre to check the size of the laboratory/laboratories and then plan, in consultation with the head of the examination centre and the supervising examiner of the centre, the number of batches in which the practical examination for the concerned subject would be conducted at the centre. This should be done in compliance with the with the social distancing norms…” a circular from the council said. The visiting examiner will also set the question papers for some subjects based on documents provided by the council, the circular said. On Wednesday, the CISCE sent the circular to heads of schools presenting candidates for ISC 2021 about dates of practical exams and question papers. The Telegraph had reported the next day that the circular was meant for practical exams in physics, chemistry, biology, biotechnology, Indian music (Hindustani), fashion designing, computer science and home science. Computer science and home science have two components — planning and examination. The date for the planning session will be fixed by the council and that of the examination will be finalised by the visiting examiners in consultation with the exam centre’s head and supervising examiner, the circular had said. The council will set questions for these two subjects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
21-02-2021||Business||Bengal gem workers’ welfare board plea||Jewellery artisans in Bengal are in favour of the creation of an independent welfare board for the benefit of an estimated 15-20 lakh workers from the state engaged in the profession. Members of an industry body — the West Bengal Jewellery Artisan Workers Union — on Saturday said an independent board can help address many of the labour-related issues of the sector such as a wage structure, social security and health benefits, including offering health insurance. The association has also urged the state government to form a database of workers engaged in the sector and issue identity cards to them. Most of the jewellery artisans in the country are from Bengal and many travel to states such as Gujarat and Maharashtra in search of work. “Once a board is set up, a registrar of workers can be formed first in the state and then nationally to determine the exact number of karigars,” said Ranjan Das, general secretary, West Bengal Jewellery Artisan Workers Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
21-02-2021||Business||SBI Payments to launch Yono Merchant app to expand digitisation of merchant payments||State Bank of India (SBI) is taking Yono — its flagship digital offering — to the merchant community. The SBI on Saturday said its subsidiary SBI Payments will launch the Yono Merchant app to expand the digitisation of merchant payments in the country. It is targeting around two crore merchants across the country in both the retail and enterprise segments over the next two years. SBI plans to achieve this by enabling several merchants through mobile-led technology to accept digital payments and deploy low-cost acceptance infrastructure. “The Yono platform now has 35.8 million registered users. In the next 2-3 years, we aim to digitise millions of merchants by upgrading their mobile phones to PoS devices, helping them access value-added services such as loyalty, GST invoicing, inventory management and connecting to an interface to avail other banking products,” SBI chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
21-02-2021||Business||Fuel ball in states’ court||The steep fuel price hike has become a political hot potato with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman deftly trying to share the onus of bringing down the rates with the states. “It’s a vexatious issue in which no answer except for a fall in fuel price will convince anyone. Both the Centre and the states should talk to bring down the retail fuel price to a reasonable level,” she told reporters in Chennai. As much as 60 per cent of the retail price of petrol, which has crossed the Rs 100-mark in several cities, is made up of central and state taxes. “I can do that (cut taxes) if I have a certain guarantee that my revenue foregone will not be an opportunity for somebody else to get into this space and gain that... It is a maha bhayankar dharma sankatam,” she said. “If all of us are talking about consumer prices of fuel and the tax raised by the Centre, the tax raised by the states is not holier than one another.” The taxes by the Centre and states are equal, she said. On bringing petrol and diesel under GST, she said:   “There can be just one tax that can be shared by the Centre and the states rather than the states having their own and the Centre having its own.” This would further usurp states’ revenue and increase their dependence on the Centre, analysts said. Message to India Inc In a separate event, Sitharaman asked India Inc to unleash its animal spirits to put the economy on a sustainable path of recovery and urged credit rating agencies to grade the economies in a relative sense and not in silos.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
21-02-2021||Business||Confusion mars farm law debate at Niti Aayog council meet ||The controversial farm law, which could have held centre stage at the Niti Aayog’s governing council meet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, got drowned in a confusion over whether it was brought up during the meeting following divergent views on the issue. While the Congress-led Punjab government claimed that chief minister Amarinder Singh in a pre-recorded message had raised the issue, the think-tank’s vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar said, “Nobody talked about the farm laws.” Defending the three farm laws introduced last year to open up the agriculture sector for more private participation, Modi said this will help farmers. “Reforms are very important in the farm sector to make sure our farmers get finance, better infrastructure and modern technology,” he said. PTI reported quoting a Punjab government release that chief minister Amarinder Singh had urged the Prime Minister to ensure an urgent resolution to the ongoing farmers’ “unrest” and an early release of the state’s pending GST compensation in his pre-recorded address for the sixth governing council meeting of the Niti Aayog. Singh, who could not attend the meeting as he was unwell, also expressed his concerns over the threat to Punjab’s agriculture sector as a result of the “disruptions caused by the three new farm laws”. Farmers have been protesting against the three new central agricultural laws enacted in September last year and demanding they be repealed. “There was no discussion on the Centre’s farm laws, or the demand for their repeal in the meeting,” Kumar told reporters when asked about the Punjab CM’s statement released ahead of the press conference. Around 26 chief ministers, three lieutenant governors and two administrators participated in the conference. The chief ministers of Bengal, Punjab, Telangana and Gujarat did not attend the meeting. Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani could not attend because of health reasons, Kumar said. Officials said the virtual council meet was that of chief ministers and there was no provision of playing pre-recorded messages nor could  anyone speak on their behalf. Modi said efforts should be made to produce agriculture items such as edible oil and reduce their imports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
21-02-2021||India||Maharashtra to go under lockdown if cases rise, says Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, religious, social and political gatherings will be prohibited in the state from Monday. Asking people to follow "Covid-appropriate" behaviour and safety norms, he said he would observe for a week to 15 days and then decide whether to impose another lockdown. "Wear masks, observe discipline and maintain social distancing to avoid another lockdown," Thackeray told the people of the state. In his televised address against the backdrop of the sudden surge in coronavirus cases, he said the number of daily infection cases has risen from 2,500 to 7,000 within 15 days. "The pandemic is raising its head in the state again, but whether this is a second wave will be known in eight to 15 days," he said. Till a few days ago, the daily spike of cases was between 2,000 and 2,500, he said. There are 53,000 active cases in the state. Even in cities like Amravati, the spike being witnessed now was not so high when the state saw a peak in Covid-19 cases earlier, he said, adding, "This is alarming." "We felt that the pandemic was under control and a lot of hard work had gone into bringing it under control," the chief minister said. "Religious, social and political gatherings will be prohibited in the state from tomorrow. Political agitations with crowds will have to be stopped for some time...All of usneed to expand and spread our political base including myself, my allies and the opposition parties. But let us not spread coronavirus," he said. People should follow 'Mi zababdar' (I am responsible) campaign, he said. "In the war against the virus there is no sword as yet but face masks are the only shields. Vaccination has begun. Trials of two more vaccines are on. It is only after that common citizens will get doses," he said. So far, nine lakh frontline Covid-19 warriors have been vaccinated and no serious side effects have been noticed, he said, and urged all the frontline and health care workers to get themselves inoculated. People who have become negligent should not let the sacrifices of the coronavirus warriors go in waste. If you can't be a Covid warrior, don't become a Covid "doot" (carrier), he said. "The second wave is knocking at our doors. It is upto us to decide whether to allow it in our lives again. Wear a face mask, use sanitiser and maintain social distancing. I will observe for a week to 15 days to make a decision if it is the people who want a lockdown," he said. He asked the people to follow work from home practice and reschedule their work hours so that there is no crowding in public places. Thackeray praised state energy minister Nitin Raut for cancelling the wedding reception of his son in view of the surge in the cases. "This is called social responsibility. In the last few days, several of my colleagues have tested positive. I have given instructions that official meetings will now be conducted through video conferencing only," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
21-02-2021||India||Bengal FM: Amit Shah spreading misinformation on fund disbursement||Amit Mitra claimed that while centre collected Rs 5 lakh crore as direct and indirect taxes from state, it sent only Rs 1.13 lakh crore through central schemes West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra Union Home Minister Amit Shah of sharing misinformation about disbursement of funds by the Centre to the state during a political rally. He challenged him for a debate on Sunday. He said the state government had received Rs 1.13 lakh crore from the Centre in the last six years, which is “nothing more than one-third of what the Union minister claimed”. Shah, during his recent visit to poll-bound West Bengal, had reportedly said the Centre provided Rs 3.59 lakh crore to the state. “He has given wrong, misleading and politically-motivated information. The Centre, as a part of the federal structure, collects taxes from states and shares. We had received only Rs 1.13 lakh crore in the last 6 years (FY14 to FY20),” Mitra told reporters. Referring to his estimate, Mitra said the Centre might have collected around Rs 5 lakh crore in these years in the form of direct and indirect taxes from West Bengal and sent only Rs 1.13 lakh crore through central schemes. Mitra said the West Bengal government had spent Rs 3.1 lakh crore in these six years in different projects, which are fully sponsored by the state, apart from expenditures like salary, pension and other administrative expenses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
21-02-2021||India||11 boys working as bonded labourers rescued from north Delhi||Eleven boys, including an eight-year-old, working as bonded labourers were rescued from several places in north Delhi’s Samaypur Badli area, a child rights body said on Sunday. Raids were conducted in seven places under the Samaypur Badli police station area on Friday following reports of children working as labourers in hazardous conditions, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) said. Eleven children were rescued during the operation, it added. "These children were working in hazardous conditions as bonded labour in bakery units, kharat machine units and auto center units of Alipur area of North Delhi district. One child was rescued from a residential place where he was working as domestic help, the DCPCR said in a statement. The rescued children were exposed to all kinds of physical and mental trauma, especially in the times of a COVID pandemic," it added. The children were sent to child care institutions in the city and would be reunited with their families, the commission said. According to the child rights body, in another rescue operation conducted on January 28, 51 minors were rescued. Of these, 10 were boys and the rest 41 girls. The rescue mission was undertaken at sawmill, shoe and scrap units in the Nangloi area in West Delhi. “In both the rescue operations, the children were mostly found to be working for over 12 hours a day and were paid a bare minimum amount of Rs 100-150 per day. Furthermore, these children were found working in extremely unhygienic and unhealthy conditions with no face masks, posing a serious threat to their lives especially during these times of pandemic,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
21-02-2021||India||Mayawati asks Centre to find solution to reduce fuel prices||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday expressed concern over increase in the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, and urged the government to take cognisance of it and find a solution. In a Hindi tweet, Mayawati said, "The prices of essential items like petrol, diesel and cooking gas (LPG) are increasing in an uncontrolled manner after government control over the prices were removed. It has created problems everywhere, and the lives of the people are affected. The government should take cognizance of the seriousness of the situation and find a solution." "The increase in additional taxes, especially on petrol and diesel, by the Centre and states is resulting in sky-rocketing prices, and the burden is increasing almost everyday on crores of poor and unemployed people. Has the Constitution ensured such a welfare state principle," she said in another tweet. Petrol price on Saturday touched an all-time high of Rs 97 per litre in Mumbai while diesel rate crossed Rs 88-mark. This was the 12th straight day of price hike and the largest daily increase since oil companies started to revise rates on a daily basis in 2017. The increase pushed the petrol price to Rs 90.58 a litre in Delhi and to Rs 97 in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
21-02-2021||India||Farmers announce series of events to further escalate protest||A series of events from February 23-27 has been announced by the protesting farmers on to further intensify their agitation against the three new agricultural laws. They accused the government of adopting “repressive” measures against them. They also said they will soon devise a strategy to keep the protest going for long. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), spearheading the protests, told a press conference here that under their proposed escalation programme, February 23 will be observed as Pagadi Sambhal Diwas and February 24 as Daman Virodhi Diwas, essentially to underline that farmers must be respected and no “repressive measures” should be taken against them. The Morcha said February 26 will be observed as Yuva Kisan Diwas (youth farmers day) and February 27 as Mazdoor Kisan Ekta Diwas (farmer-labourer unity day). “The government is adopting all the repressive measures, mischief and manipulations including arrests, detentions and registration of cases against the protesters. The Singhu border has been fortified and appears to be an international border,” farmer leader Yogendra Yadav said. A long-term plan for movement will be discussed in view of the Parliament session from March 8, and the strategy will be shared in the next meeting of SKM, he said. Another Morcha leader, Darshan Pal, also alleged “repression” by the government. He said around 32 people have got bail out of 122 arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the violence and vandalism in the national capital during a farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
21-02-2021||India||Farm laws are death warrant for farmers: Arvind Kejriwal||After meeting the farmer leaders on Sunday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, termed the three farm laws as a “death warrant” for farmers. The peasant leaders from Western Uttar Pradesh had been invited for lunch at the Delhi Assembly. “The three anti-farmer laws are death warrant to the farmers. If these laws are implemented then the agriculture of India will go into the hands of some industrialists and the farmers will be devastated,” said Kejriwal. He added that on the implementation of the three controversial laws would make Indian farmers labourers in their own land. He asked the central government to immediately withdraw all the three “black laws” and provide legal guarantee of MSP be granted to all the 23 crops following the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission. The meeting was attended by over 40 farmer leaders. Talking to the media, farmer leader Rohit Jakhar of Rashtriya Jat Mahasangh said that while the UP government cut electricity and water supply at the Ghazipur protest site, Kejriwal’s government supported farmers’ protest by providing them water and toilets. “Our support will go to those who will talk about our problems. The BJP government has hurt our self respect, we will give our reply through our votes,” Jakhar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Government working on laws to control social media, says BJP leader||Senior BJP leader Ram Madhav said that social media has become so powerful that it can even topple governments, leading to anarchy and weakening democracy, and solutions to tackle this are needed to be found within the constitutional framework. Speaking at the launch of his new book 'Because India Comes First', Madhav said democracy is stressed and facing new challenges with the rise of "non-political" and "non-state" forces. "Social media is so powerful that it can even topple governments and regulating them is difficult as they are borderless. These forces can promote anarchy, which will weaken democracy but solutions should be within the constitutional framework," he said at the event hosted by the Prabha Khaitan Foundation on Saturday evening. The existing laws are not adequate for this, he said. "We require new rules and laws to tackle and manage. The government is already working in this direction," he added. Madhav's comments come amid a row between the government and Twitter over blocking of accounts with Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad asking the micro-blogging site to follow the Indian law. Besides, the Supreme Court has issued a notice to the Centre and Twitter on a plea, seeking to regulate hate content and to make a law as per which action can be initiated against Twitter and their representatives in India for willfully abetting and promoting anti-India tweets and penalising them. Madhav said that in his new book he has penned his observations on several decisions of the Modi government. Answering a question on Gandhi, he said the RSS does not undermine any leader's contribution. Gandhi was a great leader and his mantra of Ahimsa has been adopted by many global leaders, he said. "There may be differences of opinion, which we even find between Nehru and Gandhi from the letters exchanged between them but that does not mean we disrespect a national leader. In the RSS morning prayer, we have Gandhi's name along with other leaders," Madhav said. On the Kashmir issue, he said that with the abrogation of Article 370, grassroot leaders are coming up against the hegemony of a few families. He also emphasised that it is the responsibility of the people of the country to make Kashmiris feel that they are part of the 1.3-billion-strong family. "Kashmiris are victims of propaganda for long. Things are changing but may take some time," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Follow ‘Raj Dharma’, reduce fuel prices: Sonia to PM||Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in a three-page letter has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expressing concern over “spiraling” fuel price, on Sunday. In the letter she even accused the cente of “profiteering” off “people’s misery”. She urged him to follow ‘Raj Dharma’ and reduce the prices by partially rolling back excise duty. In the letter she said that the truth is that as GDP “nosedives”, the prices of gas, diesel and petrol continue to rise unchecked. She further wrote that the governments are elected to ease the burden of people and at the very least, not work directly contrary to their interests. “I write to you to convey every citizen’s anguish and deep distress regarding the spiralling fuel and gas prices. On one hand, India is witnessing systematic erosion of jobs, wages and household income. The middle class and those at the margins of our society are struggling. These challenges have been compounded by runaway inflation and an unprecedented rise in price of almost all household items and essential commodities,” she said. “Sadly, in these distressing times, the government has chosen to profiteer off people’s misery and suffering,” she added. Petrol price on Saturday touched an all-time high of Rs 97 per litre in Mumbai while diesel rate crossed Rs 88-mark. This was the 12th straight day of price hike and the largest daily increase since oil companies started to revise rates on a daily basis in 2017. The increase pushed the petrol price to Rs 90.58 a litre in Delhi and to Rs 97 in Mumbai. Stressing that fuel prices are at an “historic and unsustainable” high, Gandhi said petrol has breached the Rs 100 per litre mark in many parts of the country and the surging price of diesel has added to the escalating woes of millions of farmers. “What baffles most citizens, is that these prices have been increased despite moderate prices of international crude oil. To put it in context, the crude oil price is nearly half of what it was during the UPA government’s tenure. Therefore, your government’s act of raising prices (continuously for 12 days till February 20th) is little less than a brazen act of profiteering,” she said. What is equally distressing is that despite being in power for almost seven years now, the government continues to blame previous regimes for its own economic mismanagement, she said in her letter to Modi. To set the record straight, domestic crude oil production had fallen to an 18-year low in 2020, Gandhi said. “I fail to understand how any government can justify such thoughtless and insensitive measures directly at the cost of our people. Your government has increased excise duty on diesel by 820 per cent and on petrol by 258 per cent over and collected upwards of Rs 21 lakh crore in the last six and a half years,” she said. Gandhi said it was cruel on the government’s part to refuse to reduce fuel prices even when global crude oil had crashed to USD 20 per barrel last year. “The fact that your government fails to do so implies a deliberate and conscious decision to deny the common man his legitimate due,” she said. Instead, ironically, the government has been “unreasonably overzealous” in levying excessive excise duty on petrol and diesel -- Rs 33 on every litre of petrol and Rs 32 on every litre of diesel, which is higher than the base price of these fuels, she said “This is nothing short of extortion to cover up economic mismanagement. As the principal party in opposition, I urge upon you to follow Raj Dharma' and reduce fuel prices by partially rolling back excise duty,” she said. Gandhi said the astronomical rise in domestic non-subsidised LPG gas cylinder to Rs 769 in Delhi (and over Rs 800 in many states like Uttar Pradesh) is even more cruel and has impacted every household. Can there be any justification for the government increasing the price of a cylinder by Rs 175 in two and a half months since December 2020, she asked. “I urge you to roll back these increases and pass on the benefit to our middle and salaried class, our farmers and poor and our fellow citizens. It is they who are battling an unprecedented economic slowdown, widespread unemployment, wage reductions and job losses, high prices and erosion of income,” she said. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday had said the Centre and state governments will together have to work out a mechanism to bring retail rates of petrol and diesel to reasonable levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Amravati district in Maharashtra to go under strict lockdown from Monday||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Maharashtra again, the Amravati district is set to be placed under a one-week lockdown from Monday evening, state cabinet minister Yashomati Thakur said on Sunday. Only essential services will be allowed to function during the strict lockdown period for seven days, the government said issuing guidelines. The notification of enforcing the lockdown came hours after Pune’s district administration decided to enforce certain curbs, including restriction on movement of people from 11 pm to 6 am for non-essential activities. Schools, colleges and private coaching classes will remain closed till February 28, while hotels and restaurants will have to shut their establishments by 11 pm every day, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao told reporters. The decision to bring back some restrictions was taken in a meeting chaired by Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who is also the guardian minister of Pune. The surge in Covid-19 cases continued in Maharashtra for the fifth consecutive day on Saturday, with 6281 new cases, the highest daily addition in 85 days, taking the state's caseload to 2093913. Maharashtra's death toll now stands at 51753, with the case fatality rate at 2.47 per cent, well above the national figure of 1.42 per cent. Earlier on Sunday, the Centre had advised Maharashtra and Kerala to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests and regularly monitor mutant strains besides refocusing on strict surveillance and stringent containment in selected districts. "More than 74 per cent of the active cases of the country are in Kerala and Maharashtra. Of late it is seen that there has been a spike in the daily cases in Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh also. Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir too are witnessing a surge in daily new cases," the health ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Puducherry: Two MLAs resign as government crisis deepens||Two more MLAs of the Congress- DMK alliance in Puducherry resigned on Sunday, delivering yet another jolt to Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, a day before he is scheduled to face a floor test in the assembly to prove his majority. The resignation by Congress MLA K Lakshminarayanan and DMK legislator Venkatesan further reduced the strength of the ruling alliance to 11, while the opposition has 14 MLAs in the 33-member assembly, which has seven vacancies. Lakshminarayanan and Venkatesan submitted their resignation letters separately to Assembly Speaker V P Sivakolundhu at his residence here, the both said. Speaking to reporters, Lakshminarayanan said, "This government led by Narayanasamy has lost its majority." He said he has also resigned from the party membership. Later, Venkatesan told the media that he had quit the post of MLA only and continued to be in the DMK. "... I was not able to meet the needs of the people in my constituency since there was no allocation of funds under the MLA Local Area Development fund," he said. Four Congress MLAs--including ex-ministers A Namassivayam (now in BJP) and Malladi Krishna Rao had quit, while another party legislator was earlier disqualified. Narayanasamy's confidante A John Kumar had resigned this week. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, handed over additional charge of Puducherry, had on Thursday directed Narayanasamy to prove majority by ordering a floor test on February 22. The resignation of two MLAs' comes on a day when the ruling party members are slated to meet under the CM to discuss the future course of action, though similar discussions on February 18 yielded no results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||BJP not serious contender in Kerala, says Tharoor||With E Sreedharan throwing his hat in the political ring by deciding to join the BJP, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said the technocrat is likely to have a "minimal" impact on the upcoming Kerala Assembly polls, and asserted that the BJP is not a serious contender except in a few seats in the state. Tharoor also said it will be very difficult for the BJP to improve upon its performance of winning one seat in the 2016 assembly polls and the high point of Sreedharan's impact on Kerala elections will turn out to be the announcement of joining the BJP itself. In an interview with PTI, Tharoor said he was surprised at the announcement that Sreedharan was going to enter the political fray and join the BJP. He said Sreedharan's entry came as a surprise to him because the technocrat had a long innings executing engineering projects, not making or implementing policies in a fractious democracy. "It's a very different world," he added. Asked what kind of impact Sreedharan could have on the Kerala Assembly polls, the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said, "Since he has no political background or experience, I think his impact is likely to be minimal." "When I joined politics at 53, I thought I had left it too late to make the kind of impact I felt I was capable of. What can I say about someone who is 88?" Tharoor said. On whether Sreedharan's entry will make the Kerala polls a three-way contest and the BJP will emerge as a serious contender alongside the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF), he said the BJP is not a serious contender at all except in a handful of seats, and it will be very difficult for the party to improve upon the one seat it won last time. "The high point of the impact (of Sreedharan) will turn out to be this announcement itself," the 64-year-old former Union minister said. Sreedharan, who recently announced that he will enter the political fray by joining the BJP, had told PTI last week that he will contest the assembly elections if the BJP wants and will also be open to chief ministership if the party asks. Known as the 'Metroman' and for completing big infrastructure projects, the 88-year-old technocrat has also said his main aim is to help the BJP come to power in Kerala. Sreedharan's entry into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is being seen as a major boost for the party in election-bound Kerala. The state has been ruled by the LDF and the Congress-led UDF alternately for the past many years. Tharoor said the UDF has the talent, the experience and the creative energy to build a new narrative for the future of Kerala. "What I am working on is intended to be, above all, a 'people's manifesto' -- not just about what the Congress will do for the people of Kerala, but what the people of Kerala want and expect the Congress to do for them," said Tharoor, who has been entrusted by the Congress in bringing various pertinent issues into the UDF's election manifesto. "That is why it is so important to seek suggestions and inputs from the people, about what they judge to be lacking in their lives that a receptive and inclusive government would seek to provide," he said. The end product should reflect a vision for 21st century Kerala, and lay out some practical directions for the state to unleash its true potential and develop into a progressive and self-reliant place, offering abundant opportunities to its people, especially the youth, Tharoor said. "I see our 'Talk To Tharoor' campaign as an opportunity for the UDF to serve the people of Kerala through creative ideas, responsible governance and the courage and confidence to rise to the aspirations of our people," he said. It is sad but true that Keralites flourish everywhere in the world they go to, more easily than in Kerala, Tharoor argued. "We must remove the obstacles that prevent Keralites from thriving in Kerala. The UDF has the talent, the experience and the creative energy to build a new narrative for the future," he said. The polls for the 140-member Kerala Assembly are likely to be held in April-May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Govt urges states to speed up Covid vaccinations||The Union Health Ministry has written to all states and UTs highlighting the need to significantly enhance the pace of COVID-19 vaccinations, noting that a large number of healthcare and frontline workers still remain to be covered. In a letter addressed to chief secretaries of all states and UTs, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the number of days of vaccination in a week should also be increased to a minimum of four days per week at the earliest to speed up the process of vaccination and gear up system to take up the vaccination of the 50+ population. While some states are carrying out vaccination twice a week some others are carrying out four or more than four times a week. Adequate provisions have been made in the Co-WIN software to support such expansion of services, he said. The letter dated February 19 stated a large number of healthcare and frontline workers still remain to be covered and the progress is variable across several states and UTs. "As highlighted during several review meetings that have been conducted with the states and UTs, the pace of vaccination drive and its coverage needs to be accelerated exponentially to cover all identified beneficiaries in a minimum possible time. "Further, the operational strategy for initiating the vaccination of next priority group of elderly population and persons with comorbidities to be taken up in March, 2021 is also being finalised," the letter said. "In view of the anticipated high number of beneficiaries to be vaccinated at a high speed in the forthcoming days", Bhushan advised states and UTs to ensure that all public health facilities from tertiary level medical colleges, hospitals and institutes to district hospitals, sub-divisional hospitals, community health centres, PHCs, health and wellness centres, health sub-centres etc. should be prepared for offering COVID-19 vaccination services on all designated vaccination days beginning March 1. "You are requested to kindly direct the concerned officials to immediately undertake measures for expansion of COVID-19 vaccination drive. Your continuous guidance to the state and UT teams has been instrumental in driving the ongoing vaccination process and the same is anticipated for upcoming phases as well. I look forward to your continued collaboration in this critical mission of national importance," the letter stated. Till February 21, a total of 1,10,85,173 vaccine doses have been administered through 2,30,888 sessions, as per the provisional report. These include 63,91,544 healthcare workers (1st dose), 9,60,642 healthcare workers (2nd dose) and 37,32,987 frontline workers (1st dose).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||India signs USD 50 million defence deal with Maldives||India on Sunday reiterated its commitment to the Maldives' security and signed a USD 50 million defence Line of Credit agreement with it to boost the maritime capabilities of the strategic island nation. The USD 50 million credit line agreement for defence projects was signed between the Finance Ministry of Maldives and the Export Import Bank of India. The signing of the agreement took place after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar held talks with Maldivian Defence Minister Mariya Didi, Minister of Finance Ibrahim Ameer, Minister of Economic Development Fayyaz Ismail and Minister of National Planning, Housing and Infrastructure Mohamed Aslam. Jaishnakar, who is here on a two-day visit, held a "cordial meeting" with the Defence Minister. "Useful exchange on our defence cooperation. India will always be a reliable security partner for the Maldives," Jaishankar tweeted. "Glad to sign with Defence Minister @MariyaDidi the UTF Harbour Project agreement. Will strengthen Maldivian Coast Guard capability and facilitate regional HADR (Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief) efforts. Partners in development, partners in security," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Modi addresses BJP’s new national office-bearers ahead of polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the BJP's new set of national office-bearers at a meeting chaired by party chief J P Nadda. The meeting was inaugurated by Prime Minister Modi and started by paying tributes to those who lost their lives due to the coronavirus pandemic. A political resolution is also expected to be passed during the first physical meeting of the party's office-bearers in almost one year, sources said. Addressing a media briefing on the meeting, BJP general secretary Arun Singh said that during the course of the meet, discussions will be held on farm laws, Aatmanirbhar Bharat and upcoming state polls. The meeting, which is also being attended by BJP state unit presidents, assumes significance as it comes amid fierce protests by a section of farmers in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh against the three new farm laws. The farmer union leaders have been stepping up their attack on the Modi government over the issue. The BJP is also readying for the assembly polls in five states, including Bengal, which is being eyed by the saffron party as its next big prize in its bid to expand its footprint across the country. These national official-bearers were appointed last year after Nadda took over as party president, and no physical meeting could be held so far due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Amit Shah sings praises of new education policy||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday that the new education policy reflects the commitment of the Modi government towards the preservation, development and empowerment of all Indian languages. In a message on the occasion of the International Mother Language Day, Shah said the mother tongue is a powerful medium of expression. "Our new education policy reflects the commitment of the Modi government towards the preservation, development and empowerment of all Indian languages," he tweeted in Hindi. The home minister said maximum efforts should be made for the use of mother tongue and foster the wisdom passed on by it to strengthen the foundation of the country's culture in children. "Greetings on the occasion of the International Mother Language Day. This day inspires us to stay connected with our cultural heritage," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Poonawalla urges other countries to be patient to acquire Covid vaccine||Adar Poonawalla, CEO of vaccine major Serum Institute of India (SII), on Sunday urged other countries to be patient as they wait for the supplies of COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, as the company has been directed to prioritise the needs of India. Apart from making efforts to meet the requirements of India, the company is also trying its best to balance the needs of the rest of the world, he added. "Dear countries and governments, as you await #COVISHIELD supplies, I humbly request you to please be patient, @SerumInstIndia has been directed to prioritise the huge needs of India and along with that balance the needs of the rest of the world. We are trying our best", Poonawalla said in a tweet. On February 15, the World Health Organisation (WHO) listed two versions of the AstraZeneca/Oxford COVID-19 vaccine for emergency use, giving the green light for these vaccines to be rolled out globally through COVAX. The vaccines are produced by AstraZeneca-SKBio (Republic of Korea) and the Serum Institute of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||India||India logs over 14,000 fresh Covid cases, 90 casualties in a day||Daily Covid-19 cases in India registered an increase for the fourth consecutive day with the country recording 14,264 new cases, taking the total tally to 1,09,91,651, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,56,302 with 90 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The country had registered 18,855 infections in a day on January 29. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,89,715 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.25 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent.The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,45,634 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.32 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,09,31,530 samples have been tested up to February 20 with 6,70,050 samples being tested on Saturday. The 90 new fatalities include 40 from Maharashtra, 13 from Kerala and 8 from Punjab. A total of 1,56,302 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,753 from Maharashtra followed by 12,457 from Tamil Nadu, 12,292 from Karnataka, 10,898 from Delhi, 10,246 from West Bengal, 8,714 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,167 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||India||Two more bodies discovered, toll in Uttarakhand disaster rises to 67||Two more bodies were recovered from the flood ravaged Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project site, taking the death toll in the calamity in Uttarakhand to 67 even as search operations continued there for the 15th day on Sunday. Three bodies had been recovered from the desilting tank near the Tapovan project barrage by Saturday evening while two more were extricated late at night, district administration officials said. Search operation at the project site has been underway on a war footing basis for a fortnight since it bore the brunt of an avalanche triggered by a glacier burst over Rishi Ganga in Chamoli district on February 7. The 13.2 mw Rishi Ganga hydel project was totally demolished in the avalanche while the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project suffered extensive damage. Recovery of five bodies on Saturday takes the toll in the tragedy to 67 while 137 are still missing. Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria had asked the NTPC to press into service additional excavators and divert the course of Dhauli Ganga to the other side so that its water does not flow through the barrage into Tapovan tunnel hampering sludge clearing efforts. River water flowing into the tunnel from the barrage has been a major headache for rescuers at the tunnel making the muck clearing operations even more challenging, Bhadauria said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||India||Protesting farmers speak up against terrorist allegations ||Harinder Kaur Bindu, whose father Megh Raj Bhagtuana was killed by alleged Babbar Khalsa International militants in 1991, now leads protests against the new farm regime at Tikri as head of the women’s wing of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan). The Jamhoori Kisan Sabha is one of the main groups at the Singhu protest. Its president Kulwant Singh Sandhu, who was part of the failed talks with the Centre, was shot in the leg and back in an ambush by suspected Khalistan Commando Force members in 1988. Sonia Mann, a film star in south India and Punjab, has been a regular visitor to the protests and to Tihar jail where several peasants have been imprisoned following the violence during the farmers’ January 26 march in Delhi. Mann’s father Baldev Singh Mann was assassinated by suspected separatists in 1990 while he was travelling to see her for the first time, just 15 days after her birth. At a Supreme Court hearing on the farmers’ movement last month, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal had alleged a “Khalistani infiltration” into the agitation. The charge has grown louder since the Republic Day violence, during which the Sikh flag Nishan Sahib was hoisted at the Red Fort — an act the protesters have condemned and blamed on Deep Sidhu, a former BJP campaigner who was seen among the group that had stormed the fort. “We are Sikh, not Khalistani. None of our farmers are Maoists or Khalistanis. We are people involved in mass movements who believe in peaceful struggle,” Kulwant Sandhu, the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha president, told The Telegraph. “For nine months we have protested these laws without attacking anyone. We are people who organise langars and believe in the unity of India.” Sandhu is an accused in at least one of the FIRs on the January 26 violence. His car had come under fire on April 19, 1988, from suspected Khalistani militants. One person was killed while Sandhu and another were injured. A former sarpanch from the CPM in Jalandhar district, Sandhu was part of the faction that split from the party in 2001 and later formed the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI). Sandhu is one among scores of peasant leaders whom Khalistani separatists had targeted in the 1980s and 1990s. One of them was his fellow RMPI member Balwinder Singh Sandhu, killed in Tarn Taran by Khalistani insurgents as late as October last year. Balwinder Sandhu had been awarded the Shaurya Chakra with his family for successfully resisting armed attacks by separatists in 1993. Bhagtuana — father of Tikri women’s leader Bindu --- was a member of the Front Against Communalism and State Repression, a far Left group that campaigned through street theatre against Sikh extremism as well as police atrocities and ensured that Hindus were not compelled to flee their homes for fear of insurgents. When Bindu was 14, Bhagtuana was killed in an attack on a street theatre show in Faridkot district in which about 20 others, mostly Dalit peasants, also died. Bhagtuana is said to have chased the Kalashnikov-toting gunmen with his 0.12-bore single shooter until he was killed. “We are farmers. We feel hurt when we are called Khalistani. I have lost other family members too to terrorists. We are all here (in Delhi) to save our farms. Some may harbour pro-Khalistan sentiments but they are a minority,” Bindu told this newspaper. “This government gives every movement some name or the other. Some are called ‘urban Naxals’. BJP people called Muslims the ‘tukde tukde gang’ after they protested against the NRC and the CAA.” Mann’s father — a playwright and publisher of the Hirawal Dasta, a magazine that backed the political line of the CPIML New Democracy — was gunned down on the night of September 25, 1990, near Amritsar. During the 1975-77 Emergency, his scathing plays had landed him in detention. Sonia Mann said in a recent video documentary by The Caravan magazine that she had been inspired to join the farmers’ agitation by a letter her father had left for her before he was killed. It says: “The struggle is on for the emancipation of starving children, of women who are forced to sell their bodies in order to feed their bellies, of workers who trade their blood for bread, of peasants groaning under the crushing burden of debts. And in this battle for a new world, your father, too, is playing his humble role. “In the times in which you have been born, Punjab stands divided along communal lines. In some places people are being killed because they do not grow their hair long enough, while in others people are being burnt alive for precisely the opposite reason. “Humanity is being butchered in the name of religion. Having created divisions among people, having initiated a Holi that’s being played with blood, the Devil is having a good laugh from a distance. “My baby, in the moment of your birth your father is engaged in a battle against the forces of darkness. Such forces are conniving to banish every sun that could bring light into this world.” In the documentary, titled Revolution in their Blood, Sonia Mann says: “We feed even the policemen deployed against us. Is this the work of terrorists? Terrorism is what they do — using water cannons and tear gas on our elders and hurting them…. “They think only their ideology is correct and others are wrong, because corporate (groups) back them. They want to make money. They are business-minded people. Their governments are made with this money.” A debt-ridden farmer and his son allegedly died by suicide in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur village, saying in a note that they were upset over the Centre's new farm laws and the state government's failure to waive their loans. The farmer, Jagtar Singh, 70, and his son Kirpal Singh, 42, were found dead at their residence in Muhadipur village on Saturday morning, DSP Munish Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||India||Court poses tough questions on Disha Ravi to cops||If highlighting the farmers’ protest globally is sedition, then “I am better (off) in jail”, climate activist Disha Ravi told a Delhi court which on Saturday reserved its decision on her bail plea till February 23. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana directed a few scathing questions at Delhi police at the hearing, asking if they were acting solely on “surmises, inferences, and conjectures”. He asked how the social media toolkit in connection with which the 22-year-old Bangalorean has been arrested was connected to the violence witnessed during the farmers’ Republic Day tractor rally in Delhi. “Is there any evidence or we are only acting on surmises, inferences, and conjectures.... How is the toolkit connected to the violence? What is the evidence?” the judge asked. He added: “Unless I satisfy my conscience, I don’t move ahead.” Disha, taken into custody on February 13, faces sedition and other charges for allegedly editing and sharing the toolkit, which advised people on the various ways of supporting the farmers’ protest. A trial court had on February 19 sent her to judicial custody for three days after the expiry of her five-day police remand. Additional solicitor-general S.V. Raju, appearing for the police who opposed her bail plea, said the hyperlinks in the toolkit connected people to Khalistani websites that propagate hatred towards India. “This was not just a toolkit. The real plan was to defame India and create unrest here,” he told the judge on Saturday. Disha’s counsel Sidharth Agarwal claimed there was no evidence linking the toolkit to the January 26 violence and questioned the contents of the FIR. “We all have different opinions. You may have a problem with the farmers’ protest, I may not. If highlighting a protest globally is sedition, I (Disha) am better (off) in jail,” Agarwal said. “I (Agarwal) also support farmers. But if that’s an offence, let’s all go to jail.” He went on: “There is an allegation in the FIR that yoga and chai are being targeted (by the farmers’ supporters as symbols of India). Is it an offence? We are now reducing the bar (so) that somebody can’t have a point of view different (from the government’s).” ‘Fears came true’ The police alleged that Disha had deleted WhatsApp chats, emails and other alleged evidence, claiming this reflected a guilty mind and “a sinister design”. Agarwal said Disha had deleted the messages from fear of being wrongly prosecuted. “A person may run for two reasons — either he is guilty or to save himself from wrong prosecution. A person may have fears of wrong prosecution. Unfortunately, for this girl, her fears have come true,” he said. When the judge asked how the toolkit was linked to the violence, ASG Raju said posting certain matters on social media and disseminating the toolkit with an intention to instigate was sufficient. “But yes, no physical presence was there,” he acknowledged. He said the first evidence was the hyperlinks in the toolkit connecting people to Khalistani websites. Agarwal said the government had the power to block these websites but had not. On the point of conspiracy, the judge said: “If I approach a dacoit for temple donation, how do you say that I’m privy to dacoity? What is the material against her? What is the link? Unless I satisfy my conscience, I don’t move ahead.” Raju replied: “The court must look at the conduct. She is constantly in touch.... On plain look, it seems normal. But if you click on the hyperlink given on the cheat sheet, it takes you to another website that defames the Indian army, how the Indian army committed genocide in Kashmir. “Those articles make an impact on the mind of the reader. This is the purpose, which is why (the pro-Khalistan) Poetic Justice Foundation is brought. “It’s not just where a plan was made but also it was followed by violence. You asked the people to come to Delhi, you asked people to protest, you showed the people that India is a bad country that kills Muslims. (Co-accused) Shantanu (Muluk) was sent to Delhi to ensure the plan in the toolkit is carried out. “In a simple toolkit, you don’t prepare what’s to be in future as they’ve written which has to be circulated as soon as any violence took place.... There was an effort so that violence takes place.” Raju alleged the involvement of Sikhs For Justice, a banned organisation that had announced $250,000 for anyone holding up the Khalistani flag at India Gate on Republic Day. Agarwal said: “There is no evidence to link me (Disha) with Sikhs For Justice. And even if I (Disha) meet someone, there is no symbol on him that he is a secessionist.” He added: “The Delhi police gave permission for the farmers’ march, which they’re claiming that I (Disha) asked people to join, so how did I become seditious?” The lawyer said that none among those arrested over the storming of the Red Fort on January 26 had claimed to have been inspired by the toolkit. “The talk about alleged genocide in Kashmir has been going on for years; how (does) suddenly talking about it become sedition? If this is sedition, we should shut down the Internet, go back to the era when there was only one Doordarshan TV,” he said. He added: “My part is that I sought support from (teenaged Swedish climate activist and global celebrity) Greta Thunberg, that too for the farmers’ protest and not for Khalistan.” Thunberg had tweeted the toolkit on February 3, drawing attention to it. Agarwal argued that people (co-accused) who had to be confronted with Disha had already been granted protection, and she too could join the probe “post-bail”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||India||Congress cry against fuel price hike||The Congress on Saturday hit the streets across the country in protest against the savage increase in prices of petroleum products and the new farm laws and threatened to organise bigger protests if the Narendra Modi government didn’t stop profiteering on people’s miseries. While the Youth Congress held a demonstration in Delhi, many state units organised protests in a large number of cities amidst reports of disquiet among the people over the absence of an effective Opposition which allowed the Modi government to run amok. The price of petrol crossed Rs 100 per litre for the first time in some cities while it sold above Rs 90 almost everywhere. Diesel which used to be cheap, available at Rs 40-50 per litre till a few years ago, has now touched Rs 80. A cooking gas cylinder also costs around Rs 770. Youth Congress members cooked using traditional chulha (clay stove) on the road outside Shastri Bhawan which houses the ministry of petroleum and natural gas to stress the point that an LPG cylinder has become unaffordable. They also marched putting a scooter and motorcycle on rickshaws while shouting slogans against the government. Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas who led the demonstrations threatened to stop the movement of ministers if the prices were not rolled back. While demonstrations were organised in Maharashtra, Jharkhand and other states, Madhya Pradesh Congress called for a half-day bandh and achieved considerable success as markets remained closed in most cities. Senior leaders themselves took part in demonstrations in many cities including Bhopal, where hundreds of party workers were arrested for forcibly shutting down markets. In Rajasthan also, a big protest march was organised in Jaipur where some leaders rode camels to make their point. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who addressed a kisan mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh, on Saturday, tweeted: “The Modi government should declare those days in a week achhe din (good days) when petrol-diesel prices are not raised. Other days are anyway proving very costly for the people.” Rahul Gandhi also tweeted: “Mehngai ka vikas (Development of price rise).” Asked about the Opposition’s inability to corner the government, Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Manoj Jha said, “Forget the Opposition. People are saying. You talk of making people atmanirbhar (self-reliant) and you are forcing the people to do atmasamarpan (surrender) before petrol-diesel prices. I suggest Prime Minister Modi to take a day off and watch his old videos for 24 hours to know what he used to say about these issues. He should recall those lofty slogans like ‘bohut hui mehngai ki maar abki baar Modi sarkar (Enough of price rise, next time Modi government)’. Were those slogans meant only to grab power?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||India||Covid-19: 35% health staff miss first vaccine deadline ||About 35 per cent of healthcare workers across India have either declined, failed to turn up or not received Covid-19 vaccines although the Union health ministry had set Saturday as a target for their first jabs. The nationwide vaccination campaign had until 6pm Saturday inoculated 6.35 million (66 per cent) of more than 9.6 million eligible healthcare workers with their first doses of Covid-19 vaccines, according to health ministry figures. Twelve states, including Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, have provided the first doses to more than 75 per cent of their healthcare workers. But seven states — Delhi, Tamil Nadu, and Punjab, among them — have inoculated less than half of their healthcare workers. The health ministry had earlier this month asked states to speed up the campaign and provide the first doses to all healthcare workers by February 20 and conduct “mop-up” rounds to complete those left out by February 24. Health officials have said healthcare workers who haven’t received the first dose by February 24 would become eligible to receive the vaccines under the government’s campaign under the age-appropriate category. The campaign earlier this month began vaccinating frontline workers — such as police personnel and municipal staff — and more than 3.6 million of an estimated 27 million frontline workers across the country have already received vaccines. The health ministry has indicated the campaign will start vaccinating all people aged above 50 years and those below 50 with chronic health disorders sometime in March but has not specified a date yet. The nationwide vaccination campaign, which began on January 16, has since its early days encountered hesitancy with sections of doctors expressing concern that both vaccines were approved on the basis of limited clinical trials. Some medical experts believe the health ministry itself has likely contributed to the vaccine hesitancy through opaque decisions and poor communication about the logic and necessity of the vaccination campaign. “The intentions may be good, but intentions must also be seen to be good — this is critical in public health,” said Thekekkara Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College in Vellore. “But we’ve seen a style of administration bound to vitiate good intentions,” he said. John and others say patchy information and poor defence of the decisions taken on the vaccines had mired the vaccine rollout in an avoidable muddle, causing many doctors to question elements of the campaign and decline the jabs. But other experts believe some level of hesitancy is unavoidable. “These are personal decisions taken by individuals — the vaccination process is voluntary. People need to realise on their own the need for the vaccines,” a senior health research official said. During the H1N1 influenza pandemic in 2009, India had imported 1.5 million vaccine doses and distributed it to various states. But the acceptance and utilisation of those vaccines were “disappointing”, two medical experts pointed out in a 2018 commentary in the Indian Journal of Medical Research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||India||Ayodhya Ram temple cash heat on BJP ||Congress leader P.C. Siddaramiah on Saturday slammed the BJP for leveraging the Ram temple in Ayodhya as a political tool and declared he would build a temple in his town but keep his faith as a personal matter. “We are also building a Ram Mandir in our village. Even we have faith in God. Our beliefs are our personal issues and should not be used as a political tool. It is unfortunate that @BJP4India leaders are using the Ram Mandir construction for their political benefits,” the former chief minister tweeted, apparently in response to the raging controversy after refusing to donate for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. He iterated his demand that the temple trust must disclose details of the funds collected for the construction by adding that the BJP “is playing with the emotions of people in the name of God. It is the duty of the trust to give accounts of the donations collected to construct Ram Mandir. What is wrong in asking the audit & accounts?” The Karnataka BJP, in its response, tweeted: “Ram temple is being built in Ayodhya as per the court order. It is not a political party that is constructing the Ram temple. It is a trust that is constructing the temple. Only those like you are taking political advantage, not others.” Siddaramiah recently refused to make any donations for the Ram temple in Ayodhya due to the controversial nature of the structure coming up at the place where Babri Masjid stood. “I will not give any money for that Ram temple, but will donate if they build it in some other place,” he had told reporters angering BJP leaders. When reminded about the Supreme Court judgment that paved the way for the temple he had said: “Whether it is settled by the Supreme Court or not, there are controversies around it.” In keeping with his word that he supported all other temples and to silence critics from the BJP who often called him an atheist, Siddaramiah on Friday inaugurated the Sri Beeralingeshwara Temple in KR Nagar near here. He even tweeted pictures of the inauguration, presumably to prove his point. Former chief minister and leader of Janata Dal Secular, H.D. Kumaraswamy, had also spoken out against the BJP and the RSS forcibly collecting money for the temple in Ayodhya. Kumaraswamy had on Wednesday alleged the RSS was marking houses of people who refused to donate money for the temple and likened it to what Nazis did to identify Jews in Germany. He even urged the state government to act against such tactics. While he was not against donating money for the temple, Kumaraswamy wanted to know if those going door-to-door to collect funds for the temple had any authorisation to do so. He too had alleged that no accounts were provided for the funds collected for the Ram temple in 1990 before the Babri Masjid was brought down by Sangh parivar kar sevaks. Panchayat raj minister K.S. Eshwarappa slammed Siddaramiah and Kumaraswamy by saying they had no right to seek accounts of the funds collected. “Those who give even Rs 10 have every right to ask for accounts. But these people do not have any such right,” he told reporters in Raichur on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government announces reduction of fuel prices by Re 1 ||The Bengal government on Sunday announced a reduction of tax by Re 1 per litre on petrol and diesel effective from midnight of February 22. State Finance Minister Amit Mitra said the move will provide some respite to people stung by burgeoning prices of fuel. "The Centre earned Rs 32.90 per litre in taxes from petrol (on February 20), while the state got around Rs 18.46 only. In case of diesel, the central government's earning was Rs 31.80 per litre as against about Rs 12.77 for the state," Mitra said. He also alleged that the Centre had imposed cess to avoid devolution with states, which is "against the characteristics of federalism". To a question, Mitra said the Union government should reintroduce the planning commission. The decision from the state government came a day after the ruling TMC on Saturday staged a protest march against the continuous hike in the prices of petroleum products across the country. Party supporters marched from Jadavpur to Hazra crossing to mark their opposition to the spiralling prices of petrol, diesel and LPG gas. The ruling party in the state expressed its protest in a tweet "Prices hiked for the tenth consecutive day. Modi hai to mumkin hai' (possible because of Modi). Petrol price almost touched Rs 92 in Calcutta, while 14.2 kg LPG cylinders were almost Rs 800. The Centre has claimed that the prices had risen due to the mechanism followed by oil producing nations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||CBI notice to Abhishek Banerjee's wife in coal pilferage case||The CBI on Sunday served a notice to the wife of TMC leader and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew Abhishek Banerjee at his Calcutta residence asking her to join the probe in the coal pilferage case, a development that could further raise the political temperature in poll-bound West Bengal. The team is likely to question Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira Banerjee in connection with the case at her residence, sources said. The central probe agency had on Friday carried out a fresh round of searches in connection with the case, they said. The CBI had registered an FIR in November last year against the alleged kingpin of the pilferage racket Manjhi alias Lala, Eastern Coalfield Ltd General Managers Amit Kumar Dhar (of then Kunustoria area now Pandaveswar area) and Jayesh Chandra Rai (Kajor area) besides ECL Chief of Security Tanmay Das, Area Security Inspector, Kunustoria Dhananjay Rai and SSI and security in-charge Kajor area Debashish Mukherjee. It is alleged that accused Manjhi Lala is involved in the illegal mining and theft of coal from leasehold mines of ECL in Kunustoria and Kajora areas, they said. "If they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down," Abhishek said in a tweet. "We have full faith in the law of the land," he added. The assembly elections are due in April-May in West Bengal, where the BJP has launched a vigorous campaign to oust the ruling TMC that had secured consecutive wins in 2011 and 2016 under its leader Mamata Banerjee. Abhishek Banerjee, who is a Lok Sabha member, wields considerable influence in the party and has been leading the Trinamool Congress' counter-attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Modi to inaugurate Calcutta Metro extension from Noapara to Dakshineswar on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the extension of Calcutta Metro's North-South Line from Noapara to Dakshineswar on Monday, an official said. The prime minister will flag off a train from Noapara to Dakshineswar from a programme in the Hooghly district, Kolkata Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. The inauguration, scheduled on Monday afternoon, will help connect thousands of people in the 4.1 km stretch between Noapara and Dakshineswar, she said. Apart from regular passengers, devotees intending to visit Dakshineswar Kali temple will also be facilitated with a fast and pollution-free travel mode following the extension of the Metro Railway in its north-south axis. Passengers from Kavi Subhash station in the southern end will be able to travel to Dakshineswar in just over an hour, traversing 31.3 km, a Metro official said. The prime minister is also scheduled to hold a public meeting at Dunlop Maidan in Hooghly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Assembly elections: Mamata to be portrayed as daughter of Bengal||Didi will be portrayed as the daughter of Bengal taking on intruders, replacing the mother motif that had so far driven the election campaign of the Trinamul Congress. “Bangla nijer meyekei chay (Bengal wants its own daughter and nobody else),” will be the campaign slogan for Trinamul in the upcoming Assembly elections, with the ruling party doubling down on its strategy to fight the elections with Mamata Banerjee spearheading the daughter-versus-bohiragwto (outsider) theme. The party suggested that much more than local survival issues — captured in the earlier slogan “Ma, Mati, Manush” — are at stake this time. “This election is about protecting the Constitution of the country and as the whole country looks at Bengal, it will be the daughter of Bengal who will lead the fight to protect the state and its culture,” Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said at an event where the slogan was launched. Chatterjee said the leadership had gauged a similar sentiment among the masses across the state. Besides the obvious thrust on addressing women, the new slogan ties in with the schemes and projects Mamata had launched with their focus on the girl child and girl student. In effect, Didi will be seeking votes from Bengal households as a daughter — to which the BJP currently lacks a matching answer. The slogan will help underscore another message: Didi is the sole and unequivocal chief minister candidate in the state, with no other party having yet declared a nominee. Besides Chatterjee, Trinamul’s all-India general secretary Subrata Bakshi, senior minister Subrata Mukherjee, Rajya Sabha chief whip Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, party leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien and Barasat MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar attended the event. The saffron ecosystem, which is betting big on the polarisation card, has so far appeared unsure of the impact of the outsider charge, amplified by some gaffes associated with visiting BJP leaders. “Every person in Bengal trusts her daughter. Under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee, Bengal’s culture has been protected. She won’t allow the misogynistic ‘Bargi’ onslaught on the culture of Bengal,” Ghosh Dastidar said. “Bargi” is a term Trinamul has been using for the battery of politicians from other states being parachuted into Bengal by the BJP. The Bargi were a sub-category of the Maratha empire’s troops who carried out plundering expeditions across Bengal’s western swathes almost annually through the 1740s. Minister Mukherjee said he was proud to belong to a party with Mamata as its leader and stressed that theirs was the only party where the chief minister candidature was a foregone conclusion.  “Our main objective is to go to the polls with no uncertainty over who our face is and spread the word on the unprecedented development that Bengal has seen since 2011 when Mamata came to power,” Mukherjee said. The Trinamul slogan was conceptualised and executed by poll consultant Prashant Kishor and his team. Within hours of Trinamul launching its slogan, the BJP came up with a song called Pishi Jao (Go, Aunt), sung to the tune of the Italian protest folk song Bella Ciao. The song was launched by the BJP’s IT cell chief and co-observer for Bengal, Amit Malviya. Bella Ciao was sung by the mondina (paddy) workers of north Italy in the 19th century to protest against the the harsh working conditions in the fields. A parody song video of the Left attacking both Trinamul and the BJP captured the imagination of many social media users. The Left’s parody of the song Tumpa — a pop culture favourite among vast sections of Bengal’s youths — was widely circulated within hours of its launch. The parody, written and performed by Left supporters Rahul Paul and Nilabja Niyogi, has been composed as a promotional for the Left’s Brigade Parade Grounds rally of February 28. The event is being planned as a show of strength, and the target headcount is 10 lakh. “For a long time now, the Left has been accused — rather correctly — of being snobbish when it comes to the contemporary culture of the masses while claiming to be their voice. It’s time that changed and this is a step in the right direction. Politically mature youths must come forward to weave more of such elements into the Left’s voice in 2021,” a city-based political scientist said. “It does not matter if the content is no longer classical or intellectual enough for Alimuddin Street. Packaging the correct politics in a way that resonates with the masses of today, especially the youths, matters,” he added. “It was a pleasant surprise to see (CPM state secretary) Surjya Kanta Mishra, perceived to have an intellectual rigidity about him, share it on social media.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||‘The challenge now is to save Bengal’s liberal legacy’||On a lazy February afternoon, I catch up with Dipankar Bhattacharya at the offices of the CPI-ML (Liberation) in central Calcutta. He is busy discussing plans for upcoming public meetings and conventions across West Bengal with a comrade of his. This includes a meeting called Ekusher Daak, Manusher Dabi — which falls today, February 21; the day has been earmarked by Unesco as International Mother Language Day. On this day this year, large numbers across Bengal are expected to meet and firm up a charter that pledges to “save Bengal from the BJP’s fascist expedition”. A section of Bengal’s intelligentsia — writers, actors, musicians, playwrights, artists, educators, environmentalists, human rights activists — has already met to formulate the charter. The charter demands withdrawal of the farm bills, labour code bills, the Citizenship Amendment Act, privatisation of government properties and so on. Bhattacharya seems to think his party has been able to sensitise a large section of “intellectuals” about “the aggressive designs of the BJP to capture Bengal by hook or by crook”. Bhattacharya is lanky, nearly six-foot tall, sports a salt-and-pepper beard that makes him look more like a philosopher than a politician. We talk while sipping laal cha, tea without milk and sugar, the customary drink in almost all Left party offices; we are constantly interrupted by the sirens of ambulances headed for the Nil Ratan Sircar Medical College and Hospital on the other side of the road. When I ask Bhattacharya to sum up the agenda of the CPI-ML (Liberation) for the upcoming Assembly polls in a slogan, he offers two — “Save Bengal’s liberal legacy” and “More power to people”. While explaining the first, he emphasises why the BJP’s “fascist ideology” can ruin the liberal and inclusive legacy Bengal nurtured through the freedom struggle and subsequent Left movements. He says, “The BJP is just the antithesis of a progressive, pro-change and rational temper — the essential aspects of a Bengali identity.” To explain the second slogan, he draws attention to how the survival of the common man has turned into a challenge ever since the BJP came to power. He cites job losses, the agrarian crisis, price rise and loss of labour rights. Three months ago, Bhattacharya had said that in the upcoming Bengal elections, the Left Front and the Congress should identify the BJP as the “No. 1 threat to democracy”. But his proposal was somewhat derided by both the parties. Says Bhattacharya, “They have been bracketing the Trinamul (TMC) and the BJP together, but considering the situation in Bengal, an enemy like the BJP cannot be defeated if they fight on two fronts.” He admits that the TMC’s track record is not good, and agrees it is true that in some ways it has tried to imitate the BJP. But according to him, there is no underestimating the current situation. Bhattacharya cites his own party’s pragmatic decision to join the Grand Alliance with the Congress and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) during the 2020 Assembly elections in Bihar, despite the fact that the two parties have been sworn rivals of the CPI-ML (Liberation) in the past. The RJD, led by former chief minister Lalu Prasad, had allegedly colluded with upper caste militia Ranvir Sena to massacre several Dalit villagers aligned with the CPI-ML (Liberation) in the 1990s. Many party leaders and activists, including firebrand student leader Chandrasekhar, were murdered at the behest of gangster-turned-RJD-leader Mohammad Shahabuddin. Says Bhattacharya, “We were the worst sufferers of crime and corruption during the RJD rule, and yet at this moment we consider the BJP’s majoritarian and communal politics a bigger threat to our democracy.” Bhattacharya talks about the Congress, another partner in the Grand Alliance in Bihar. He is still peeved with the Congress’s poor performance in the Bihar Assembly polls last November. “They insisted on fighting 70 seats, but they won only 19. Had they won at least 30, or let us — the Left parties — contest from more seats, the alliance would have formed the government. They didn’t take the elections seriously and neither do they have the organisational strength. They were lackadaisical, loath to believe it is possible to form such a formidable alliance against the NDA,” he says. According to Bhattacharya, the Congress needs to reinvent itself immediately and introspect on how it has helped the BJP grow. In the Bihar Assembly polls, the CPI-ML (Liberation) won 12 seats out of 19; the resurgent Left together bagged 16 out of a total 29 seats allotted to them, a strike rate of over 50 per cent. Drawing lessons from the Bihar polls, Bhattacharya believes the Left’s alliance with the Congress for the upcoming Bengal polls is not such a good idea. “The Left here must get their act together and never allow the Congress to position itself in the driver’s seat,” he says. Bhattacharya is concerned about the alarming decline of the Left’s vote share in Bengal — down to 7 per cent — in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. When I bring up the widespread belief that a large share of the Left vote had shifted to the BJP during these elections, he says, “I can’t say whether the vote shift happened by design or default, but the fact is shocking in itself. How can a party that secured nearly 50 per cent of vote share a couple of decades ago go down so drastically?” He is rueful that despite such a loss of public support, the Left Front, especially leaders of the CPM, didn’t attempt any serious course correction. “Some leaders still think they are not fighting the TMC enough, as if fighting the TMC is their only agenda… They are simply not aware that the BJP won’t spare them if they come to power,” says Bhattacharya and even cites what the BJP did to the Left and its supporters in Tripura. And where does the Trinamul boss and current chief minister of Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, figure in his critique of the mess that is Bengal politics? Bhattacharya harks back to the time when the Left was voted out of power in Bengal and there was tremendous disenchantment and anger against them, how Banerjee benefited from it, came to power, and a large section of Left leaning intelligentsia started regarding her as the “new Left”. But does he deny that after assuming power, Banerjee came down heavily on the Left; that CPM party offices were attacked? No, he doesn’t. “There was clearly a rightward shift and the BJP started to gain ground. They brought out the communal divisions that were beneath the surface,” says Bhattacharya. What does he have to say about the TMC’s alleged Muslim appeasement? His response: “I won’t call this appeasement. Mamata Banerjee’s concern for Muslims was never real, it was more of a symbolic gesture. It is just political opportunism; she never pursued any anti-Hindu agenda.” He also seems to believe that post 2019, Banerjee went for some course correction to fight corruption in her party, tighten up on development agenda and deliver social schemes. Bhattacharya has travelled extensively across Bengal the last three months; especially pockets his party considers its strongholds. And what is his reading? “There has been some change of attitude of voters since the second term of the Modi government began,” he replies. He talks about disillusionment setting in over a range of issues. And from discussing this and that, we are back to talking about Bengal’s electorate which has never experienced BJP rule in the state. Bhattacharya says, “We’ve been successful in creating a certain degree of awareness… Based on the lessons learnt from Bihar and Jharkhand, we have been telling people to fight unitedly against the divisive politics and social engineering of the BJP and the Sangh Parivar. We have been initiating conversations about how elections can be turned into a people’s agenda and an antidote to communalism and social oppression.” Recently, the CPI-ML (Liberation) announced that it would contest 12 seats independently in the upcoming Bengal elections. Apart from these, the party is ready to support the TMC and Left Front candidates and the Congress candidates too, if required. Bhattacharya says, “We are not electorally strong in Bengal but we have our own pockets of struggle, especially in the tea gardens and the Adivasi areas in the western region.” 1960: Bhattacharya is born in Guwahati, the son of a  railway employee Does schooling from Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur 1979: Comes first in the West Bengal higher secondary exams Joins the BStat programme at the Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta, and becomes active in CPI-ML (Liberation) politics. Completes MStat in due course Becomes general secretary of the Indian People’s Front in the 1980s and thereafter of the party’s trade union wing, the All India Central Council of Trade Unions 1987: Is elected member of the central committee and political bureau of CPI-ML (Liberation) 1998: Is unanimously elected party general secretary after the sudden death of Vinod Mishra 2020: Leads the CPI-ML (Liberation) to an unprecedented seat haul in the Bihar Assembly polls||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||The Calcutta-Siliguri highway is a track everybody loves to take but nobody ever made||For a decade now, Dipankar Bhattacharya has been routinely taking the Calcutta-Siliguri highway. He works in the animal health division of a private sector firm and drives from his home in south Calcutta, down the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass, reaches the Dum Dum airport and thereafter “crawls” through Madhyamgram, Birati, Barasat, till he reaches Ranaghat. “From Ranaghat, right through Krishnagar to Berhampore in north Bengal, the road is horrible,” says Bhattacharya. Once upon a time it would take him 10-11 hours to make the journey to Siliguri, now it takes him 18 hours. Of late, he has started taking the route via Burdwan, down Badshahi road to Moregram. He tells The Telegraph, “It is longer by 15 kilometres, but it still saves me two hours.” Mind you, the Calcutta-Siliguri highway is an important road. It is crucial to tourism, business travel and commerce. It links Bihar to north Bengal, Bengal to the Northeast, Assam to both Bengal and Bihar, and India to Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh. A part of the East-West Corridor that runs from Porbandar in Gujarat to Silchar in Assam also merges with it. Medical representatives travelling from Calcutta take this road. Nurses from North Bengal and Assam, travelling to private and government hospitals and nursing homes in Calcutta take this road. This route is much travelled by college teachers, government schoolteachers, auto dealers, furniture retailers. Sikkim sends its orchids this way, Assam its tea... And Raiganj, a little ahead of Purnea junction, and thereabouts are much favoured by smugglers and peddlers of illegal goods what with their geo-strategic locatedness within the Chicken’s Neck or Siliguri Corridor. The Chicken’s Neck is a narrow stretch of land — 22 kilometres in width — with Nepal and Bangladesh on either side. The 564-kilometre stretch that is the Calcutta-Siliguri highway resembles a whimsical piece of needlework. Someone seems to have used three different skeins of random length. Skein A is NH12, 438 kilometres and stretching from Dum Dum to Purnea More in Dalkhola. Skein B is NH27, 132 kilometres, stretches from Dalkhola to Siliguri. Skein C represents the part of the Asian Highway Part 2, which crosses NH27 a little before Siliguri. Arun Basak mans a booking counter at the bus depot in central Calcutta’s Esplanade. The Calcutta-Siliguri bus service is pretty much a night service. Buses leave at 5.30 in the evening, reach Siliguri around 8am the next day. Says Basak, “Routinely, the buses get stuck in a traffic snarl at Barasat, barely an hour into the journey. Crossing the Barasat-Ranaghat stretch shouldn’t take more than 30 to 40 minutes, but it always takes an hour and a half or more.” Reason? Potholes; a single carriageway for trucks, lorries, trailers, buses, bikes, private cars, yellow taxis, app cabs, cycles; frequent accidents; local haats. And in case you are trying to visualise it — remember, it is a single carriageway channelling up traffic as well as down traffic. The next two pain points are Santipur and Krishnagar. One sweaty May evening in 2017, I remember taking a bus from Calcutta to New Jalpaiguri. At about 11pm, we reached Ranaghat and stopped at a dhaba; as we were tucking into refreshments, the conductor announced that the bus would bypass Santipur as it was too narrow a road to take during the night. And so I continued the onward journey leaving behind crestfallen passengers who had planned to reach Santipur on some business or the other. So many years later, I understand what the conductor had not bothered elaborating upon. Explains Samiran Sen, who is currently chairman of the Infrastructure Advisory Committee, “The minimum width of a four-lane national highway should be 25 to 30 metres. But NH12 is very narrow — barely 12 metres wide.” It also totters left and right like a drunken person, twists and turns, in all making it unfit for safe and speedy passage. According to Sen, “Trailers or 22/24-wheeler trucks often get stuck in the single carriageway while taking a left or right turn; boundary walls crumble from the impact.” Basak adds, “A bus and a car cannot pass side by side on this road.” The road between Krishnagar and Berhampore is relatively smooth sailing; it became a double carriageway some years ago. The problem starts a little before Farakka and continues right up to Malda. Aniruddha Biswas, a schoolteacher and resident of Malda, has to do the 32-kilometre commute (one way) every day. He says, “Even the 2.5 kilometre stretch on the Farakka Barrage cannot be crossed in 30 minutes.” There are feeble signs of another bridge coming up on the Bhagirathi and Biswas hopes this will make life easy for him some day. Enigmatically though, the bridge’s columns have been constructed but there is no sign of a link road. Ms Sitharaman is no doubt using this highway largesse to pave newer inroads for the BJP in Bengal. But in the past, there have been attempts to solve the NH12’s multiple issues, not all of which were politically motivated. Studies have been conducted, reports submitted, scientific solutions offered, settlements razed, compensation doled out to hawkers for land acquisition, but nothing and no one has been able to make this road sing. 1995. The CPI(M)’s Somnath Chatterjee, then chairman of the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, announced that a brand new 600-kilometre expressway would be built. It seemed more viable an option than acquiring more land for the widening of NH12. But nothing happened. 2000-05. The Asian Development Bank or ADB and the UK-based engineering firm Halcrow conducted a deep dive. The report ran into 12 volumes and Volume 13 summarised all the previous volumes. Solutions were proffered, each of which would impact the Calcutta-Siliguri Highway. Upgrade feeder roads. Build this bypass, that bypass. Develop SH7 to ease traffic. But very little happened. 2008. The National Highway Authority of India took over the Calcutta-Siliguri highway’s guardianship. Proposed that the road be built under the BOT model. BOT as in build, operate, transfer model. Again, nothing happened. The speed-breakers to the smooth evolution of this highway were always the same. Any widening activity required disturbing human settlements and acquiring new land. Biswas had spoken about vegetable vendors, roadside eateries and dhabas encroaching on the highway. Bhattacharya talks about the local haats in Bethuadahari, Chakdah, Debagram, also spilling onto the highway. Sen explains, “The world over, human settlements spring up along the main corridors. For India, the main corridors are its national highways; earlier our rivers were our main corridors.” The settlement problem dovetails into the land acquisition issue. Sen continues, “Farmers in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab or Chandigarh have large land holdings that they willingly part with at a price. They develop the fields that extend behind these. In Bengal, the farmers own very small plots. If they have to forgo their land, they will have nothing.” At the turn of this century, when Sen and his supervisors went to Kazipara in Barasat to take measurements for the Barasat Bypass, he recalls, “We were chased by a group of men with sickles in their hands.” The Barasat Bypass could not be made. Beyond the resistance of the common man lurk other, less obvious speed-breakers. Experts don’t tire of telling me that the National Highway Act of 1956 stipulates the state government has to facilitate land acquisition and the Centre will bear the cost. Says Sen, “Now you know; it is sheer lack of intent that has come in the way of developing this highway.” Saunak Das, a National Highway repair contractor, is another frequent traveller on this route. He talks about the road as it runs through Malda. “The problem near Malda has been solved somewhat as the Malda Bypass helps us avoid the town completely. The route between Kaliachak and Sujapur is soon going to become a double carriageway. Work is on.” According to him, it is further north of Malda that the problem lies. “The Dalkhola railway crossing is a nightmare. Recently, I had to escape through a village road when I got stuck in a jam there. It was about seven in the evening. I wouldn’t have reached anyplace close to Siliguri that night had I waited.” The Islampur-Siliguri stretch is relatively blameless. If a point must take blame for Saunak’s itinerant delays, that would be Purnea More. Amitabha Ghoshal, who is the ex-president of the Consulting Engineers Association of India, says, “There is a problem with the traffic signals, even the signage is all wrong. There is next to no policing. The junction is a chaos of dhabas and shops.” The Purnea junction also receives the added traffic load from Bihar’s NH31. Basak from the Esplanade booking counter had said how buses headed for Siliguri never make it back to Calcutta on time to do another trip. He said, “It is a common practice among bus owners to have extra vehicles at the Siliguri Bus Depot to continue service...” And so continue the olden complaints about a road much taken, much forsaken. Ms Sitharaman has chosen to make a poll sop of its lumbering tragedy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Truck kills pregnant pillion rider in Haroa’s Kulgachhi||A pregnant woman and her husband, both in their 20s, died in Haroa’s Kulgachhi in North 24-Parganas on Friday night when their motorcycle was run over by a truck loaded with stone chips. The mishap occurred around 10pm when the couple were returning home in Brahmanchak village after a visit to the doctor. Police and local sources said the truck, speeding along Haroa-Radhanagar road, hit the motorbike and ran over Pijush Mandal, 28, and Sathi Mandal, 21, when they fell off on the Sankarpur-Kulgachi bridge. Residents rushed them to the Haroa rural hospital where Sathi was pronounced dead. Pijush, who suffered multiple injuries, was transferred to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital in Calcutta. He succumbed to his injuries on the way. Family sources said Sathi was seven months pregnant. “She had developed some health problems and that’s why the couple went to consult a doctor,” a family member said. Angry residents on Friday night alleged negligence on the part of the police in controlling reckless driving on the road. “The Haroa-Radhanagar road has become a nightmare because of reckless driving by trucks. The police stay mute spectators. A number of accidents have occurred on the stretch in the recent past and several lives have been lost. The police do not book speeding drivers and motorists,” said local resident Bablu Roy. Refuting the allegations, an officer of Haroa police station said: “We often conduct surprise raids and take action against errant drivers. Still, some do act desperately flouting all rules. We have begun a probe into Friday’s accident and have seized the truck. Search is on for the driver, who managed to flee.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung case withdrawal process going on||The process of withdrawing cases against Bimal Gurung, the leader of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, who had been on the run for more than three years from law enforcers, has started, much to the hill leader’s relief. “The process started from November last year. There has been a sanction to withdraw almost 130-odd cases of which nearly 70 cases have been withdrawn over the past few months,” said an official involved in the matter. Gurung, a long-time ally of the BJP, parted ways with the saffron camp in October 2020 citing “unfulfilled promises” related to a permanent political solution in the hills, and joined hands with ruling Trinamul. After this, Gurung’s visibility increased in the hills. Sources in the know said that Gurung has around 400-odd cases slapped against him since 2007, when Bengal was under Left rule. Even though the cases against Gurung, except murder, were to be withdrawn when the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) was formed in 2012, no such step had been taken by the state, then headed by Trinamul. “So if one is to take into account all the cases since 2007 and not just the 2012 agitation cases, there are almost 400 odd cases. However, murder cases, or individual cases filed against Gurung cannot be withdrawn,” said a source in the know of things. “Only those cases filed by the government can be withdrawn.” Withdrawal of the cases, the source said also needs the governor’s sanction. “The process starts from the office of the legal remembrance cell of the judicial department and order to withdraw the case reads “by order of the governor”. We have received such a sanction for 130 odd cases since November,” the source added. A senior Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader who is camping in Calcutta for the past few weeks did not want to comment on the development. “We are not very aware of all the details about the withdrawal of cases. We will want to go through the papers before commenting,” the leader said. Many were speculating that the Morcha leader was in Calcutta to also talk about withdrawal of cases against Gurung. “The Morcha leaders have had a bad experience. Even after the GTA was formed, the cases against them were not withdrawn despite repeated assurances from the state government,” said an observer. Gurung decided to dump the BJP and join TMC in October last year. “However, we are satisfied with the way things are moving now,” said a leader from the Gurung camp. Gorkha Battalion became the new political issue of Darjeeling hills with BJP MP Raju Bista stating that the Trinamul government was doing “sheer tokenism” by promising a battalion in the name of Gorkhas. “Amidst much fanfare Hon’ble CM Mamata Banerjeeji had announced the establishment of a Gorkha Battalion in West Bengal Police, but it has now come to light that only 4 jawans out of a total strength of 123 are actually Gorkhas,” said Bista. A document on this issue is circulation on social media. Bista’s statement endorses the information though this paper could not independently verify the content. Four months back, in November 2020, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced three community based battalions for Gorkhas, Narayani Battalion for Rajbangshis and a battalion for tribals from Jangal Mahal. Bista’s statement, however, prompted even the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Gurung camp), an ally of Trinamul, to issue a statement on Saturday. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman, GJM (Gurung camp) said they want Gorkhas to be dominant in the battalion. “When the new recruitment takes place, majority of police personnel must be Gorkhas. Non-Gorkhas deputed to the battalion should be retracted.” Police officers said that the allegations were baseless. A source said that a battalion usually comprises six to eight companies. Each company has a strength of 100-odd personnel. "This basically suggests that statements mean nothing as the entire strength of the Gorkha Battalion has not come to light," said a source. But such was the impact of Bista’ statement and the general perception that the battalion was not for Gorkhas in the Darjeeling hills that even Trinamul Congress came up with a clarification. N.B. Khawash, coordinator, TMC (Darjeeling) said: “Raju Bista seems to be unaware of administrative procedures.” The Trinamul leader contested that raising a new battalion was not an easy task that could be left only to new recruits. “Experienced people are needed and this is why police personnel have been send on deputation. Once the recruitment is over, things would be clear,” said Khawash. Retired army and police officials that this newspaper spoke to had different views on the issue. Some agreed that a battalion cannot only be raised with new recruits. “The issue is why only four Gorkhas are there in the list of 123 personnel in Gorkha Battalion. However, the question is can all Gorkhas police personnel be withdrawn from various state battalions and deputed in this battalion,” said a retired army officer when asked for an independent opinion. Some retired police officials also added that instead of raising a new Gorkha Battalion, the state government could have strengthened the Eastern Frontier Rifles (EFR). “EFR predominantly consists of Gorkhas and Jharuas. Recruitment in EFR has come to a standstill. Instead of creating a new Gorkha Battalion, strengthening EFR would have been better,” said a retired police personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee focuses on Mamata-daughter theme ||Trinamul MP and youth president Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday played the outsider-versus-Bengal card with his party’s newest slogan as he lashed out at the saffron camp to draw support from north Bengal residents. Using Trinamul’s slogan “Bangla nijer meyekei chay (Bengal wants its own daughter and nobody else)”, released in Calcutta on Saturday, Abhishek at his Jalpaiguri public meeting propped up Bengal’s “Didi” as “daughter” to lash out at the BJP. “Do you want the daughter of Bengal to surrender before Delhi? She is the only woman chief minister in the country now and the BJP is hell-bent in removing her from power. They will never succeed in their intention as Mamata Banerjee lives in the hearts of millions of this state,” Abhishek, also Mamata’s nephew, told the 25,000-plus crowd at the European Club Ground in Nagrakata of Jalpaiguri. Indicating the saffron camp, Abhishek said “outsiders” were coming here before the elections. “We will not succumb to threats. Let me reaffirm that eventually the attempts of these external elements will be thwarted by Bengal’s people,” said Abhishek. Abhishek liberally used the newest slogan, which indicates Trinamul’s strategy to drive home the point that Mamata is “Bengal’s daughter” versus “outsiders” in the saffron camp. Abhishek also took a dig at the BJP on “Sonar Bangla”, regularly used by leaders of all tiers of the saffron brigade, from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda to local leaders. “They claim they will build Sonar Bangla (bring back Bengal’s golden era). First, they should tell us why they could not build a ‘Sonar Bharat’ (a golden India) or a ‘Sonar Gujarat’ or a ‘Sonar Tripura’ or a ‘Sonar Uttar Pradesh’. These are false claims and people will not buy it…” He questioned why in north Bengal, where the BJP performed well in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, none of the BJP MPs were seen in public during the pandemic and lockdown last year. “However, our leaders and elected representatives were out in the streets (helping people),” said the Trinamul MP. He was also vocal against those who joined the BJP. “Some rotten elements have left our party…they were pests and insects and now they have moved to another ground. We want to make it clear that a person who has emerged as a leader from the ground will get the ticket. All we want from you is all the seven Assembly seats of Jalpaiguri district and we assure you that Trinamul will come to power for the third time with 250 seats,” Abhishek said. Some Trinamul leaders in Dinhata subdivision of Cooch Behar demanded on Saturday that Udayan Guha, the party’s MLA of Dinhata, be replaced with a new candidate before the Assembly elections. “We want to alert our party leadership that if they do not change the candidate, they will lament. We will put all efforts to ensure Trinamul’s win in Dinhata but the party should confirm that there will be a new candidate,” said Mir Humayan Kabir, a former block president of Trinamul and a member of Cooch Behar Zilla Parishad. An observer said this was nothing but Trinamul’s infighting. None of the district leaders commented on this. Guha, the Dinhata MLA, could not be contacted. Additional reporting by our Cooch Behar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Kailash Vijayvargiya’s tweet stirs up storm||BJP’s minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya on Saturday posted a tweet that mischievously suggested key posts in Bengal would be or are being held by Muslims. The BJP’s political opponents called the tweet a blatant attempt at polarisation before the elections. Vijayvargiya tweeted in Hindi under the subject “West Bengal’s new equation!”: Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui is TMC’s deputy chief minister. The chief minister of the Congress-CPM alliance is Abdul Mannan. Calcutta’s mayor is Firhad Hakim. Where is Bengal heading to? Bengal’s people will have to think!” Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front is now in seat talks with the Congress-Left alliance. The BJP is hoping that the Abbasi Front’s poll foray would help split Muslim’s votes and harm Trinamul. Trinamul spokesperson and minister Bratya Basu tweaked Vijayvargiya’s own message in an attempt to turn the tables on the BJP and underscore the party’s “outsider” image. “If the BJP comes to power, the observer for Bengal will be Amit Shah, chief minister will be Kailash Vijayvargiya and their chief adviser will be Narendra Modi. There will be no space for Bengalis; that is what the people of Bengal must think,” Basu said. He added: “I don’t understand why he is tagging Abbas Siddiqui with us. Siddiqui is in talks with the Left and the Congress and not with us.” Responding to Vijayvargiya’s tweet, CPM MLA Sujan Chakraborty said: “What business does he have speaking on matters of other political parties? He is trying to confuse the people and communally polarise them.” Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya said his party would lodge a complaint against the “communal tweet” with the Election Commission of India. “Is he trying to alienate the Hindus from the Muslims in an effort to polarise Hindu votes? We will not allow that to happen,” Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri civic workers end cease work||Conservancy workers of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) withdrew their cease work on Saturday and will resume work from Sunday. These past four days, collection and disposal of garbage had stopped across the city as over 2,500 workers had ceased work over demands such as permanent jobs and pay hike. On Saturday, the stalemate ended after a meeting with tourism minister Gautam Deb. Deb said he would take up the demands with municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim. Kiran Rauth, president of Uttarbanga Safai Karmachari Samiti, said after the meeting with Deb, it was decided that workers will join their duties from Sunday. “However, we have made it clear that if no visible initiative is taken on our demands by February 23, we may resume cease work from the next day,” he said. Asok Bhattacharya, chairman of the board of administrators at SMC, on Saturday held a meeting with representatives of Citu, Intuc and INTTUC backed unions of civic employees and workers at SMC. “At the meeting, it was decided that workers’ wages will be increased by 10 per cent, effective from the current month,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Twelve companies of central forces arrive in poll-bound Bengal||Twelve companies of central forces, part of the 125 companies of the central forces to be deployed in poll-bound Bengal by the end of this month, reached some districts  on Saturday and held route marches. According to sources, one company each reached East Burdwan, Birbhum and Bankura. Two companies were deployed in West Burdwan. The remaining seven companies were scheduled to reach Hooghly, Howrah, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas by Saturday night. By the time this report was filed in the evening, they had already reached Dankuni and Calcutta railway stations. On why the central forces are already here before election dates are announced, a senior government official said: “It is expected that the Election Commission of India would send a SOP (standard operating protocol) on how to use the forces ahead of the polls. Before district authorities receive specific instruction from the poll panel through Nabanna, forces are used for confidence-building exercises in areas known for untoward incidents during polls.” Sources also said that the ECI might specify areas where the confidence-building measure would be needed once the 125 companies reach the state by February 25. “It has often been often alleged in the past that central forces were not used properly as they were not taken to areas which are known for untoward incidents during polls to give an advantage to the ruling party. The BJP has already sent a series of memorandums in this regard. The ECI might keep a track on how the forces are being used this year. It is likely to seek daily reports from the districts on the use of forces,” said a source. Some officials said that the ECI was keeping track on Bengal’s law and order situation for the past two months. The poll panel had asked authorities to send reports on this regularly for the past two months, “The poll panel now knows which are the trouble-prone areas. If the authorities don’t use the forces in the required areas, officials concerned may face action,” said a source. A senior government official said even though they were not prepared to arrange transport, lodging and other facilities for such a huge contingent of central forces much before election dates are declared, district authorities have completed required arrangements on a war footing. “The state does not want to have a face-off with the poll panel by any means. The district authorities have been given clear instructions to arrange all required facilities for the central forces so that they can take up confidence-building measures,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
21-02-2021||North East||BJP-led Assam govt's tea wage hike from Rs 167 to Rs 217 disappoints||The BJP-led Assam government on Saturday hiked the minimum daily wage of tea garden workers from Rs 167 to Rs 217 in the run-up to the Assembly polls, the Rs 50 rise leaving both the representatives of the workers as well as management disappointed. The workers’ representatives were expecting an increase in the gross daily wage to Rs 351, a long-standing demand. The tea wage hike was among the 13 cabinet decisions taken on Saturday. The cabinet has also decided to form a one-man committee under principal secretary J.B. Ekka for equal wage to workers associated with small tea growers. Industry minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said after the meeting that the total daily wage has risen by Rs 80 under the BJP-led government and that garden workers will also be given rations worth Rs 101 taking the gross daily wage to Rs 318. However, Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha president and Congress leader Paban Singh Ghatowar said the hike is disappointing because the government-appointed committee had recommended a minimum daily wage of Rs 351. “But we need to wait for the government notification on the hike to know the actual position. We will, however, continue to raise our demand for a daily wage of Rs 351 and better working conditions for those associated with the small tea growers. We also demand that the increased wage be paid from 2018, when the interim relief was announced,” Ghatowar said. The influential ACMS represents tea workers and also participates in discussions related to the daily wage, among others. The notification on the tea wage hike is expected next week, sources said. The move has also disappointed the industry representatives. “What we are hearing is that it is an interim relief, which is high. We were expecting a final hike. We will have to wait for the notification,” one of them said. On February 6, Assam finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had announced in the Assembly about hiking the daily wage of tea workers within 10 days but had not specified the amount. Raising the daily wage was also a pre-poll promise of the BJP in 2016. On February 14, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, addressing a rally in Sivasagar’s Boarding Field, promised to hike the daily wage of tea workers to Rs 365 if his party wins the upcoming polls. “Our brothers from tea gardens, please listen carefully: you get Rs 167 and we will put another Rs 200 minus two in your pockets. Every day you will get Rs 365,” he had said. The Congress was quick to hit out at the government with PCC chief Ripun Bora promising to increase the wage of workers within 30 days of the party coming to power. Bora tweeted: “Promises measure your intentions & @BJP4Assam has none for welfare of tea workers. Why should wages of tea workers in Assam be less than those in Kerala? @INCAssam will fix difference. Rs 365 daily wage within 30 days of coming to power. #CongressGuarantees.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
21-02-2021||Opinion||Vadodara polls: Cong promises 'date destinations with coffee shops'||In a tea-loving country, a lot can happen over coffee. This seems to be the hope behind the Congress promising, among other things, “date destinations with coffee shops” as meeting places for “youth, students, couples” in its manifesto for the municipal corporation elections in Vadodara that are taking place today. The aim, apparently, is to give the weaker sections of the society a recreational space to unwind and relax — leisure and privacy are luxuries that they can seldom afford. The move is significant because of the Congress’s wobbly record of choosing to prioritize populist sentiments over a sustained commitment to a progressive ethos. The government led by Rajiv Gandhi had overturned the Supreme Court’s verdict in the Shah Bano case; this streak of cashing in on conservatism for the sake of electoral profit resurfaced recently when the Congress in Kerala promised to bring a law to punish women of child-bearing age if they were to break the ‘age-old traditions’ of the Sabarimala temple. The Congress’s decision to stand its ground on its manifesto — the Bharatiya Janata Party has already accused it of polluting the “sanskaari nagri” of Vadodara — is not the only matter of importance here. A poll manifesto can, often, be a sign of the times. Love jihad makes all the noise in a nation that has unleashed demons on love. Consensual, adult relationships are often demonized in India, especially when they are forged by cutting across the barriers of caste and faith. The BJP’s branding of coffee dates as ‘uncultured’ and the laws passed by BJP governments criminalizing interfaith unions are signs of a worrying regression. This kind of political meddling infringes upon the young adults’ right to freedom and privacy; both are fundamental rights in the eyes of the Constitution and courts. There may be a reason why the Congress has decided to mould the personal into the political. There is some evidence to suggest that the popularity of the BJP and its ideas are on the wane among the youth. In 2019, a post-poll survey had showed that among the youth, except in non-Hindu communities, the BJP had found acceptance across caste groups, but by 2020 as many as 46 per cent of Gen Z and 44 per cent of millennials were no longer enchanted with the party. This does not mean that their support has shifted towards the Opposition. This makes it all the more important for parties like the Congress to endorse affirmative policies that can reflect and meet the aspirations of Young India. Reaching out to the youth might serve the Congress well in a country in which 45 million new, young voters played an important role in shaping the outcome of the last general elections. The youth have acquired a critical mass in global politics. Political outfits across the world are attempting to include issues such as unemployment and climate change in their manifestos to win the allegiance of this constituency. The Congress, for once, seems to have gauged the pulse of the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
21-02-2021||Opinion||Historic verdict: Priya Ramani acquitted ||Sir — A Delhi court’s acquittal of the journalist, Priya Ramani, in the criminal defamation complaint filed by the editor-turned-politician, M.J. Akbar, will embolden survivors of sexual harassment at workplaces to speak up (“Akbar’s defamation suit is tossed out”, Feb 18). The court has rightly observed that the ‘right to reputation’ cannot be protected at the cost of the right to life and dignity of a woman, and aptly applied constitutional safeguards of right to equality and equal protection before the law to acquit Ramani of the wrongful charges against her. But it is still ironic that it was the victim, not the perpetrator, who was made to stand up in court as an accused. This verdict has given fresh impetus to the #MeToo movement, which seemed to have lost some of its momentum. The Delhi court’s observation that a woman has the right to put forward her grievances before any platform of her choice even after decades is of great import in this context. Besides retaliation from influential or powerful offenders, it is the fear of infamy and stigma that forces victims to keep suffering in silence for years. The first step towards asafer, more equal, future would be to create an enabling environment for women to speak about their ordeal. There is also a need to raise awareness about the legal weapons at their disposal — take, for instance, the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. Implementation of the law in letter and spirit can act as a strong deterrent. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Sir — Priya Ramani’s acquittal is a defining moment in the fight against sexual harassment in the workplace. By exonerating Ramani, the Delhi court has not only foiled M.J. Akbar’s attempt to silence and intimidate her, but it has made other influential men with power rethink using legal action to hide news of their misdemeanors against women. The former Union minister was accused of sexual misconduct by a handful of women journalists around two years ago as part of the #MeToo movement, and the allegations had forced him to resign from the Union cabinet. It is an encouraging sign that women are courageously coming forward to talk about their experiences of sexual harassment. They are fearlessly naming their abusers. Her acquittal and the court’s words will motivate more women to come forward with the truth and hopefully make the society we live in a safer place for women. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — Be it in the media, as in the case of Priya Ramani, or any other domain, the reality that many women suffer in silence in the face of sexual harassment, especially in the early stages of their career, has been brought to the fore by the new-found space and freedom to share their experiences created by the #MeToo movement. Yet, even as Ramani was acquitted, there are still thousands of other women who have neither the resources nor the means to speak up against their oppressors. Ramani is fortunate enough to be literate and to have at her disposal weapons like social media that enabled her to stand up to her abuser. Can a woman labourer working in the kilns of Uttar Pradesh or the fields of Bengal or Bihar do the same? If children and daughters are not safe in their homes, one can only imagine the plight of the women who come to work for us. While the verdict in this case is encouraging, a lot more needs to be done to make all women feel safe and equal in the eyes of the law. K. Jana,Calcutta Bound no more Sir — The bindi has social media in a bind. While most are cheering the Nasa scientist who sported a bindi during the landing of the American rover on the red planet, others have raised eyebrows over why a bindi, which has many superstitions attached to it, should be something to celebrate. The simple answer is choice: the bindi is no longer a red dot to ward off the evil eye; its absence is not tied to the fate of one’s husband. It is a style statement — it comes in all shapes and colours and even varied states like solid and liquid. The bindi thus no longer binds the woman. A. Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
21-02-2021||Opinion||It’s a date: Bhasha Andolon Dibos||“Amar bhaier rokte rangano/Ekushey February/Ami ki bhulite pari?… Coloured with the blood of my brother/Arrives every 21st of February/ How can I ever erase that memory? How can I ever erase that memory?” Long before this date came to be International Mother Language Day, it was commemorated as Bhasha Andolan Dibos in Bangladesh. The above lines are in memory of the students gunned down by police on February 21, 1952. Students protesting the announcement that Urdu was to be the national language of Pakistan, overlooking 44 million of its 78 million people living in East Pakistan and speaking a different tongue. That day, when Gaffar Choudhury saw the body of a student protester, his head blown off, those anguished lines came to him. In the years that followed, those lines became the anthem of Bhasha Andolan legatees. The chant The word ekushe, ikkis or twenty one, shorn of some month before some circa after naturally throbs with the suggestion of coming of age. The violence of the State against its very own, fighting for their mother tongue, did not begin on February 21, 1952; neither did it end that day. In 1956, when the first constitution of Pakistan was enacted, alongside Urdu, Bengali too was adopted as the official language of Pakistan. Bangladesh was not born until two decades later. Today, Bangladesh has an Ekushey book fair. The nation’s highest civilian award is known as the Ekushey Padak. There is a private television channel by that name. There is something called the Ekushey Bangla Keyboard. Ekushey has gone from being a date to an incantation to a watchword for revolution to identity to triumph to credo. Abol Tabol For a section of people in Bengal too Ekushey has always been special, umbilical. But right now, right here, it is all about ekush. The BJP has been sloganeering for a while now “Unishe Half, Ekushe Saaf”. The Left parties are thrilled with their “Ekushe Ram. Ponchishe Baam”. The TMC too has its own ekush connection, but for now it is all focused on Mission Ekush, Assembly polls. To the man on the street, 21 is just another number, though it might remind some of a nonsense rhyme from the early 20th century. The rhyme is about a topsy-turvy world wherein no one ever knows what is going to invite the State and its ruler's ire. All that one can be sure of is that the punishments will be bizarre and for sure in sets of 21. The English translation of the poem goes thus, In Shiva's homeland, the rules are quite strange, as I can truly attest… While walking the streets, your steps cannot wander, a step left or right and the king is called yonder… Sukumar Ray called it Ekushe Ain or The Rule of 21. Touche.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
21-02-2021||Opinion||Did I not say Soney ki Chidiya?||The nests were always going to give. The birds were always going to weigh them down. These birds. Such birds. Such a slur on birds. We shall come to them. Eventually. We shall bomb their wings and torpedo their feathers. We shall fling on them the weight of mountains so they may be forever buried. Once and for all. Or we shall command the skies to fall, swoop down on their wings of fiery cloud, and end their flight. Forever. We shall come to them. We shall come to that. Things that fly, bird-like things I mean, have a tendency to go beyond reach and begin to do their own thing. That’s a danger to us, the tendency to have a mind that does its own thing, and a body that flies beyond reach. That must be stopped. Forthwith. Clear the airspace, it is ours, no enemy craft allowed; trespassers will be shot. Do not believe that nonsense about cloud cover, whoever may have told you. Clouds cover nothing; clouds only reveal. Rain, for instance. Or lightning. Or sun. Or sky. The game of clouds is not to cover things, it is to lay things bare. They move. They expose. They are forever moving. They are forever exposing. Ever seen a stationary cloud? Ever been able to nail one to whatever lies above in a way that it becomes a fixture? Let us know. Meantime, shore up some self-respect and figure out what can happen behind cloud cover and what cannot. Waise, these fighter jet type of things, you know, nowadays they can tear into sound and light and the rest of it so one must wonder where cottonwool clouds stand in that category. Imagine an engineered shard of reinforced metal and fibreglass at those speeds. Then imagine clouds. Then imagine cover. I am tempted to imagine more than cover, as it happens. I am tempted to imagine cover-up. Beherhaal, jo bhi ho. Birds will be birds, we need to be Us, now more than ever. Birds of steel or birds of style, they can both turn misguided and beyond our control or manipulation. This thing called flight, it is not such an acceptable thing. Which is why, you may recall, when I mentioned birds I mentioned them in a particular and well-meditated way. Soney ki Chidiya waala Bharat, I said. And people got me wrong, which is not unusual. When I say we are a democracy, people think I mean it for everyone, whereas I only mean “we”, as in me and my shadow. When I say I have done in seven years what they could not do in 70, people start saying but you are only undoing things, not understanding that undoing is also an act of doing. I am undoing. Wait till your turn comes, you shall be undone too, tell me how it feels. So, where was I? Haan, soney ki chidiya. I meant the bird that has been put to sleep. You know why they need to be put to sleep, these unruly flying things cutting the sky to ribbons with no direction or discipline. Look at this one. It has been hung upside down, claws braced against ionosphere. Look at how. You see that thing swinging by its neck. I cannot figure what this thing is. Is it a manual? Is it some explosive device? It is an explosive device attached to a manual on how the device must be triggered and exploded. I cannot tell. We are looking into it, investigations are on, experts are at it. First information reports tell us, psst-psssst, it may be something called a CoolKit. It looks innocent but it is actually a killer contraption. It floats in, unbeknownst, under all radars, cloud or no cloud, and pulverises everything in its vicinity. That’s why they call it that: CoolKit. Looks cool but it’s a kind of kit. You know, kit. They wear them when they set out to do that. I am too terrified to mention particulars. This bird had a CoolKit. This bird had to have it. Look at her, the sight of her. Soney ki Chidiya, the bird we put to sleep. The bird I promised. It is now being heard The command to pliant cattle The threat now looms of the bird And it must be crushed in battle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
21-02-2021||Opinion||Wrong path: Ghulam Nabi Azad's exit from Rajya Sabha||The exit of the veteran Congress leader, Ghulam Nabi Azad, from the Rajya Sabha has reignited unrest within the party as one section — infamous as the Group of 23 — believes the truce worked out by Sonia Gandhi in December has been violated. There are murmurs in the party that the efforts at reconciliation have stopped and the leaders of this group face discrimination at different levels on a daily basis. The level of distrust and bitterness between these leaders and the new coterie is so high that any unity of purpose is impossible. This divide is bound to tell on the restructuring processes and the election of a new party president slated to take place over the next couple of months. Many leaders privately confess a “deep sense of hurt” and argue that somebody as senior and loyal as Azad should have been treated with greater sensitivity. They feel that the leadership and its “current advisers” should have anticipated this situation and brought Azad to the Rajya Sabha from Rajasthan instead of the general-secretary in charge of the organization, KC Venugopal, who could have been nominated from his home state, Kerala, in April. One leader said, “Azad is too dignified to ask anything for himself but the party leadership could still bring him to Rajya Sabha from Kerala.” This, however, will not be of much help as Azad cannot return as leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha because Mallikarjun Kharge has already been appointed to that post. The real anger, though, is against what insiders call Rahul Gandhi’s “current advisers” who are dragging him down a path of confrontation instead of stressing the need for unity. New superhero on the block Move over Superman and Batman, here comes the ‘development man’. Just when the people of Bihar had started taking the ‘vikas purush’ (development man) epithet of the chief minister, Nitish Kumar, at face value, his Janata Dal (United) officially anointed him with the title. The party’s national president, RCP Singh, announced that henceforth Kumar’s birthday (March 1) would be celebrated as ‘development day’ across the state. Party workers have been asked to gather at various places in every city, town,panchayat, village and booth to discuss the development projects undertaken by the leader who will turn 70 on that day. They will also pray for his long life and take a pledge to turn Bihar into a developed state. As soon as word got out, JD(U) leaders started singing paeans about the sterling work done by Kumar. One of them even suggested that like Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan and Lauha Purush Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Kumar should henceforth be addressed by all JD(U) leaders as Vikas Purush Nitish Kumar. It seems that party leaders have agreed to do so. It would be interesting to see whether the common man on the streets accepts this title. Chasing a dream The senior Assam minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, the BJP’s go-to man in the Northeast, launched his fourth book, Eta Xopunor Pom Khedi (Chasing a Dream), in Guwahati this week in spite of his very busy official and party schedule in the poll-bound state. Released by the Meghalaya CM, Conrad Sangma, at a packed function, the book is a collection of 25 select speeches reflecting Sarma’s passion to transform Assam into a leading state. The launch was also an occasion for Sarma to share a couple of secrets like the one about his letter to the state BJP president, Ranjeet Kumar Dass, on February 1 last year stating that he was not keen on contesting the upcoming assembly polls, a decision he had not shared with even his family. But the letter added that he would honour any decision taken by the party. Sarma also said posts hardly matter when asked whether he was in the race for the CM’s chair, going on to say that he wants people to remember him 50-100 years down the line as a person who lived for a cause, believed in his ideology and worked for his party and the state. However, these disclosures left his supporters and admirers stumped for they see him as a future CM, an idea fuelled by Sarma himself when he was in the Congress. A key reason for Sarma leaving the Congress in 2015 was the denial of the CM’s post despite him having the numbers. His supporters are seeking solace in the title of his book, hoping that Sarma will continue to chase his dream. Meteoric rise The rise of the Mahila Morcha secretary, Smitha Menon, has been causing heartburn in Kerala’s BJP unit. She first waded into controversy, and triggered intra-party issues after being seen on a delegate’s chair at the Indian Ocean Rim Association meeting in Dubai attended by the minister of state for external affairs, V Muraleedharan. The minister backed her by claiming she was there only as a PR person and dismissed charges of protocol violation. Now she is back in the limelight after being preferred over old-timers like Sobha Surendran to receive the prime minister, Narendra Modi, during his recent trip to Kochi. Tipped for a party ticket in the upcoming assembly polls, Menon will surely set the cat among the pigeons in the coming weeks. Footnote The sprint queen of yesteryear, PT Usha, is said to have given the nod to join the BJP ahead of the Kerala state polls. While it is not clear if the ‘Payyoli Express’, who missed the bronze medal at the Los Angeles Olympics by a whisker, would contest, the party is keen on adding her at least to the list of star campaigners with the hope of cashing in on her image. But the larger question being asked in Kerala is if Usha still has the same appeal that once brought fan mails carrying just her name and state in the address column.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
21-02-2021||Opinion||A day of faith||‘Birthday’ is a standard word. But not ‘deathday’. Too inauspicious, perhaps. Too grim. But that is surely ahistorical. Some deathdays are to be celebrated for the persons who have died and the circumstances in which they have died bear out Donne’s famous lines: “Death be not proud… for those whom thou think’st thou doth overthrow die not.” The 22nd of February — tomorrow — is the deathday of a woman who did her life proud by her death. Valliamma R. Munuswamy Mudaliar belonged to a Tamil family from the village of Thillaiyadi, now in the state’s Nagapattinam district. Her ancestors had been indentured, like several others from the Indian peninsula and even from ‘up North’, to work on plantations and in mines in South Africa. In the early 1910s, these Indian labourers, poorly paid, uncivilly treated, without political or even civic rights, were riled by a racial poll tax — Three Pounds per head — that hurt their pride more than it hurt their purses. This, together with other disabilities like restrictions on movement between province and province and a requirement for getting registered on the basis of finger prints, was resisted by the affronted Indians who faced the consequences — stiff fines or jail. But when, on March 14, 1913, Justice Malcolm Searle, of the Cape Supreme Court, decreed every Indian marriage is invalid that is not registered before a Marriage Officer or celebrated according to Christian rites, more than pride was hurt. By a parallel order, Natal children of resident Indians or their parents were required to produce, if they needed admission in another province, certificates of birth. M.K. Gandhi memorialized the Minister for the Interior, General Smuts, to the effect that marriages celebrated according to Hindu, Muslim or Parsi rites were fully recognized by Indian law and that “it is a well-recognised fact that very few births are registered in India and it is practically impossible to produce certificates of birth except in rare cases.” The collective selfhood of Indian-South Africans stood insulted, the honour of motherhood stood besmirched. Kasturba Gandhi asked her husband, “Then I am not your wife according to the laws of this country?” He said she was right, adding, “Our children are not our heirs.” The community rose in a spontaneous protest. Indians, women leading, struck work and marched to break inter-province barriers to say, ‘We will not be humiliated thus.’ And they went on a great march, criss-crossing the border between the provinces of the Transvaal and Natal. Valliamma, born in 1898 in Johannesburg, at 16 years of age, was among “the marching great” from the Transvaal side, Kasturba from the Natal side. Nearly 40,000 of them courted arrest, with nearly 10,000 being actually imprisoned, Valliamma among them. She went cheerfully and defiantly into the march and entered jail as a sense of duty to her motherland’s — India’s — greatness. Imprisoned in Maritzburg jail, she endured its rigours along with other women satyagrahis who included Kasturba. The sentence for ‘hard labour’ included the task of washing fellow prisoners’ clothes. Many fell ill, seriously ill. Valliamma, very seriously. Released when on the verge of death “with a fatal fever”, she just about managed to get back home where Gandhi came to see her. “She was confined to bed when I saw her,” he writes in his classic, Satyagraha in South Africa. “[H]er emaciated body was a terrible thing to behold.” “‘Valliamma, you do not regret having gone to jail?’, I asked. “‘Regret? I am even now ready to go to jail again if I am arrested,’ said Valliamma. “‘But what if it results in your death?’ I pursued. “‘I do not mind it. Who would not love to die for one’s motherland?’” Thillaiyadi Valliamma died on February 22, 1914. Her remains are interred in Braamfontein Cemetery, Johannesburg. Gandhi writes: “Valliamma will live in the history of South African Satyagrahis as long as India lives.” Her deathday is a day of celebration, for India lives! A film on the life of this icon by Sharada Ramanathan is expected to be released shortly. Thirty years later, her jail-mate was in prison again, this time in India. Kasturba had been permitted to join her husband, imprisoned in the Aga Khan’s Palace Prison in Poona, for having heralded the Quit India resolution, asking Britain to exit from India. And she was gravely ill. A wedding anniversary occurred at this time — that of a fellow prisoner. Kasturba asked Gandhi, “How many years have we been married?” Gandhi looked at her and said, “Why, do you also want to celebrate your anniversary?” Everyone around them laughed, Kasturba too. She was 74 that year as was her husband. They had been married for sixty one years. On January 6, 1944, Gandhi wrote to the prison authorities: “... the patient has got into very low spirits. She despairs of life... Her state is pitiful.” And he asked for permission to be given to near and dear ones to visit her. As also for an ayurvedic physician for she had faith in that system of medicine. Her health continued to deteriorate and on February 22, 1944, her husband’s hands clasping her, Kasturba died. She was cremated in the grounds of the prison. A tulasi plant grows on the spot in Poona. The House of Commons was told on March 2, 1944: “... She was receiving all possible medical care and attention...” Gratefully acknowledging the fact that the regular attendants did all they could, Gandhi responded by saying the help that was asked for, when at all given, was given after a long wait, and the ayurvedic physician was permitted to attend only after he had to tell the prison authorities that if he could not procure the help that she wanted he should be separated from her as he ought not to be made a helpless witness of the agonies she was passing through. On the Valliamma-Kasturba Deathday, the following thoughts deserve reflection: First, a prisoner is a prisoner but a woman prisoner is a whole family in prison by proxy because of those, especially minor children, who depend on her. According to the National Crime Records Bureau’s report for 2019, of the 4.5 lakh prisoners in India today, about 3.3 lakh are ‘under-trial prisoners’. The overwhelming number of these are going to be found to be innocent. State governments which are in charge of this ‘state subject’ must, especially in our Covid-19 times, see to the urgent release of the women among the undertrials under the salutary Section 436-A of the Criminal Procedure Code introduced in the CrPC in 2005 as, essentially, a human right measure. Second, recalling what Gandhi said in South Africa about the lack of the practice of paper documentation in Indian families, we must ask: what papers can families required to produce them to establish their citizenship in the Republic of India possibly produce? Is it right, is it fair, for some fellow-citizens to be asked to produce such paper proof? Third, Indian women in 1913-1914 South Africa responded to the unravelling of the man-woman bond in terms of religion, a cause to which Valliamma martyred herself. Is the classification of marriages by religion, in the Republic of India, as is being sought in certain sections of our body politic, legally sound, morally right and, above all, civilizationally justifiable? No politicians, no lawyers, no agitation-addicts but two Indian women, one from India’s western seaboard, another from its southeastern, gifted with a rare commitment and great clarity, ask for February 22, their shared deathday, to be, for Indian women in prison or in fear, to be their Faithday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Bengali rights activists felicitated on International Mother Language Day||On the occasion of International Mother Language Day, 25 Dhanbad language rights activists were felicitated during a programme organised by the Bengali Association, Jharkhand on Sunday. All the activists who were felicitated fought a protracted battle for second language status to Bengali language in Jharkhand. A seminar on the further popularisation and development of Bengali was also conducted during the event, where participants agreed that the language should be used more in official spaces and should be taught in schools and colleges. “We had high hopes for the betterment of Bengali language usage following the creation of Jharkhand in 2000, but all our expectations were crushed. We feel that the situation was better during the united Bihar era prior to 2000,” general secretary of the association Sisir Kumar Roy said. “Despite being granted the second language status in 2015 in Jharkhand following our protracted battle, nothing has changed on ground as Bengali is not being used  either for administrative, judicial, or any other official work,” he added. Roy, who was also felicitated during the function along with others, further said as per the provisions of Right to Education Act, 2009 and New Education Policy, 2020, arrangements for teaching in Bengali as minority language must be ensured. Manas Acharya, who was also felicitated during the event, appraised regarding the difficulties that Bengali-speaking teachers and students face. Bengu Thakur, founder of the Bangla Bhasa Unnayan Samiti also raised questions regarding the government’s reluctance to promote the language.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia MLA shifted to Dumka jail from Dhanbad prison for security reasons||Jharia BJP MLA Sanjeev Singh, lodged in the Dhanbad Divisional jail in connection with a murder case since 2017, was moved to the Dumka prison on Sunday for security reasons. Singh, who was accused in connection with murder case of former deputy mayor Niraj Singh on March 21, 2017, was moved amid high security at 12:30 pm on Sunday. This sparked outrage among his wife Ragini Singh and his lawyer Md Javed, who termed it as misuse of power and position by jail authorities,  and threatened to petition before the court. “Sanjeev was shifted as part of a conspiracy after an overnight order by Jail IG Suman Gupta on a Sunday morning so that we can’t seek intervention from the court,” Javed told The Telegraph Online. Terming the move as an “abject misuse of power”, Javed said they will challenge the decision when the court reopens on Monday. “A raid was also conducted in Dhanbad jail on October 18, 2019 during which the senior officials of jail tortured Singh in jail and also intimated him. We had raised the issue before the court back then,” Javed further said. Notably, the decision comes a day after the lawyer had sought direction from the court to Ajay Kumar regarding the treatment of Sanjeev Singh and claimed that he was suffering from various diseases. According to sources, Aman Singh, a Mirzapur based shooter of Niraj Singh murder case, was also shifted to Hotwar Jail of Ranchi from the Dhanbad prison. The other four shooters of the former deputy mayor were also shifted during the last year, including Sagar alias Shibu, Qurban Ali alias Sonu, Satish Alias Chadan and Pankaj Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Target set for anti-filaria drive in Jharkhand||The state government has set a target of administering anti-filarial drugs to more than 71 lakh people free of cost across four districts in Jharkhand during a five-day mass drug administration (MDA) programme scheduled to begin on Monday. The government will run the programme in Sahebganj, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Ramgarh from February 22 to February 27, health minister Banna Gupta said on Sunday while inaugurating the MDA programme online. Urging people to take the drugs, Gupta said, “The success of the filaria eradication programme depends on our credibility among people and our way of working. The disease has to be eradicated, the patients have to be saved and the vision of healthy and prosperous Jharkhand has to be realized.” Children below the age of two, pregnant women and most seriously ill people irrespective of their age will not be administered the drugs during the programme, said Gupta, adding that no person should take the medicine in an empty stomach. Filariasis is caused by filarial worms and can trigger abnormal growth in the infected person. The abnormal swelling in legs caused by filariasis is commonly referred to as elephantiasis, said doctors. State programme officer, Vector Borne Diseases, Dr. S.N. Jha said that in this MDA programme, a target has been set by the state government to provide medicine to 71,04,911 people. He said that this filariasis infection in childhood causes damage to the lymphatic system, causing abnormal swelling in a person's body parts. People suffering from filariasis also have to suffer severe pain and social discrimination, which also affects their livelihood and ability to work. “In comparison to women and children, men are twice as likely to develop this infection. It is very important that all people should take anti-filarial medicines given free of cost by trained health workers once a year to protect themselves and their family from this infection,” he said. Gupta directed state health director Ravi Shankar Shukla to coordinate with  deputy commissioners of the four districts to ensure the success of the five-day MDA programme. In addition, he directed that all the patients infected with filariasis in the state should be enlisted so that their health could be closely monitored and their disease treated properly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
21-02-2021||Jharkhand|| Chamoli: 3 more bodies of Jharkhand workers recovered||Three more workers of Jharkhand have died in flood-ravaged Chamoli in Uttrakhand, officials confirmed on Sunday, taking the death toll among the 14 people reported missing to four. On February 7, a glacier-break in Chamoli’s Tapovan region triggered massive floods, destryoing a dam, an under-construction hydro power plant of the National Thermal Power Corporation, in addtion to many lives. So far, 62 are reported death while over 100 are still missing. Those missing from Jharkhand included, nine workers were from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh and one from Bokaro district—all of whom had gone to Tapovan at different times to work at the power plant site. On February 18, the state government confirmed the first death after body of 26-year-old migrant worker Vicky Bhagat was fished out of the debris during a rescue operation in Uttrakhand. On Sunday, officials announced recovery of three more bodies. Lohardaga’s labour superintendent Dhirendranath Mahto said, “Three more bodies were recovered from the debris by rescue teams on Sunday. They havwew been identified as Jyotish Bakhla and Sunil Bakhla of Lohardaga and one Amrit from Bokaro. The family members, who are currently in Chamoli, have identified the bodies.” Mahto is also in Chamoli to help family members of missing persons  and coordinate with the authorities of Uttrakhand government and NTPC for identification, transportation and paper work for compensation. Mahto conceded that most families have lost hope of finding survivors among those still missing. But efforts are on to trace their bodies so that the bereaved families can get due compensation. On whether bodies will be cremated in Chamoli or will be brought back to their native place, he said, “NTPC is making arrangements for sending the bodies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||UAPA being used as  political weapon by BJP, Hemant tells Harvard conclave||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren expressed serious concern over the increasing misuse of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act to slap sedition cases against rights bodies and activists as a part of political weaponisation by the incumbent BJP- led government in the Centre and maintained that even advocates of indigenous people have come under serious threat in the country. Hemant was delivering a keynote address on the second day of the 18th Annual India Conference at Harvard University on Saturday night via video-link on the topic of tribal rights, regional politics, social welfare policies and the mitigation of covid-19 pandemic in Jharkhand. The tribal chief minister spoke his mind for close to an hour during a Q & A session moderated by Harvard Kennedy School’s senior fellow Dr Suraj Yengde.    Citing the situation in Jharkhand, Hemant revealed he had seen from close quarters how the BJP government blatantly attempted to thwart voices of dissent during its regime in the state between 2014-19 under chief minister Raghubar Das when thousands of innocent tribals, many of whom were opposed to the government’s move to amend age-old land laws were slapped with sedition cases in the name of Pathalgadi. To a question about his views on UAPA and sedition cases used as a political weapon, Hemant said: "Sedition and UAPA acts are today being used as a weapon by BJP to fulfill its political agenda. They used it when we were in Oopposition in Jharkhand too. While they (BJP) couldn’t personally dent me in their endeavour but they succeeded in nullifying MLA-ship of many of our sitting legislators in the past on shoddy grounds..." “Much recently, BJP jailed 83- year- old Stan Swamy, a stalwart of tribal rights, by calling him an  anti-national. He is so old, he can’t even do his work on his own. But, he is in jail. Attempts are made to force people to see and believe only that which they (BJP) want to make one believe. This is today the biggest concern in the country,” he stressed, adding that the trend of winning polls through caste and communal lines is becoming increasingly dangerous. “Now that elections in Bengal are round the corner, we are already seeing a resurgence of communal and casteist spins there. Such tactics lead to an unhealthy situation where people will be forced to adopt extreme sides. As a result of which incidents like mob-lynching takes place. Jharkhand too saw its share of mob lynchings in the past,” he alleged. About the infamous Pathalgadi movement in Jharkhand between 2017-18, Hemant said it was sabotaged by a few "radicalized elements" with links in Gujarat. “Pathalgadi is an age old ritual of tribals where in they put stone plaques in their villages in memory of ancestors. However, a few radicalized and anti-social elements having links with Gujarat deliberately sabotaged it,” he said. for existence. "Tribals are without their own identity in the country," he said. “They aren’t even recognised in the national census. It is why we are demanding from the government of India to have a separate column for tribals to provide them a distinct identity in the 2021 Census. We also passed a resolution in the Aassembly and sent the proposal to the Centre,” he xplained. Asked if he believed tribals (Sarna followers) were Hindus, as claimed by many, Hemant rejected the idea vehemently. “It’s a ploy by the BJP. Let me make it very clear that tribals are not Hindus. They are nature worshippers and have different culture, customs and practices which are in no way related with Hindus,” he said, adding that adviasis were deliberately forced to live in oppression. “They are used as napkins. If tribals get educated, who will work as masons, workers and domestic helps for the affluent class? That mentality against adivasis among the developed class still exists today,” he rued. Asserting that the rights of tribals and marginalised are of prime importance to his government, Hemant spoke on how despite facing a funds crunch, his government walked the extra mile to bring scores of migrants back to Jharkhand during the Covid-19 induced lockdown via trains, buses and flights. “I was the first one to keep pursuing with the Union government to permit us to bring our stranded migrants back but weren’t allowed initially for long time till migrant mishaps on rail tracks, roads startled everyone. Soon after states were allowed to get their people, we were the first to host a shramik special train to Jharkhand, led in airlifting migrants from hard to reach areas and so on,” he said. On the post-lockdown roadmap for Jharkhand, Hemant said his government had formulated policies to bolster jobs, tourism, promote sports and all- round development of the state. “Unlike the Centre, which is not saying anything about jobs today, we have dedicated 2021 as the year of recruitments. Efforts are on at various levels to fill all vacant posts, create new avenues. So is our focus on the tourism sector to usher in development. For the first time ever, we came up with a holistic sports policy to promote grassroots sports. To provide global exposure to tribals, we have started scholarships for sending meritorious adivasis to foreign varsities,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||ASI team digs out large Buddha statue at Hazaribagh village||Archaeologists have found a large statue of Gautam Buddha at Bahronpur village in Sitagarha, around 20 kilometres away from the district headquarters, while excavating a ninth century Buddhist Shrine and monastery. Virendra Kumar Partha, archaeologist at the Archaeological Survey of India said that the team has found other artifacts such as pottery, walls, stairs and tools. “Efforts are being made to take out the Buddha statue safely. The face itself is 10-inches long so we hope it's a big sculpture,” he told The Telegraph Online on Sunday. Confirming the site as a major shrine, Partha said that the ASI team has also found a reclining Buddha statue. The ASI started working at the site after Buddhist monk Bhante Tiswarro revealed details about Bahronpur, widely considered to be a popular monastery during its time. Many residents in the area had found ancient idols in the area while constructing their houses, leading to the discovery of the place. The central agency has now established that Bahronpur was not only a shrine or a monastery, but a well-developed city of its time. The ASI had first started excavating the site in November 2019, but had to pause it for some months due to the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police identify decomposed body found in Adityapur as that of NIT student||Police on Sunday identified the body, which was lying inside a water tank in Adityapur on Saturday, as that of Raja Kumar (22), a third year student of Mechanical Engineering branch of NIT Jamshedpur. RIT Police Station OC Rajesh Kumar Bhokta said the body was identified from the I-card of the deceased. The resident of Gauspur block in Saharsa district of Bihar was missing from a hotel on Kalimati Road in Golmuri area of the city since February 14 night, and a missing person report was lodged by his father Roshan Kumar on February 19. Raja was supposed to appear in a terminal exam on February 14, but he did not go to the college and instead stayed in the hotel along with a friend. After he went missing from the hotel, his friend had immediately informed his parents, leading Roshan Kumar to lodge the missing person report. "Though the body was identified from the I-card of the deceased, we also summoned his parents to see the body, who confirmed it to be of Raja," Bhokta told The Telegraph Online. He added  they shifted the body to MGM Medical College for autopsy as he had already been registered with Golmuri Police Station in connection to this matter. Golmuri Police Station OC Arvind Kumar said they had lodged a case of abduction when Raja’s father had filed the complaint, and will proceed accordingly. "Let the autopsy report come. Then only we will determine whether it is a case of suicide or something else, " said Kumar while talking to this website. According to sources of Raja's family and friend circle, the deceased's mental condition was not well and was very nervous when he came to Jamshedpur for his examination a week ago. His body was recovered by a 25- memberteam of the NDRF late on Saturday night, after hours-long operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police nab Varanasi's wanted criminal from Ranchi||A wanted criminal from Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh identified as Ravi Patel, in his late 30s, has been arrested from a rented accommodation in Ranchi under Khelgaon police station area, police announced on Saturday. Police have also arrested the landlord of the house in Khelagon identified as Deo Kumar alias Pappu and seized two pistols and couple of rounds of live cartridges from their possession. Confirming the developments, city SP Saurabh told reporters at a press conference in the evening that the crackdown was done based on a specific tip-off about a wanted criminal living under disguise in Ranchi. “The criminal has been identified as Ravi Patel hailing from Varanasi. After getting the information, we formed a quick response team (QRT) to trace the criminal. The team carried out raids on the intervening night of February 18 and 19 to successfully nab him,” he said, adding that police first seized a pistol from him. Later on, police zeroed in on Deo Kumar and held him while recovering another pistol. Police sources said that Ravi is accused in over a dozen cases of arson, violence and murder crimes in UP. In Dhanbad too, he is facing a murder case registered at Bank More police station. “In Dhanbad, he along with his associated had killed a cloth trader over a year back near Bank More,” said another official, adding that the accused has confessed about some of the killings committed by him during interrogation. “He was staying here to plan some crime. We will inform our counterparts in UP too so that they can proceed with other legal formalities to further investigations of the cases lodged against him there,” said the official. The crackdown once again exposes how tenant verification is seldom followed while renting out houses to occupants even though the city police in the past appealed people in this regard on several occasions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Ten members of a family found Covid positive in Jamshedpur||Ten members of a Sakchi-based businessman's family were found Covid-19 positive triggering a panic in the commercial centre on Saturday. The district health department acted soon after the test reports arrived. Confirming this district surveillance officer Sahir Pal said, " We have sealed the shop-cum- house of the businessman who runs a general store inside the Sakchi market. The area has been turned into a containment zone. " He went on to say that an 80-year-old male member of that businessman's family had died a couple of days back at the Tata Main Hospital. "The elderly male member was having comorbid conditions and had tested Covid -19. He was suffering from kidney and lungs related ailments," he said. According to Pal, the family has 19 members staying in the same building. "Samples were taken for all the 19 members of which 10 tested Covid-19 positive, " said Pal adding that they have also started contact tracing. Health department sources said an ambulance was hired on Saturday evening to shift five male members to the isolation ward of MGM Medical College and Hospital while the rest five were quarantined at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Appeal against budget food funds cuts to CM Hemant Soren ||A joint delegation of the Right to Food Campaign and Phia (Partnering Hope Into Action) Foundation, a charity, on Saturday met Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and requested against any cuts on food and social security schemes in the budget. The delegation, which comprised economist Jean Dreze, former vice-chancellor of Vinobha Bhave University, Ramesh Sharan, Asarfi Nand, state convener of Right to Food Campaign, and state head of Phia Foundation, Johnson Topno, felt that there are legal provisions on selection of schemes and projects at the gram sabha level. “The government should make budgetary allocation for activities conducted at the gram sabha level along with budgetary provision for establishment of single-window system at block level for social security schemes,” said Nand. The delegation said there should be not be any reduction in the budgetary allocation for food and social security schemes and also voiced its support for increasing the state government’s share in the pension schemes and make the process of applications simple. “We also suggested that lentil and edible oils should be added to the list of items available through the PDS shops,” said Nand. The delegation also demanded to make the State Finance Commission, which is a constitutional body, more active. The other demands included introduction of a regenerative farming policy in the state, constitution of a state-level advisory body for proper coordination between government and civil society organisations to give impetus to execution of welfare projects. The budget is scheduled to be tabled on March 3 in the state Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Congress organises big farm law protest rally in Hazaribagh ||The state unit of the Congress organised a massive rally in Hazaribagh on Saturday, its second after one in Santhal Pargana recently, for expressing solidarity with the agitating farmers and demanding withdrawal of the three farm laws that they described as “anti-farmer”. A large number of party supporters and farmers, estimated to be around 20 thousand, gathered from various districts at the local Motwari Gandhi Maidan where the farmers’ rally was held. Responding to the appeals of the Congress state unit president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon and state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, the party supporters and farmers led by the MLAs of their respective areas, reached Hazaribagh with tractors and even bullock carts in large numbers. R.P.N. Singh, the Congress leader in charge of the party’s state unit, also reached Hazaribagh to address the rally. “These laws have invited criticism from across the world, exposing BJP that has surrendered itself to the corporate friends of its leaders,” Singh told at Ranchi airport before leaving for Hazaribagh. Besides Oraon and Patralekh, ministers Alamgir Alam and Banna Gupta also attended the rally as did Rajya Sabha MP Dheeraj Sahoo, MP Geeta Koda and a host of other MLAs. “These farm laws have pushed the farmers into immense troubles as they would now be at the mercy of corporate houses and have to cultivate whatever they will be asked to do,” minister Oraon told, reminding the days when farmers were forced to plant indigo against their will during the British rule. “We have organised these protests upholding the tradition of the Congress that has always sided with the farmers and looked into their interests,” Oraon told The Telegraph from Hazaribagh, adding the party had been supporting the farmers the same way Gandhiji did in Champaran a century ago. “The Congress, when in power at the Centre, had always fixed minimum support price so that the farmers were never deprived,” he further said, adding they had also waived their loans as they did the same in Jharkhand recently. “Today’s massive gathering is the proof of how aggrieved the farmers are,” said Congress state spokesperson Alok Dubey, referring to the huge gathering. “This is really an impressive gathering that Hazaribagh didn’t see in recent time,” agreed a scribe who was there for reporting the event for a national daily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
