22-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta HC stays WBBPE notification appointing 15,284 candidates as teachers||The Calcutta High Court on Monday stayed a notification of the West Bengal Board of Primary Education (WBBPE) appointing 15,284 candidates as teachers. Passing the interim stay on the notification of February 15, Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj directed the state government and the board to file their affidavits in opposition within five weeks and asked the petitioner to file reply, if any, within another three weeks after that. The court directed that the matter would appear for hearing again in the month of May. The court noted that out of 16,500 posts that were vacant, only 15,284 vacancies have been filled up by the board. Justice Bharadwaj observed that the rules lay down the procedure of selection and specifically speaks of consideration of all eligible candidates for earmarked vacancies. The court ordered a stay on the notification as, prima facie, all eligible candidates have not been considered. Petitioner’s lawyer Bikash Bhattacharya submitted that no merit list was published by the board, but the notification issued by the board on February 15, 2021, informs about the appointment of 15,284 candidates out of a vacancy of 16,500 posts. He submitted that the notification was not in accordance with the rules prescribed under West Bengal Primary School Teachers Recruitment Rules 2016 and as such is bad in law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
22-02-2021||Calcutta||School students tired after writing two to three hours on-campus tests||Students have been putting their heads down and looking tired after writing two or three hours at a stretch, teachers of several schools where on-campus exams are being held said. Constant wearing of masks is only adding to the children’s woes and some have requested teachers to allow them to take off the face cover. Students have lost the habit of writing for two to three hours at a stretch, especially in a “formal atmosphere”. Ever since the campuses shut down last March as a precaution against Covid and schools switched to online classes and exams on digital platforms, students had been writing shorter papers. “There is a stress of writing exams in school. With it is the uneasiness of wearing a mask. Some of them are asking teachers if they could lower the mask,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. Teachers are noticing a change in the body language of students who are unable to “sit straight” or are being “fidgety”, teachers said. Several schools have started the pre-board exams for Classes X and XII on campus. At many others, the exams are scheduled for next week or March. The government allowed schools to reopen from February 12 for the students of Classes IX to XII. “Tiredness and lack of confidence are visible in their postures as they are putting their heads down while writing the papers. We want them to develop the confidence of being able to sit through an exam and know where they stand before the board exams. These rehearsals are not about marks or how much they score,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, the principal of Loreto Convent, Entally. For the students, however, academic apprehensions remain as many of them are asking teachers whether failing in one exam would mean they would not be allowed to write the boards or their “poor performance” in the finals would affect their overall marks. Psychologists feel it is only natural for students to be tense and that can have behavioral manifestations. “After a gap of 11 months students have come into a space where a ‘norm’ is expected and they have to be given time and space…. Exams are in any case anxiety-provoking... now more so as they have not sat at one place for so long,” said psychotherpist Farishta Dastur Mukerji. The heads of several schools said they were allowing students to go out and lower their mask for a couple of minutes. “We don’t allow them to do that in the examination hall. But teachers have been asked to let them go out, lower their masks for a couple of minutes and then come back,” said Richard Gasper, the principal of St Augustine’s Day School. The exhaustion is apparent even outside the examination hall, some teacher said. “When they are coming out after writing a paper, they are much quieter than before. Unlike what they would do before, they are not discussing the paper,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Psychiatrists said students would have to gradually wake up to the fact that they would have to go back to school. “There is an apprehension because some students had taken going back to school rather lightly as if it is not going to happen, but now they will have to gradually get used to it,” said psychiatrist Jai Ranjan Ram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
22-02-2021||Calcutta||Presidency University announces schedule for distribution of grade cards in staggered way||Presidency University has announced the schedule for the distribution of undergraduate and postgraduate final-year grade cards in a staggered way because of the Covid pandemic, said a university official. In previous years the university held the convocation - where degree certificates are handed out - following the distribution of grade cards. This year the convocation will not be held because of the pandemic. A notice issued by the secretary of the faculty council says the grade cards will be distributed from Derozio hall from February 25. The campus has remained closed since last March. As part of the staggered distribution process, each department has been given a specific date. “Even within a department, separate timings have been allotted for undergraduate and postgraduate wings to minimise chances of crowding,” said an university official. The distribution of grade cards will start with the Bengali department, which has been assigned February 25. Postgraduate and PhD students have been asked to turn up between 11.30am and 1.30pm and undergraduate students from 2pm to 4pm. The distribution will go on till March 10. The notice says that if any student fails to collect the grade card on the scheduled day, he or she may collect it on March 15. A Presidency official said Derozio Hall had been chosen as the distribution venue because it is spacious and physical distancing norms could be maintained. The students have been asked to produce documents like original ID card, original registration certificate, clearances from the respective department heads and the dean of students (for hostel clearance only). “Those who wanted digitised copies of grade cards have already received them,” said vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia. When asked when the convocation could be held, she said: “It cannot be held at this moment because of the pandemic. We cannot risk anyone’s health.” This will be the second time in two years that Presidency will not hold its convocation. Last year, the university had not held the convocation and had distributed digital degree certificates amid the buzz that the authorities were reluctant to organise the event to spare itself the trouble of inviting the chancellor — governor Jagdeep Dhankhar — to the programme. The governor had last year faced students’ protests on several campuses, mostly because of his comments in support of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the proposed National Register of Citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
22-02-2021||Calcutta||BJP leader case: Cops search salon in New Town||Arrested BJP leader Pamela Goswami was escorted by a team of police officers on Sunday to a salon in New Town that she had apparently taken on rent to find more about her alleged drug deals. Police sources said Pamela would meet her clients in the salon, located on the third floor of a mall, and strike deals on sale of banned drugs. “We have learnt during investigation that Goswami had a number of clients, who would meet her in the New Town salon. Hence, it is important for us to visit the place and gather whatever evidence is available,” said a police officer. Goswami, a secretary of the BJP Yuva Morcha, was arrested on Friday on the charge of carrying a white powdery substance that the police suspect was cocaine. The police had intercepted her car on NR Avenue in New Alipore on Friday afternoon and allegedly seized 90 gram of suspected cocaine, worth around Rs 10 lakh in the grey market, from her handbag and the front seat of the car in which she, her friend Prabir Kumar Dey and guard Somnath Chatterjee were travelling. Dey and Chatterjee were arrested along with Goswami. The police team that visited the 1,300 square foot salon in New Town seized hard discs of CCTV footage of those who used to visit her. The sleuths had tried to enter the salon on Saturday, too, but could not because the keys were not found. Goswami has alleged that her arrest was the result of a police conspiracy and raised the question why a fourth person in the car, who is “absconding”, was not arrested. “(BJP leader) Rakesh Singh is behind this and it appears that a section of police officers is involved in a got-up case,” Goswami had said on Saturday evening during the trip to New Town. “There was another person in the car, who is absconding. Why wasn’t he arrested?” Singh, first named by Goswami when she was produced in a court on Saturday afternoon, has said that he has not been in contact with her for the last few years. Senior officers from New Alipore police station said the entire event of intercepting the car and the arrest of the three had been captured on camera and there was no scope of any slip-ups. “These are baseless allegations. We are now trying to find out if some more persons are involved in these drug dealings and whether they are from other states,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
22-02-2021||Calcutta||Touch and feel back at weekend auto carnival after Covid gap||Curtains fell on The Telegraph Weekend Auto Carnival after a weekend of test drives, deals, bargains and bookings. Cretas, Magnites, Sonets, Kigers, Venues were the top picks. Followed by the i20s, Polos, Glanzas, said organisers. Potential buyers, who had already done their market surveys online, visited the carnival at City Centre in Salt Lake to check and compare their selected models. Dealers, who had thus far avoided on-ground activity found the carnival useful to get back in touch, literally, with their customers. “It is actually nice to have faces for the enquiries. So long everything was online,” said a Hyundai representative, who had a booking for Creta at the carnival right at the onset. There were quite a few enquiries for the seven-seater Carnival that was parked right in front of the Kund. “People are checking out the Carnival. A lot of them are collecting the specs sheet. But hot enquiries are for Sonet,” said a Kia salesperson, who confirmed a couple of bookings for Sonet. A similar tale for Nissan. Magnite is stealing the show with its Rs 5.49 lakh price tag. People sat on the back seat and checked out the dashboard of Kicks, the bigger SUV. It is the B-segment SUV that is the rage. Giving Magnite competition is Renault Kiger. The newly launched compact SUV has a price tag starting from Rs 5.45 lakh. “The compact SUV styling has caught on. It is affordable, has a road presence and is good for city rides,” said a Renault salesperson. MG, which showcased the electric ZS, got enquiries and booking for Hector. Towards the evening all action seemed to be at the centre of the Kund. Checking out the Polo GTI was Aniruddh Deshpande. “I am all for German engineering and Volkswagen has been my favourite brand,” said the architect from Salt Lake. He had also checked out Carnival. “I need to buy a car but I am yet to decide which one,” he said. The Tiguan Allspace was an eye-catcher. A premium vehicle, visitors checked out its interiors with interest, some even opted for photos. The time-tested Glanza brought on a good number of queries as did i20. These premium hatches are on the top of the list of buyers wanting personal mobility. “We had people booking test drives, we also gave a few test drives during the weekend,” said a Toyota representative. However, through the three days, the BMW Motorrad bikes and the Vespa, Aprilia had youngsters milling around them, asking the price, wanting the specs sheet, taking selfies. “I came to see the Motorrad bikes,” said Vishal Jain, who was taking a selfie with the 310R. It was this see-touch-feel that the BMW Motorrad salesmen wanted. “We want Calcuttans to see the bikes and this was a lovely platform,” said a sales representative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
22-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation to open five more Covid-19 vaccination sites on Monday||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has decided to open five more Covid-19 vaccination sites on Monday to try and speed up inoculation of frontline and health-care workers, officials said on Sunday. The state health department has set February 25 as the last date for all health-care workers to get the first dose of a Covid vaccine. With the opening of five more sites, the number of Covid vaccination centres run by the CMC will go up to 80. Metro reported on Saturday that chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had asked officials of the health department to increase the number of vaccination sites so more health-care and frontline workers could be given the jabs daily. Only health-care and frontline workers are eligible for Covid jabs in the ongoing Phase I of the vaccination campaign. One of the five new sites will be set up at the civic headquarters on SN Banerjee Road and another in the CMC clinic of ward 72 in Bhowanipore. CMC sources said a large number of employees at the civic headquarters need to be vaccinated. “We held an interaction with health-care and frontline workers of borough 8 on Saturday and explained to them some basic facts about Covid vaccines. We told them that they will remain under observation for 30 minutes after taking the shot. A doctor will be present to attend to them (if they suffer from any adverse effect). We are hoping many will turn up to get the doses,” said Sandip Ranjan Bakshi, the coordinator of the borough. Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services, said on Sunday about 75 per cent of the 6.8 lakh registered health-care workers in Bengal had received their first dose. “We are expecting that it will go up to 80 per cent by February 25.” An official of the CMC said they were planning to open two more sites in each of the 16 boroughs in Calcutta soon. “We were running 17 sites in the 16 boroughs till Saturday. From Monday there will be 22 sites, but we want to have two sites in each borough,” said an official. The CMC has over 3,000 health-care workers registered for Covid vaccines. Around 35,000 frontline workers of the civic body are registered for the jabs. Sources said a large number of frontline workers are yet to be vaccinated. The Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines of the Centre has listed the municipal workers who are eligible to receive jabs as frontline workers. They include waste collectors, sweepers, waste management plant operators, engineers, revenue and other department staff and cremation ground staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
22-02-2021||Calcutta||Jesuit priests, former students gather on St Xavier’s campus to pay tributes to language martyrs||A group of Jesuit priests and former students gathered on the St Xavier’s College campus on Sunday to pay tributes to the martyrs of the Language Revolution Day (Bhasha Andolan Dibas). On February 21, 1952, students were killed in Dhaka (then part of East Pakistan, which is now Bangladesh) in police action launched to suppress the movement that demanded recognition of the Bengali language. The day is now celebrated as the International Mother Language Day. On Sunday morning, floral tributes were paid at the erected martyrs’ column on the college campus on Park Street. The column was designed in the style of the original one at Dhaka University. A minute’s silence was observed in memory of those who had laid down their lives on this day in Dhaka in 1952. “It is a Jesuit principle to respect and also to create opportunities for different mother languages of people spread across the world,” said Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college. “St. Xavier’s College has a rich tradition of respecting the mother languages. The college is now offering MA in Bengali on its rural campus in Raghabpur in South 24-Parganas and Bengali honours on both the campuses. There is also ample opportunity at St Xavier’s College for flourishing literary talent of the students of all streams in their respective mother languages,” he said. The celebrations at St Xavier’s College were muted this year because of the pandemic. Missing was the usual procession of students, staff and alumni, taken out every year to mark this day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
22-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcuttans decode Mars atmosphere loss||Indian scientists exploring how wind from the Sun might influence a planet’s habitability have shown that Mars suffered a catastrophic loss of most of its atmosphere after its internal dynamo and magnetism shut down. Their landmark study has illustrated how the steady blast of solar wind — a supersonic stream of electrons and protons — stripped Mars of its atmosphere after the planet's magnetic field shut down early during its geological history. The study by two researchers at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Calcutta, is the first to probe using computer simulations how solar wind will interact with a Mars-like planet with and without a magnetic field. Astronomers have suspected for years that Mars once had a magnetic field activated by mechanisms similar to those still active on Earth -- heat-driven convection of magnetic materials such as nickel and iron deep in the planet’s interior. Using spacecraft to detect residual signatures of ancient magnetism, groups of scientists in the US and Canada have estimated that Mars lost its magnetic field between 3.9 and 3.6 billion years ago through mechanisms still are under debate. A planet’s magnetic field serves as a protective shield that curbs the impact of solar wind. The IISER study has shown how solar wind stream have quickly eroded the Martian atmosphere after the planet lost its magnetic field. The study has been accepted for publication in the Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society. “Our simulations suggest a Mars-like planet can quickly lose its atmosphere — the precise numbers of months or years over which that happens aren’t important, they  depend on the assumptions about the atmosphere and solar wind,” said Dibyendu Nandi, associate professor at IISER who led the study. “But these simulations provide insights into the beautiful physics of the process,” Nandi said. The study by Nandi and Arnab Basak, a post-doctoral scientist, both at the Centre for Excellence in Space Sciences at IISER, Calcutta, provides fresh insights into the geological history of Mars at a time three new spacecraft are set to explore the panet. China’s Tianwen-1 spacecraft is already in orbit preparing to deploy its lander. The United Arab Emirates’ Hope spacecraft is also in orbit, while America’s Perseverance spacecraft landed on the Martian surface on Thursday. The IISER duo’s 3D simulations of the interaction of the solar wind and a Mars-sized planet suggest that the solar wind would abruptly slow down at a distance of about 1.5 times the radius of the planet. This is close to the estimates of 1.45 to 1.58 through observations by earlier US spacecraft such as Phobos and Mars Global Surveyor, Basak said. Scientists believe planetary atmospheres influence the habitability of planets and many of the ongoing and planned future studies of exoplanets — planets orbiting other stars — are trying to determine the composition of the exoplanet atmospheres. Nandi presented the study’s findings at a meeting of the Astronomical Society of India on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
22-02-2021||Calcutta||Surgery: Elephant trunk-shaped graft inserted in Manipur man's chest||An elephant trunk-shaped graft was inserted in the chest of a 47-year-old man from Manipur at a city hospital to replace a leaked pipe that provides oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the body. The 15-hour surgery was among the first of its kind in eastern India, said doctors. The patient was suffering from what doctors call aortic dissection. In layperson’s terms, it is a condition marked by a split in the aorta, the large artery that carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body. The force of blood pumping can split the layers of the artery wall, allowing blood to leak in between them. This process is called dissection. “The condition can be fatal and warrants immediate treatment,” said Atanu Saha, a cardiac surgeon at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. On February 2, the patient from Manipur underwent the open-heart surgery, done by a team led by Saha. “His chest was opened. We had to lower his body temperature to stop the circulation of blood to other parts of the body except the brain, which continued to receive blood. The graft was then deployed inside the descending aorta and drawn out through the open end, shaped like an elephant trunk,” said Saha. “The other end of the graft was sutured to the remaining portion of the ascending aorta. It was further used to reconstruct the vessels that branch out to the head and neck,” the doctor added. “The procedure is called frozen trunk because the stent-graft is reinforced with pliable metal which, when inflated, takes the shape of the aortic tube.”. An official of the hospital said: “Given the complexity and the duration of the surgery, post-operative recovery of the patient was uneventful and he was subsequently discharged on the eighth day.” The patient had no post-operative complications and was leading a normal life, he said. After discharge, the usual recovery time is around a month, said Saha. The advantage of the frozen trunk technique is that it reduces chances of further surgical re-intervention, thereby reducing mortality risk, doctors said. “Earlier, we could replace one of the aortas and the arch at one go. But the downward aorta was not accessible. It remained faulty because another surgery involved a big risk and cost implications,” said Saha. The frozen trunk technique is costly since the graft is imported, said an official of the hospital. “A frozen trunk surgery could cost upwards of Rs 12 lakh,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
22-02-2021||Business||Sensex crashes 1,145 points to finish below 50,000||Extending its losses for the fifth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex plummeted 1,145 points on Monday, tracking heavy losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC and TCS amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 1,145.44 points or 2.25 per cent lower at 49,744.32. The broader NSE Nifty sank 306.05 points or 2.04 per cent to finish at 14,675.70. Dr Reddy's was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 5 per cent, followed by M&M, Tech Mahindra, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank and TCS. On the other hand, ONGC, HDFC Bank and Kotak Bank were the gainers. "India markets opened on a flattish note tracking mixed Asian market peers with China trading in losses as PBoC kept interest rates unchanged while Japan was trading with marginal gains," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. During the afternoon session, markets started to drift lower and traded in red as amid fresh concerns over the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases contributed to the fears that the economic impact will be much larger than earlier estimates, he noted. "Also, the major western markets failed to provide any support as it opened to trade in red with equity investors growing concern about rising bond yields in recent weeks which could hurt high-growth companies reliant on easy borrowing," Solanki added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a negative note, while Tokyo traded with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.66 per cent higher at USD 62.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
22-02-2021||Business||Sensex falls over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 200 points in opening trade on Monday tracking losses in index majors HDFC, ITC and L&T amid tepid cues from global markets. After dropping to 50,685.42, the 30-share BSE index pared most losses to trade 65.13 points or 0.13 per cent lower at 50,824.63. After a similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 8.40 points or 0.06 per cent down at 14,973.35. L&T was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by M&M, Dr Reddy's, Maruti, HDFC, TCS and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, ONGC, HDFC Bank, Tech Mahindra and Infosys were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 434.93 points or 0.85 per cent lower at 50,889.76, and Nifty gave up the 15,000 level, dropping 137.20 points or 0.91 per cent to 14,981.75. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 118.75 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. "As the last week of trading in February begins, there are some negative signals and news. The rise in the US 10-year bond yield to 1.36 per cent reflects the markets' concern about a potential rise in inflation, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Back home, the escalation in COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra is emerging as a cause of concern, he said, adding that these concerns have impacted FPI flows to the market which, though positive, appears to be slowing down. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.06 per cent higher at USD 62.80 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
22-02-2021||Business||No guilt in gilt: retail participants in the G-Sec market||The Reserve Bank of India’s latest credit policy has addressed an issue that has nearly escaped the attention of the investing public, while more pressing matters like interest rates and inflation — to borrow words from Dale Carnegie’s acclaimed tome — have won friends and influenced people. Let’s embellish that introductory paragraph with an easy explanation: the central bank has allowed retail investors to open accounts for government securities. That indeed seems simple; however, it may well have a profound impact on the manner in which G-Secs (if you desire a smarter and more popular term, try ‘gilts’) are held and traded by the retail populace. The most recent initiative is a step-forward for the authorities, which have in the past tried a raft of measures to spur retail investments in gilts. Granting non-competitive bidding in primary auctions, allowing bourses to route primary purchases and permitting a distinct retail window in the secondary market have been attempted earlier. In keeping with these measures, it has now proposed to give retail participants specific access to the gilts market, both primary and secondary. The proposed window, billed “Retail Direct”, is expected to create a wider investor base in so far as gilts are concerned. It will also help complete the broad loop — the Indian government’s borrowing programme for fiscal year 2022. The details of the window will be issued separately, the banking regulator has stated. G-Sec reforms As discerning investors will appreciate, the nation’s debt market has seen considerable reforms in recent years. Controls on prices of assets, for example, are no longer the kind of barriers that they were. Liquidity has improved, new players have emerged, and transparency issues have been addressed, thanks to improvements in trading systems. There has been significant product innovation too, a trend buttressed by quicker dissemination of market-related information. In this connection, here are a few points for investors: The debt market has three prime constituents — G-Secs, PSU bonds and corporate securities. It is also marked by other forms of securities, including commercial paper, certificate of deposits, debentures and so on. There is considerable variety in terms of tenure, credit rating and, most certainly, rates of interest. Gilts as a group of securities occupy a unique position, their role in the debt market is absolutely vital for the nation’s economy. That also helps in ascertaining the benchmark for working out the level of interest rates; this represents the so-called “risk-free return” available in the country. The gilts market has been fortified over the years with the emergence of screen-based trading mechanism, dematerialisation of holdings, introduction of a well-organised clearing corporation and so on. The interested parties here include primary dealers, commercial banks, insurance companies, pension funds and mutual funds. Retail, please note Ordinary investors need to remember a few things before they begin to focus on gilts: Choice: Retail participants need to choose carefully from the fair number of options that are available in keeping with their exact needs. Options may include dated government securities which are typically long-term in nature, issued at face value. The coupon (that is, interest rate) is set at the time of their issuance. The constant rate of interest and fixed tenure are built-in features of such instruments. Availability: Gilts are available in the secondary market once they are issued. One may purchase them from primary dealers, several of whom conduct business in the G-Secs space. The interface between such primary dealers and their retail customers must be done in a completely transparent manner. Liquidity: This is a key issue for those who wish to exit earlier than the date of maturity. An instrument that can be easily traded (sold to a buyer at a market-determined price in a well-governed environment) is generally said to be liquid — whether there is abundant liquidity or not will be a differentiating factor for investors. Risk: The unparalleled power of the government is at play here. Gilts, thanks to their sovereign status, are considered free of credit risk. Investors, given their no-default perception, can freely direct their surplus towards this specific market. New instruments It may be mentioned here in this context that ‘zero coupon bonds' (ZCB) are also in the limelight at this juncture, thanks to the latest Union Budget. These are bonds that are issued at a discount to face value, carry a fixed tenure but bear no coupon. In the most typical case, the difference between the ZCB’s issue price (at discount) and the value is the return on this instrument. These securities may add to a diverse fare, including bonds with put and call options, capital indexed securities and so on. The possibility of holding these in a dematerialised form will make the deal even more attractive for the end-user. Investors must further assess whether it is better for them to indulge in the gilts market with the help of mutual funds. A number of gilt funds are available today, courtesy asset management companies that offer them to their unit holders. New investors can allocate small amounts every month or as regularly as possible to build their positions in the gilts arena. Mutual funds pack a certain kind of advantages - convenient entry and exit at ruling NAV (net asset value) being one of them - and those who are not keen on the direct approach can easily resort to funds. The latter also provide instant diversification, which (like assured liquidity) is certainly one of the most compelling factors working in their favour. The writer is director of Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
22-02-2021||Business||Honda waits for college start to revive scooter segment||Honda Motorcycles and Scooters India (HMSI) is waiting for colleges and universities to reopen to revive the automatic scooter segment. While the revival in two-wheelers has been led by the rural economy, particularly entry-level motorcycles, this has been at the cost of automatic scooters. “In the beginning of the unlock in May 2020, the urban economy had been heavily impacted but Covid cases in rural areas was low and the economy was active. Besides, there was a good monsoon and a good crop. So, in the overall two-wheeler market, the maximum consumption was of entry-level motorcycles, which grew at the cost of automatic scooters which has a largely urban market,” HMSI sales and marketing director Yadvinder Singh Guleria told The Telegraph on the heels of the launch of another model in the CB brand, namely the CB 350RS. Guleria, however, added that in the last couple of months, demand is coming back in the urban areas. “As people avoid public transport and personal mobility sees a surge, this is helping us to revive the demand in two-wheelers,” said Guleria. Honda, which has over 50 per cent market share in scooters, is waiting for the education sector to open up with physical classes so that demand for scooters, an essentially urban vehicle, sees a revival. “There is a lot of demand for 125cc scooters after the ABS (anti-lock braking system) regulation became mandatory for 150cc and above scooters, making them more expensive,” said Guleria. Depending on the regions where scooter sales are strong, HMSI is witnessing a demand revival. “The western region has bounced back extremely well, the southern market has been positive. But sales in Uttar Pradesh have been sluggish, so also in Rajasthan. Gujarat has not recovered but Punjab has done well,” said Guleria, giving a region-by-region recovery map even as news of fresh lockdowns from Maharashtra trickled in. While the company waits for the urban economy to be in full gear, it continues its foray in the middle-weight category of motorcycles which used to be the most promising segment. However, the segment has been down for three to four years but the company believes it is a still promising market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||Business||Jet Air buyer seeks early NCLT approval||Jalan Kalrock Consortium, the winning bidder for Jet Airways, expects to restart operations of the defunct airline in four to six months after receiving approval from the NCLT for its resolution plan. Jet Airways, the once-storied full-service carrier, was grounded in early 2019 and  is undergoing proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). Against the backdrop of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT)  taking a final call on the resolution plan for the airline, the winning consortium’s lead member Murari Lala Jalan said “everything is on track”as far as the revival efforts for the carrier are concerned. Stressing that he is very positive about the Indian aviation sector, which is recovering from the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, Jalan said that initially Jet Airways will resume flying with around 25 aircraft. “After NCLT decision, we will be able to start the airline within four to six months. I am very positive about Indian aviation and the future is bright,” Jalan said during a telephonic interaction. “We are very hopeful that it (NCLT nod) will come,” he said, adding that a delay of one or two months here and there would not make a difference to such a big thing as reviving the airline. In October last year, the consortium comprising UK-based Kalrock Capital and Jalan, a UAE-based entrepreneur, emerged as the winning bidder for Jet Airways, which has not flown since April 17, 2019. According to Jalan, the airline is likely to resume services with roughly 25 planes as per the revival plan submitted to the committee of creditors (CoC) within this year. The fleet is expected to be a mix of narrow-body and wide-body planes. “We will start with passenger services. All options, either it is cargo, or international (services) or anything, are open,” Jalan said. Creditor approval The CoC led by State Bank of India (SBI) has approved the resolution plan and under the IBC, the clearance of the NCLT is required before implementing the plan. Noting that for resuming overseas services, a lot of things needed to be worked out, Jalan made it clear that while there will be hundreds of things, including getting a lot of permissions, the consortium’s “interest is to come (bring Jet Airways) to the sky”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||Business||Proposal to sell 50% of captive coal||The Centre plans to permit the sale of 50 per cent of coal/lignite produced by captive blocks, a move aimed at augmenting production and increasing the availability of the dry fuel. The Narendra Modi-government plans to do so through the incorporation of a provision in the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (MMDR). “In the note for consultation of the ministry of mines, it is proposed to incorporate a provision in the Act to allow the sale of 50 per cent of the coal/lignite produced by captive mines on an annual basis. Further, an additional amount will be charged on the merchant sales of coal/lignite by the captive miners,” the coal ministry said in a brief note. The ministry said that it has invited comments from the state governments of coal-bearing states and stakeholders/general public on the said proposals. “The ministry of mines has also sought the comments of the ministry of coal on the said draft proposal. Some of the draft proposals are applicable in the case of coal/lignite also... Before sending the final comments, it is considered appropriate to seek the comments of the state governments of coal bearing states,” the coal ministry said. Import jumps In India, the import of coal is increasing year-on-year. In 2015-16, the country imported 203.95 million tonnes (mt) of coal which increased to 248.54mt in 2019-20 and consequent spending of around Rs 1.58 lakh crore in foreign exchange.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||Business||Resumption of operations at Donimalai mine may end crisis||Resumption of mining operations at the Donimalai mine will improve iron ore supply in the country and help to ease prices of the key steel making raw material, experts say. Mining at NMDC’s 7-million-tonne-per-annum (mtpa) Donimalai mine in Karnataka resumed from Thursday. After remaining closed for over two years, the country’s largest iron ore miner was able to resume operations following the necessary permission and clearances from the Karnataka government. Arnab Hazra, deputy secretary-general of the Indian Steel Association (ISA), the country’s apex body that represents the interest of domestic steel industry, said Donimalai is an important mine in the southern region. It will help the mills in southern India with smooth supply of raw material. Anil Kumar Chaudhary, former CMD of SAIL, said, “It has been possible by the efforts taken by the steel ministry to resolve the issue.” Resumption of mine will also help enhance NMDC in meeting its production targets for the current fiscal. “This resumption of mining (at Donimalai) will increase supply of iron ore for steel making. Increased supply will lead to easing of prices of the raw material,” R. K. Sharma, secretary-general of miners’ body, the Federation of Indian Mineral Industries (FIMI), told PTI. Iron ore is a key raw material used to produce steel, besides coking coal. To produce every 1 million tonne (mt) of steel, almost double the amount of iron ore is required. NMDC former chairman and managing director N. Baijendra Kumar said another 7mt of iron ore will be back into the supply chain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||Business||Cairn Energy upbeat on resolution||After three days of talks with top finance ministry officials, UK’s Cairn Energy plc on Sunday said it was hopeful of reaching an amicable resolution on the $1.4 billion that an arbitration award has ordered India to return, but insisted it will continue to take steps to protect shareholder interest. Cairn CEO Simon Thomson held discussions with finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey and over half a dozen other senior officials, including the CBDT chairman, between February 18 and 20 in an attempt to find a resolution to the issue without having to resort to the extreme step of seizing Indian assets overseas to recover the money the firm has been awarded. “We have had cordial and constructive discussions in Delhi over the last few days with officials from the ministry of finance. Notwithstanding and without prejudice to our rights under the international arbitration award, we have discussed a number of proposals with the aim of finding a swift resolution that could be mutually acceptable to the Government of India and the interests of Cairn’s shareholders,” the firm said in a statement. Cairn, which gave the nation its biggest onland oil discovery, promised to return to India if the issue that arose after the income tax department in 2014 seized its assets after slapping a Rs 10,247-crore tax demand, was resolved. Sources privy to the Indian government thinking have indicated that New Delhi will challenge the arbitration award as taxation is a sovereign right but this did not figure during the three days of talks. The tone of the finance ministry officials was more reconciliatory realising the limited options they have. “We remain hopeful that an acceptable solution can be found, in order to avoid further prolonging and exacerbating this negative issue for all parties,” Cairn said.  “However, we have also been clear that we must continue to take all the necessary steps to protect the interests of our shareholders.” Cairn in a letter to the Indian government last month indicated it could seize overseas assets such as bank accounts, payments to state-owned entities, airplanes and ships if New Delhi fails to comply with the arbitration award and return the value of the shares sold, dividend seized and tax refund withheld by the income tax department to recover part of the tax demand it had raised using retrospective legislation. The firm has already moved courts in various jurisdictions such as the US, UK, Netherlands, Canada and Singapore to register the arbitration award and has started identifying assets it could seize in the event the Indian government did not comply with the tribunal order. In the statement, Cairn said it has enjoyed a long and successful history operating in India, investing billions of dollars, bringing employment and benefiting local communities. The business it created in India has generated more than $20 billion in revenue for the government, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||Business||Azim Premji roots for WFH approach||IT czar Azim Premji on Sunday said more than 90 per cent of the workforce in the technology industry of the country continue to work from home, and lauded the hybrid model of work. “Within the first few weeks of the (Covid-19-induced) lockdown, over 90 per cent of the technology industry was working from home and even today over 90 per cent of people continue to work from home,” he said. Addressing an interactive session hosted by the Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce, Premji said the IT industry and the government have appreciated the value of a permanent hybrid model where people would work partly from office and home even after the end of the pandemic. Stating that the hybrid model would have huge comparative advantage, he said, as it would drive inclusive growth, better participation from all parts of the country and greater number of women who would have flexibility to work from home. “Technology is becoming the lifeline for us as individuals and also businesses,” he said. If there was any doubt, the year 2020 showed how fundamental technology has become. Technology played an important role in ensuring that the government’s social schemes and assistance programmes reached the mass population, according to him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||Business||Centre tweaks guidelines for strategic disinvestment||The government has tweaked the guidelines for strategic disinvestment, making security clearance mandatory for all bidders who put in price bids to buy a central public sector enterprise (CPSE). Now, financial bids would be opened by the evaluation committee on strategic disinvestment only after potential suitors get security clearance, an official said. The government has lined up the sale of its majority stake along with management control in BPCL, Air India, Shipping Corporation of India, Container Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, BEML, Pawan Hans, Neelachal Ispat Nigam in the next fiscal. The guidance note framed in 2018 on strategic disinvestment by the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) said that the core group on disinvestment, headed by the cabinet secretary, would decide on a “case-to-case” basis whether security clearance from the government is required for the “highest bidder” for the sale. If the highest bidder does not get security clearance, the next highest bidder was given the option to match the price offered by the highest bidder. An official said that the guidance note has been tweaked since it has come to notice that there was some ambiguity in the rules. “Once financial bids are opened, the whole process of strategic sale almost reaches its closure. If after that, security clearance is not obtained by the highest bidder, then the whole process goes waste,” the official added. Insurance plans The government may consider privatising Oriental Insurance or the United India Insurance Company as their financial health has improved after a series of capital infusions, people aware of the development said. To strengthen their financial health, the government is expected to infuse Rs 3,000 crore in the public sector general insurance companies during the current quarter. Both Oriental Insurance and Chennai-based United India Insurance may be able to generate interest from the private sector because of their improved financials, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||Business||Small firms can access bond markets||The Centre has proposed new entry rules in the corporate bond market by relaxing the definition of listed companies, which will ease the compliance burden on the smaller companies. Both the Centre and the regulators are taking various measures to push corporate bond issues because of the limited funding sources of the private sector. India’s corporate debt market has been growing over the past few years in terms of the number of issues, but the market remains undeveloped accounting for just four per cent of the country’s gross domestic product. The investor base is limited and the liquidity of bonds that are not top rated is inadequate. Private placements of debt remain the preferred route to raise debt for companies compared with public bond issues. In 2019-20, companies raised Rs 6.75 lakh crore debt in private placement against Rs 6.10 lakh crore a year ago. They raised just Rs 14,984 crore through public issues of bonds in 2019-20 against Rs 36,679 crore in the previous year. Public issues slowed down during the fiscal because  of liquidity concerns post IL&FS default and the stretched balance sheets of a few companies in 2019-20. Companies have raised Rs 6.32 lakh crore in private placement till January in this ficsal, while the public issue of corporate debt stands at around Rs 9,119 crore. The ministry of corporate affairs on Friday took a major step towards easing the compliance burden on companies planning to issue corporate bonds from April. It inserted Rule 2A in the Companies (specification of definitions details) Rules, 2014. Rule 2A says companies who have not listed their equity shares on the stock exchanges but have listed privately placed non-convertible debt or non-convertible redeemable preference shares in line with Sebi norms will not be considered as listed companies. It will also apply to companies who are not listed in India but listed overseas in specified jurisdictions. Unlisted companies keen to tap the bond market will get a major relief from the amendment. Previously, even if the parent was unlisted, the companies had to follow the same rules as applicable to the listed equity companies in terms of Sebi's Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements Regulations 2015 or the LODR norms. Since these placed various compliance requirements on them, companies particularly the smaller ones were hesitant to approach the debt markets. Speaking to The Telegraph, Madhurima Mukherjee Saha, senior consultant, J. Sagar Associates, said the compliance rules discouraged small companies from accessing the bond markets. This could now change because of  the amendment. “Unlisted public companies, with debt or preference shares listed were counted as listed companies and fell within the rigorous compliance scanner under the Sebi LODR Regulations, 2015, and under the Companies Act. The move to liberalise the definition of listed companies will give the deserved impetus to the bond market, when the economy will be emerging slowly out of the post-Covid era,’’ she said. Requirements less She said small companies and start-ups could access a wider pool of creditors without burdening themselves with greater compliance and costs. Analysts said the compliance rules led to additional costs on smaller companies. For instance, they had to abide by the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Sebi) rules on the appointment of  directors. “The rules notified relaxes provisions for public/private companies, whose debt was listed (and equity is not listed) on the stock exchange which includes appointment of woman director, independent director, secretarial audit etc which were applicable to every listed entities (debt or equity),” Makarand Joshi, partner, MMJC and Associates LLP — a corporate compliance company said. “In fact, it has gone a step ahead to relax any Indian company which chooses to get its equity listed overseas and absolve them from the regulations as a listed company under Companies Act, 2013. Companies like Jio, if its prefer to list overseas, will also be benefited from this amendment," Joshi said. The MCA's step comes just days after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman revised the definition of small companies under the Companies Act, 2013. In the Union budget, Sitharaman, increased their thresholds for paid-up capital from not exceeding Rs 50 lakh to not exceeding Rs 2 crore and turnover from not exceeding Rs 2 crore to not exceeding Rs 20 crore. The finance minister had said that this would benefit more than two lakh companies by easing their compliance requirements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||India||Centre should take initiative, restart dialogue process and accept farmers’ demands: Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday said the Centre should take initiative and restart the dialogue with farmers protesting against the farm laws to find a solution to the issue. The government has held 11 rounds of negotiation with protesting unions and these have remained inconclusive with regard to rollback of the laws. "The government should find a solution to this soon. The government should take the initiative and restart the process of dialogue and accept the demands of the farmers," Hooda told reporters here. Farmers, mostly from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi's borders since November 28 last year demanding rollback of the laws. The three farm laws, enacted in September last year, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain. Meanwhile, Hooda was asked to comment on the Enforcement Directorate filing a charge sheet against him and some others, including four retired IAS officers, in a money-laundering case linked to alleged irregularities in the allocation of over a dozen industrial plots worth more than Rs 30 crore in the Panchkula area in 2013. When asked to comment on allegations that the plots were allocated to his "acquaintances", Hooda said he had earlier also stated that "all this is politically motivated". "I have full faith in the judiciary, everything will be crystal clear," he added. Lashing out at the BJP-JJP government, Hooda claimed that the dispensation gave preference to the youth of other states in the Sub Divisional Officers' recruitment in the electricity department. "On one hand, the government claims that it will give 75 per cent reservation to Haryana residents in private jobs as well, but the government is employing a vast majority of people from other states in other recruitments, instead of local youth. "In the SDO recruitment, the government has given preference to the youth of other states, bypassing the youth of Haryana. A total of the 99 people have been selected for 90 general category posts, including nine on the waiting list. But out of these 99, only 22 are from Haryana," Hooda claimed. He alleged that the policies of the state government have led to job losses. "The government is cancelling recruitments one after the other on various grounds. First the recruitment of Village Secretary, then PGT Sanskrit teacher and now TGT English has also been cancelled. Educated youths are suffering due to the irregularities of the government," he said. The leader of opposition also raised questions on the new sports policy of the government and said the coalition government has completely destroyed the "Padak Lao, Pad Pao (win medals, get posts)" policy of the previous Congress government, which was appreciated by all. "...The new policy discriminates against paralympic medal winners. The appointment of para-olympians has been restricted to Group-B posts," he said. He also lashed out at the coalition government in the state while alleging that unemployment was increasing and corruption was rampant in various spheres. He also said the state government was continuously increasing VAT rate on petrol-diesel to raise additional revenue and reminded that during Congress' tenure, diesel was the cheapest in Haryana as the VAT rate on it was just 9.2 percent. "Now, the VAT rate is almost double," he said. Referring to the Special Investigation Team constituted by the Haryana government to probe deaths due to spurious liquor, Hooda said the SIT had submitted its report, but it was not being made public. "More than 40 people died after drinking spurious liquor in November last year and a big liquor scam were exposed in the state. "The SIT has submitted its investigation report to the government, but the government is not ready to make it public as many big names will be exposed," he added. Replying to a question, Hooda reiterated that the Congress will bring a no confidence motion against this government in the forthcoming session of the state assembly. He claimed that voices of dissent are being heard among the MLAs supporting the government. "The no-confidence motion will let people know which MLA stands with the government and which MLA stands with farmers," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||Varavara Rao’s bail conditions difficult to be met: family||Family of ailing poet and activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, welcomed the Bombay High Court granting interim bail to him on Monday. However, they maintained that the conditions put forth by the court were difficult to be met. “We welcome this order. But it is only a small relief. The conditions put by the court are difficult to be met. In the light of revelation on the evidence, the case itself should be quashed,” Varavara Rao’s nephew N Venu Gopal told PTI. Venugopal said their lawyers are on the job of getting necessary documentation for Rao’s release on bail. The bench granted interim bail to Rao for six months on medical grounds, while directing him to stay within the jurisdiction of the NIA court in the city during this period. The court imposed a host of stringent conditions on his bail, including prohibiting him from establishing contact with co-accused in the case. It directed Rao to stay in Mumbai while on bail, make fortnightly WhatsApp video calls to the nearest Mumbai police station, and prohibited large gatherings or large group of visitors from meeting him while he is out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||IIT-Kharagpur researchers turn Odisha steel plant dumpsites into greenbelt||Using traditional Indian organic components and Japanese afforestation techniques researchers at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur have transformed Odisha’s steel plants’ dumpsites into greenbelts. A drive through the Dhenkanal region of Odisha will give one the chance to witness the vast stretches of the green canopy and vegetation developed by research team, on the industrial dumpsites. The transformation to a greenbelt is not a natural reclamation but the “Midas touch” of the Post Mining Mine Site Restoration group of the Department of Mining Engineering of IIT Kharagpur through a project supported by Tata Steel BSL, according to the team that worked on the project. The researchers afforested over 32,000 square feet in the region following a rapid forest regeneration technique by using a unique mix of the traditional resource of Panchagavya with the Miyawaki plantation technique of ecologist Akira Miyawaki from Japan. “Dumping of blast furnace slag by steel plants has been a perennial challenge in India and even in some of the developed countries across the world,” said IIT Kharagpur professor Khanindra Pathak. “These steel slag dumps contribute to the generation of airborne particles causing air pollution and also contaminate groundwater and surface-water. The slag-covered land is unsuitable for vegetation and also causes health hazards to both humans and animals,” he said. “Researchers at IIT Kharagpur have devised a bioremediation method to reduce the concentration of the polluting slag to an innocuous state. They have made this slag suitable for plant growth by mixing it with topsoil, cow dung and other organic enhancers. Plants were carefully chosen for the Miyawaki technique and 22 native species were grown on the mix with a 30-cm layer of topsoil over it after administering them with Panchagavya," he added. According to the team, periodic administration of Panchagavya checked the problem of nutrient scarcity while mulching helped retention of water and nutrients. “In a span of one year, we witnessed the growth of a self-sustaining mini-forest, dominated by plants belonging to the Fabaceae and Sesbania grandiflora family. The plants with long root systems could utilize the steel slag with their roots penetrating up to a depth of 2 m from the ground surface, thus reducing its effect on groundwater contamination and surface runoff of water in the monsoons,” said Pathak. The process turned an unsupportive steel slag dump to a self-sustaining primary succession over it. “Vetiver grass was used as a boundary for the plantation to check migration of nutrients. This grass, if grown over the slopes of the slag dumps, will further check the fugitive emissions and thereby reducing air pollution and erosion of slag onto adjacent habitations,” he added. Pathak said that the process can be replicated for municipality waste dumps as well. “Development of a vetiver grass field could be beneficial for urban wastewater management as well as municipality solid waste dump sites. We had also demonstrated hydroponic vetiver for the containment of oil in refinery wastewater through an IIT Kharagpur and IOCL collaborative project at the Bongaigaon refinery,” the professor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||India's active Covid tally witnesses sharpest spike since November 2020||According to data released on Monday morning, the active coronavirus cases in India increased by 4,421 in 24 hours, a spike of three per cent, to go back over the 1.5 lakh mark for the first time in 17 days and register the steepest overall increase since end-November, reports NDTV. This is the fifth consecutive day in which active cases have increased; 13,506 new cases have been added in this period. As per the NDTV report, the three per cent increase in active cases is also double that recorded this time last week - 1.5 per cent - and a massive 2.9 per cent bigger than two weeks ago, when active cases decreased by 157. The total number of new cases reported per day has also increased - from a low of 9,121 on February 16 to 14,199 today, with the seven-day moving average increasing by 13.8 per cent. The spike in national numbers comes as five states report increased daily numbers. The five states are Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. The centre has warned all five states that continued "adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour" is critical to break the chain of transmission and contain the novel coronavirus. "Over 74 per cent of active cases are in Kerala and Maharashtra... there has also been a spike in Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh... Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir are also witnessing a surge in daily new cases," the Health Ministry said on Sunday. In Maharashtra, the worst-affected state, the seven-day moving average of new cases was 5,230 this morning - the highest since 5,576 on December 2. This morning 6,971 new cases were reported in 24 hours - the most since October 24, when 7,347 were detected. In Kerala, the second worst-affected state, the seven-day moving average of new cases was 4,361 this morning and 4,070 new cases were reported in 24 hours. Delhi records 128 fresh cases of COVID-19; one fatality takes the death toll to 10,901, according to the data by health bulletin. Public buses and metro trains in the national capital will run at their current limited capacities for at least two more weeks with the Delhi Disaster Management Authority deciding to maintain the status quo on the number of passengers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||Modi slams Mamata over 'cut money', accuses CM of insulting Bengali pride||Launching a frontal attack on the Mamata Banerjee government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleged on Monday it has perpetuated "syndicate raj" in all spheres of life in Bengal where no work gets done without common people having to pay "cut money". He accused the TMC government of pursuing "appeasement politics" to protect its vote bank while neglecting its cultural heritage and icons. "The state government's cut money culture has vitiated the atmosphere to such an extent that you cannot even take a house on rent without paying it....you cannot rent a house without the syndicate's permission," he said. He attacked the Banerjee government for not allowing central schemes like the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi and Ayushman Bharat, depriving farmers and the poor of its benefits. "I have been told the house where Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay conceived and wrote 'Vande Mataram' is in an abysmal condition. The man who injected new life into the freedom struggle amid pervasive gloom of slavery...his house is a victim of neglect. It's an insult to Bengali pride," Modi said addressing a public rally here in Hooghly district. He also accused the TMC government of neglecting industrial development, including the state's once thriving jute industry. "The people of West Bengal have made up their mind to usher in 'asol poribartan' (real change). The BJP will give Bengal a government that will ensure development of all but appeasement of none," he asserted. Repeatedly attacking the state government, Modi said, "Development of Bengal is not possible as long as cut money culture, tolabaji persists. "Development of Bengal is not possible as long as the state administration patronises goondas, development of Bengal is not possible as long as the rule of law is not established." Modi said once the BJP forms its government in Bengal, people will be able to preserve and protect their culture and nobody will be able to scare or suppress them. He said there was no dearth of potential investors but the threat of the syndicate and cut money dissuaded them from investing in the state.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated the extension of Calcutta Metro Railway from Noapara to Dakshineswar, revered for the over 160-year-old temple of Goddess Kali. He virtually flagged off the inaugural train from Noapara to Dakshineswar in the 4.1-km stretch of the north- south corridor of the metro railway from here. Modi also dedicated to the nation the third line between Kalaikunda and Jhargram, doubling of Azimganj to Khagraghat Road section, fourth line between Dankuni and Baruipara, and the third line between Rasulpur and Magra. He said the new lines will reduce congestion and ensure better connectivity. The prime minister added that the metro railway extension will ensure easier and faster connectivity between the city's Kalighat Temple and the Dakshineswar Kali Temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi sent to one day police custody in Toolkit case||The Delhi Police was on Monday granted a day's custody of 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi by a court in the toolkit case after it said that she has to be confronted with the two other suspects -- Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk -- who were questioned by the cyber cell here.  Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma sent Ravi for custodial interrogation even as a sessions court is likely to give its order on Tuesday on Ravi's bail plea.  Ravi, who was produced before the court on expiry of her three-day judicial remand, through her lawyer opposed the plea of the investigators, saying those she had to be confronted with are on bail, but the prosecution said that Jacob and Muluk can be arrested if needed.  Police sought five days of custodial interrogation contending that during her interrogation, Ravi shifted the entire blame on Jacob and Muluk who cannot be arrested because they are currently on transit bail".  They need to be confronted with Ravi. Nikita was served with a notice to join the probe but she did not join the interrogation.  It is a case which has transnational ramifications, with the involvement of those who have expressed their disaffection for this country, the prosecution told the court.  The probe agency said that they may arrest Jacob and Muluk as well in the future if there is a requirement.  There was the involvement of all three accused. We have to confront all three. We only have seven days more to seek custodial interrogation, the prosecution told the court referring to the provisions of the law in the FIR that mandate custodial interrogation only up to 15 days post-arrest.  Lawyer Nikita Jacob and Muluk, an engineer, were on Monday questioned at the Delhi Police's Cyber cell office in Dwarka, a senior police officer said.  The Delhi Police, probing the "toolkit Google doc" backing the farmers' agitation that was shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, had arrested Bengaluru-based activist Disha Ravi on February 13 while Jacob and Muluk were granted pre-arrest bail by the Bombay High Court.  Police had alleged that the toolkit was part of a global conspiracy to create unrest and trigger violence in India in the garb of the farmers' protest against the agri laws.  Both Jacob and Muluk were served notice to join the probe, the officer said.  Police were, however, tight-lipped on other queries related to questioning, including the duration.  The Delhi High Court had on Friday directed the police not to leak any probe details and asked media houses not to broadcast any such material, following a plea by Ravi.  Ravi's counsel on Monday opposed the police plea for remand, saying why did the police wait till February 22 to call the other two suspects, when Ravi had been arrested on February 13.  The counsel also said that she can be confronted with the two even in judicial custody.  What was I (Ravi) doing for the last five days in custody? They did not take me to my hometown for the probe. They have a valid requirement to confront, but that may be met while I am in judicial custody. Two accused are already on bail, the lawyer said.  The defence counsel also informed the court that a sessions court, a superior court than that of a magistrate's, has reserved its order on Ravi's bail plea for Tuesday.  I have moved a bail application, an order on which is reserved for tomorrow. Right now seeking police custody means overreaching the sessions court, which has reserved order on bail, the defence said.  The public prosecutor opposed the submission, saying, It's wrong to say we are trying to influence sessions court. This is strange to say that just because the sessions court has reserved an order, this court should not hear the remand plea.  We have our right to seek (police custody), they have their right," the lawyer said.  We are not saying Disha was not a part of Zoom meeting, we are probing if she was. We did not seek police custody after five days because we did not need it then. We are seeking now because there is a requirement, police said.  The police further questioned as to why the accused is treating police custody as punishment and that it was just for the purpose of investigation,  The defence, however, said that even law disfavours police custody.  Regarding summoning the co-accused late, police said, We had sent the summons to Jacob on February 12, but she did not join and evaded.  On Friday, Ravi was sent to three days' judicial custody after police had said her custodial interrogation was not required for the time being.  The agency had said that it would seek her further interrogation once Jacob and Muluk join the interrogation on February 22.  The Delhi High Court, in its Friday order, had asked media houses to ensure that no leaked investigation material is broadcast as it could affect the probe and directed Delhi Police to abide by its stand on affidavit that it has not leaked nor intends to leak any probe details to the press.  Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi. She was booked on sedition and other charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||Lok Sabha MP Mohan Delkar found dead in Mumbai hotel||Mohan Delkar, seven-term Lok Sabha member from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, was found dead in a Mumbai hotel on Monday, police said. The body of Delkar (58), Independent MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli Union Territory, was found at the sea-facing hotel in south Mumbai's Marine Drive area, a police official said. The official said a suicide note in Gujarati was also found along with the body. The cause of death will be known after autopsy, he added. An accidental death report is being registered based on preliminary information, the official said. Delkar was in May 2019 elected to the 17th Lok Sabha, his seventh term in the House. He was also a member of the Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice and a member of the Consultative Committee, Ministry of Home Affairs of the Lower House. Delkar is survived by wife, a son and a daughter. An advocate for tribal rights, Mohan Sanjibhai Delkar began his career as a trade union leader in Silvassa. He was first elected to the 9th Lok Sabha from Dadra and Nagar Haveli constituency in 1989 as a Congress nominee. He won six consecutive elections from the constituency during 1989-2009, failing to retain the seat in the Lok Sabha elections in 2009 and 2014. However, he successfully contested the 17th Lok Sabha as an Independent candidate. Delkar won the 1989, 1991 and 1996 elections as a Congress candidate and the 1998 election as a BJP candidate. He rejoined the Congress and unsuccessfully contested in 2009 and 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||Modi opens coffers for poll-bound Assam||Opening the coffers of his government for election-bound Assam, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Monday slammed the successive Congress dispensations that ruled the country since Independence gor the "neglect" of the state and the northeast for decades. On his third visit to Assam in a month, Modi, who dedicated to the nation three major projects in the petroleum sector worth over Rs 3,222 crore, enumerated steps taken by the state government led by Sarbananda Sonowal and the centre over the past few years for its balanced growth. He also inaugurated Dhemaji Engineering College and laid the foundation stone for Sualkuchi Engineering College with initial project cost of Rs 45 crore and Rs 55 crore respectively in this town on the northern bank of the Brahmaputra. He had unleashed a major development offensive in the run up to the state polls on February 7 when he laid the foundation of and dedicated to the nation infrastructure projects involving Rs 9,310 crore. Again, on February 18, he had gifted a bouquet of development projects worth about Rs 10,000 crore to the state. "Those who ruled for decades since Independence believed Dispur was too distant from Delhi. 'Dilli ab door nahi aapke darwaaze par hai' (Delhi is not far now, it stands at your doorstep," he told a massive gathering. The previous governments adopted "step-motherly" approach to the north bank region and neglected connectivity, health, education and industry, he alleged. "I had come earlier to Gogamuk in the state's north bank and said that Assam and the northeast will become the new growth engine of the country and now we see this belief bear fruit," he said. The prime minister said due to sustained efforts by the Assam government more than 20 engineering colleges have been set up. Referring to the new National Education Policy (NEP), he said its emphasis on teaching in local languages will help children from even poor families become doctors and engineers. Modi said hardly 40 per cent families in Assam had cooking gas connections till 2014 despite the state being rich in oil and natural gas and refineries. Almost entire population of the state has now been covered under the Ujjwala Yojana and one crore women have benefited, he said. "The gas pipelines, optical fibre networks and piped water supply initiatives are not mere iron pipes and fibre. These are the new fate lines of India," he asserted. He said improvement in energy and infrastructure development will make life easier for the people of Assam and the northeast and create fresh job opportunities for youth. Oil storage capacity has been strengthened for the purpose of refining and meeting emergency situations, he said. "Assam is known the world over for its tea, tourism, handloom and handicraft. The growth of these sectors will generate more employment and strengthen the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' mission," he said. Reaching out to tea garden workers, a solid support base of the BJP, Modi said improving their living condition was a priority of both the state and the central governments. "With the blessings of the Brahmaputra, the land in this region is fertile. We are working for improving farm income, providing agriculturists better seeds, soil health cards and introducing pension schemes," he said. Farm laws have been amended to ensure their produce reaches international markets, the prime minister said. He said his government has earmarked Rs 20,000 crore for strengthening the fisheries sector and Assam will hugely benefit from it. Modi said he will visit Assam and other poll bound states as many times as possible before elections are announced, likely in first weeek of March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||Contempt plea against Kunal Kamra to be taken up after 4 weeks by SC||The Supreme Court on Monday adjourned for four weeks the hearing on the plea seeking contempt against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra over his alleged scandalous tweets against the judiciary. A bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy deferred the matter after an adjournment was sought by some petitioners who wanted time to file rejoinder to the reply filed by Kamra. One of the petitions in the Kamra case has been filed by law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar and others. Kamra in his reply had defended the alleged scandalous tweets against the judiciary, saying India would be reduced to a "country of incarcerated artists and flourishing lapdogs" if powerful people and institutions show inability to "tolerate rebuke or criticism". The comedian, facing contempt proceedings, also said that there was a growing culture of intolerance where taking offence is seen as a fundamental right and has been elevated to the status of a "much loved national indoor sport". On December 18 last year, the top court issued show-cause notice to Kamra for his alleged scandalous tweets against the apex court and exempted him from personal appearances. Attorney General K K Venugopal had granted consent for initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra, saying the comedian's tweets were in "bad taste" and it was time that people understand that attacking the apex court brazenly would attract punishment. The consent of either the Attorney General or the Solicitor General is necessary under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act for initiating contempt proceedings against a person. Criminal contempt of the Supreme Court is punishable with a fine of up to Rs 2,000 and imprisonment of up to six months. The petitioners have claimed that the stand-up comedian had started publishing tweets on November 11 last year when the top court was hearing the appeal of Arnab Goswami against the Bombay High Court's order rejecting the journalist's plea seeking interim bail in a 2018 abetment-to-suicide case. The plea alleged that after the top court granted interim bail to Goswami on November 11, Kamra "again published various tweets and thereby scandalized" the apex court and "further lowered" its authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||FIR lodged against eight Twitter handles for spreading fake news on Unnao case||An FIR has been lodged against eight Twitter handles for allegedly propagating fake news in connection with the death of two girls here last week, police said on Monday. The Twitter handles include news portal 'Mojo Story', led by senior journalist Barkha Dutt who termed the FIR a case of brazen "harassment and bullying". The case was registered at the Sadar Kotwali police station area in Unnao on Sunday against seven more Twitter accounts: Janjagran Live, Aazad Samaj Party spokesperson Suraj Kumar Boudh, Nilim Dutta, Vijay Ambedkar, Abhay Kumar Azad, Rahul Diwakar, Nawab Satpal Tanwar. The FIR has been lodged for propagating "fake and misleading news" regarding the incident, Assistant Superintendent of Police Vinod Kumar Pandey said on Monday. Reacting to the FIR, Dutt said, "We've followed journalistic principles by reporting all sides of an evolving story. To use IPC sections that are punishable with prison is pure intimidation. I am very ready to fight it and face it in court." The 'Mojo Story' editor alleged that the Unnao Police had refused to even give a copy of the FIR without which one cannot appeal for judicial intervention. "Brazen Harassment and bullying," she said. "Even more suspicious is how Unnao Police has clubbed us with a bunch of politicians." Three girls, aged 16, 15 and 14, had left home to bring fodder for cattle on Wednesday night. They were found lying in an agriculture field when they did not return home. Local residents had rushed them to a hospital where two of them were declared brought dead. The third girl is presently undergoing treatment at a hospital in Kanpur, police said. The last rites of the deceased girls were performed on Friday morning amid tight security arrangements. The Unnao Police has held two people in this connection, accusing them of murder over one-sided love. On Saturday, Congress leader Udit Raj was booked for alleging propagating fake news in a tweet that the teenagers were raped and their bodies cremated against the will of their family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||India committed to enhancing capabilities in defence manufacturing, says PM||India had an age-old experience in making arms and military equipment but after Independence this capacity was not strengthened, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, asserting that now the country is committed to enhancing its capabilities in defence manufacturing at a fast pace. Addressing a webinar on the effective implementation of the Union Budget's provisions in the defence sector, the prime minister listed a series of measures taken by his government to boost self-reliance in the defence sector. "Before Independence we used to have hundreds of ordnance factories. In both the World Wars, arms were exported from India on a large scale, but after Independence due to a number of reasons, this system was not strengthened as much as it should have," he said. "The condition is such that even for small arms we have to look at other nations. India is amongst the biggest defence importers and this is not a matter of pride," Modi stressed. He said it was not that the people of India do not have the talent or capability and pointed out that India did not make ventilators before the coronavirus period but now manufactures thousands of ventilators. "An India that could reach Mars, could have made modern weapons also but it became an easy way to import weapons from abroad," he said. But now India is working hard to change the situation and India is committed to enhance its capacities and capabilities at a fast pace, the prime minister asserted. Modi said with initiatives like de-licensing, de-regulation, export promotion, foreign investment liberalisation, the government has taken several measures to give the defence manufacturing sector a boost. He said with establishment of the chief of defence staff post, bringing uniformity in the procurement process and induction of equipment has become easy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||Congress government in Puducherry falls after CM resigns ahead of confidence vote||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy and his cabinet colleagues in the union territory resigned on Monday after the government lost the confidence vote sought by him in the face of its depleted strength of 11 against opposition's 14 in the House. After staging a walkout from the Assembly before the motion seeking confidence vote was put up for voting in the House, Narayanasamy proceeded to the Raj Nivas and submitted his resignation to Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. The chief minister said the ruling side walked out after the Speaker V Sivakolundhu did not accept its contention that only the elected members have voting rights during the confidence vote, apparently referring to the three nominated BJP members. "Our view that only the elected members can vote in the House was not accepted by the Speaker. So we walked out of the assembly and met the Lt Governor and gave resignation letter of my cabinet," he said. Apparently referring to former Lt Governor Kiran Bedi constantly being at loggerheads with him on administrative matters, he said that he had however, delivered for the union territory, including effectively handling the Covid-19 pandemic. He lashed out at Bedi, saying she had "conspired" against the government on matters including revenue generation. "Those rejected by people cospired to topple our government but we stayed firm due to our resilience," he said. Narayanasamy said he was accompanied by his ministers, Congress and DMK MLAs besides the independent legislator who had earlier supported the government. It was up to the Lt Governor to decide on their resignation, he added. He, however, did not respond to queries on his next course of action. The Congress government in Puducherry fell on Monday after Chief Minister V Narayanasamy resigned ahead of the confidence vote sought by him in the Assembly after his government was reduced to a minority due to a spate of resignations of party MLAs and a DMK legislator over the past few days. Narayanasamy met Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and submitted the resignation of his cabinet, even as the ruling side's strength was reduced to 11 as against the 14 of the opposition. The opposition, led by NR Congress chief and Leader of Opposition N Rangasamy said it has no plans to stake claim to form the government as of now and that discussions would be held. Soundararajan had earlier summoned the one-day special session Monday, mandating that its agenda be confined only to the trust vote, after the opposition petitioned her last week saying the government had been reduced to a minority due to the resignations. A fresh bout of resignations on Sunday took the tally in the last few days to three and the cumulative since last month to six and further reduced the strength of the Congress-DMK combine in the assembly to 11 after Congress member K Lakshminarayanan and DMK's K Venkatesan quit on Sunday. Subsequently, the party position in the assembly was: Congress (nine, including Speaker), DMK two, All-India NR Congress seven, AIADMK four, BJP three (all nominated with voting rights) and one independent who has supported the government. There are seven vacancies. Those who had resigned included former ministers A Namassivayam (now in BJP) and Malladi Krishna Rao. On Monday, after mounting an attack on the Narendra Modi-led Centre and former Lt Governor Kiran Bedi with whom he had frequent run-ins on administrative matters, Narayanasamy led his colleagues out of the Assembly after a debate over the rights of nominated members to vote during the floor test. Subsequently, Speaker V P Sivakolundhu announced that the motion for confidence vote moved by the chief minister in the morning was defeated, even as it was not taken up for either voice vote or division. "Our view that only the elected members can vote in the House was not accepted by the Speaker. So we walked out of the assembly and met the Lt Governor and gave resignation letter of my cabinet," Narayanasamy later told reporters. Narayanasamy said he was accompanied by his ministers, Congress and DMK MLAs besides the independent legislator who had earlier supported the government. It was now up to the Lt Governor to decide on their resignation, he added. He, however, did not respond to queries on his next course of action. Earlier, after moving the confidence motion, Narayanasamy made a detailed speech blaming both the NDA government at the Centre and opposition parties including AINRC, AIADMK and BJP as "being responsible for stalling implementation of welfare schemes proposed by the elected government". He lashed out at Bedi, saying she had "conspired" against the government on matters including revenue generation. "Those rejected by people cospired to topple our government but we stayed firm due to our resilience," he said. He alleged that the NDA "distinguished itself by toppling governments of the opposition parties as was seen in Arunachal Pradesh..." "Now they had played their role in toppling the Congress-led alliance government in Puducherry," he said and charged the Centre with committing "mayhem of democracy with the support of the opposition parties in Puducherry." People would teach a lesson to the Centre, he added. When he kept making critical remarks against Kiran Bedi, AIADMK legislature party leader A Anbalagan intervened anbd sought to know how the "Chief Minister could speak about a person who was not present in the House" and charged Narayanasamy with speaking like addressing a public meeting. After the CM spoke, government whip R K R Anandaraman asked if the nominated legislators had the right to vote on motion of confidence. The opposition AIADMK and BJP rose to state that the Supreme Court had clearly stated in his judgment in December 2018 in an appeal that the "nominated legislators had the right to vote and there should be no doubt about it." Subsequently, Narayansamy and other ruling members trooped out of the House and headed to the Raj Nivas to meet Soundararajan where he submitted the resignation letter of his cabinet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||SC allows Karti Chidambaram to travel abroad||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed Congress MP Karti Chidambaram, who is facing criminal cases that are being probed by the ED and the CBI, to travel abroad. A bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, asked Chidambaram to deposit Rs 2 crore with the registry and submit details on the places to be visited and the place where he would stay. Opposing the application, Additional Solicitor General S V Raju said earlier Chidambaram was earlier allowed to travel abroad, but with a deposit of Rs 10 crore. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who was appearing for Chidambaram, said the condition was not justified for a member of Parliament and he would not run away anywhere. The apex court said the amount be deposited in a nationalised bank and allowed Chidambaram to travel for six months. Earlier, it had allowed him to travel to the UK, the US, France, Germany and Spain. The Congress leader is facing several criminal cases related to the Aircel-Maxis deal and the Foreign Investment Promotion Board clearance to the INX Media for receiving foreign funds of Rs 305 crore when his father, P Chidambaram, was the Union finance minister. The cases are being probed by the ED and the CBI. The ED had earlier claimed that Karti Chidambaram had been trying to protract the investigation by "blatantly misusing" the liberty granted by the court in allowing him to travel abroad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||Elgar Parishad Case: Varavara Rao granted interim bail for six months||The Bombay High Court on Monday granted interim bail for six months on medical grounds to ailing poet and activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale took into account the advanced age of Rao (82), his "precarious" health condition, quality of medical aid provided to him in prison, and medical facilities available at the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, while holding that his case was "fit and genuine for grant of relief". Rao is currently admitted in Nanavati Hospital, a private medical facility in Mumbai. He has been in custody since August 28, 2018, awaiting trial in the case, which is being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The HC ordered that depending on his current health condition, Rao be discharged from the hospital, and released on bail immediately after that. It also refused NIA counsel Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh's request for a stay on Rao's discharge from the hospital for three weeks. The bench said once it had granted bail and once the hospital had declared Rao fit for discharge, it could not grant any stay. "With all humility at our command and keeping in mind the applicant's precarious health condition...we are of the opinion that this is a genuine and fit case for grant of relief," the bench said. "Or else, we will be abdicating our constitutional duties as protector of human rights and right to health covered under the right to life of Article 21 of the Constitution," it said. The bench, however, imposed several stringent conditions on Rao's bail. The HC said it was mindful of the NIA's apprehension that once out on bail, Rao might do something to adversely impact the probe into the case. Hence, it directed Rao to stay in Mumbai, within the jurisdiction of the NIA court in the city. The bench also said Rao must deposit a personal bond of Rs 50,000 and two sureties of the like amount. It also prohibited Rao from establishing contact, or making national or international phone calls to his co-accused or even anyone else engaged in "similar activities". Rao will also have to attend all case hearings, respond to court summons, and make fortnightly WhatsApp video calls to the Mumbai police. The court also said a large number of visitors cannot be allowed to meet Rao, and directed him to submit his passport before the NIA court. The court also prohibited Rao from making any statements related to the case before the press, and indulging in any activity similar to what led to the FIR against him. It permitted Rao to seek exemption from personal appearance before the NIA court. The court also refused to grant the request of Rao's lawyer Anand Grover for permission to the activist's lawyers to meet him. Once the six-month period is over, Rao will have to surrender before the NIA, or apply to the HC for extension of the bail. Rao was admitted to the Nanavati Hospital by the state government in November last year following HC's intervention. On February 1, the HC closed all arguments in the case and reserved its verdict on Rao's medical bail plea and his wife Hemlatha's writ petition that alleged a breach of his fundamental rights due to inadequate medical care and his continued incarceration. The case pertains to alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police have also claimed that the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||SC notice to Future Retail, others on Amazon's plea||The Supreme Court on Monday sought responses from Future Retail Ltd and others on Amazon's plea against the Delhi High Court direction to maintain status quo on the Future-Reliance deal. A bench comprising Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai issued notices to Future Retail Ltd, Chairperson Kishore Biyani and others and sought their replies. The apex court said the proceedings before the National Company Law Tribunal will go on but will not culminate into any final order on amalgamation of FRL with Reliance. While issuing notice distinct to FRL and others, the bench says that reply to the appeal of Amazon be filed in three weeks and rejoinder after two weeks thereafter and the Amazon's appeal will be listed for hearing after five weeks. Last month, Amazon had approached the Delhi High Court seeking enforcement of the interim order of the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) that had restrained FRL from going ahead with the deal with Reliance. In the interim order on February 8, the division bench said it was staying the single judge order as firstly, FRL was not a party to the share subscription agreement (SSA) between Amazon and Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) and the US e-commerce giant was not a party to the deal between FRL and Reliance Retail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||Puducherry CM loses confidence vote||The Congress-led government in Puducherry on Monday lost the confidence vote sought by Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, in the face of its depleted strength of 11 against the opposition's 14 following resignation of ruling dispensation MLAs, including a DMK legislator. Narayanasamy earlier sought a confidence vote for his government, as the territorial Assembly met for a special session for a floor test of his five-year old government that has been reduced to a minority following resignations by ruling dispensation members. Moving the motion, the chief minister told the Assembly that his government had the majority. Apparently referring to former Lt Governor Kiran Bedi constantly being at loggerheads with him on administrative matters, he said that he had however, delivered for the union territory, including effectively handling the Covid-19 pandemic. He lashed out at Bedi, saying she had "conspired" against the government on matters including revenue generation. "Those rejected by people cospired to topple our government but we stayed firm due to our resilience," he said. Though Narayanasamy moved the motion seeking the confidence vote minutes after the Assembly met for a special one-day session, he and his ruling side MLAs later walked out before the motion was put for voting. Subsequently, Speaker VP Sivakolundhu declared that the motion stood defeated, even as it was said Narayanasamy was headed to the Raj Nivas, possibly to meet Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||Rahul attacks Modi govt over rising fuel prices||Hitting out at the Modi government over rising fuel prices, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused it of emptying the pockets of the common man and filling the pockets of its friends for free. The Congress has accused the Centre of looting people by imposing high taxes on petrol and diesel and has demanded its rollback to provide relief to the common man from the onslaught of rising prices. "When you see the fast moving meter while filling fuel in your car at the petrol pump, do remember that the crude oil rates have not risen but fallen," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Petrol is at Rs 100 a litre. The Modi government is doing the great work of emptying your pockets and filling the pockets of its friends," the Congress leader tweeted. Gandhi also used the hashtag "FuelLootByBJP" in his tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||India's Covid tally goes past 1.10 crore mark||India's total tally of COVID-19 cases surpassed 1.10 crore with 14,199 new infections being reported in a day, while active cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The total coronavirus cases have increased to 1,10,05,850, while the death toll increased to 1,56,385 with 83 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,99,410 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.22 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. Active coronavirus infections in the country increased to 1,50,055 which comprises 1.36 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,15,51,746 samples have been tested up to February 21 with 6,20,216 samples being tested on Sunday. The 83 new fatalities include 35 from Maharashtra, 15 from Kerala and 6 from Punjab, 5 from Chhattisgarh and 4 from Madhya Pradesh. A total of 1,56,385 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,788 from Maharashtra followed by 12,460 from Tamil Nadu, 12,294 from Karnataka, 10,900 from Delhi, 10,249 from West Bengal, 8,715 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,167 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||Doctors question health minister’s ethics for being at Ramdev event||Sections of doctors have questioned the ethics and propriety of Union health minister Harsh Vardhan’s decision to present himself alongside Ramdev at an event associated with a herbal cocktail touted as an anti-Covid-19 medication. The Union minister later suggested that the government and the yoga evangelist had shared dreams regarding ayurveda. Some doctors said the minister’s presence at a programme on Friday to mark a scientific paper on the herbal product called Coronil and his tweets later were tantamount to endorsing the product that they say remains to be rigorously assessed. Harsh Vardhan had tweeted: “Pleased to have joined my colleague, minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkariji, and Yogishri Ramdevji at the event marking release of scientific research paper on the first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19 developed by Patanjali.” Ramdev is the public face of Patanjali Ayurved, the company that sells Coronil — a cocktail of three herbal products and a herbal-mineral formulation. “Regarding Ayurveda, whatever dream Baba Ramdev has, that is the government’s dream,” Harsh Vardhan tweeted after the event during which the minister said that if ayurveda proves itself during Covid-19, it would not need any “bigger certificate”. The Union health ministry did not respond to an email from this newspaper seeking Harsh Vardhan’s response to the criticism. Patanjali could not be contacted for comment, either. Both responses will be published if and when they are issued. While the reliability of the herbal cocktail remains a question for science, some doctors have raised the ethical issue of whether a minister — particularly the health minister — should have directly associated himself with such an event freighted with potential conflict of interest. Medical researchers within and outside India have also raised questions about the scientific paper that describes a clinical trial on 100 patients with mild Covid-19, half of whom received Coronil and the other half received a placebo or sham medication. Doctors at the private medical college in Jaipur who conducted the trial published the paper in a peer-reviewed journal named Phytomedicine. Edzard Ernst, emeritus professor of complementary medicine at the University of Exeter in the UK, posted a blog on Saturday flagging inconsistencies in the paper — at one point it claims the patients had no symptoms whereas at another point it says they were “mildly symptomatic”. “Some of the effect sizes reported are extraordinary and seem almost too good to be true,” Ernst wrote. The paper has reported that 100 per cent of the treatment group had recovered by day 7 compared with 60 per cent of the placebo group. Inflammatory markers were also 2.5 to 20 times lower in the treatment group than in the placebo group by day 7. “The rush to get the above out heavily endorsed by ministers sounds like drug company blurb and is science free promotional guff,” John Travis, a US-based complementary medicine specialist wrote, responding on Ernst’s blog page, also on Saturday. Several doctors in India have also questioned the paper’s content. Public health physician J.N. Rao, responding to Ernst’s blog, wrote the scientific paper was “replete with flaws”. Other doctors have also cautioned people about its content. “If we endorse a medicine based on seriously unsound research, we are harming both science and people,” said Shriprakash Kalantri, professor of medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha. Kalantri said the clinical trial conducted in Jaipur and the scientific paper were marked by “inappropriate design, unrepresentative sample, a flawed method of analysis, and a faulty interpretation”. Om Lakhani, an Ahmedabad-based endocrinologist, posted several tweets, asking Harsh Vardhan whether the minister was not “promoting pseudoscience”. Rao has underscored his concern about what he calls “lead time bias”. Since the patients enrolled in the trial were largely asymptomatic, Rao said, to count the time for viral clearance (negative test) from the day of testing is to ignore how long before the day of testing the patient might have become infected. “If this lead time (had) differed systematically between the treatment and placebo groups, the conclusion would be biased,” Rao said. He said the raw data on the inflammatory markers in the two groups of patients suggested they had acquired the infections at different times, which could explain the faster recovery of the treatment group compared with the placebo group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Rourkela idol maker bicycles 14000 km to make clay tableau at Ghazipur border||A traditional idol maker from Rourkela who has bicycled 1,400km to Delhi to join the farmers’ protest is making a clay tableau at the Ghazipur border to portray how the new farm laws would lead to the farmers’ exploitation. “The three clay models (that form the tableau) are being painted. They will be on public display at the Ghazipur border from Monday,” Muktikanta Biswal, 32, who is camping at the site, told The Telegraph over the phone. Biswal, who follows his family profession of making clay idols of deities such as Ganesh and Saraswati, said he was hurt by the government’s treatment of the farmers and decided he could best protest through his art. “The attempt to stifle the farmers’ voice hurts me as an artist. So I have taken to this novel way of protest,” he said. Biswal’s tableau will show two farmers yoked to a plough while a corporate leader stands near them, raising a whip. “The two farmers actually represent bullocks. The plough is symbolic of how the corporate boss controls farming, and his whip symbolises the exploitation of farmers,” the idol maker said. Biswal said he was “not a political person” and was not against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “But I’m disgusted at the ugly politics being played over farmers’ issues. Although I studied only till Plus II, I keep track of what is happening in the country,” he said. So, he had set off from Rourkela on his bicycle on January 12, keen to meet and talk to farmers on the way to Delhi and “learn about the condition of farmers and the country itself”. “I reached Delhi on January 29. The entire journey has been video-graphed so that no one can challenge my integrity,” Biswal said. The government and its supporters have been trying to project the protesters as Khalistanis, Maoists or Opposition stooges. It was during the bicycle journey that the idea of protesting through clay idols struck Biswal. He began making the idols last week, using clay from the Ghazipur protest site, where he is staying in a tent with other farmers. “Although the quality of the soil was not good enough for idol-making, I somehow managed. But the work got delayed a bit because of this,” he said. Asked why he had chosen the bicycle over a bus or a train, Biswal said it was partly a “protest against the rising prices of petrol and diesel”. “A common man cannot afford to pay the increased (bus) fares resulting from the hiked fuel prices,” he said. Besides, he said, the bicycle journey allowed him to interact with farmers on the way. Biswal, a bachelor, spent Rs 6,000 on the journey from his savings. He said he didn’t face any problems during the trip except for being briefly stopped and questioned once by Uttar Pradesh police. This is not Biswal’s first brush with activism. In 2018 he had walked all the way to Delhi to remind the Prime Minister of his forgotten promises to build a second bridge over the Brahmani river on Rourkela’s outskirts and upgrade the Ispat General Hospital into a super-speciality facility. The journey took him 72 days, from April 16 to June 27. He had stayed in Delhi a few days, held a brief hunger strike at the Ramlila Maidan, spoken to the Delhi media and returned by train. “His foot journey made an impact: work on the bridge and hospital began sometime later and is continuing,” senior Rourkela journalist Aurobindo Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||Sonia asks PM to stop oil price extortion||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi accusing his “cruel” government of “profiteering” off people’s “miseries and sufferings” at a time when the poor and the middle class are grappling with unemployment and loss of income. As petrol prices crossed Rs 100 for the first time since Independence although the crude oil rate is unusually low in the international market, Sonia described the steep increase in the country as “extortion” to make up for the government’s gross economic mismanagement. In a letter to Modi, Sonia said: “I write to you to convey every citizen’s anguish and deep distress regarding the spiralling fuel & gas prices. India is witnessing systematic erosion of jobs, wages and household income. The middle class and those at the margins of our society are struggling. “These challenges have been compounded by runaway inflation and an unprecedented rise in price of almost all household items and essential commodities. Sadly, in these distressing times, the government has chosen to profiteer off people’s misery and suffering.” Questioning the government’s claim that it didn’t have control over the prices of petroleum products after deregulation, the Congress president said: “It was cruel on the government’s part to refuse to reduce fuel prices even when global crude oil had crashed to $20 per barrel last year. The whole principle of deregulation and dynamic pricing is predicated on the principle that reductions in crude oil prices will proportionately benefit the end consumers. The fact that your government fails to do so implies a deliberate and conscious decision to deny the common man his legitimate due.” Sonia pointed out that “ironically” the Modi government had been “unreasonably over-zealous” in levying excessive excise duty on petrol and diesel. She said the duty was Rs 33 on every litre of petrol and Rs 32 on a litre of diesel, “which is higher than the base price of these fuels”. “This is nothing short of extortion to cover up economic mismanagement. As the principal party in opposition, I urge you to follow ‘Raj Dharma’ and reduce fuel prices by partially rolling back excise duty,” she wrote. She said: “Governments are elected to ease the burden of our people and at the very least, not work directly contrary to their interests. I urge you to roll back these increases and pass on the benefit to our middle and salaried class, our farmers and poor and our fellow citizens. It is they who are battling an unprecedented economic slowdown, widespread unemployment, wage reductions and job losses, high prices and erosion of income.” Sonia urged the Prime Minister to focus on solutions instead of looking for excuses, saying: “India deserves better.”  “I fail to understand how any government can justify such thoughtless and insensitive measures directly at the cost of our people. Your government has increased excise duty on diesel by 820 per cent and on petrol by 258 per cent… and collected upwards of Rs 21 lakh crore in the last six and a half years. This unaccounted-for windfall is yet to be passed to the people for whose benefit it was ostensibly collected,” she said. “Therefore, your government’s act of raising prices (continuously for 12 days till February 20) is little less than a brazen act of profiteering,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
22-02-2021||India||LAC: talks end, haze on Depsang pullout remains||The 10th round of military talks between India and China lasted 16 hours but ended without clarity on a disengagement process for the Depsang Plains, an operationally critical area for the Indian army where the Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines. Military veterans have been saying that India should have already got the Chinese to agree to pulling back from the Depsang Plains as a condition for the now-concluded Pangong Lake disengagement. However, a joint statement released by India’s defence ministry on Sunday did not name the Depsang Plains or the other remaining friction points, Gogra and Hot Springs, merely mentioning a future “push for a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues”. Nor did the statement say anything about restoring the status quo to what it was in April 2020 before the Chinese intrusion, a continuing omission in recent statements that veterans see as a sign of Indian capitulation. The joint statement spoke about “maintaining peace and tranquillity in the border”, echoing what defence minister Rajnath Singh had told Parliament last week. Rajnath had not mentioned the restoration of status quo ante. “Disengagement from the Depsang Plains may take time as the Chinese look very rigid about retreating from there. Right now, disengagement from Depsang is a big challenge for us,” a defence ministry official told The Telegraph. He said the Chinese had, however, agreed to work towards an understanding on the disengagement process to be initiated at Gogra and Hot Springs. He added, however, that the two sides had last July agreed on disengaging from Hot Springs and Gogra but the Chinese went back on their word. In an interview published in The Hindu on Sunday, former foreign secretary Shyam Saran said India’s acceptance of “phased” withdrawal instead of demanding complete disengagement (covering the Depsang Plains) suggested it was focusing on the “restoration of peace and tranquillity at the border” rather than the restoration of status quo ante. “It’s a matter of extreme concern that India does not seem to be pushing for the restoration of status quo,”  former lieutenant general told The Telegraph on Sunday. “Why have we suddenly changed our earlier stand on the restoration of status quo being crucial to maintaining peace and tranquillity at the border? Is this the price we are paying for a disengagement deal with China?” He implied New Delhi had developed cold feet, saying: “It seems the government has now taken a policy decision not to talk about the restoration of status quo ante, much like Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s no-intrusion claim.” Modi had in June last year said no one had intruded into Indian territory or was occupying Indian posts, a statement China milked to project India as the border transgressor. Sunday’s joint statement was released 17 hours after the talks (Saturday 10am to Sunday 2am) had ended, suggesting lengthy deliberation before it was framed. “On February 20, the 10th round of China-India Corps Commander Level Meeting was held on the Chinese side of the Moldo/ Chushul border meeting point. The two sides positively appraised the smooth completion of disengagement of frontline troops in the Pangong Lake area noting that it was a significant step forward that provided a good basis for resolution of other remaining issues along the LAC in Western Sector,” it said. “They had candid and in-depth exchange of views on other issues along the LAC in the Western Sector. The two sides agreed to follow the important consensus of their state leaders, continue their communication and dialogue, stabilise and control the situation on the ground, push for a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues in a steady and orderly manner, so as to jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border.” Under the disengagement process that began on February 10, India and China have moved back from their positions on the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks, with the Indian withdrawal taking place entirely across India-claimed territory. This has prompted allegations that the government was ceding Indian territory to the Chinese. Saran told The Hindu that India’s agreement to a “phased” withdrawal could become a cause for concern in the future. “We had earlier been given the impression that the Indian side was holding out for this engagement not sector by sector, but along the entire LAC, which would include the Hot Spring area as well as Depsang,” Saran was quoted as saying. “I’m not very sure that this (phased withdrawal) represents going back to status quo ante, which has been, in fact, a constant demand made by us. It would appear that we are more focusing on the restoration of peace and tranquillity at the border, rather than saying that we should go back to what the situation was around April last year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
22-02-2021||India||Once pandemic ends, Covid likely to stay on as endemic||We have just crossed a milestone: one crore of our citizens have been vaccinated for the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. Our vaccination campaign started on January 16. This is awesome; one crore vaccinations in a month. The vaccine recipients are healthcare and frontline workers. They have provided extraordinary service to the infected and toiled to prevent infection. We salute them. Largely because of their tireless efforts, and a stunningly efficient infection-management system established with great rapidity, 973 of every 1,000 infected have recovered. (Over one crore of our citizens were infected.) The Union health ministry has said that India’s vaccine coverage now ranks third in the world, after the US and the UK. However, we have also learnt that there is considerable vaccine hesitancy in India. A major reason for the hesitancy is that the efficacy of one of the two vaccines being administered (Covaxin) is unknown. This vaccine has been proven safe and evokes a good immune response. But how well it actually protects against infection on exposure to the coronavirus, or how well it protects an infected individual against severe disease, is unknown. The government has ignored appeals to defer the administration of this vaccine until the efficacy results are obtained. The other vaccine (Covishield) being administered here has been shown to have adequate protective efficacy. With the expansion of the vaccine campaign, the question in every mind is: when will the pandemic end and life return to normal? To answer this question, we must figure out whether the vaccination campaign is reducing the prevalence of Covid-19 and the spread of infection. We do not have the relevant data from India to address this issue: the vaccine campaign here started barely a month ago. The best data available now is from Israel. The vaccines being provided in Israel are not the same as those in India. Further, Israel first vaccinated citizens who were 60 years or older. Notwithstanding these differences, the data from Israel shows the hospitalisation rate from Covid-19 has dropped from seven per day to one among the 60-plus who have received the required two doses. This is solid evidence that the jabs are reducing the impact of the pandemic. Similar observations have come from the US. But are the vaccines blocking the infection or preventing transmission? After you have taken your two doses, will you be able to participate in an adda (chat) sitting close to a group of people without wearing a mask and yet feel assured that you will not contract the infection? Or, if you were infected shortly before being vaccinated, will you be able to assure the others in the group that you will not transmit the infection to them? These assurances are hard to obtain even for the best of vaccines. A notable exception is the measles vaccine, which provides lifelong protection and has eliminated the measles virus from most global regions. For the SARS-CoV-2 vaccines, the data on infection-blockage and transmission-prevention has not yet been systematically collected. However, there are indications – though not definitive – that the current vaccines can both block infection and reduce transmission to an extent. Publicly available results of a recent study in Israel, not yet published in a peer-reviewed journal, show that the viral load among those infected even after being vaccinated was significantly lower than that in the unvaccinated. Thus, the benefits of vaccination are palpable. Are we in a position yet to answer when the pandemic will end and life return to normal? If the coronavirus stops spreading, would we consider that the pandemic has ended and we can lead a normal life? The virus will stop spreading if it cannot find a group of new persons to infect. This will happen when a large proportion of people in a community gain immunity, by either infection or vaccination, marking the attainment of the so-called herd immunity. For this coronavirus, the jury is still out on what this proportion should be — possibly no less than two-thirds. The closer a community gets to attaining herd immunity, the slower will be the spread of the virus. A vaccine, if it blocks infection or prevents transmission, will promote herd immunity. As far as we can tell, no country has yet attained herd immunity. But almost every country seems to be getting closer; life seems to be gaining normalcy. Will the virus ever be eradicated and the pandemic actually end? It is difficult to predict whether the pandemic — defined as an infection that spreads quickly worldwide or over a wide area and often causes severe disease — will end. It likely will. But it is unlikely that the virus will ever be eradicated. In the simplest of scenarios, a virus can be eradicated by vaccination if (a) the vaccine evokes such an immune response that the virus cannot escape, and (b) the virus cannot persist in an animal reservoir. For the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, neither of these holds good. Most likely, the coronavirus came to us from bats via pangolins. In addition, the coronavirus infects cats, hamsters, rabbits and minks. And minks can directly transmit it to humans. Thus, there are known animal reservoirs, and the coronavirus may be reintroduced after eradication. Besides, although the vaccines evoke a high immune response, it is unclear whether they can block infection. Even among people who have had Covid-19, the level of the antibody required to block re-infection — called neutralising antibody — wanes after six to eight months. The coronavirus infection and the available vaccines produce T cells that kill virus-infected cells and also produce cells that provide immune memory, called B cells. The B cells are capable of manufacturing antibodies if there is a new infection. But, for none of the available vaccines has it been established that re-infection can be blocked. The decline of immunity will likely make the coronavirus become endemic to human society. That means the coronavirus will continue to circulate in all human societies. The prevailing antibody levels will ensure that not too many people in any community will be infected during a year, but the number of infections will remain near-constant over many years. Of concern, however, are genetically altered forms of the coronavirus. These genetic alterations — called mutations — occur naturally and can help the coronavirus infect more efficiently or render it more virulent. As we are now witnessing with the mutant subtypes that have emerged in the UK and South Africa. These mutants may also escape the immune response produced by the available vaccines. In which case, the available vaccines may often need to be tweaked to control infection. Tweaking of vaccines is not unknown, the most familiar experience being with the influenza vaccine. The flu virus acquires mutations quite rapidly, and the mutant flu viruses do not respond adequately to the available vaccines. Each year, therefore, a new formulation of the flu vaccine that is effective against the newly arisen mutants has to be found and provided for use. It appears inevitable that the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus pandemic will become endemic. But even if the spread of the coronavirus cannot be completely stopped by vaccination, the decline of its spread and prevention of severe disease and death will be significant steps towards regaining normal life. For endemicity to be established rapidly, vaccination campaigns should be expanded using vaccines of known and high efficacy, and vaccine hesitancy must wane. ⚫ The author is a National Science Chair||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
22-02-2021||India||Kids orphaned in family, second time in 30 years ||When police constable Suhail Ahmad Ahangar fell to a militant’s bullets in Srinagar on Friday, it marked the second time in two generations that Kashmir’s insurgency had left his family scarred. Suhail was born an orphan five months after his father Mushtaq Ahmad Ahangar disappeared in end-1989, at the inception of militancy, never to be seen again. Mushtaq, then about 30, left behind the unborn Suhail and his elder sister, a couple of years his senior. On Friday Suhail, who was about 30 too, left behind sons Sahel and Suhaib, aged four years and 18 months. The story of the family, settled in the Ashmuqam locality of Anantnag, is testimony to how the conflict in Kashmir is consuming generation after generation. “The same tragedy has visited our family 30 years apart. We were devastated then; we are devastated now,” Mushtaq’s younger brother Javaid Ahmad told The Telegraph. A relative who refused to be identified said Mushtaq, who worked at a private flour mill, had crossed over to Pakistan to receive arms training and fight for Kashmiri independence. “We never learnt what happened to him. Some say he was killed on the border in 1990 but we never received his body,” he said. Javaid said: “For years, we searched for him. Sometimes we would hear he was languishing at some place or the other and would rush there.” He added: “There’s no jail (in the country) we did not visit — we even went to a jail in Tamil Nadu to find him. We could not offer a janaza (last rites) for him because we never got to know what had happened to him.” Javaid said the family gradually came to believe that Mushtaq had died a few months after his disappearance. “It’s tragic that father and son (appear to have) lost their lives at around the same age; and Suhail then was (virtually) orphaned at around the same age as his children now,” he said. Suhail’s mother lost her husband in her twenties — about the same age that the policeman’s widow is now. Suhail and his colleague, selection grade constable Mohammad Yousuf from Kupwara, were killed in a six-second attack at Barzulla, Srinagar. Images of the attack show a lone militant, hiding his assault rifle under his pheran, spraying bullets at the two policemen. Both died in hospital. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti visited Suhail’s home in Anantnag and said the deaths had underscored the need for India and Pakistan to talk and prevent violence. “The BJP government should start talks so that bloodshed stops. Our graveyards are full of (slain) men,” she said. “Whether it is here, or with Pakistan, there should be talks. They repeatedly say Pakistan is behind the violence. At least, to end the violence, they can initiate talks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
22-02-2021||India||Cloud over govt’s 2022 housing goal||The Narendra Modi government’s stated goal of ensuring housing for all by 2022 appears unlikely to be met given the slow pace of construction and delay in expanding the beneficiaries’ list, social activists have told The Telegraph. While launching the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) Gramin on April 1, 2016, Modi had gone by the findings of the Socio Economic Caste Census of 2012 and set a target of building 2.95 crore houses by 2022. However, by 2019, the state governments had identified another 3.67 crore households that lacked houses, raising the scheme’s possible target to 6.62 crore houses. While a panel formed by the rural development ministry has cleared the additional beneficiaries, the finance ministry has not yet committed funds for the extra houses, preventing the new beneficiaries from being officially added to the list. According to a report from the parliamentary standing committee on rural development, headed by Shiv Sena member Prataprao Jadhav, the government had built only 1.04 crore houses by the first week of June last year. The rural development ministry has told the standing committee it has taken up the matter of the additional beneficiaries with the finance ministry but no decision has been taken. Rural development ministry officials told this newspaper that any further delay in the matter — already hanging fire for nearly two years —would jeopardise the chances of achieving “housing for all” by 2022. Social activists Nikhil Dey from the Mazdoor Kishan Shakti Sangathan, which works on the implementation of rural development programmes in Rajasthan, and Anees from Ekta Parishad, which works on “housing for all” in Madhya Pradesh, said meeting the 2022 deadline would be impossible. “One key reason for the delay is the lack of funds provisioning. A substantial number of houses are yet to be constructed from the original target. I doubt they can even meet the original target (by 2022),” Dey said. Anees said that even if the original target of building 2.95 crore houses by 2022 was achieved, it would not be “housing for all”. He said the scheme’s “centralised and uniform standard” too needed to be revised. “For instance, in some (forest) areas, the people do not want pucca houses, but the scheme only allows pucca houses. Such problems too contribute to the slow progress of implementation,” Anees said. Under the scheme, the government provides Rs 1.2 lakh and Rs 1.3 lakh per house in the plains and hills, respectively. The parliamentary committee has recommended the amounts be increased. An email sent on Monday to the rural development ministry seeking the reasons for the delays in construction and beneficiary expansion had evoked no response till Sunday night. The erstwhile UPA government used to run the Indira Awas Yojana, which had no set targets. The Modi government replaced the scheme with the PMAY Gramin, providing for pucca houses with basic amenities for rural families that had no houses or lived in kutcha or dilapidated houses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal minister may not be actual target, blast possibly accidental says CID officer||West Bengal minister Jakir Hossain, who was seriously injured in an explosion last week in Murshidabad district, might not be the target of the perpetrators and the bomb seemed to have gone off accidentally, an officer of the state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) said on Monday. The miscreants who could have links to an international terror group possibly brought the explosive kept in a bag from outside the state and were on their way to take it to Calcutta or somewhere else, the top CID official told PTI on condition of anonymity. Hossain, Trinamool Congress MLA and the minister of state for labour, was waiting at platform no 2 of Nimtita station to catch a train to Calcutta at around 10 pm on February 17 when the blast occurred injuring him and several other people. The West Bengal government has handed over the investigation into the case to the CID. The investigators collected torn pieces of a black bag, remains of mobile phone battery and a bike-battery, wires and other items from the site of the explosion. The results of the tests conducted on those articles are yet to arrive, the IPS officer said. "Going by our initial investigations, it seems that the bomb went off accidentally and not intentionally. Miscreants had kept the explosive inside the bag and probably had plans to travel to Kolkata or some other district. But most likely, the minister was not their target," he said. As security arrangements at Nimtita station was "a bit relaxed" compared to several other stations of West Bengal such as Malda, Jalpaiguri, Siliguri or Burdwan, miscreants might have chosen it to transport the explosive, the CID official said. He said that the CCTV footage and mobile video recordings of the spot are being examined. The CID is yet to arrest anyone in connection with the blast. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday paid a visit to Hossain at the state-run SSKM hospital in Kolkata where he and 13 other people injured in the explosion are undergoing treatment. "Jakir is fine now. He had to undergo two surgeries. The doctors here have done a very good job. I will request everyone who is visiting Jakir and others to take precautionary measures and not to go too close to them as Covid-19 infection is increasing again," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
22-02-2021||West Bengal||EC official to visit Bengal on Friday||Deputy Election Commissioner Sudip Jain, who is in charge of Bengal, will be visiting the state on Friday to oversee the preparedness for the upcoming assembly elections, officials said. During his visit, Jain is scheduled to hold meetings with district magistrates, police superintendents and other senior officials of the state, they said. "Mr Jain is scheduled to come this Friday to have a look at the overall preparedness for the assembly elections. He will also take stock of the law and order situation in the state. The district administrations have been asked to prepare PowerPoint presentations on their preparations for the elections," a poll panel official told PTI on Monday. Jain may also meet officers transferred to the different departments, mainly in the administration and the police, during his visit to West Bengal, the official said. "There have been several shuffles in the administration as well as in the police departments recently. Mr Jain may meet them as well as ADG (Law and Order), senior police officers, and the Chief Secretary and Home Secretary," he said. Jain may also seek a report on the deployment of the central forces in different districts, he said. "He may chalk out a guideline on the deployment of the central forces," the official said. The EC official might also be holding meetings with senior officers of the central government here, he added. Though the duration of the trip could not be known immediately, the official said that Jain would submit a report to the Election Commission following his visit. Elections to the 294-member Bengal assembly are likely in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Rujira responds to CBI notice, asks team to visit residence on Tuesday||Rujira Banerjee, the wife of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, Monday responded to the CBI's summons in the alleged coal pilferage scam and asked the central agency to send its team to her residence for examination on Tuesday, officials said. The CBI had on Sunday asked her to join the probe. A team of CBI officials had visited the residence of Abhishek Banerjee, a nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, on Sunday to deliver the summons but Rujira was not present. She responded to the summons on Monday and asked the CBI to visit her residence between 11 am and 3 pm on Tuesday. "Though I am unaware of the reason for me being called for questioning or the subject matter of the investigation, you may visit my residence as per your convenience between 11 am and 3 pm tomorrow, i.e. 23 February, 2021," she said in her letter to CBI. "You are requested to kindly inform me your schedule," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt decides to cut taxes on petrol and diesel by Re 1 ||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to cut taxes on petrol and diesel by Re 1 from Tuesday, bringing consumers marginal relief from the soaring fuel prices and piling pressure on Narendra Modi to match his words on the campaign trail before he became Prime Minister with action. The cut is also expected to somewhat blunt the pro-BJP ecosystem’s attempt to cite state taxes whenever fuel price hikes resurrect Modi’s Opposition day speeches that have become an embarrassment now. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said the decision was taken in consultation with the chief minister. He said the cut, which comes at a time the state government is grappling with financial challenges stemming from Cyclone Amphan and Covid, was meant to “reduce the common man’s burden”. The notification is scheduled to be issued on Monday morning. Mitra tweeted on Sunday evening that the rebate would be in effect till June 30. Petrol and diesel prices at Calcutta’s retail pumps stood at Rs 91.78 a litre and Rs 84.56 a litre, respectively, on Sunday. The prices were not increased on Sunday night, breaking a 12-day streak. If the Centre-run oil companies do not raise prices by Monday night, Calcuttans can buy petrol for Rs 90.78 a litre and diesel for Rs 83.56 a litre from Monday-Tuesday midnight. “It’s a small relief but will be useful to all, especially the farmers who use diesel to run pumps (to water their fields),” Mitra said. He said the state earned Rs 18.46 a litre on petrol and Rs 12.57 a litre on diesel from sales tax, as on Sunday. “We are reducing our share of taxes by Re 1.” The Centre now collects Rs 32.90 per litre of petrol and Rs 31.80 per litre of diesel. But it shares only a small part of this with the states as it collects the lion’s share of the levy in the form of a cess, bypassing the formula for devolution of central taxes. The cess now stands at Rs 20.50 a litre on petrol and Rs 22 a litre on diesel, accounting for 62 per cent and 69 per cent of the central tax collection, respectively, on these two fuels. Bengal imposes sales tax at 25 per cent and 17 per cent on petrol and diesel, respectively. On top of that, it collects a Re 1 cess per litre on both fuels. Mitra had a word of advice for his central counterpart Nirmala Sitharaman, who has called for a Centre-state effort to tackle the rising fuel prices. She told an event in Chennai that the escalating prices had put her in a “dharm sankat” (moral dilemma). “We are ready to discuss anything. But first they should bring down the tax collection at par with our level before nudging us to cut tax. We have put our money where our mouth is, let her do the same,” Mitra said. Fuel prices began their upward journey on November 20 last year on the back of strengthening crude oil prices. However, the Centre did not reduce the excise duty and cess which it had hiked on May 6, 2020, to capitalise on the falling crude prices around that time. Crude oil prices have rebounded since then in the international market — with the Indian crude imports jumping from an average $19.9 a barrel in April 2020 to $54.79 a barrel in January 2021. Sunday’s petrol price of Rs 91.78 a litre at Calcutta’s retail pumps reflects a rise of Rs 9.19 a litre, or 11 per cent, in the three months since November 21, 2020, when the fuel cost Rs 82.59 a litre. The rise in diesel prices from Rs 73.99 a litre to Rs 84.56 a litre over the same period marks an increase of Rs 10.57 a litre or 14 per cent. In the past, the Narendra Modi government had cut oil prices ahead of elections. In 2018, then finance minister Arun Jaitley had reduced petrol and diesel prices by Rs 2.5 a litre ahead of Assembly elections in five states. While the taxes were cut by Rs 1.5 a litre, the Centre had asked the public sector oil companies to reduce prices by Re 1 a litre. Some of the BJP-ruled states had effected a matching reduction in their taxes too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP gag on Pamela Goswami drug bust||Kailash Vijayvargiya, BJP’s minder for Bengal, reportedly called up two state leaders on Sunday and asked them to react judiciously to the controversy over the arrest of the party’s youth leader Pamela Goswami for allegedly carrying cocaine. “Kailash-ji is very upset with the incident and the manner the two leaders have been giving reactions to the media. There is little doubt that the incident embarrassed the party,” said a source. According to the source, Vijayvargiya called up the party’s youth wing chief Saumitra Khan and Rakesh Singh and spoke to them at length. While Bishnupur MP Khan couldn’t be contacted, Singh denied that the directive had come from Vijayvargiya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 3,525 active cases in Bengal ||Bengal on Sunday logged 233 Covid-19 recoveries, 182 new infections and three deaths, including two from the city, with the state’s total active cases dropping for 118 days on the trot to 3,525. There were 37,190 active cases in all on Dashami (October 26), making the dip an improvement by 90.52 per cent. Bengal now has 2.39 per cent of the nation’s active cases. Its recovery rate of 97.6 per cent while the national average is 97.2. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.81 per cent, having fallen steadily for 94 days. On Sunday, the state reported 20,003 tests, taking the total past 84.29 lakh, at 93,660 tests per million people. Of the total toll of 10,249, 8,604 deaths (83.9 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Shah’s Bengal allotment claim a lie: Mitra||State finance minister Amit Mitra on Sunday rebutted the recent claim of Union home minister Amit Shah that the Narendra Modi government during its tenure had allocated Rs 3.59 lakh crore to Bengal. Mitra said that the allocation to central schemes and centrally sponsored schemes in Bengal stood at Rs 113,617 crore, less than one-third of what Shah had claimed, from 2014-15 to 2019-20. In a political rally last week in South 24-Parganas, Shah accused chief minister and Trinamul leader Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek and “his goons” of siphoning the entire sum given by the Modi government. Mitra challenged Shah to join in a debate with him on the numbers. “I do not know from where he (Shah) got the numbers. He is spreading lies with political intent,” Mitra said. The state finance minister further added: “The money does not come from Modiji. The fact is that the Centre collects taxes from all states and what they are giving from those funds is expected in a federalist polity. On top of that, the figure is being inflated…I challenge him (Shah) to join me in a debate (over the numbers).” The Centre collects tax from the state in the form of direct (income tax) and indirect taxes (GST, customs duty, among others). According to the 15th Finance Commission formula, 42 per cent of the central collection is earmarked as part of devolution to the states. In contrast, Bengal has spent over Rs 3.02 lakh crore of its own funds in various schemes over the same period, Mitra said. “We have spent our fund on our strength, three times more than they have allocated,” the minister added. The state spent over Rs 4.1 lakh crore as salaries and wages in the same period, which Mitra argued created a multiplier effect in the economy by boosting demand. “Put together, the state has spent over Rs 7 lakh crore on our (its) own strength without taking recourse to the Centre in six years, compared to the allocation of Rs 1.13 lakh crore by the Centre,” he said. Shah in the rally had said that during Congress rule, it sent “Rs 1 lakh 32 thousand crores in five years to Bengal”. “The Narendra Modi government has sent Rs 3 lakh 59 thousand crores to Bengal...But did it reach your houses?...Where did it go? This bhaipo (Abhishek) and his goons ate it all. But you don’t worry. BJP will come to power and investigate these matters...Whoever has eaten people’s money will be sent to jail by the BJP government...,” Shah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||CBI notice to Abhishek Banerjee wife on coal theft probe||A team of CBI officers turned up at the residence of Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee here on Sunday and served a notice on his wife Rujira asking her to attend a questioning session as a witness in connection with the agency’s ongoing probe into alleged pilferage of coal worth thousands of crores of rupees across Bengal. The notice asked Rujira to participate in the questioning session at her Harish Mukherjee Road residence. “We would want to question her as a witness and she has been asked to attend the questioning session under Section 160 of the CrPC,” said a senior CBI officer. Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure relates to the power of a police officer to issue orders in writing looking for attendance of any person whom he believes to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case that he/she is probing into. The section spells out that no woman shall be required to attend this questioning session at any place other than where she resides. A special court for MPs and MLAs here had on Friday issued summons to Union home minister Amit Shah to appear before it either personally or through a representative on February 22 in a defamation suit filed by Abhishek, the nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. On Sunday, Abhishek said he had full faith in the law of land. Without referring to the CBI notice, Mamata said she was not afraid of anybody and would not be silenced with attempted intimidation. “Do not ever try to intimidate us with jail. We were raised fighting guns and state-sponsored atrocities, and are not afraid of fighting rodents.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Rivals seek to puncture Modi’s Dunlop ride ||The non-BJP opposition parties in Bengal have begun tossing up uncomfortable questions for Prime Minister Narendra Modi ahead of his much-hyped Monday rally at the Dunlop ground in Hooghly from where he is expected to launch a bitter attack on the Mamata Banerjee government for lack of industrialisation in Bengal. The venue of the meeting — the ground at the closed Dunlop factory — was chosen with the intention of highlighting the state of industry in Bengal, said a BJP source while adding that the Prime Minister was likely to announce some measures for closed industrial units at the meeting. The fact that the BJP is planning to use Monday’s meeting to attack Mamata on the issue of industrialisation became clear when Kailash Vijayvargiya, BJP’s Bengal minder, visited the venue on Friday evening and attacked the Trinamul government for its failure to restart the factory. “Mamata Banerjee had promised to start this factory, but couldn’t do anything. I promise that we will form a committee to restart all industries which were closed during the tenure of Mamata Banerjee government,” Vijayvargiya said.Dunlop India Ltd, set up in 1937, used to produce an array of tyres, including aero-tyres, till it was closed in 2006. The company is now closed and a liquidator has been appointed to sell it off. While the BJP leaders are bullish that Modi’s visit would help them create the right narrative for the polls, Opposition parties have begun their campaign on the Centre’s apathy. Trade unions and a section of employees said that despite floating the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), Modi-led government didn’t do anything for the company in the seven years of its tenure. “Despite having the capacity to produce aero-tyres which were used to supply to the defence ministry, the Modi government did not take any step to reopen it even after several appeals,” said Sarbik Ghosh, an employee of the factory and a secretary of the Citu, the CPM’s labour arm. According to him, a parliamentary team in 2014 visited the Dunlop factory in an attempt to explore options on how to reopen it, but the Modi government did not take any step to inject a fresh lease of life to Dunlop. “Everyone knows, during the Kargil war, a large number of tyres for cannons were taken from the closed Dunlap factory after a request from the central government led by Atal Behari Vajpayee. It was the only factory which used to produce tyres for all categories of planes, including cannon and jet planes. But the Prime Minister who is campaigning for Atmanirbhar Bharat, did not do anything for Dunlop. Now, he is coming for poll campaigning,” said Ghosh. “If the Modi government used this factory to produce tyres for defence use, it would have been enough to keep it alive. But this government is more interested in selling companies,” he added. Trinamul leaders said Modi had no right to speak about the closed factories when his government was selling off profitable public sectors like the Railways and BHEL. The ruling party leaders in the state accused the BJP government of sitting on a proposal of reopening the factory that the state government had sent in 2016. Sources said, in February 2016, the Mamata government passed a bill in the Assembly for two sick companies — Dunlop and Jessop — to be acquired by the state government. Sources said the state government had been providing a honorarium of Rs 10,000 per month from 2016 to each of around 200 employees of the factory. “After passing the bill in 2016, we sent a proposal to the Modi government for a Presidential consent to start production in Dunlop. Nothing happened to that proposal,” said Dola Sen, INTTUC president and a Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha MP. “Mamata Banerjee is still providing Rs 10,000 to the existing employees who are yet to cross their retirement age and arranged for pension for the retired persons. Modi should know that Dunlop has gone for liquidation,” Sen added. Rupchand Pal, a veteran Citu leader and seven-term CPM MP from Hooghly till 2009, said he didn’t have any expectations from the BJP government as the party-led government had always shied away from its responsibilities. “I can’t forget the reply of the NDA government during the time of Atal Behari Vajpayee. When we requested the then government to acquire Dunlop, they informed us in writing that it was not the government’s policy. I have no expectation from Modi as they believe in the same ideology,”  said Pal. Hooghly district is known for its industrial belt having around 120 big and small factories, out of which around 54 are closed. Singur, where Tata Motors had planned to set up its small car factory, falls in this district. BJP state committee member and a leader from the district Subir Nag said: “We are hopeful our Prime Minister Modiji will say something to reopen the closed Dunlop factory and also about Singur.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung: Plot to keep me off hills||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leaders Bimal Gurung has taken up the task to establish a “conspiracy theory” that had led to his absence from the hills for over three years since the 2017 statehood agitation. Gurung, speaking at a public meeting in Mirik on Sunday, also obliquely accused leaders of the rival Morcha faction led by Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa of forcing him to move out of the hills and trying to keep him out. “Party leaders and workers present here… the audience and thousands of residents…none of them did anything. It is because of two people that I was forced to move into the jungles then,” said Gurung. “I stayed away from the hills for over three years...Now, Mamata Banerjee could assess me...When I came here to work, some of our people resorted to hue and cry and said that if Bimal Gurung reaches the hills, there will be tension and violence. I ask them to provide proof… I have been staying here for three months now and there hasn’t been any such incident. All these indicate a political ploy hatched against me,” he said. Gurung’s remarks come at a time the Mamata Banerjee government has initiated the process of withdrawing police cases registered against him, except the murder cases and the UAPA case. Around 70 cases have already been withdrawn, said sources. Political analysts pointed out that as the state’s decision drew flak from political quarters — a number of political parties have alleged that the cases are being withdrawn in exchange of Gurung’s support to Mamata and her party — he is trying to prove that he had “fallen prey to a conspiracy.” “He (Gurung) is trying to drive home the point that he is a victim of circumstances and political strategies and was not involved in the incidents for which police cases were registered against him. It appears to be a planned move to counter political parties on the issue (of withdrawal of cases) and also try to exert pressure on the other faction (Tamang-Thapa) that is also with Trinamul,” said an observer. Gurung also hit out at his former ally BJP and Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling who won the 2019 Lok Sabha polls with Gurung’s support. He said he trusted the BJP for years but was eventually “betrayed.” “Whenever I met the Prime Minister or Union home minister, I asked about the permanent political solution (PPS) for the hills and for tribal status to 11 hill communities. They went on assuring me but eventually our patience and trust did not pay off,” he said. He told Bista not to ascend to Darjeeling without fulfilling the aspirations of hill residents. “The (Assembly) elections are now ahead and once the model code of conduct comes into force, nothing can be done. I would like to ask him (Bista) that there is no need for him to come to Darjeeling without meeting the commitments made by his party.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Disquiet in Trinamul over tribal question ||The near-absence of the tribal community at Saturday’s public meeting of youth Trinamul president and MP Abhishek Banerjee in Nagrakata has left district party leaders frowning. On Saturday, some 25,000 people had turned up at Abhishek’s meeting at the European Club grounds, Nagrakata, but only a fraction was from the tribal community. “However, we found that the number of tribal people was very few,” said K.K. Kalyani, the Jalpaiguri district Trinamul president on Sunday. “This should not have happened as the meeting was arranged to address the tribals, thousands of whom live in Nagrakata, Malbazar and adjoining areas. The block leaders and elected representatives of these areas have been asked to find out why tribal turnout was low.” In Jalpaiguri, Nagrakata and Malbazar are two Assembly seats reserved for scheduled tribes. Overall, tribal voters in north Bengal decide the electoral fate of some 15 Assembly seats. According to Trinamul insiders, the district and the state leadership had chosen Nagrakata as the venue for two reasons. First, they felt the need to show their strength in Nagrakata as Sukra Munda, the local tribal MLA, recently defected from Trinamul to the BJP. Second, they wanted to see the response to Trinamul’s recent initiatives, from the free housing scheme to pay hike for tea workers among the tribal population. “It is surprising that despite an array of initiatives taken by the state (free housing scheme, tea wage hike), there were only a few hundred tribal people in the audience,” said an insider, adding that the party leadership had hoped that around 80 per cent of the audience would be tribals. “We did get a good crowd but most were non-tribals. It is natural that our leaders want to find out why most tribals stayed away from the meeting,” the Trinamul leader said. District leaders after a meeting here on Sunday decided to send party workers to tribal homes. The teams would hand over the report card of the state government in various local languages and tell people what the Mamata Banerjee government did for them. “We have asked for a report from the elected representatives and block level leaders by next Friday on the issue,” Kalyani said. Trinamul has on board Rajesh Lakra, a prominent tribal leader, and Sanjay Kujur, a tribal social worker. Also, Joseph Munda, a former tribal MLA of Nagrakata, is the district president of INTTUC. “It is good that these leaders are with Trinamul, but we need to confirm that tribal people are with us,” said a leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Railway gift to north Bengal: 126km of electrified tracks||The Narendra Modi government, playing the development card to woo Bengal’s voters, on Sunday introduced new infrastructure, including a 126km electrified section, and facilities in a number of stations across north Bengal. Piyush Goyal, the Union railways minister, inaugurated the amenities via video-conferencing, with railway officials and Union minister of state for women and child development Debashree Chaudhuri — the sole Union minister from north Bengal — physically present at various locations. “The railways have taken up the task to contribute to the mission of developing Sonar Bangla. In Bengal, railway tracks will be fully electrified in three years,” said Goyal. “North Bengal is known for its natural beauty and its infrastructure development will draw more tourists. The railways are working for the holistic development of the region,” the railway minister added. Among the infrastructure inaugurated on Sunday were the 126km electrified section between New Jalpaiguri (NJP) and New Cooch Behar, the new station building with a circulating area, running rooms and signalling system at Haldibari station, the electronic interlocking system at Haldibari, Gangrampur and Jalpaiguri Town stations, a new platform at Gangarampur station, a renovated Alipurduar Junction with two elevators, and a foot overbridge at Madarihat station in Alipurduar district. “The NJP-New Cooch Behar section is vital for train movement to the northeast. Electrification will help run more trains in an environment-friendly manner with less carbon emission,” said a source. Last December, the Haldibari-Chilahati (Bangladesh) route opened up and goods trains started running along the route. Three passenger platforms and two tracks for goods trains came up before the route started functioning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee attacks Centre on Bangla delay||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday accused the BJP-led Centre of step-motherly treatment towards Bengal, raising questions on the delay in renaming the state and accusing it of deprioritising regional languages such as Bengali. The chief minister, at an event to commemorate the International Mother Language Day, said the Bengal government had approved the change of the state’s name formally to Bangla four years ago, but the Centre had not yet done so. “They (the Centre) came up with this strange reasoning that the name (Bangla) would leave scope for confusion with a neighbouring nation. But that’s another nation. If there can be another Punjab in another nation, why can’t there be a Bangla here? Four years, they kept it hanging…. Some will say Bangal, others will say Bongal, why? Why won’t even the name be pronounced correctly?” asked Mamata. The proposal to rechristen the state had been endorsed by all non-BJP parties in the Assembly, in a relatively rare instance of an issue uniting Mamata, the Left and Congress. There have been multiple renaming efforts since 2011, involving several suggestions, to culminate in the Assembly resolution in July 2018 to change the name to Bangla. In the run-up to the crucial Assembly polls this year, Mamata has been repeatedly trying to corner the BJP, which she accuses of being the bohiragawto (outsider), trying to invade and destroy the state and what its people hold dear. On Sunday, she went on to say she has noticed a historical tendency towards a step-motherly treatment towards Bengal. “An attempt to deprive Bengal. A stepmotherly behaviour towards it. Whenever someone from Bengal rises, (there are) attempts to drag them down, pull them back. From Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to Syama Prasad Mookerjee, Ramakrishna Paramhansa to Rabindranath Tagore, none spared,” said the chief minister, carefully adding the saffron camp’s mega icon Mookerjee too to the mix. “Why should this happen at all, and why should it go on?” she asked. “Bengal must always mean the worst? This perception that they try to peddle is very bad…. The people of Bengal, I know, will stand up to this aggression.” Though vehemently critical of the Trinamul chief’s alleged attempts to polarise voters on the basis of regionalist sub-nationalism, the saffron ecosystem seems unsure of how the outsider label will impact the BJP electorally. Its top leaders Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, J.P. Nadda are trying to convince the people of the state that their party does not lack a Bengal connect and does not exclusively represent the Sangh parivar’s Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan vision now. Mamata and her party have, so far, been enjoying an apparent edge in this fierce rivalry, as the BJP has often been found wanting, with avoidable gaffes in their gestures or statements that have suggested a relative lack of understanding in several core areas of the complex Bengal ethos.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
22-02-2021||North East||'Privatisation' of two black panthers kicks up storm in Guwahati||Prime Minister Narendra Modi may be pooh-poohing the farmers’ movement but one fallout is apparent: it’s open season on anything to do with privatisation and Reliance. The purported “privatisation” of two black panthers has kicked up a storm in Guwahati with activists smelling a rat in the transfer of the pair from the state-run zoo in Assam to a zoological park coming up on Reliance premises at Jamnagar in Gujarat. To be spread over 280 acres, the Greens Zoological Rescue and Rehabilitation Kingdom in Jamnagar is projected to become one of the world’s biggest zoos housing over 100 species of animals and birds from India and the rest of the world. Media reports have described it as a “pet project” of Anant Ambani, youngest son of Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani. The Assam State Zoo has said no law was broken and the transfer was part of an exchange programme under which the Northeast facility will get zebras from Israel, apparently with the help of the Reliance zoo. Besides, the Guwahati zoo officials have underlined, the Reliance park had been sanctioned by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) and the transfer of the panthers was also approved by the authority. But such is the mistrust swirling around privatisation that activists of the Chiriakhana Suraksha Mancha in Guwahati are not convinced by the official explanation. Reservations against privatisation have always been latent in India because of the socialist roots of many politicians in the latter half of the last century, although the misgivings had ebbed somewhat after Manmohan Singh’s reforms. But the farmers’ prolonged resistance and the ham-handed manner in which the Modi government has tried to break up the movement have resurrected the misgivings and fears associated with privatisation. “According to the Central Zoo Authority rules, exchange can take place only between government zoos and not between a government and a private zoo. We want the panthers to be brought back. We cannot allow our resources to be handed to any private party,” said Rajkumar Baishya, general secretary of the Mancha, on Sunday. Around 100 protesters from the Mancha gathered with placards in front of the zoo, denouncing the transfer and general mismanagement. The Mancha was formed in 2017 to ensure the well-being of the Assam state zoo. “We decided to stage the protest to highlight the irregularities taking place inside the zoo and also the transfer of the two black panthers in gross violation of rules,” Baishya added. Established in 1957, the Assam State Zoo is the region’s leading zoo and ex-situ (off-site) conservation centre located in the state capital’s Hengrabari Reserve Forest. The Opposition Congress in Assam, too, had condemned the “hush-hush” transfer of the black panthers amid the pandemic. The Congress’s media department chairperson in Assam, Bobbeeta Sharma, demanded a high-level inquiry. The pair of black panthers were relocated to the Reliance zoo under an exchange programme in January with the necessary approval of the CZA in November, Tejas Mariswamy, the divisional forest officer looking after the Guwahati zoo, told The Telegraph. In exchange, the Assam State Zoo-cum-Botanical Garden will receive two pairs of zebras from Israel with the help of the Reliance-run zoo sometime after April. The Guwahati zoo is the only breeding centre for black panthers in the country. So, the demand for the animal is quite high here. A black panther each was earlier relocated to Mysore and Ranchi in exchange for an ostrich and a giraffe, respectively, Mariswamy said. He said exchange was permitted between government and private zoos and also foreign zoos, most of which are private, after approval from the CZA. “The panthers are not coming back. We can acquire animals for conservation breeding or for display, depending on the need. We have brought in so many animals and birds from other zoos. We are also acquiring zebras. Animal exchange between zoos is part of their scientific management protocol. Without animal exchange, there will be inbreeding and over-population, which is not good for the zoo,” Mariswamy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
22-02-2021||Opinion||Plug the leak: water wastage||A country where wastage and scarcity of water have percolated down to every level can have a lot to learn from a nation that has been largely successful in tackling the same problems. In a recent interaction, the Danish ambassador revealed that only about 4 per cent of the water pushed into the distribution system in Denmark remains unaccounted for. The statement only throws into sharper contrast the long road in water conservation that lies ahead for Indian cities. In Calcutta alone, nearly half of the water that is injected into the network is lost. Given that the Calcutta Municipal Corporation sends 488 million gallons of water into the city’s distribution system every day, the gravity of the loss cannot be overstated, especially since 250 million gallons of water are reported by experts to be enough to meet the needs of the city’s residents. Calcutta — indeed, many Indian cities — will pay a heavy price for such lapses. Water scarcity brings additional challenges: it adversely impacts food production, causes prices to escalate and even results in social conflict; ‘water wars’ have already broken out on parched territories. Last year, Bengal’s capital featured among the 30 Indian cities in the World Wildlife Fund’s Water Risk Filter analysis that are set to face the greatest water shortages by 2050. Apart from poor infrastructure — the loss of water within the city’s distribution system has been attributed in part to old, leaking pipes — other factors have also aggravated the crisis. These include rapid, unplanned urbanization, over-extraction of groundwater for industrial and agricultural purposes, the low priority afforded by planners to the regeneration of depleting reservoirs as well as climate change. There is also a relative paucity of policies, mechanisms and frameworks to govern the use of water resources so as to maintain the fragile ecological balance — Calcutta’s vanishing wetlands bear testimony to this erosion. Then, as usual, there is the myopia of successive state governments that have prioritized populism over pragmatism. It would be prudent to tax citizens on the basis of water consumption but Calcutta’s administrators remain hesitant fearing a public backlash. The latter, in turn, exposes yet another challenge: scant public awareness. The water crisis is now global. Cape Town almost ran out of water in 2018, but solved the problem by involving businesses and citizens in multiple water-saving initiatives that bolstered water efficiency. Calcutta and other Indian cities must learn from these global experiences and models if they are to survive dry days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
22-02-2021||Opinion||Just view: Priya Ramani’s acquittal||It is not enough to speak up against sexual harassment; a woman’s courage and determination must endure further ordeals. Priya Ramani’s acquittal by a Delhi court in the criminal defamation case filed by the former Union minister, M.J. Akbar, for damaging his “stellar reputation” through her allegation that he sexually harassed her 20 years ago, is a victory for her steadfastness and an example of the court’s wisdom. The additional chief metropolitan magistrate, Ravindra Kumar Pandey, reportedly said that the ruse of criminal defamation cannot silence protests against sexual abuse since reputation cannot be defended at the price of a woman’s life and dignity. This would violate the Constitutional rights to equality. Additionally, the court felt that Mr Akbar did not have a stellar reputation since other women had similar complaints, two of whom provided testimony. The understanding of the court in this case is of overwhelming importance. Clearly, a law against sexual harassment is not enough: what is also needed is the court’s wisdom regarding its significance. Society should understand the trauma sexual harassment can cause, the court said in effect, so neither the lapse of time since the abuse nor the platform she chose for her complaint was relevant. This alone is a huge step forward. The court also said that there were no Vishaka guidelines or a law to help Ms Ramani and her peers when they faced abuse. The endorsement of Ms Ramani’s defence in the name of public interest, the truth and public good would be especially valuable in cases of sexual misconduct of people in power. The acquittal is a triumph for activists, courageous lawyers and all those whose support for the cause has never faltered in the history of the long fight against sexual harassment by superiors in the profession or the work sphere — a fight that recalls figures such as Bhanwari Devi and Rupan Deol Bajaj. The court laid bare the operations of gender-based power by its comment that men well-established in society could be cruel to women. But the sense of male entitlement is not limited to the more visible social strata. Underprivileged women desperate to keep their jobs are often helpless in the face of sexual abuse. The problem of their access to justice needs to be resolved too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
22-02-2021||Opinion||No escape for the Sheikh's daughters||Dubai can be amusing, in a voyeuristic way, for a week or two. Tallest building in the world and the mall with the shark tank, but it’s the people, really. There are a quarter-million expats, mostly British or American, living much higher on the hog than they ever could at home — but bored out of their minds. Offstage, there are also a couple of million servants, menials and labourers, mostly from the Indian subcontinent. They are probably bored too, but nobody bothers to ask. And there are a quarter-million native-born Arab citizens, most of them quite prosperous but also bored, though the richer ones console themselves with stables of race-horses and the like. The richest of them all is Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the absolute ruler of Dubai. The Sheikh has over 25 children by his six wives, so he obviously loves children, but unaccountably his daughters keep trying to escape. He recaptures them and locks them up, of course, but it’s starting to draw unwelcome attention. In the good old days, potentates from the oil-rich parts of the Middle East could get away with anything. When Maktoum’s daughter, Shamsa, ran away from the family’s compound in Surrey while on holiday in 2000, the Sheikh didn’t contact the English police. He sent his own agents out to find her. They tracked her down a month later in Cambridge, where four Arab men grabbed her on the street, bundled her into a car, and injected her with a sedative. She was flown back to Dubai on a private jet, and has not been seen in public since. (She would be around 40 now, but the Dubai government says she is “adored and cherished” by her family.) Two years later her younger half-sister, Latifa, made her first escape attempt at the age of 16. She was caught crossing the border into Oman and brought back to Dubai, where she was jailed for three years. She says she was kept in solitary confinement and tortured. Princess Latifa didn’t try to escape again until 2018, when she made it to the coast of Oman with the help of her Finnish fitness instructor, thence out to a yacht in international waters by dinghy and jet-ski, and off to India, from where she planned to fly to the United States of America and seek asylum. (Good luck with that; Donald Trump was still president.) But eight days later, only 30 kilometres off Goa, they were boarded by Emirati commandos from an Indian navy ship (the government of Narendra Modi still curries favour with rich Arabs), and Latifa was ‘tranquillized’ again and flown back to Dubai. For over two years she has been held in solitary confinement in a seaside ‘villa’. (“Safe with her family,” as the Dubai government put it.) But at some point a mobile phone was smuggled in to her, and she began locking herself in the bathroom and sending out secret videos to her Finnish friend, Tiina Jauhiainen. That phone went dead five months ago, so now the ‘family’ knows. Fortunately, there is now some support from the British, because Latifa’s stepmother, Princess Haya bint Al Hussein, took her two children and fled to London in 2019. Last year the British High Court issued a ‘fact-finding judgment’ confirming that both Shamsa and Latifa had been kidnapped and were being illegally held. It denied Maktoum’s demand that his children with Princess Haya be returned to his custody, and said that the Sheikh’s campaign of intimidation against her included having a pistol left on her pillow. That’s where it stands at the moment, but now the United Nations is getting involved: the office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has said it will soon question the United Arab Emirates about Latifa, and a spokesman said the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention could launch an investigation once her videos have been analysed. But that may not be enough, because now it has become a question of face for Sheikh Mohammed. He knows what all the other kings and sheikhs of the Gulf are saying about him. They’re saying “Why can’t Mohammed control his women?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
22-02-2021||Opinion||Show of strength: China ups the ante on Taiwan||Even as the Joe Biden administration in the United States of America is trying to settle in, China is making it clear that its priorities have not changed. The new dispensation in Washington, DC may talk of strategic patience when it comes to dealing with China but for Beijing, there is only one approach to managing issues like Hong Kong and Taiwan. The last few weeks have seen China upping the ante on Taiwan. After demonstrating its military might via air incursions and other military activities, China warned Taiwan that any attempt to seek independence “means war”. A Chinese spokesperson argued that the military manoeuvres were “necessary actions to address the current security situation in the Taiwan Strait and to safeguard national sovereignty and security”. There was also a direct warning to “‘Taiwan independence’ elements”: [T]hose who play with fire will burn themselves...” This sort of approach is becoming a regular feature of Chinese diplomacy. With every new US administration, Beijing makes a big show of its force, often testing the new dispensation’s resolve to stand up to its coercive tactics. With this power transition, too, China wants to ensure that the US gets the message about its seriousness when it comes to Taiwan. And so the world witnessed major air incursions by China into Taiwanese air space last month, at times involving as many as 15 aircraft. In response, Taiwan’s air force deployed air defence missile systems to monitor the planes. The Taiwanese government also made it clear that China should “not underestimate” the island nation’s determination to defend its sovereignty and uphold democracy. Amid such threats and counter-threats, the Biden administration not only reaffirmed its “rock-solid commitment” to helping Taiwan defend itself but also said that it sees “no reason why tensions over Taiwan need to lead to anything like confrontation”. In his first call with the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, Biden also underscored his “fundamental concerns about Beijing’s coercive and unfair practices, its crackdown in Hong Kong, reported human rights abuses in Xinjiang, and increasingly assertive actions in the region, including toward Taiwan”. Abandoning the cautious approach of its predecessors, the Donald Trump administration had given a new dimension to US-Taiwan ties by enhancing closer ties with Taipei, stepping up arms sales, increasing the frequency of US Navy ships sailing through the Taiwan Strait, and engaging in regular high-level interactions with officials in Taipei in spite of fierce warnings from China. In fact, in his last few days in office, the US secretary of state, Mike Pompeo lifted long-standing restrictions on contacts between American and Taiwanese officials, one of the most significant policy shifts on Taiwan in recent years. He called into question the US’s long-standing ‘one-China’ policy by stating in a radio interview that Taiwan “has not been a part of China”. Beijing issued a warning that behaviour that undermines “China’s core interests and interferes with China’s domestic affairs will be met with a resolute counterattack”. Biden will have to follow that policy of enhanced engagement even at the risk of incurring Chinese wrath. Taiwan’s de facto ambassador to the US, Hsiao Bi-khim, was invited to attend Biden’s inauguration ceremony, underlining for Beijing an essential continuity in US policy towards Taiwan. It is therefore no surprise that China is messaging Washington about its red lines at a time when global opinion is perhaps the most favourable it has ever been to Taiwan. This was a message also being sent by the Taiwanese president, Tsai Ing-wen, in her New Year address when she suggested that “stabilizing relations across the Taiwan Strait is no longer just an issue for the two sides” but “a concern for the whole of [the] Indo-Pacific region”. There is a lot of goodwill for Taiwan across the world today while China’s actions during the Covid-19 pandemic have generated a negative backlash. This worries Beijing as the global climate might propel Tsai to declare formal independence, although she has repeatedly said that Taiwan is already an independent State, making any formal declaration unnecessary. Beijing has been relentless in targeting Tsai, but the more she has been bullied, the higher her political profile in Taiwan has risen. She was re-elected to office last year with a landslide victory after she was seen as standing up resolutely to the Chinese Communist Party. The global goodwill for Taiwan will make it even more difficult for Biden to go back to the US’s overly-cautious policy framework of the past. For his part, Xi has made it clear to Taiwan that it “must and will be” reunited with China, arguing that unification was “an inevitable requirement for the great rejuvenation of the Chinese people”. And so, as the US and China restructure their relationship around the strongly contested issue of Taiwan, the latter remains one of the biggest flashpoints in global geopolitics, with serious consequences for the future of the global order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
22-02-2021||Opinion||A different shade||Governments are not benign, and the use of the law and regulatory agencies against inconvenient voices is not new. Although it has become a reflex action for journalists to invoke a comparison with the Emergency for each new attack on journalism and on free speech, there have been enough instances in two decades of this century to show that both the first National Democratic Alliance government and the United Progressive Alliance in its two terms were not shy of either deploying the sedition law against journalists and activists or of coming down mercilessly on media exposés that showed the government in a poor light. This month’s Enforcement Directorate raids on the online portal, NewsClick, smacked of harassment. They took place presumably on account of its reporting on a range of issues, including many stories on the alleged transgressions of Gautam Adani’s empire and its nexus with the ruling party. The ED, on its part, said that it was investigating payments received by the site from the United States of America. During Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s prime-ministerial tenure, the harassment of Tehelka and Outlook was  far bigger in scale after the portal’s 2001 sting operation and Outlook’s follow-up of that exposé. In his latest book, Jugalbandi, Vinay Sitapati documents the scale: “More than 700 tax officials searched the offices of the proprietor of Outlook in twelve cities and 120 premises.” As for Tehelka itself, after its entrapment sting captured bribes taken by the ruling party’s functionaries and implicated those close to the prime minister, its investor was prosecuted, its offices raided, its reporter jailed without bail, and government agencies went to town leaking hostile stories about the portal to the media. As an aside, one reason we see far fewer examples of the government coming down on investigative journalism is because there is so little reporting of this genre now. While there is frequent and escalating use of sedition by the current government against activists, district journalists and, now, far more prominent journalists, the misuse of Section 124A has been documented right through the UPA tenure as well — from 2009 onwards, at least, with the use of the law picking up in 2010 (against Arundhati Roy and Binayak Sen among others) and 2011 and thereafter. Between September and December 2011, for instance, the protest against the Kudankulam nuclear power plant in Tamil Nadu saw 3,500 people accused of ‘sedition’ and/or ‘waging war against the state’. Then again, it was the UPA government that amended the Information Technology Act 2000 in 2008 and notified rules to the amended Act that gave sweeping powers to the government to intercept, monitor and block websites and to pressurize intermediaries such as service providers on electronic content. Section 66A of the IT Act, which was so draconian that it was finally read down by the Supreme Court in 2015, was a legacy of the UPA government. The predecessor to today’s sweeping requests for the blocking of Twitter handles was the practice of government requests to internet intermediaries to remove content which Google has documented from the year 2010. The number of requests picked up substantially from 2014. Governments, then, have been intolerant of media criticism before. They have been repressive before. But what fosters the current sense of siege and intimidation is the following. Co-option by the ruling party and the government has made the mainstream media such a diminished force that no meaningful pushback is forthcoming. You may have a press club demonstration, but you will not get the same numbers as before. Ditto for the protest processions taken out by journalists. Proprietors do not want to take on a government that has demonstrated from the day it came in that it has no use for conventional media. If your star anchor tweets an unproven assertion, a prompt correction is not enough, you take him off the air. At the same time, for all its numbers in Parliament, this government has turned paranoid. The paranoia borders on the farcical when the country’s foreign minister bristles against a pop star’s tweet. Or when law enforcement agencies see conspiracies in internet toolkits tweeted by environmental activists. So you get these escalating requests to block Twitter handles. As a former Twitter official said during an online discussion, if you have a hammer every problem looks like a nail. Third, as the lawyer, Akhil Sibal, pointed out recently, free speech as a value is being replaced by nationalism as a competing value. Dissent and protest are dubbed anti-national. So terrorism-related laws, such as the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and sedition are brought against free speech ‘offenders’ and grass-roots activists. Both are non-bailable offences. Fourth, there is politically-motivated intolerance demonstrated by multiple first information reports registered in BJP-ruled states in response to similar and simultaneous complaints against the government’s favourite targets — some sections of the media, activists, and social media users who are not part of the ruling party’s verbal arsenal. The outcome is a proactive policing of speech. And its weapon of choice is the law. Not just UAPA and sedition but also Section 69A of the IT Act, which allows confidentiality of orders, complaints, and actions regarding internet platforms. There is no transparency about which accounts have been blocked and why. It is another section of the IT Act waiting to be read down. Finally, as the lawyer, Gautam Bhatia, among others, has argued, the Supreme Court has not been consistent in its defence of freedoms over the past year or more. If it found in the case of bail for the television anchor, Arnab Goswami, in November last year that the “[d]eprivation of liberty even for a single day is one day too many”, it was not similarly moved at the prospect of the deprivation of liberty in the case of the journalist, Siddique Kappan, arrested on his way to report on the Hathras gang rape in October. After four months and six adjournments, the Supreme Court granted Kappan bail for five days to visit his mother on her deathbed with several restrictions on what he will be permitted to do in that period. As Bhatia says sardonically, it is a case of show me the man and I’ll show you the law. The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||50 tribals breach high security zone, try to pull off Pathalgadi||Over 50 tribal protesters breached the high security perimeter of Jharkhand High Court in Ranchi on Monday and tried to install a stone plaque stating that the state government did not hold executive powers in the area, their agitation mirroring the tribal custom of Pathalgadi. “We stopped them (Pathalgadi supporters) half way through and pacified them. The plaque was not installed, and they were not allowed to go anywhere close to the high court,” said Ranchi SP Saurav, who goes by one name. Pathalgadi, an ancient  tribal custom of installing stone plaques with inscriptions to demarcate and area as a mark of respect to ancestors, drew the attention of the state government in 2017 after a few plaques restricted entry of administration and police in villages and declared them as liberated zones. The former Bharatiya Janata Party-led government had decided to tackle the issue with an iron fist and lodged FIRs against several hundred Pathalgadi supporters. But cases against these protesters were withdrawn after the advent of the current Hemant Soren-led government. Monday’s plaque, which wasn't allowed to be installed, read: "The executive power of the state of Jharkhand does not extend to the scheduled area, therein; there is no right to freedom for the general public in these scheduled areas.” The stone plaque was the size of a dining table top. The plaque carried names of 12 districts – Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Lohardaga, West Singhbhum, Gumla, Latehar, Saraikela Kharsawan, Sahebganj, Dumka, Pakur, Jamtara and Simdega – which the Pathalgadi supporters wanted to declare as scheduled areas beyond the jurisdiction of the government of Jharkhand. Eyewitnesses said that around 50 protesters, mostly from Ranchi, Khunti, Gumla and Lohardaga districts, entered the high security zone to install the stone plaque. Police said that they wanted to install the plaque at a square close to the high court and not on the high court premises. The protesters have said that they will meet Governor Droupadi Murmu on Tuesday and handover a memorandum to her highlighting their demands. During the Pathalgadi movement of 2017, several thousand villagers carrying traditional bows and arrows gathered around the stone plaques in the bordering areas of their villages. There were several face-offs between the administration and Pathalgadi supporters during the period. Some supporters of the movement had reportedly held a few policemen hostage demanding release of their fellow supporters from jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Congress to intensify protest against rising fuel prices in Jharkhand||Concerned over the steep rise in petrol, diesel and LPG prices in the recent weeks, Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee has announced to hit the streets, demanding the Union government to rollback price in order to lessen financial burden on common man. Congress, which is part of the incumbent coalition state government, however has ruled out the possibility of slashing the state's value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel stating that doing so would push the state into financial distress. Announcing their plan of action after a meeting at its party office on Monday, party president Rameshwar Oraon said, “On February 26, we have decided to hold mashal julus (torchlight procession) at district and block levels across the state to protest against Narendra Modi government’s inhuman move of constantly hiking fuel prices. On February 27, the party will hold demonstrations at all the district headquarters.” The party has also been holding different protest activities against the three contentious farm laws by the centre in solidarity with the farmers who are protesting along Delhi borders for almost three months now. Oraon said that after organising two successful tractor rallies at Godda and Hazaribag, respectively, in recent weeks, they will soon chalk out plans to intensify their stir in this regard. “Farm rallies and stir against fuel prices will continue till the NDA government wakes up from its deep slumber and bails out the public,” he said. Currently, petrol and diesel are priced Rs 88.08 and Rs 85.60 per litre respectively in Ranchi. State government imposes Rs 17 VAT on petrol and Rs 12 on diesel. Asked if the state government would like to reduce their state VAT, on the lines of the move done by a few states recently, Oraon, who is also state's finance minister, denied the possibility in near future. “How can we sustain if state VAT is reduced? After the rollout of goods and service tax (GST), the union government has blocked all the avenues of revenue generation for the states, barring VAT and local manufacturing tax. If we are to reduce these also, how can we generate funds to run the state,” said Oraon. “At a time when global crude oil prices are down, we are failing to understand why the fuel prices in our country are going up. Since, the centre rolled out GST to promise one nation, one tax formula, the onus of regulating prices largely lies with it. It must reduce fuel prices and not put the onus on the states,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Parents demand for inoculation of school staff before reopening||A group of parents has urged the state government to ensure all staff of schools are vaccinated against the coronavirus in the interest of students since schools have been allowed to open for classes  VIII, IX and XI from March 1 in addition to the existing class X and XII. In a letter addressed to the state education department, by Jharkhand Abhibhavak Manch (JAM), a parents’ body affiliated to Federation of Parents Association on Monday, said that the government needs to make provisions for the vaccination of school staff. Ajay Rai, president of JAM, said that the school staff, both casual and permanent ones, must be inoculated to curb the spread of covid-19 within the educational premises. “Like government is giving Covid-19 vaccine doses to all the frontline staff and health workers, it should now make similar arrangements for inoculating school administration and their workers on priority basis before schools resume,” he said, while seeking serious consideration of the state government to ensure safety of the kids. Rai maintained that the government in its own submission has claimed that Covid-19 is still not over and has appealed to all to maintain all the standards of hygiene and safety norms. The resurgence of infection in a few states posing fresh concerns has even prompted Jharkhand health department to step up surveillance, mainly at transit points like railway stations and airports to prevent chances of new infections. Currently, Jharkhand is witnessing a steady decline in the number of Covid-19 cases but the detection of 10 infected persons from a family in Jamshedpur’s Sakchi area, which according to officials could be a case of cluster infection, has been troubling many parents. Although the state government in its latest unlock order has asked all schools to resume only after taking due consent of the parents, Rai believed that inoculating school administration would be the safest way to move forward. “Talking about my own case, I am still not sure if I would dare to send my kid to school from next month. At the same time, the online mode of teaching has not been fruitful. Amid such a situation, both students and their parents are under extreme stress, as the slightest could lead to the spread of virus. Therefore, we demand the government to ensure proper vaccination of bus staff, canteen workers, teaching and non-teaching staff and all those who would come to school once they resume,” he said. Subodh Sinha, a banker and parent of two kids studying in standard eight and nine in a private school conceded to the worries stating that they have decided to not send their children to school for another few weeks. “We aren’t going to send our children from March 1. We will wait and watch till we get the confidence and a clear cut idea of the trend. What is happening in other states is again worrying us. Education is important but safety of my kids is equally paramount,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Koderma district administration rolls out new rules for boatmen at Telaiya dam||Koderma sub-divisional officer Manish Kumar has asked all boatmen at Telaiya Dam to register for a license for operating boats and also asked them to wear similar uniforms. Telaiya dam is the most popular tourist destination of the state attracting tourists from different places round the year. Seeing the huge footfall, Koderma district administration left no stone unturned to develop best facilities for tourists who don’t miss a chance to go boating at this picturesque spot. In his order, Kumar instructed the boatmen to keep their boats well maintained and ensure regular servicing. In case of any technical snag, he asked the boatmen to get that fixed immediately. He asked them to keep safety kits and ensure life jackets for each and every person taking a ride in a boat on this 200 feet deep dam. “Even colour your boats in the same colour,” he claimed. Kumar said the administration is working on a plan to develop toilets and provide drinking water facilities to tourists at this spot. Kumar also informed that he had instructed policemen to keep a breath analyser to test any person if suspected of being drunk on the spot. The dam, which was the first of four multi-purpose dams included in the first phase of the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), constructed across the Barakar river and inaugurated in 1953 by the then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru, attracts a large number of tourists round the year from Bihar and Jharkhand as well as other states including Bengal. Filmmakers from Bengal and Bhojpuri film industries prefer to shoot their films at this picturesque location.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Top Maoist in police custody, talks on to decide surrender terms||CPI (Maoist) zonal commander Jeevan Kandulna, who carries a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head, is keen to surrender to Ranchi police, highly placed sources  said on Monday, adding that the insurgent was being in talks with law enforcement agencies in captivity at a secret location. However, there was no official statement from the police regarding Kandulna’s surrender on Monday despite unconfirmed reports about the development doing the rounds since Sunday afternoon. “Maoist surrender does not happen overnight. It is a lengthy process which may even take months,” said an Inspector General (IG) rank official, adding that insurgents often surrender after ensuring that they can trust the police and the negotiation happens at different levels. “You will get to know when he officially surrenders. As of now, it is difficult to say at what level the negotiation is going on. The surrender policy of the government has been framed to encourage Maoists to shun their guns, but it all boils down to trust between the insurgent and the officials they have reached out,” said the police official, requesting anonymity. Kandulna, originally a resident of Rania block of Khunti district, about 35km msouth of Ranchi, was active in the Saranda jungles of West Singhbhum – the largest Sal forest of South East Asia. Police sources said that security forces were following his location and activities for over a year and mounting pressure on him to surrender. Some media reports highlighted that Kandulna had joined the outlawed CPI (Maoist) to avenge the killing of his sister by a splinter outfit years ago. Security forces have been on the lookout for Kandulna during combing operations in West Singhbhum in the past couple of months, sources said. While sources have confirmed his surrender, a senior police official in Ranchi, who has been in the thick of affairs during several Maoist surrender, said that in many cases the insurgents do not surrender even after having talks with the police. “I remember, once a Maoist leader wanted to surrender, but he eventually backed out and ended talks with us. He was killed in an encounter after a month,” said the police official. Police spokesperson, IG (Ops), Saket Kumar Singh said he was unaware of any such development, adding that the police will issue an official statement once and if at all the surrender happens. As per records with the Ministry of Home Affairs, at least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand are Left Wing Extremism-affected. Besides the main CPI (Maoist), there are around 17 splinter outfits active in the tribal state. The government has been working on framing better surrender policies in order to ensure more surrender by insurgents. In 2017, Jharkhand’s one of the most infamous Maoist leaders, Kundan Pahan, a zonal commander, had surrendered and was given a warm welcome by the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||ITI apprentices on three-day dharna against BCCL in Dhanbad  ||Over 100 ITI apprentice trainees of Dhanbad launched a three-day dharna at BCCL headquarters in the Koylangar area to press for jobs. The protestors who assembled in front of Koyla Bhavan at 10 am under the banner of BCCL ITI Apprentice Sangh shouted slogans against the BCCL management. Veteran Communist leader and former MP of Bankura Basudeb Acharia, who was present, supported their demand and criticized the unjust policies of the  coal company. The agitators,  who were displaying banners and posterswith slogans against BCCL, later submitted a four- point charter of demands addressed to BCCL chairman and managing director P.M. Prasad. The demands highlighted included provisions for integrating one-year trainining of ITI apprentices with jobs,  providing employement to apprentice trainees on a minimum honorarium at the earliest and providing employement to apprentice trainees on the basis of seniority. Saroj Jha,  the general secretary of BCCL ITI apprentice sangh,  said, “Earlier,  ITI apprentices, after the completion of training at BCCL and other subsidiaries of Coal India,  were absorbed in the company. But that practice has been discontinued since the last three years.” “Despite huge vacancies, apprentice trainees are not being provided jobs in BCCL and other subsidiaries of Coal India Limited while work is being carried out through private contractors who are exploiting workers by not even providing minimum salary  to skilled staff” said Pawan Kumar, president of BCCL ITI Apprentice Sangh. He added that they would be compelled to intensify their agitation if their demands weren't met. Sunil Gupta, a joint secretary of BCCL ITI Apprentice Sangh, said, “While jobs are being provided to apprentice trainees in other sectors like railways, they are being deprived of opportunities despite vacancies. Instead private companies are engaged in coal excavation work on the pretext of lack of proper workforce before BCCL.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Popular western game to be introduced for specials in steel city||Special athletes from Jharkhand will soon come across a game which is highly popular in Europe, United States and Canada. The Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) has planned to introduce Cornhole Baggo in Jamshedpur this month among the intellectually impaired. The Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national organisation which promotes special athletes, has already launched Cornhole Baggo through its Odisha chapter. "The new game was recently demonstrated and rules explained in a webinar conducted by SOB and attended by more than 125 persons consisting of coaches, officials and athletes of the national outfit from across the country," said SOJ assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota who was also those who attended the webinar. "We have planned to introduce Cornhole Baggo on February 26 at JRD Tata Sports Complex wherein demonstration will be given at the venue," Sahota said, adding the game is played between two or four athletes and is also played with unified partners The SOJ is sending invitations to its area director Bailey Bodhanwala and officials. Shedding light on the game, the SOJ assistant area director said the specials have to throw 6 inches x 6 inches bags full of corns into a 6 inch hole on a 4 ft x 2 ft board. Participants with lower ability will be required to throw the bag from a distance of 3 m, middle ability from 4 m and higher ability from 5 m. Each bag, which will be of red and green colours, filled with corns will weigh 454 grams," he explained. The board will be placed in an inclined position and the game will be of three sets. "Each set will have two points and participants putting the bag into the hole maximum time emerges winner. It is an interesting game and is somewhat similar to bocce," Sahota added. The SOB will also introduce the game in other districts in due course of time. "We will gradually this new game to other district of Jharkhand. We want all special athletes to try their hands," a SOJ functionary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Tatanagar to step up Covid vigil from Tuesday||Concerned over the rising cases of Covid-19 in various parts of the country, Tatanagar has made it manadatory for all arriving passengers to undergo a Covid test at the station from Tuesday. The East Singhbhum district health department has decided to resume Covid-19 test ( (RT-PCR) at the Tatanagar railway station from tomorrow ( Tuesday). Confirming this Tatanagar station director H K Balmuchu said that they have got a  written communication in this regard from the district health department today. "The East Singhbhum  district health department will carry out the RT- PCR test while we will provide our staff for thermal screening of passengers. thermal screening will be carried out for both incoming and outgoing passengers, " said Balmuchu talking to The Telegraph Online. East Singhbum district surveillance officer Sahir Pal said three teams have been constituted for conducting covid tests on the premises of the station. " There will be a separate team for carrying out thermal screening of passengers, " he said. Pal added that a sizeable number of passengers arrive at Tatanagar station in trains coming from various states. "The health department team will especially monitor passengers coming from  Maharashtra, Punjab Chhattisgarh , Madhya Pradesh and southern India. We will collect samples which will be sent for lab tests. Passengers will be asked to stay in home isolation till the arrival of test reports. If a passenger is found positive he or she  will be admitted to a Covid hospital, " explained the surveillance officer. Railway sources said a help desk would also be set up at the entrance of  the railway station for the convenience of passengers. Data available from the office of district civil surgeon revealed that so far  in February,  55,702 samples were tested of which 163 tested Covid positive. On Saturday, 10 out of 17 samples had tested positive. The 10 positive cases belonged to a family  of a businessman of Sakchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Blaze at Jamshedpur hotel injures 12||About a dozen people were injured in a fire accident at Alcor Hotel in Bistupur late on Sunday night. The mishap took place at a marriage venue located behind the hotel building on the premises. The cause of the fire is said to be due to LPG leakage at a live kitchen. A total of 11 persons were injured, most of them sustaining a burn injury. One of the injured, a guest at the marriage party, has sustained 12 percent burns and has been admitted to the Tata Main Hospital. 10 others, including nine hotel staffs were released from the hospital after being provided first-aid. The fire could have been more deadly, but timely action by the hotel staff prevented the matter from aggrevating. By the time two fire tenders were pressed into service, the fire had been brought under control. The fire first broke out on a carpet laid at the marriage venue where a live kitchen was placed. The fire spread fast, causing a commotion at the venue. The hotel staff who were around quickly used fire-extinguishers to stop the fire from spreading further, but by the time 11 persons, including two guests had already sustained injuries. A police team rushed to the spot immediately. Deputy superintendent of police (composit control room) Arvind Kumar who had inspected the spot said, "Most of the victims sustained injuries due to the commotion after the fire broke out. All the injured persons were taken to Tata Main Hospital, but only one person was admitted at the hospital's burn care unit but his condition is stated to be out of danger, " said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The DSP said no one has lodged any written complaint in connection to the mishap, but said they would probe the company which had supplied the LPG cylinder to the hotel. PK Singh who is a resident of Adityapur and a businessman was the host of the marriage party. Raghubir Singh, manager, Banquet Sales of the hotel said they are looking into the cause behind the mishap. "It was an unfortunate thing to happen in our hotel. We will see to it that such mishap may not take place in future, " said the manager while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Only 14 per cent vaccinated in the state in a day||Jharkhand achieved only 14 per cent of its vaccination target on Sunday – the lowest in a day since the beginning of the immunization programme. As per figures shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), only 2080 of 14894 registered beneficiaries were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine on the day. The turnout of beneficiaries was equally poor for the second dose of the vaccine. Only 13 per cent of the registered 1007 beneficiaries got the second jab on the day, highlighted NHM data. As many as 135 people turned up at the vaccination centres on the day to get the second jab. So far, the state has achieved 71 per cent of its vaccination target by inoculating 2,85,678 beneficiaries, stated a report released by the NHM. However, over 1 lakh beneficiaries have given the vaccine jab a miss in the state, the report added. Ranchi continued to be one of the worst performers in terms of vaccination despite achieving 83 per cent of its target on Sunday. As per government data, Ranchi has achieved 59 per cent of its vaccination target, which is only better than Dumka's 57 per cent. As per figures with the NHM, at least seven of 24 districts failed to inoculate more than 10 per cent of the registered beneficiaries, while two districts – Gumla and East Singhbhum– did not inoculate even one beneficiary on the day. Meanwhile, one more Covid patient, a resident of Ranchi, died during treatment on Sunday, taking the Covid toll in the district to 243 and that in Jharkhand to 1086, a separate bulletin released by the NHM stated. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day, bringing the number of active cases in the state down to 453. However, Ranchi witnessed a spike in active cases despite reporting the highest number of recoveries among Jharkhand districts. As per NHM data, as many as 31 people were found infected on the day, while 36 patients recovered. Ranchi reported 21 cases against 19 recoveries, taking the count of active cases in the district to 261. At least 20 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on the day. As per government data, as many as 199596 people have been infected by Covid-19 virus in the state so far, and 98.71 per cent of them have recovered. At the current rate, it would take over 2395 days for the number of cases to double in Jharkhand, highlights government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
