23-02-2021||Calcutta||Golf Green gets police station||Residents of the Golf Green area on Monday got a police station that will primarily focus on the safety and security of the aged, who are vulnerable to online and other crimes. Golf Green, an area dotted with standalone buildings and apartment blocks, was under Jadavpur police station. The new police station, which was inaugurated by state minister Aroop Biswas in the presence of Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra and special commissioner Debasish Roy, will have its jurisdiction from Jubilee Park in Tollygunge to Baghajatin. The police station, which looks after an area measuring 2.7sq km, is housed in a building near the Dhaka Kalibari bus stop. “More police presence in lanes and bylanes has been our long-standing demand. But as Jadavpur police station’s area was huge, it was practically impossible to focus so much on Golf Green alone. With the creation of the new police station, we feel there would be more police presence in our area now,” said Sandip Nandi Mazumdar, a senior resident of Golf Green. Many incidents of snatching, burglary, thefts and online frauds have been reported from pockets of Golf Green in the past and the majority of the victims were elderly citizens. The police said their first step would be to connect with the elderly population and initiate a confidence-building measure among them, especially those whose children stay abroad or outside Bengal. The area — which is known for its greenery and vital installations like the office of Doordarshan Kendra —witnesses a daily footfall of hundreds of morning and evening walkers, many of whom are from areas adjacent to Golf Green. “The nature and characteristics of the residents in the Golf Green neighbourhood is slightly different from the remaining pockets of Jadavpur police station and the area requires special attention. Our main focus will be on increasing the vigil and reach out to the elderly people who stay alone there,” said a senior police officer in Lalbazar. Golf Green police station becomes the 80th police station in Calcutta. It is flanked by Jadavpur police and Tollygunge police stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
23-02-2021||Calcutta||How do birds feel? Eco Park cage tells you||A cage has been created at Eco Park to highlight and give a first-hand feel of how it feels like being caged. Birds, butterflies and local fauna should be free and living in a natural habitat rather than being caged and made to live the life of a pet. The focus is on integrating bio-diversity principles in the development paradigm. Amidst the din and bustle of the city, the New Town park provides roosting, nesting and foraging habitats for more than 150 birds, which have been documented. Out of this, in just three months in the winter season, various rare migratory species like  Wryneck, Black Redstart and Plaintive Cuckoo have been spotted at the park and Siberian Stone Chat has been spotted in the immediate vicinity. Eco Park with its varied landscapes provides spaces for such varied biodiversity and is upholding the mantra of “Let live to live”. To promote biodiversity, a workshop on the local floral species and the birds at Eco Park was organised by the Nature Environment & Wildlife Society (NEWS) last week. The event was attended by Hidco chairman Debashis Sen, senior officials of New Town Kolkata Development Authority, NEWS secretary Biswajit Roy Chowdhury and NEWS joint secretary Ajanta Dey. Students from Calcutta University’s environmental science department participated in the workshop. The event started with the inauguration of the cage, which is “a promotional tool towards non-caging of wild birds”, Sen at Pakhi Bitan. It was followed by releasing of caged birds and butterflies to raise awareness against caging of wild birds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Scholars back on NIT Durgapur campus||Project and PhD scholars at NIT Durgapur started returning to the campus on Friday following production of parents’ declaration about the health and recent community interaction of a scholar’s family. The institute has decided to call the scholars back to the campus on the basis of the Centre’s Unlock-V guidelines which allow higher education institutions to reopen for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams who require laboratory/experimental work. In the declaration form, a parent has to state whether anyone who lives at his or her address has returned from domestic or international travel within the last 14 days. A parent has to declare whether anyone living at his or her address has been in physical contact with a person/persons diagnosed with Covid-19. “Is any one who lives at your address currently under a form of self isolation as the result of an order of a government authority or as the result of a recommendation of a health professional?” reads a question in the declaration form. “The parents will have to tick ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ against each question and declare that the information provided is a true and proper representation of the family’s health and recent community interaction and have no objection to send their wards back to the institute,” said an official. The institute will be calling back 550 PhD scholars and 100-odd project scholars. “The scholars are coming according to the slots they are being allotted,” said NIT director Anupam Basu. The institute has started bringing the 75 MTech final-year students back to the campus for lab-dependent hardware projects. “We are planning staggered physical reopening across all the years. The fourth-year students will be asked to come from mid-March. The decision to call back research scholars and MTech students is a precursor to that,’’ said Basu. NIT is planning to bring final-year BTech students of the eighth semester and those who are in the third year and second year to the campus so that they can do lab sessions to make up for the classes lost since March last year, when all campuses were shut down as a precaution against Covid-19. “If your ward feels unwell with any symptoms of Coronavirus (COVID-19), however mild, you must keep them at home and get them tested,” the declaration form states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Vaccination of election officials from today||The poll officials enlisted for the upcoming Assembly elections will be vaccinated against Covid-19 from Tuesday, state health department officials said. In Calcutta, the poll officials will be inoculated at four government medical colleges. This will be in addition to the vaccination of police personnel that is already underway as part of inoculation of frontline workers. The Central Election Commission has enlisted around 6 lakh poll officials across the state. “Vaccination of poll officials will begin on Tuesday. Four teaching hospitals — RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital and NRS Medical College and Hospital — will inoculate poll personnel,” said a health department official. “Personnel of central forces who have arrived in the state will be vaccinated at SSKM Hospital.” “We have been given the target of vaccinating 250 poll officials on Tuesday,” said an official at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. “We will run four sites on our campus from Tuesday. One of the sites will be dedicated to poll officials.” The RG Kar Medical College and Hospital has been set the same target, too, said an official of the hospital. The state government has also requested the election commission to vaccinate operators of private buses and cars that are requisitioned for poll duty. A senior official of the state government said the government felt the need to vaccinate the drivers and helpers of buses and cars since they would come in close contact with poll officials and security personnel. If drivers and helpers contract Covid-19, they can in turn pass on the virus to poll officials and security personnel. “We have requested the election commission to vaccinate the drivers and helpers of private buses and cars that are requisitioned for election duty,” said a senior state government official. “The number of vehicles requisitioned for poll duty is significant. The drivers and helpers in the vehicles will be sharing the same space with poll officials for quite some time. So they need to be vaccinated,” the official said. According to a rough estimate, between 45,000 and 50,000 buses and cars will be required to conduct the Assembly polls. All district administrations are sending the names of poll officials to the election commission so they are vaccinated, said an official of the Hooghly district administration. “Doctors are visiting poll personnel during their training sessions, which are being held now. The doctors are explaining to the personnel the positives of getting vaccinated,” the official said. The number of polling stations in the state will see a sharp rise this time because of the election commission’s order that any booth with more than 1,500 voters must be split into two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid patient shift compensation ||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Monday decided to hand over Rs 1 lakh as compensation to a family of a man, who was forced by Woodlands Hospital to shift as soon as he tested positive for Covid-19 last June. A 79-year-old man was admitted to Woodlands in June. Soon after his admission he tested positive for Covid-19. Banerjee said the report arrived in the evening. “The hospital immediately started putting pressure on the family to shift him elsewhere,” he said. Banerjee added the hospital had arranged for the patient’s transfer to Desun Hospital and also arranged an ambulance. “The patient was covered by medical insurance. The bill for the treatment at Woodlands was Rs 2.09 lakh. The family wanted to pay the amount the insurance company would not pay. But the hospital did not wait. The hospital insisted the family pay the entire amount in cash.” Banerjee said. The commission also asked Jagannath Gupta Institute of Medical Sciences and Hospital in Budge Budge to deposit Rs 5 lakh with it. Banerjee said the patient’s family was verbally told that the patient had tested positive for Covid while he was undergoing treatment at the hospital in July. The hospital, however, did not give the family a copy of the report, though the family insisted on getting it. A few days later, the hospital told the family that they would do a test. The sample was collected thereafter. “We have asked the hospital to keep Rs 5 lakh with the commission as we have found prima facie substance in the complaint,” Banerjee said. The commission had first heard the complaint in August and asked both parties to give affidavits. But the hospital could not submit the affidavit as the patient party did not serve a copy of its affidavit to the hospital. “We have fined the patient party Rs 5000 for not giving a copy of the affidavit to the hospital. We have also asked them to serve a copy to the hospital soon,” he said. In other decisions, Desun Hospital was asked to pay a patient’s family Rs 50,000 as the patient’s bed sore had worsened during his stay at the hospital. The 76-year-old patient had first degree bed sore when he was admitted in the hospital. But the hospital admitted that he developed third degree bed sore while his stay there, Banerjee said. Belle Vue Clinic was asked to offer a discount of Rs 50,000 to a patient’s family as the commission found the hospital had not offered discount on medicines and the cost of some of the pathological tests were high.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Calcutta||New Market steps against hawkers||Traders in the New Market area have decided to organise a rally on Wednesday against the rise in encroachment by hawkers in the shopping hub. They will meet the municipal commissioner and the deputy commissioner of police, central, on Thursday to demand action against the encroachment. The traders held a news conference on Monday to unveil their protest plan. They said if the meetings with senior government officials yielded no result, they would down their shutters and go on a strike. “We will meet the municipal commissioner on Thursday. We pay taxes to the corporation to run our shops. We will also meet the deputy commissioner, central, and tell him how difficult it has become for us to run our businesses,” said a trader. Metro reported on Sunday that the traders had threatened to start an agitation because of the way hawkers were encroaching on roads and footpaths in the shopping hub. Ashok Kumar Gupta, the president of the Joint Traders’ Federation, said they had gone on a strike in 2013 that yielded temporary results. “The police came, the hawkers were pushed back and made to leave some space open on footpaths. But the change only lasted for a few months,” he said. “Since the Unlock began, we have been noticing a steady increase in the number of hawkers. They have hardly left any space on the footpaths and now they are increasing the area they have encroached on the roads.” The Joint Traders Federation has several traders of SS Hog Market, Sreeram Arcade, Simpark Mall and Treasure Island as its members. Besides, the owners of a number of standalone shops on Lindsay Street, Humayun Place, Bertam Street and other roads in the area are its members. “About 1,200 traders from the area will walk in the rally on Wednesday. We will carry banners and inform people how the encroachment of roads and footpaths is affecting our business,” said a trader. Hawkers spread out their wares on roads and place stands to display garments. On footpaths, they hardly leave any space for pedestrians to move. Cars that enter the place have a harrowing time negotiating their way through hawkers and pedestrians. The state government had framed rules in 2018 that barred hawkers from occupying metalled roads. The rules also mention that two-thirds of pavements must be left free for pedestrians. All rules are violated in the New Market area. The traders said some of their customers complained to them they could no longer visit their shops because hawkers hardly left any space for cars to park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Community leaders sign declaration of unity at conclave||Several religious leaders and community heads who came together for an interfaith conclave on Saturday signed a declaration to “condemn violence, tyranny and subjugation that oppose the constitutional framework that governs the nation”. “We acknowledge and accept our rights and obligations as empowered citizens to uphold the guarantee of life, liberty, equality, fraternity, dignity, justice and freedom. We condemn violence, tyranny and subjugation that oppose the constitutional framework that governs the nation guided by the rights enshrined in the Indian constitution… We appeal to all faiths, religious, social and political affiliations and their representatives to refrain from coercion and using violence as a means to assert power and domination,” reads the declaration that was signed at the end of the conclave. The organisers — United Interfaith Foundation – India, a body of religious leaders and community heads and International Justice Mission, an NGO — said the declaration would be sent to all political parties, chief ministers, governors, police chiefs and community leaders. “We solemnly declare that peace and harmony in our society is only possible through the promotion of social justice at every level,” the declaration reads. “Though we are different in many ways, we are all united in the unique bond of humanity… It inspires us to recognise that we are all children of god and brothers and sisters of one another. We wish to assert very strongly that we are all united irrespective of the privilege of our birth, our religious affiliation, our social status, and our current position in society.” The conclave had representatives from different religions and community heads like Archbishop Thomas D’Souza, Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the general secretary of Gurdwara Behala, Moulana Shafique Qasmi, the imam of Nakhoda Masjid, Arunjyoti Bhikku, the director of Tollygunge Sambodhi Buddhist Monastery, among others. “In a statement issued at the end, all the participants pledged their commitment to social justice and peace at all levels. They called on people of all faiths to actively promote peace by working for social justice, saying ‘No’ to violence, hatred and injustice and ‘Yes’ to truth, harmony and peace,” said archbishop Thomas D’Souza, who is also the president of United Interfaith Foundation – India. The interfaith conclave — Sarvadharm Shanti Nyay Sankalp — aimed to promote social justice and harmony, said Ahluwalia, the general secretary of the foundation and the convenor of the conclave. “This conclave was about recognising the need to promote interfaith dialogue, which would help us to stand by each other, and if we interfaith leaders stand by each other, we shall always stand for peace and harmony,” he said. “The declaration should be recognised as the collective voice of religious leaders and community heads,” Ahluwalia told Metro. A pledge has also been translated into Hindi and Bengali and will be distributed among people through the community leaders. “It is a reminder to the common people that peace is not just to be propagated by religious or community leaders but to be followed by each one of us in our every day life,” Ahluwalia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University bars entry of 5 former students for puja lapse||Calcutta University has disallowed the entry of five former students, all current or former members of Trinamul Chhatra Parishad, for two years because they had organised Saraswati Puja that was accompanied by “a loud and frivolous programme inside the campus”. An inquiry committee was constituted last week to probe who played the key role in organising the puja on the College Street campus at a time normal academic activities have not yet resumed because of the Covid pandemic. The committee’s report was placed before the CU syndicate on Monday, following which vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee announced the decision to bar the entry of the five former students into any of the campuses of the university. “On 16.2.21, certain persons had organised some performances (involving some music and dance etc, which appeared to the academic community to be of low and degrading taste, and violative of the rich heritage and cultural standards followed by the University) in the College Street campus of the university without any permission of the university authorities,” reads the resolution adopted at the syndicate meeting. “….the unauthorised arrangement of a loud and frivolous programme inside the campus in this manner had shocked the academic community at large.” The VC said the syndicate members unanimously decided to disallow the entry of the five into any of the campuses of the university for two years. The VC named the five - Manishankar Mandal, Raja Mehedi, Debarshi Ray, Tirthapratim Saha and Ronny Ghosh. Mandal, an assistant professor at the Sanskrit College and University, told Metro that “there was no question of seeking permission” because education minister Partha Chatterjee had said on February 3 that Saraswati Puja could be organised on campuses following safety protocols. “The current students must have organised the Saraswati Puja. CU is a state-aided university. I just went to see the puja like several others. If the university formally communicates to me about the decision, I will move court,” said Mandal, a former office-bearer of the CU students’ union. Asked about minister Chatterjee permitting the Puja, the VC declined comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court stay on teacher hire||The Bengal government's plan to appoint about 16,500 teachers for primary schools hit a roadblock on Monday with a Calcutta High Court judge ordering an interim stay on the recruitment process following complaints of discrepancies in the merit list. The recruitment had started last week. The interim order was issued by Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj following petitions filed by job aspirants whose names did not feature on the list issued by the West Bengal Board of Primary Education. The petitioners alleged many discrepancies in the list and said the court should scan the selection process before allowing the state to go ahead. Sources in the education department said the litigation was a tactic to slow down the recruitment process, already long delayed. The government tried to speed it up ahead of the Assembly elections. The judge will hear the case in detail after four weeks. The state has been restrained from appointing teachers till further orders. Lawyers familiar with the case said the state government was likely to challenge Justice Bhardwaj’s order before a division bench of the court within a couple of days. An official in the school education department said: “After the board issued the notice about the recruitment process, the candidates had to enter their roll numbers on a portal to know whether their names figured on the list. But the candidates said a merit list must contain names with details like how much they scored in each phase of the screening process.” In December, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that 16,500 teachers would be appointed at the primary level (Classes I to IV). The candidates who had cracked the teacher eligibility test (TET) in 2014 and undergone DLEd (diploma in elementary education) training were interviewed from a pool of aspirants in January. The primary education board, which usually takes several months after concluding the interviews to publish the merit list, did so within a month of the interviews on this occasion. The Bengal government had wanted the newly recruited teachers to report to their respective schools by the end of March. This is the second time in three months that the court has raised objections to the recruitment process at the primary level. On December 11, the court had quashed the process initiated by the school service commission to recruit around 15,000 teachers for upper primary schools (Classes V to VIII). Aspiring teachers are among the most vocal critics of the Mamata Banerjee government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Narendra Modi virtually flags off Dakshineswar Metro||Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually inaugurated the Dakshineswar-Noapara route of the north-south Metro corridor on Monday. A train decked out in flowers but without passengers left Dakshineswar station at 4.55pm, after Modi flagged off the journey from his dais in Dunlop. The Dakshineswar-Noapara stretch will be open to passengers from Tuesday. The first passenger train will leave Dakshineswar at 7am on Tuesday, the carrier said. A 31km journey from Dakshineswar in the north to Kavi Subhas (New Garia), the terminal station in the south, is expected to take 62 minutes, said an official. Metro now runs 240 trains from Monday to Friday. From Tuesday, the count will go up to 244, said a Metro official. But all trains will not run till Noapara. From Tuesday, 158 (79 pairs) of the 244 trains will run between Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhas stations. The first and last trains will leave Dakshineswar at 7am and 9.18pm, respectively. The last train to Dakshineswar will leave Kavi Subhas at 9.30pm, an official said. There will be 228 trains on Saturdays, 156 of which will run between Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhas. On Sundays, the carrier will run 102 trains, 100 of which will connect the two terminal stations. The new link is expected to benefit thousands of office-goers from Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Ariadaha and other areas on the northern fringes. Since the closure of the Tallah bridge in 2019, a large section of these commuters has been using Noapara Metro station, which is not easily accessible via road. Because of the diversion, the bus routes to Dum Dum from BT Road, already infamous for snarls, have become much more congested. The 4.1km Noapara-Dakshineswar stretch on elevated tracks goes via Baranagar station. From Tuesday, thousands of commuters are expected to take Metro from the two new stations — Dakshineswar and Baranagar. Residents of Hooghly and thousands of passengers of suburban trains in the Howrah-Burdwan and Howrah-Tarakeswar routes can also take Metro by crossing the Bally bridge to reach Dakshineswar. The maximum fare has remained unchanged at Rs 25, the carrier said. But tokens are now suspended in the wake of the pandemic and a smart card is a must for a Metro ride. The Noapara-Dakshineswar stretch, conceived as part of then railway minister Mamata Banerjee’s Metro extension plan, faced many roadblocks, the construction of a viaduct near the Dunlop bridge being among the most recent. On Monday, Modi also inaugurated a slew of other railway projects, aimed at improving passenger and freight train infrastructure in this region. Among them was a fourth line between Dankuni and Baruipara (Hooghly) in the Howrah-Burdwan section.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid test for fliers at Calcutta airport||Passengers from the UK, Europe, South Africa, Brazil and the West Asian countries will have to undergo an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 after arriving at the Calcutta airport from Tuesday even if they carry a negative report of a test done before boarding the flight. The decision was taken after the ministry of health issued a guideline in the wake of reports that mutant variants of SARS-CoV2 that are more contagious than earlier strains are in circulation in many countries. According to airport officials, nearly 500 passengers who will arrive on four flights from west Asian countries on Tuesday will undergo the RT-PCR test. New counters for collecting swab samples of passengers were set up at the international arrival area on Monday. The ministry of health has issued a new advisory for international travellers, particularly those more at risk of contracting Covid-19. “There is increasing evidence that the mutant variant of SARS-CoV2 are in circulation in many countries and these mutant variants are driving the pandemic in their country of origin. So far the three SARS-CoV2 variants in circulation vis-a-vis UK variant, South Africa variant and Brazil variant have been detected in 88, 44 and 15 countries respectively,” the guideline issued by the health ministry stated. According to the guideline, all international travellers coming or transiting from flights that originate from the UK and other European countries and West Asia will have to undergo a self-paid RT-PCR test after arriving in Calcutta. Those arriving from South Africa and Brazil will also have to undergo the test. “They must have the RT-PCR negative report of the test done within 72 hours before boarding flights from those places. After arrival, their swab samples will be collected at the new counters and the passengers will be allowed to leave,” said Kaushik Bhattacharya, the director of the city airport. The health department will contact the passengers who will test positive. International passengers arriving in Calcutta from these places and then transiting to other Indian cities have to wait for six to eight hours at the airport after giving the swab samples for the test reports, the health ministry guideline has said. Airlines will have to inform the passengers about the wait. “If a passenger tests positive, his or her sample will be sent for further tests to find out whether the virus is a mutant variant of SARS-CoV2,” said an official of the health department. Earlier, passengers arriving from the UK without an RT-PCR test report were made to wait at the airport after collecting their swab samples. Officials, however, said it was not feasible to keep hundreds of passengers waiting at the airport for more than six hours. So, it has been decided that they would give the samples and go home. Six counters have been set up by Suraksha Diagnostics at the Calcutta airport to collect the swab samples. A passenger will have to pay Rs 950 for the test, said an airport official. “If any passenger refuses to pay, we’ll inform the state government authorities,” said the official. Metro had earlier reported how many international passengers had refused to pay for going to a quarantine centre after arriving at the airport. Of the four flights from the Gulf region that will land in Calcutta on Tuesday, one (Qatar Airways) is from Doha. The three others are from Dubai and they are operated by Emirates, IndiGo and SpiceJet. Calcutta does not have any direct flight to Europe. Passengers coming from the UK, Europe, South Africa or other countries either transit through West Asian countries or Delhi and Mumbai. “Now, we are having regular flights from Dubai, Doha, Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan,” said an airport official. “Those passengers coming on flights from Doha and Dubai need to undergo the RT-PCR test. Others will have to self-monitor themselves for 24 days,” said the official. State health department officials said they were keeping a watch on the Covid situation and have set up a ward at the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata for those found to have been infected with a mutant strain of SARS-CoV2. The state is also not allowing flights from cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad to operate daily to Calcutta. Flights from these cities are coming three days a week. “There is again a surge in Covid cases in states like Maharashtra. So, as of now, there is no plan to increase the frequencies of these flights,” said a state government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally higher||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally higher on Tuesday amid high volatility and tepid cues from global markets. After gyrating 667.46 points during the day, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 7.09 points or 0.01 per cent higher at 49,751.41. After a similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty settled 32.10 points or 0.22 per cent up at 14,707.80. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 6 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, L&T, UltraTech Cement, Titan, SBI and NTPC. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Maruti, Bajaj Auto, HDFC Bank and HCL Tech were among the laggards. Domestic equities witnessed roller coaster ride amid high volatility, with metals and realty indices recording substantial gains, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Concerns pertaining to increase in bond yields and higher commodity prices dented investors' sentiments in last couple of days. However, underlying strength of economy and market remains intact," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended on a negative note, while Hong Kong settled with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.81 per cent higher at USD 64.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
23-02-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 300 points in the opening session on Tuesday tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and L&T. After touching a high of 50,128.85 in early trade, the 30-share BSE index was trading 260.39 points or 0.52 per cent higher at 50,004.71. After a similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 81.50 points or 0.56 per cent up at 14,757.20. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 6 per cent, followed by L&T, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries, Axis Bank and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Auto, Maruti and HDFC were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex tumbled 1,145.44 points or 2.25 per cent to close at 49,744.32, and Nifty sank 306.05 points or 2.04 per cent to finish at 14,675.70. Foreign institutional investors turned net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 893.25 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. Domestic equities look to be good at the moment despite mixed cues from global markets, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Concerns pertaining to increase in bond yields and higher commodity prices dented investors' sentiments in the last couple of days. However, the underlying strength of the economy and market remains intact in our view and hence any further correction in the market should be used to buy, he said. He further added that Indian companies are likely to see sustained earnings recovery in subsequent fiscals and therefore premium valuations are likely to sustain. US equities extended losses in overnight trade on Monday as worries over continued rise in bond yields dampened investors' sentiments. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.38 per cent higher at USD 65.25 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
23-02-2021||Business||India, Mauritius sign economic partnership deal||India on Monday signed a strategically significant Comprehensive Economic Cooperation and Partnership Agreement (CECPA) with Mauritius within weeks of the island nation’s FTA (free trade agreement) with China coming into effect. The CECPA would provide a gateway to the markets of the African continent as Mauritius has several pacts with them which would help investments to be routed through it. The African countries are building a single market through the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) which also came into effect last month. The pact is likely to create a single market of 1.2 billion people with a combined market worth of $3 trillion “Given the strategic and geo-political significance in the Indian Ocean region, India has entered the CECPA with Mauritius even though New Delhi has long and historical relations with that nation,” said Biswajit Dhar, trade economist with the JNU. Dhar, however, said the pact would not counter the influence of Beijing which has made huge investments in Mauritius and other African nations. Mauritius is crafting an Africa strategy to position the nation as a fulcrum for investors to tap opportunities that the continent provides. External affairs minister S. Jaishankar said while jointly addressing the media with Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth that “India is privileged to have entered into a CECPA with Mauritius. This agreement is India’s first-such agreement with an African country”. The CECPA will encourage Indian entrepreneurs to invest both in Mauritius and across the region, helping the country to become a strategic regional economic hub and a centre of excellence, Jugnauth said. Mauritius on Monday sought India’s support in facilitating an early exit from the FATF grey list to restore its international reputation, saying it has agreed to address the deficiencies identified in its anti-money laundering and counter terrorism financing regimes. The CECPA provides preferential access to Mauritius for bulk of the trade and also for many aspirational items for the Indian market. These include frozen fish, speciality sugar, biscuits, fresh fruits, juices, mineral water and soaps. Apart from the pact on economic ties and strategic linkages with a trade pact that was expected to help them post covid-19 revival, India also extended a $100 million line of credit for the Indian Ocean island nation to procure defence equipment. More than 300 domestic goods from agriculture, textiles, electronics and other sectors will get market access at concessional customs duties in Mauritius, with the government approving signing of a free trade agreement between the two countries. On the other hand, India has offered around 95 sub-sectors from the 11 broad services sectors, including professional services, R&D, telecommunication, financial, distribution, higher education, environmental, health, tourism, recreational and transport services. Both sides have also agreed to negotiate an Automatic Trigger Safeguard Mechanism (ATSM) for a limited number of highly sensitive products within two years of the signing of the pact. Bilateral trade between India and Mauritius grew 233% from $207 million in 2005-06 to $690 million in FY20. India’s exports to Mauritius jumped 232% from $199 million to $662 million during this period, while imports rose from just over $7 million to almost $28 million.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
23-02-2021||Business||Calcutta Port Trust and Hiranandani Group partner to allow LNG tankers to Haldia||Calcutta Port Trust has come to an agreement with Hiranandani Group, allowing the company to use the river channel to bring liquefied natural gas (LNG) tankers to Haldia, clearing one more step in building a terminal to transport clean gas to the state. CPT, which is now called Syama Prasad Mukherjee Port, Calcutta, will collect marine charges and port dues to offer port related services such as pilotage and maintenance of the river channel. While the terminal will come up on a 38-acre land parcel provided by the Haldia Development Authority, the port will provide access to the waterfront and allow cargo handling. “This is one of the two LNG terminals being proposed at Haldia. The one by the Hiranandanis will be of 5-million-tonne capacity, while V-LNG is going to build a 1 MT capacity terminal. Put together, it would bring additional cargo for the port,” Vinit Kumar, chairman of the port, said. Hiranandani Group is building multiple LNG terminals in India. The proposed jetty-based terminal at Kukrahati, near Haldia, will call for an investment of Rs 1,400 crore in the first phase with a capacity of 2.5mt. The facility will include a storage and re-gassification unit. Darshan Hiranandani, CEO of Bengal Concession Private Ltd, said the project would start work in a few months. “We are awaiting a few approvals from the state government,” he said. The first phase is likely to be commissioned in July 2024. The terminal will feed into the proposed GAIL pipeline which is being laid from Panagarh to Haldia via Calcutta, linking Bengal with the rest of India by the national gas grid. The Hiranandanis are also proposing to lay a 250-kilometre pipeline from Kukrahati to Bangladesh to feed the neighbouring market. This will call for an investment of Rs 1,500 crore. “We expect 60 per cent of the capacity to be utilised in Bengal, the rest will go to Bangaldesh,” Hiranandani explained. Since the jetty will be on river Hooghly, the shallow water level would not allow large ships to call. A deep drafted terminal at Maharashtra is going to be commissioned by Hiranandani soon where ships of 80,000 tonnes capacity can dock. The Bengal facility will be fed from that terminal by smaller ships of 15,000 tonnes. Plans are afoot to supply LNG mounted on trucks to end users where it will be heated to convert it into gas and be used as fuel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
23-02-2021||Business||Coal India and Centre for Railway Information Systems sign MoU to get real time freight data||Indian Railways has agreed to share real time freight information data with Coal India. The Centre for Railway Information Systems (CRIS) and Coal India signed a one-year agreement on Monday which will help CIL to tackle the menace of under loading and monitor movement of coal laden rakes. The public sector miner will now have precise details of loading, weight and unloading and logistics details along with turnaround time of rakes. Coal India officials said that the information can be used for faster billing, replacing manual entry of railway receipts with instant online transfer. The information on sanctioned coal and rake programmes, rake demand, rake detention and diversion details will also help Coal India subsidiaries to plan their supplies. “The pact assumes greater significance at a time when CIL is pushing for increased rail evacuation and gradually reducing the road movement of the dry fuel. The real time data helps us in better planning,” said a senior executive of the company. Up to February 20 of the ongoing fiscal, Coal India’s coal movement through the rail mode from its own sidings, goods sheds and private washeries at 302.51 million tonnes (MTs) accounted for 61 per cent of the total off-take quantity. When linked with merry-go-round system, at 92.8 MTs, the share expands even higher to 79 per cent and officials said that there is scope of further raising the share. CIL and CRIS will collaborate for further improvement in data sharing with periodical reviews. The contract period of the memorandum is one year with annual technical support. Coal India has also developed a portal that will help in sharing the Freight Operations Information System (FOIS) data with its subsidiaries. The annual expense of the contract is estimated at Rs 41 lakhs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
23-02-2021||Business||Reliance Jio leads in earnest money deposit for spectrum auction||Three players — Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea — are on the final list of bidders for the spectrum auction set to start from March 1, the department of telecommunication said on Monday. The sixth round of auction of 2,251.25 megahertz of spectrum worth Rs 3.92 lakh crore at the base price will be in seven frequency bands — between 700MHz and 2,500MHz. The auction may not witness stiff competition given the varied priorities of each player and the weak liquidity position of Vodafone Idea, analysts said. Jio has put an earnest money deposit (EMD) of Rs 10,000 crore, with the DoT allocating it 73,007 “eligibility points”. Bharti Airtel’s Rs 3,000 crore EMD means the telco has been allocated with 24,924 eligibility points. Vodafone Idea got just 6,153 eligibility points because of its Rs 475 crore EMD, the DoT data showed. The amount of EMD is indicative of a telco’s bidding strategy as it gives an operator eligibility points based on which it can target a certain amount of airwaves in specific circles. The three telcos can bid in any band in any service area, subject to the availability of spectrum. Analysts said the bidders planned to conserve cash to participate in a potential near-term 5G spectrum sale where airwaves in the 3.3GHz to 3.6GHz bands would be up for sale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
23-02-2021||Business||GR Arun Kumar resigns as CFO of Vedanta||Vedanta Ltd, the Anil Agarwal group firm, on Monday said G.R. Arun Kumar has resigned as chief financial officer (CFO) of the company. “The board has taken note of the resignation of G.R. Arun Kumar from the post of whole-time director and chief financial officer of the company to pursue a career outside of the group,” the firm said in a regulatory filing with the bourses. Vedanta added that it will announce the effective date of Kumar’s exit and details of the successor in due course. Shares of Vedanta on Monday settled at Rs 203.75 — a rise of 6.68 per cent, or Rs 12.75, over the last close. The company added that Kumar has made an invaluable contribution towards its growth and the transformation journey during his tenure of close to eight years. According to the company’s website, Arun Kumar has over 22 years of experience at global multinationals such as Hindustan Unilever and General Electric. Prior to joining Vedanta, he was the CFO for General Electric’s Asia-Pacific lighting & appliances businesses based out of Shanghai. He was responsible for overall health of balance sheet, driving performance in profit and cash, treasury, investor relations, credit ratings, tax, secretarial, controllership, recording & reporting and other key strategic matters from time to time. Vedanta Ltd, a subsidiary of Vedanta Resources Ltd, is one of the world's leading diversified natural resource companies with business operations in India, South Africa, Namibia, and Australia. It is a leading producer of oil and gas, zinc, lead, silver, copper, iron ore, steel, aluminium and power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
23-02-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel indicates it may come out with an overseas bond issue||Bharti Airtel on Monday indicated that it may come out with an overseas bond issue. The company will meet global fixed income investors on or after February 23, after which the company will take a final decision on the issuance of foreign currency bonds, subject to market conditions. It may be recalled that the Bharti Airtel board had earlier this month approved fundraising plans of up to Rs 7,500 crore through debt instruments such as debentures and bonds in one or more tranches. “The company will meet global fixed income investors on or after February 23, 2021, following which and subject to market conditions, the company will take a final decision with regard to the issuance of foreign currency bonds/ notes and a deal may or may not follow,” Bharti Airtel said in a filing after market hours. Accordingly, subject to such a final decision, an authorised special committee of directors may meet anytime on or after two working days to consider the issuance and its detailed terms and conditions, it added. Ahead of the announcement, its shares ended at Rs 570.70 which was lower by 1.76 per cent against the last close. In the upcoming spectrum auction that starts on March 1, radio waves valued at Rs 3.92 lakh crore will be put on the block. The auction is for seven spectrum bands for mobile services - 700, 800, 900, 1800, 2100, 2300 and 2500MHz bands. "We expect total bids of Rs 39400 crore ($ 5.3 billion) in the March spectrum auction, predominantly led by Reliance Jio and Bharti Airtel. We believe Bharti is likely to try closing its gap versus Jio in the sub-GHz spectrum (good for indoor coverage), while maintaining its leadership versus Jio on overall spectrum footprint’’, analysts at Goldman Sachs said in a note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
23-02-2021||Business||RBI monetary policy committee wary of inflation||The minutes of the monetary policy committee meeting of the Reserve Bank of India held earlier this month showed the panel members have reiterated their stand to nurture the country’s patchy economic growth, though they were wary of the inflationary impact of rising commodity prices. At their three-day meeting between February 3 and February 5, the interest rate setting body unanimously retained the policy repo rate at four per cent while maintaining their accommodative stance to support the domestic economy. The RBI released on Monday the minutes which showed the members expressing their relief over retail inflation — 4.6 per cent in December 2020 — falling within its medium term target band after breaching the upper tolerance threshold of 6 per cent for six consecutive months. They also noted the economic growth had turning positive, though it remained uneven across sectors. Yet they were apprehensive about sticky core inflation — which keeps  out fuel and food — and rising commodity prices. According to RBI governor Shaktikanta Das, the macroeconomic environment in terms of both growth and inflation has turned out to be better than anticipated since their December 2020 meeting. “The growth momentum, however, needs to strengthen further for a sustained revival of the economy and for a quick return of the level of output to the pre-Covid trajectory... Given the sharp moderation in inflation along with a stable near-term outlook, monetary policy needs to continue with the accommodative stance to ensure that the recovery gains greater traction and becomes broad-based’’, he added. RBI deputy governor  Michael D Patra said manufacturing activity was gradually limping back, evident in rising capacity utilization. Further, with stronger demand conditions and moderate costs, operating profits are improving across the board. However, he sounded a cautionary note on inflation. “Upside risks to the outlook for inflation persist. First, core inflation remains stubborn and will warrant close monitoring as it has the potential to render the recent fortuitous improvements in the macroeconomic outlook stillborn. For India, the relentless hardening of international crude prices is worrisome.” He was however, quick to add that though the economic growth is recovering and gathering momentum, it is uneven and the outlook has improved significantly with the rollout of the vaccine programme in the country. "The growth momentum, however, needs to strengthen further for a sustained revival of the economy and for a quick return of the level of output to the pre-Covid trajectory... Given the sharp moderation in inflation along with a stable near-term outlook, monetary policy needs to continue with the accommodative stance to ensure that the recovery gains greater traction and becomes broad-based’’, he added. RBI deputy-governor  Michael D Patra said manufacturing activity was gradually limping back to growth and this was also evident in rising capacity utilization. Further, with stronger demand conditions and moderate costs, operating profits are improving across the board. However, he sounded a cautionary note on inflation. "Upside risks to the outlook for inflation persist. First, core inflation remains stubborn and will warrant close monitoring as it has the potential to render the recent fortuitous improvement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
23-02-2021||Business||SC restrains NCLT from passing final order on Future-Reliance merger||The Supreme Court on Monday restrained the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) from passing any final order on the Rs 24,713-crore merger deal between Future Retail Limited (FRL) and Reliance Retail, which has been challenged by Amazon Inc as being illegal and liable to be set aside. A bench of Justices R.F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai while issuing notices to FRL and RIL on Amazon’s appeal directed that the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) can continue with its proceedings, but it cannot pass any final order on the issue until the top court decides on Amazon’s appeal. Senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for FRL, however, told the bench that the NCLT was only seized with the issue of convening a meeting as he opposed the plea for a stay made by Amazon through senior advocate Gopal Subramanium. “Issue notice… counter affidavit be filed within two weeks. Rejoinder affidavit, if any, be filed within one week thereafter. List after three weeks. In the meantime, the NCLT proceedings will be allowed to go on but will not culminate in any final order of sanction of scheme,” the bench said in its order after briefly hearing senior advocates Harish Salve appearing for FRL and Gopal Subramanium for Amazon. The Reliance Industries scrip fell 3.50 per cent on the BSE on Monday. The court passed the direction while dealing with the appeal filed by Amazon Inc challenging the order of February 8 given by the division bench of the Delhi high court that had stayed an earlier order of a single judge who had directed FRL and other statutory authorities to maintain status quo on its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. The single judge had directed status quo to an Amazon plea which had sought implementation of the award passed by the Emergency Arbitrator at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) restraining FRL and Mukesh Ambani-owned from going ahead with the merger. “The order (division bench) seems to have decided the appeal final at the interim (stage)... we don’t wish to reveal anything . We are not commenting on the merits here ...,” the bench remarked. The Jeff Bezos-led company had challenged the merger on the ground FRL had breached its earlier contract with Amazon. According to Amazon in view of its subsisting contract, the Future group cannot enter into any amalgamation process or any agreement with Reliance without its consent. In its special leave petition against the division bench order, Amazon had contended that the order was  passed “hastily” and was “unsustainable in law” as the order was passed without even waiting for the single judge’s order of February 2. RIL share falls The development had an adverse impact on the Reliance Industries share price which fell Rs 73.15 or 3.52 per cent to close at Rs 2,007.40 on the BSE. The scrip slipped below the Rs 2000 level to hit a low of Rs 1,995.10 in intra-day trade. Future group counters also came under pressure.  Market circles said that the shares were likely to move in tune with developments in the top court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
23-02-2021||Business||RBI struggles to put a cap on rising bond yields||The RBI continues to struggle to put a cap on rising bond yields with the rates on the 10-year paper refusing to come down below 6 per cent, a phenomenon that has been compounded by two factors — the Centre’s announcement of a huge borrowing programme and the wave of short-selling by market players. According to a note by the economic research wing of State Bank of India, the average increase in G-Sec yields across three, five and 10 years is around 31 basis points since the budget. The report said one of reasons for the recent surge in yields may be short selling by market players. According to Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, SBI, the strategy of short selling involves the sale of a security which the seller has not yet purchased but borrows the security from others in the market. The banks and the primary dealers resort to short selling when their view is bearish — the prices of the bond will fall and the yield will rise. They make money if the bond prices drop and yields rise, and over a point of time this could become a “self fulfilling prophecy” as such short sellers keep on rolling over their borrowed security till the time they believe that yields will continue to rise. The only way to break this is for the RBI to conduct large scale open market operations to provide necessary steam to the bond market to rally. Ghosh said any further upward movement in G-sec yields even by 10 basis points from the current levels could usher in mark-to-market losses for banks that could be a minor blip in an otherwise exceptional year during which the RBI helped the government raise debt at the lowest possible cost in 16 years. Thereafter, the RBI’s monetary policy also could do little to prevent the fall in bond prices, despite its assurance of ample liquidity and that the borrowing programme will be conducted without any disruption to the Government. More recently, rising US bond yields have also contributed to their rise here in India, despite RBI’s plan to keep them below 6 per cent. They make money if the bond prices drop and yields rise, and over a point of time this could become a `self fulfilling prophecy’ as such short sellers keep on rolling over their borrowed security till the time they believe that yields will continue to rise. He added that the only way to break such self fulfilling expectations is for the central bank to conduct large scale open market operations (OMOs-or the purchase of Government securities) to provide necessary steam to bond market to rally and with increase in price, many short sold position will trigger stop losses and market players will scramble to cover open positions. This will hasten a rapid fall in yields over a short period of time. Ghosh also suggested that the time period for covering short sale be reduced from 90 days to 30 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
23-02-2021||Business||Rising yields spread fear in stocks||The week began on a bad note for investors as rising US treasury  yields and a surge in Covid-19 cases in some states saw the Sensex crashing 1145 points to end below the 50000-mark, while the broader Nifty sank more than 306 points. The Sensex has now fallen for the fifth day running. Analysts fear stocks may have to face headwinds such as rising crude oil prices that could impact inflation and a slowdown in FPI inflows amid incremental Covid cases. In Monday’s trade, the benchmark indices tracked losses in heavyweights amid poor global cues. Apprehensions are that rising US yields could be negative for emerging markets such as India as it could lead to fund outflows. Provisional data from the NSE showed that foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) sold stocks worth Rs 893 crore in Monday’s trade. To add to the market’s woes, rising cases of coronavirus in states such as Maharashtra and the likelihood of a lockdown there has led to concerns that it could affect the modest economic recovery. The Sensex opened in the green at 50910.51 and inched up to a day’s peak of 50986.03. But it failed to sustain the gains and fell below the 50000-mark to a day’s low of 49617.37 after which the gauge ended at 49744.32, a drop of 1145.44 points, or 2.25 per cent. Barring three stocks in the Sensex, the rest ended in the red. Dr Reddy’s was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 5 per cent, followed by M&M, Tech Mahindra, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank and TCS. Siddhartha Khemka, head-retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, said, “The market may continue with its profit booking for some time till the concerns over rising bond yields and inflation recede. Even the spike in virus cases is worrying the market.” He said rising bond yields may cap equity valuations even as the Reserve Bank of India may have to do a balancing act to keep the yields at lower levels while managing the government’s borrowing programme. The market would track rising inflation, increasing Covid cases along with prospective US stimulus in the near term for further direction, Khemka said. The global cues were weak as yields on the benchmark US 10-year treasury notes rose to a one-year high, thus worrying investors that money might move away from the emerging markets. Further, there were concerns over the risk of higher inflation due to sharp jump in commodity prices which tempered optimism around a vaccine-led economic recovery. He added that on the domestic front, after months of steady nationwide decline, Covid-19 cases are witnessing a surge in some parts of the country particularly. Further, the fall in stock prices got intensified by a sharp rise in volatility because of the monthly F&O expiry this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
23-02-2021||India||Toolkit sedition: judge rips into government case||The judge hearing the Disha Ravi bail application has ripped into the government’s case against the 22-year-old activist, saying the evidence against her is “scanty and sketchy” and that, “placing any further restraint upon her liberty… would be neither logical nor legal.” In a blistering judgement, Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana systematically demolished the prosecution case on all the accusations made against the environmental activist, crucially pointing out that citizens, “cannot be put behind bars simply because they choose to disagree with the State policies” and adding that, “citizens are conscience keepers of government in any democratic nation.” "An aware and assertive citizenry, in contradistinction with an indifferent or docile citizenry, is indisputably a sign of a healthy and vibrant democracy," the court said. Rana added that in view of the prosecution’s “sketchy” case, “I do not find any palpable reason to breach the general rule of bail” against a ‘blemish-free’ young lady with no criminal record and, “firm roots in society”. The headline-making case began nine days ago when Delhi Police arrested Ravi from her home in Bangalore and flew her to Delhi the very same evening, slapping charges of sedition and “promoting enmity between different groups,” against her. The police also accused the young environmental activist of collaborating with pro-Khalistan groups. Besides that, it accused her of creating a “toolkit’ which was a guide for an online campaign to support the four-month-old Punjab farmers’ protest. The police argued that the toolkit had helped to spread violence. Ravi has denied all of the charges. Rana also dismissed as baseless the allegations that Ravi conspired with the Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF), an obscure Canadian-based organization that is said to have pro-Khalistani leanings. Ravi had participated in a Zoom meeting with around 70 people in which two people named Mo Dhaliwal and Anita Lal, said by the police to belong to the Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) had taken part. The judge said. “There is not an iota of evidence brought to my notice connecting the perpetrators of violence on 26.01.2021 with the said PJF or the applicant.” The judge said, adding, “In the absence of any evidence... it cannot be presumed by resorting to surmises or conjectures that she also supported the secessionist tendencies or the violence on 26.01.2021, simply because she shared a platform with people who have gathered to oppose the legislation.” Driving home the point, the judge further remarked: “There is nothing on record to establish any direct link between the applicant/accused and Mo Dhaliwal and Anita Lal. Furthermore, there is nothing on record to suggest there was any call, incitement, incitement or exhortation… to foment violence on 26.01.2021.” In his 18-page judgement, the additional sessions judge also reproduced the text of the toolkit, said to have been uploaded by Ravi, which suggested farmers’ supporters should create a ‘Tweetstorm’ by sending tweets to the agriculture minister and various international organisations. Besides that, the supporters could organise protests “near Indian embassies, govt offices, media houses,” around the globe. The toolkit also suggested supporters could stage protests near the offices of the Adani and Ambani groups – farmers say these two giant conglomerates will be the main winners if the farm acts are allowed to stay on the statute books. The judge said, “The perusal of the said ‘Toolkit’ reveals that any calls for any kind of violence is conspicuously absent. In my considered opinion, Citizens are the conscience-keepers of government in any democratic nation… The offence of sedition cannot be involved to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments.” He added: “Creation of a WhatsApp group of being editor of an innocuous Toolkit is not an offence. Further, since the said toolkit or PJF has not been found to be objectionable, mere deletion of the Whatsapp chat... also becomes meaningless.” Quoting from earlier case law on sedition, he added: “Difference of opinion, disagreement, divergence, dissent, or for that matter, even disapprobation are recognised legitimate tools to infuse objectivity in state policies.” He also quoted a couplet from the Rigveda which says: “Let noble thoughts come to me from all directions.” On Ravi having beenin touch with climate change activist Greta Thunberg, the judge added that the freedom of speech granted under Article 19 of the Indian Constitution includes, “the right to seek a global audience. There are no geographical barriers on communication… as long as the same is permissible under the four corners of the law.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
23-02-2021||India||SC takes objection to petitioner addressing judges 'Your Honour'||The Supreme Court Tuesday cautioned a law student not to address the judges as ‘Your honour’ as it was not the US Supreme Court. “When you call us Your Honour' it appears that you have the US Supreme Court in mind,” a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told the law student. He immediately apologised to the bench and said that he would address the court as Your Lordship. To this, CJI Bobde said: Whatever, but don't use inappropriate terms. The bench told him that in the US Supreme Court and in magisterial court here, the court can be addressed as ‘Your honour’ but not in Indian Supreme Court. The bench then asked him what his case was, to which the student, who appeared in-person, said that his plea seeks that infrastructure of the judiciary on the criminal jurisdiction side be strengthened. The bench told him that does he know that there is already a matter pending in the Supreme Court in which directions have been passed to strengthen the infrastructure of judiciary right up to subordinate judiciary level in a phased wise manner. The law student feigned ignorance after which the bench said that it appears that he has not done his homework before approaching the court. It told the petitioner that there is a pending case titled as Malik Mazhar Sultan versus UPSC in which directions have been issued to the Centre, different state governments and High Courts for strengthening of infrastructure right up to subordinate judiciary level. The bench adjourned the matter for four weeks and asked the student to come prepared on the next date of hearing. Bar Council of India clarifies their stand Bar Council of India (BCI) took note of the objection raised on Tuesday by the Supreme Court to the term 'Your Honour' used to address the bench saying it had already passed a resolution in 2019 advising advocates not to use it in high courts and in the top court. The BCI, an apex body of lawyers, said 'Your Honour' is a form of address given to a circuit judge or a Mayor in the USA and in India, this is used in lower courts to address the judicial officers. BCI chairperson Manan Kumar Mishra, in a statement issued late evening, clarified the stand of the lawyers' top body on the issue. The BCI would like to clarify that as far as back on 28th September 2019 on the request made by Office-Bearers of Bar Association of some High Courts with regard to the Advocates addressing the court, it was resolved that as per mostly preferred and prevalent practice, lawyers of the country be requested to address the Hon'ble Judges of various High Courts and Supreme Court as 'My Lord' or 'Your Lordships' or 'Hon'ble Court' while Lawyers of Subordinate Courts, Tribunals and other Forums may address the Court as 'Your Honour' or 'Sir' or the equivalent word in respective regional languages, the statement said. It said the resolution was passed to maintain graciousness and to uphold the majesty of the courts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
23-02-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra calls PM Modi ‘arrogant’ and ‘coward’||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a "kisan mahapanchayat" here, calling him "arrogant" and a "coward" who does not owns up the responsibility for his policies. She also accused the PM of insulting farmers by making a mockery of them in Parliament through his "andolanjeevi" (habitual agitators) remark. Promising that her party will repeal the new farm laws when it comes to power, Priyanka alleged that they have been enacted by those engaged in making money ("noton ki kheti") to benefit their "billionaire friends". "People have always taught a lesson to arrogant governments, and the time for it has arrived," she said, claiming that all election promises made by the ruling party have turned out to be false. "The truth is that the prime minister is not only arrogant ('ahankari') but also a coward ('kayar'). As soon as his policies are questioned, he backtracks," said the Congress leader, accusing the PM of wrongly blaming her party's policies for high fuel prices. Thank God the previous Congress governments had developed industries, otherwise, the present government would not have been able to sell anything, she said. The Congress general secretary also said the GST and demonetisation were introduced to benefit "billionaire friends" of the prime minister. She said the government is "intoxicated" by the idea of selling public sector assets and asked people at the gathering to save the sacred Govardhan hill "lest the BJP should sell it". She alleged that while the Centre collected over Rs 20 lakh crore through taxes on fuel and waived loans of its "billionaire friends", it did not spare a single penny for farmers. Speaking over the farm laws, she said they will continue to fight for the cause of farmers till the anti-farmer legislations are repealed. "The Congress will repeal the laws when it comes to power if the present government failed to do so," she said. She also said promises like doubling the income of farmers, waiving their loans and clearing sugarcane arrears have proved hollow. The government does not have Rs 15,000 crore to pay to farmers while two planes worth Rs 16,000 crore were purchased for the prime minister, she said. She said through the laws, the government has paved the way for the hoarding of produce and elimination of mandis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
23-02-2021||India||Aim of BJP govt is to destroy farmers’ market: Rahul||On Tuesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, lashed out at the Centre over the three contentious farm laws. He alleged that the aim of the BJP government is to destroy farmers’ market and not getting them the right price for their produce. According to Rahul, while the first two laws destroy the country’s agriculture sector, the third one denies justice to farmers. “The first one destroys the farmers market.The secondone is to allow the richest to procure as much as grain and unlimited hoarding. These two laws allow them to control the price of grains and vegetables,” he alleged, while addressing a mass rally, that marked the culmination of the 22-day-long Aishwarya Yatra, led by leader of opposition in the state assembly Ramesh Chennithala. “They (government) have only one aim: the farmer does not get the right price for their produce. That everybody, the middle class, farmers labourers have to pay more,” he said. “And that’s why lakhs and lakhs of farmers are protesting. What did the PM say? That they are terrorists,” Gandhi alleged. The Congress leader also attacked the central and state governments over the rising fuel prices despite a low oil price in the international market and claimed both the governments are giving the money to the richest in the country. “The price of oil in the international market is down. But in India, the price of petrol and diesel are going up.Thousands of crores of rupees are being taken from your pocket every day. Where is this money going? To whom is this money being given,” he said. “This is being given to the richest people in this country,” Gandhi said. “Everyday, when you travel in your vehicle, remember this, both the centre and the state are taking money from your pocket to the richest of this country. This is the politics we are trying to change. We want to work for the poor, and not for our organisation or the richest. That’s the difference between us and others,” the Congress MP from Wayanad told the gathering. He said the yatra was an opportunity to listen to what farmers, students, fishermen, elders and women of the state say. The state-wide yatra, led by Chennithala, began on January 31 from Manjeswaram in the northernmost Kasaragod district and ended at Parassala near here on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||Two new Covid-19 strains detected in Maha, Kerala||On Tuesday, Centre confirmed that two new strains of SARS-CoV-2 ‑ N440K and E484K ‑ have been detected in Maharashtra and Kerala. However, it mentioned that there is no reason to believe presently on the that they are responsible for the surge in cases in some districts in these two states. One of the two variants has also been detected in Telangana. Addressing a press conference here, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said, “187 people have tested positive for the UK strain of SARS-CoV-2 in the country so far, while six people have detected with the South Africa variant. Also, one person has tested positive for the Brazil variant strain.” Both the variants (N440K and E484K) of SARS-CoV-2 have been detected in Maharashtra. In Kerala and Telangana these variants have been found. “Barring these two variants, three other mutated strains ‑ one each from UK, South Africa and Brazil are already present in the country. But there is no reason for us to believe, on the basis of scientific information, that they are responsible for the upsurge of the outbreak in some districts of Maharashtra and Kerala,” Paul said. Reporting only detection does not lead to any attribution for a phenomenon on the ground because to relate the occurrence of a virus mutation to change in disease pattern, other epidemiological information and clinical information has to be linked to these mutants, Paul said, adding, because otherwise these (mutations) happen but they have no influence on the pandemic. He said that the behaviour of mutations is being constantly and closely watched in the country and 3,500 strains have been sequenced so far. “When we are doing sequencing, we are looking for any abnormal shift in the virus character. We have been watching the mutants. Today, based on the information and as analyzed and understood by a very eminent scientific advisory group of Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), we would like to underline the fact that we do not see attribution of mutant strains to the upsurge of the infection being seen in some districts. But this is work in progress. We will continue to watch the situation with full responsibility,” Paul said. The SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) was established in December end for laboratory and epidemiological surveillance of circulating strains of SARS-CoV-2 in the country. Stating that a large proportion of the population is still vulnerable, Paul stressed that Covid appropriate behaviour like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, hand washing and not getting into mass gatherings should be followed. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, “A total of 1,17,54,788 Covid ‑19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country till Tuesday 1 pm, with 1,04,93,205 getting the first dose and 12,61,583 being given the second dose.” He added, “12 states and union territories, including Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Odisha, have administered first dose of COVID-19 vaccine to more than 75 per cent of the registered healthcare workers, while 11 states and UTs, including Karnataka, Telangana, Delhi, Punjab and Chandigarh, have administered the first dose to less than 60 per cent of healthcare workers.” Two states, Kerala and Maharashtra, account for 75 per cent of total active COVID-19 cases in country, and six people have been detected with South Africa strain of SARS-CoV-2 in India so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||Deep Sidhu sent to 14-day judicial custody in Republic Day violence case||A Delhi court Tuesday sent actor-activist Deep Sidhu to judicial custody for 14 days in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day during farmers' tractor parade against the Centre's three new agri laws. Sidhu was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Samarjeet Kaur on expiry of his 7-day police custody. He was produced before the magistrate in Tihar Jail, where he is currently lodged. The court had first sent Sidhu to police custody on February 9 for seven days, after the police alleged he was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at the Red Fort. His custody was further extended by seven days on February 16. The police had said there are videos where Sidhu can be allegedly seen to be present at the site of the incident. "He was instigating the crowd. He was also one of the main rioters. Several social media accounts need to be searched to identify the co-conspirators. Also his permanent address is given as Nagpur but several places need to be visited in Punjab and Haryana to unearth further details. "He can be seen coming out with the person who hoisted the flag and congratulating him. He came out and gave speeches in loud hailers and provoked the crowd there. He was the main instigator. He instigated the crowd due to which the violence occurred. Several policemen were injured in the violence," police had alleged. Sidhu's counsel, however, had claimed he had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time. Sidhu has been arrested for several offences under the Indian Penal Code including rioting (147 and 148), unlawful assembly (149), attempt to murder (120-B), criminal conspiracy (120-B), assaulting or obstructing public servant (152), dacoity (395), culpable homicide (308) and disobedience to order promulgated by public servant (188). He has also been arrested under sections of the Arms Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act. The police had announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to Sidhu's arrest. Tens of thousands of protesting farmers clashed with the police in the national capital on January 26 during a tractor parade to highlight their demands. Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protestor died. In the FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, police alleged two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protestors who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||All missing persons in the Uttarakhand disaster presumed dead, says official||The Uttarakhand government has issued a notification authorising officials to declare "presumed dead" 136 people still missing after the flash flood in Chamoli district over two weeks ago. Sixty-eight bodies have so far been recovered after the February 7 disaster possibly triggered by an avalanche. A devastating flash flood demolished a 13.2 MW hydel project along the river besides causing extensive damage to the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project along Dhauliganga. About 35 people were feared trapped inside a tunnel in Tapovan. The debris and sludge has only been removed from a portion of the tunnel. Uttarakhand Health Secretary Amit Singh Negi said on Tuesday that the presumption of death can be made by officials in the affected district only in case of missing people who in all likelihood have died in the disaster but their bodies have not been found. Normally the missing are declared dead only when they are not traced for seven years after the incident responsible for their disappearance but in case of an extraordinary occurrence like the one witnessed in Uttarakhand special provisions can be made, he said. The move to declare those who continue to be missing in the flash flood as presumed dead has been initiated to expedite the process of distribution of compensation among the affected families, he said. The notification was issued on the basis of an SOP issued by the Centre in this regard on February 21, Negi said. A similar SOP was issued by the Centre after the Kedarnath deluge of June, 2013 in which thousands of people were killed and left missing. The SOP was formulated on the request of the state government by the Registrar General and Census Commissioner, India, he said. In normal circumstances, the death is registered only on the reports from persons mentioned in section 8 of the Registration of Births and Deaths (RBD) Act, 1969. However, in extraordinary cases like the one in Uttarakhand, reports from public servants after due enquiry can be made use of for registering the deaths, the notification said. As regards people whose body has been found, it is needless to state that the normal process of issuing death certificates should be followed, Negi said. In case of missing persons, who in all likelihood have died but the body is not traceable, all reasonable efforts should be made to determine that the person has in all likelihood died in the natural calamity, the official said. According to the notification, the missing have to be divided into three categories -- permanent residents present in the affected areas during the catastrophe, residents of other districts of Uttarakhand who happened to be in affected areas and tourists/persons from other states who were present there at the time of the catastrophe. The notification also gives details of the process of enquiry to be followed in case of those missing in the three categories. The designated officer should conduct a detailed enquiry regarding the missing person. Based on the enquiry, the officer should issue a speaking order regarding the provisional presumption of death. He should then ensure publication of the list of missing persons provisionally presumed dead in the newspaper, government gazette in Hindi and English and also host the same on the government website for the purpose of obtaining Claims and Objections. Claims and Objections should be received within 30 days failing which the designated officer should issue the death certificate and make it available for free to the next of kin of the missing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||Farm unions object to Delhi police posters at Tikri border||Agitating farmer union on Tuesday objected to Delhi Police putting posters that allegedly warned off protesters at the Tikri border site, even as the force claimed these were not new and only informed the protesters that they would not be allowed to enter the national capital. In a statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions that is spearheading the ongoing agitation against the three agri laws, said that it is opposed to the police's move as the protesters were exercising their constitutional right and appealed to the farmers to continue their sit-in peacefully. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for nearly 90 days, demanding a complete repeal of the three agri laws and a legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price for crops. "The Delhi Police has placed some posters at the Tikri border protest site where farmers have been warned that they will have to vacate the area. Such posters are irrelevant as farmers have been staging a peaceful protest by exercising their constitutional rights.... "We will oppose the conspiracy to end the protest with these kinds of threats and warnings," the SKM said in the statement. In the posters, the police have not given any deadline to the protesting farmers to vacate the area. On its part, the Delhi Police said it is a "routine" process. "The posters were pasted at the border area after the protest started. It is a routine exercise. Police have conveyed to them through posters that they are sitting in the jurisdiction of Haryana and they are not allowed to enter the national capital unlawfully," a senior police officer said. Thousands of protesters had clashed with the police during a tractor parade called by the agitating farmer unions on January 26. After police permitted the rally, many protesters deviated from the agreed route and reached the Red Fort on tractors. They entered the monument and some of them even hoisted religious flags at the ramparts. The government has projected the three farm laws as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehensions that these laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and scrap the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has maintained that the MSP and mandi systems will continue and will also be strengthened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||Nothing on record to establish direct link between Ravi and pro -Khalistan activists: Delhi court||In a blow to Delhi police, a court here Tuesday granted bail to climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers'' protest, terming evidence produced by police as scanty and sketchy .  The court said there is nothing on record to establish any direct link between Ravi and pro -Khalistan activists of 'Poetic Justice Foundation' (PJF) and also there is not even an iota of evidence brought connecting the perpetrators of the violence on Janury 26 with the PJF or her.  Further, it observed that there is nothing on record to suggest that the activist subscribed to any secessionist idea and there is absolutely no link established on record between her and banned outfit Sikhs for Justice.  Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana, who granted relief to Ravi on a personal bond of Rs one lakh and two sureties of like amount, noted that the accused had absolutely no criminal antecedents.  "Considering the scanty and sketchy evidence available on record, I do not find any palpable reasons to breach the general rule of ' Bail' against a 22 years old young lady, with absolutely blemish free criminal antecedents and having firm roots in the society, and send her to jail," the judge said.  The judge said that perusal of the said 'Toolkit' reveals that any call for any kind of violence is conspicuously absent.  "In my considered opinion, citizens are conscience keepers of government in any democratic Nation. They cannot be put behind the bars simply because they choose to disagree with the State policies. The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments," the court said.  The court said the difference of opinion, disagreement, divergence, dissent, or for that matter, even disapprobation, are recognised legitimate tools to infuse objectivity in state policies.  "An aware and assertive citizenry, in contradistinction with an indifferent or docile citizenry, is indisputably a sign of a healthy and vibrant democracy," the court said.  "The right to dissent is firmly enshrined under Article 19 of the Constitution. In my considered opinion the freedom of speech and expression includes the right to seek a global audience.  "There are no geographical barriers on communication. A citizen has the fundamental rights to use the best means of imparting and receiving communication, as long as the same is permissible under the four corners of law and as such have access to audience abroad," the court said.  It said that creation of a WhatsApp group or being editor of an innocuous Toolkit is not an offence.  "Further, since the link with the said toolkit or PJF has not been found to be objectionable, mere deletion of the WhatsApp chat to destroy the evidence linking her with the toolkit and PJF, also becomes meaningless," the court said.  While observing that there is nothing on record to suggest that the applicant accused subscribed to any secessionist idea, the court said "further, the prosecution has, except for pointing out that applicant/accused forwarded the toolkit to climate activist Greta Thunberg, failed to point out as to how the applicant/accused gave global audience to the 'secessionist elements'."  The court said that it was conscious of the fact that it is very difficult to collect evidence for the offence of conspiracy.  "I'm also conscious of the fact that the investigation is at a nascent stage and police is in the process of collecting more evidence, however, the investigating agency made a conscious choice to arrest the applicant accused upon the strength of material so far collected and now they cannot be permitted to further restrict the liberty of a citizen on the basis of propitious anticipations," the court said.  It said conspiracy cannot be proved merely on the basis of inferences which have to be backed by evidence.  While holding that there is nothing on record to establish any direct link between Ravi and pro -Khalistan activists of PJF, the court said "Still further, there is nothing on record to suggest that there was any call, incitement, instigation or exhortation on the part of the applicant/accused and the abovesaid organisations and its associates to foment violence on Janury 26, 2021."  As long as the engagement/interaction remains within the four corners of law, people interacting with such persons, ignorantly, innocently or for that matter even fully conscious of their dubious credentials, cannot be painted with the same hue, it said.  "In the absence of any evidence to the effect that the applicant/accused agreed or shared a common purpose to cause violence on Janury 26, 2021 with the founders of PJF, it cannot be presumed by resorting to surmises or conjectures that she also supported the secessionist tendencies or the violence caused on Janury 26 simply because she shared a platform with people, who have gathered to oppose the legislation.  The court directed that Ravi shall continue to cooperate with the ongoing investigations and shall join the investigation as and when summoned by the Investigating officer and not leave the country without the permission of the court.  The court noted that more than hundreds of persons involved in the violence have been arrested and interrogated by the Delhi Police but no evidence connecting the accused with the actual perpetrators of the violence has been brought forth on record by the prosecution till date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||Nodeep Kaur accuses police of severely beating her up in bail plea||Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur in her bail plea before the Punjab and Haryana High Court has claimed that she was severely beaten up at a police station after her arrest by the Sonipat police last month. The 23-year-old activist, hailing from Punjab's Muktsar district, has also claimed that her medical examination was not conducted in violation of section 54 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Kaur is currently lodged in Karnal jail in Haryana. The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday had adjourned the hearing on her bail plea and posted the matter for February 24. In the bail plea filed through her counsels Arshdeep Singh Cheema and Harinder Deep Singh Bains, Kaur stated that she was falsely arraigned as accused in an FIR lodged under various sections, including 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. In her petition, the labour rights activist claimed that she was "targeted and falsely implicated" in the case as she was successful in generating massive support for the ongoing farmer movement against the Centre's three new farm laws. Kaur, who is a member of the Majdoor Adhikar Sangathan, said they mobilised people for a protest at Kundli in Sonipat district against Centre's new farm laws. The plea alleged that the mobilisation of local labourers in support of farmers annoyed the administration and a plan was devised to stifle the protest. The bail plea stated that on January 12, the petitioner and MAS members marched towards a factory demanding payment of pending wages of some workers. The high court was informed that they were manhandled by a group formed by the Kundli Industrial Area, an association of industrial owners. In the meantime, a team from Kundli police station led by the station house officer reached there and immediately on their arrival, they grabbed the petitioner by her hair and dragged to the side, according to the plea. This angered the protesters and the situation became worse when the police resorted to lathi charge on peaceful protesters. A scuffle ensued and the petitioner tried to pacify the situation but to no avail, it said. The petitioner alone was caught and arrested by police officials. She was beaten, tortured and suffered multiple injuries, it claimed. The petitioner was taken to the police station in the absence of any woman police official and was beaten up by police officials, the plea alleged. Kaur was arrested in Haryana's Sonipat on January 12, the Haryana police had earlier said. Sonepat police officials had also said that a police team was attacked with sticks when they reached the site and some policemen sustained injuries in the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||Shantanu Muluk seeks anticipatory bail in toolkit case||Shantanu Muluk, who is accused along with Disha Ravi in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest, Tuesday moved a Delhi court seeking anticipatory bail. The application moved by Muluk is likely to come up for hearing Wednesday before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana. Muluk had got transit bail from Bombay High Court on February 16 for 10 days. He, along with Ravi and another accused Nikita Jacob, was booked for alleged sedition and other charges. According to the Delhi police, Shantanu Muluk and Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob along with Ravi, were allegedly involved in preparing the document and were in direct touch with "pro-Khalistani elements". Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi. Her police custody ends on Tuesday. Muluk and Jacob are currently on transit bail. Meanwhile, Ravi reached the office of the Delhi Police Cyber Cell on Tuesday in connection with the probe into the "toolkit Google doc" backing the ongoing farmers' agitation, officials said. Jacob and Muluk joined the probe on Monday. They were questioned at the Delhi Police Cyber Cell office in Dwarka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||Modi warns against dangers of climate change||Warning against the dangers of climate change and natural disasters like the one in Uttarakhand recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Tuesday asked the IITs to develop disaster resilient infrastructure that can withstand their effects. Addressing the 66th convocation of IIT (Kharagpur), the oldest of Indian Institutes of Technology, he gave the students the mantra of "Self-3" "self-awarness, self- confidence and selflessness" in order to become startups for bringing about a change in the lives of people. He also spoke of the need for making available safe, affordable and environment friendly energy to people through initiatives like the International Solar Alliance. "Climate change is a major challenge as natural disasters destroy infrastructure. India drew the attention of the world to the issue of disaster management. "You can see what happened recently in Uttarakhand. We should focus on developing disaster resilient infrastructure that can withstand natural disasters," he said. The prime minister referred to the global Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), which he announced at the UN Climate Action Summit in 2019. The CDRI envisages partnership of national governments, UN agencies and programmes, multilateral development banks, financing mechanisms, private sector, and knowledge institutions to promote the resilience of new and existing infrastructure systems to climate and disaster risks to ensure sustainable development. He hailed the role played by the IITs in developing technology to battle COVID-19, and said the hallowed institutes should now work fast on finding futuristic solutions to other health care problems. "You represent the aspirations of 130 crore people of India," he said, while addressing the convocation virtually." Noting that the needs and aspirations of the 21st century India have changed, Modi said, "IITs also need to transform from being just Indian Institutes of Technology to Institutes of Indigenous Technologies." "You have to become startups to bring about a change in the lives of people. You have to work on Self 3-- self- awareness, self-confidence and selflessness. You should recognise your potential and move forward, move ahead with full confidence, move ahead with selflessness," he told the students. Underscoring the need for clean and affordable energy, the prime minister said India presented to the world the concept of International Solar Alliance. He said the cost per unit of solar power was very little in India. However, it was still a great challenge to reach it to people's homes. "Can you do something about reaching solar cookers to homes using 'chulha' (earthen ovens)," he asked. He said before the coronavirus struck people used to keep only medicines at their homes. "Things have changed. They now keep machines that measure blood pressure, machines that measure blood oxygen. A huge market has emerged for personal health care equipment," he said while speaking about research and innovation in the field. He said IIT students can make use of PM Research Fellow Scheme and the Startup India Mission for idea incubation. The prime minister spoke about the government liberalising regulations on geospatial data to allow private companies to conduct survey and mapping without prior government approvals and sharing the data for various everyday applications, from logistics and transport to road safety and e-commerce. He said the decision will provide a huge impetus to Digital India and was a step forward in the direction of realising the vision 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||BJP set to sweep Gujarat civic polls||The BJP has so far won 300 out of the total 576 seats across six municipal corporations in Gujarat, the State Election Commission (SEC) said on Tuesday afternoon as counting of votes is underway. Congress, the main opposition party, had won only 36 seats, the SEC said about 4 pm. The Congress has not won a single seat in Surat where the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), a new entrant, made impressive inroads by winning eight seats. The Bahujan Samaj Party has won three seats in Jamnagar. A total of 192 seats in Ahmedabad, 72 in Rajkot, 64 in Jamnagar, 52 in Bhavnagar, 76 in Vadodara and 120 in Surat were up for grabs in the elections held on February 21. The BJP has won 62 seats in Ahmedabad corporation, 51 in Rajkot, 50 in Jamnagar, 31 in Bhavnagar, 61 in Vadodara and 45 in Surat. The Congress has won 10 seats in Ahmedabad, four in Rajkot, 11 in Jamnagar, five in Bhavnagar, seven in Vadodara and zero seats in Surat. The AAP, which had fielded 470 candidates across six corporations, won eight seats in Surat. Its workers celebrated by cutting cakes after the party won two panels (each having four candidates) in the city. In a major setback to Congress, it has not won a single seat in Surat, nor was it leading on any seat. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel expressed gratitude to the voters and BJP workers for the results. "The grand victory of the Bharatiya Janata Party in the elections of six municipal corporations is the victory of the people of Gujarat. "This is a grand victory of the politics of development started by Hon'ble Prime Minister @narendramodi," tweeted Rupani in Gujarati. The people of Gujarat have provided "a subject" to political analysts who can study how the concept of anti-incumbency does not apply in the state, he said. "Many thanks and congratulations to all the winning candidates, BJP office-bearers, workers and the voters of Gujarat for the glorious victory of Bharatiya Janata Party in the elections," tweeted Nitin Patel. PTI KA PD KRK KRK||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||SC stays hearing against discharge of Kerala CM in graft case||The Supreme Court Tuesday adjourned the hearing on CBI's plea against the discharge of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and two others in a graft case related to awarding of a contract to Canadian firm SNC-Lavalin when he was the power minister. A bench headed by Justice U U Lalit deferred the matter to April 6 after Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing for the CBI, sought adjournment in the matter. "I am engaged in a part heard matter in another court. Please have it next week," the ASG said. The bench then posted the hearing to April 6. The case pertains to allegations of corruption and causing a loss of Rs 374.50 crore to the state Exchequer in awarding of a contract to SNC-Lavalin when Vijayan was the power minister in 1996. The top court had earlier asked the CBI to come up with very strong grounds against the discharge of Vijayan and two others in the SNC Lavalin graft case. The high court and the lower court have held that they should not be tried in the matter. The CBI said this was a cross-appeals matter filed in 2017 and it will file a comprehensive note giving the factual aspect of the matter. On August 23, 2017, the Kerala High Court had upheld the discharge of Vijayan in the SNC Lavalin graft case, saying the CBI had "wrongly picked" him as prima facie there was no case against him. The high court had also upheld the discharge of two others in the case while rejecting the CBI's plea that their full-fledged trial was necessary to prove the conspiracy. The high court's verdict had come in a revision petition filed by the CBI in 2014 challenging the discharge of Vijayan and five others in the case by a special CBI court in Thiruvananthapuram. The CBI special court, Thiruvananthapuram, had in November 2013 discharged Vijayan and others. The probe agency had filed the charge sheet in the case arguing that there was sufficient evidence to prove the charges against the accused. The discharge by the special court was 'illegal', CBI had stated in its revision petition. The special judge had ruled that the CBI had failed to prove the charges of conspiracy and corruption levelled against Vijayan and other accused. The CBI had argued before the high court that a trial was must to prove the conspiracy in giving the contract to revamp the power projects to the Canadian firm when Vijayan was power minister in 1996. Claiming that the conspiracy was hatched at different stages in awarding the contract, the CBI had assailed the lower court order discharging Vijayan and six others and said a full-fledged trial was necessary to prove the conspiracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Disha Ravi reaches Delhi Police Cyber Cell office||Climate activist Disha Ravi reached the office of the Delhi Police Cyber Cell on Tuesday in connection with the probe into the "toolkit Google doc" backing the ongoing farmers' agitation, officials said. A Delhi court on Monday sent Ravi to one-day police custody as it said she has to be confronted with other accused in the case -- Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk. Jacob and Muluk joined the probe on Monday. They were questioned at the Delhi Police Cyber Cell office in Dwarka. The Delhi Police, probing the "toolkit Google doc" shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, had arrested Bengaluru-based activist Disha Ravi, while Jacob and Muluk were granted pre-arrest bail by court. Police had alleged that the "toolkit" was part of a global conspiracy to create unrest and trigger violence in India in the garb of the farmers' protest against the agri laws. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi demanding repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||NGT directs NTPC to pay Rs 58 lakh for damaging environment in Uttarakhand||The National Green Tribunal has junked a plea by NTPC seeking review of an order passed by Uttarakhand Pollution Control Board (PCB) imposing a penalty of Rs 57.96 lakh for damaging the environment. The state-owned power major was found to have violated muck disposal site maintenance norms, resulting in damage to the environment. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that slope of the muck dumped at its Tapovan Vishnugad hydro power project in Chamoli was hazardously double the standards with potential for erosion and dismissed the NTPC Ltd's plea against the state PCB order. "Erosion was already seen in terms of gully formation in down streams of the muck dumps. Thus, it is clear that the operative muck disposal sites were not being maintained as per the Ministry of Environment and Forests laid down norms," the bench said. "In view of the above, there is no merit in the appeal as 'Polluter Pays' principle has been rightly invoked for damage to the environment. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed. The amount of compensation which may be recovered by the state pollution control board may be utilised for restoration of the environment," the tribunal said. The NGT noted that NTPC is operating Tapovan Vishnugad hydro power project and has set up 5 muck disposal dumping sites out of which three were completed 3-5 years back while two are still active and operational and the state PCB found deficiencies in respect of the same. The state PCB had passed order under Section 33 A of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (Water Act) requiring the appellant NTPC to pay compensation of Rs 57,96,000 on the polluter pays principle for the restoration of the environment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Habitat loss resulting in inbreeding of Indian tigers: Study||While Indian tigers have the highest genetic variation compared to other subspecies of the feline across the world, their populations continue to be fragmented by loss of habitat, leading to inbreeding and potential loss of this diversity, says a new study that may inform conservation strategies. "As human population started expanding, so also their signatures on the land. We know that some of these signatures would result in disrupting the ability of tigers to move," Uma Ramakrishnan, co-author of the research, published in the journal Molecular Biology and Evolution, told PTI. According to Ramakrishnan, molecular ecologist and assistant professor at the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bangalore, this habitat loss from human activities leads to tigers being "hemmed into their own protected area." "Now, they can only mate with the other tigers in their own population. Over time, this will result in inbreeding, they will end up mating with their relatives," she explained. "Whether this inbreeding compromises their fitness, their ability to survive, we do not yet know," the molecular ecologist added. While genetic diversity across a population improves their chances of survival in the future, the study said population fragmentation of tigers can decrease this variation, and endanger them further. Although tigers have received significant conservation attention, the scientists said very little is known about their evolutionary history and genomic variation, especially for Indian tigers. With 70 per cent of the world's tigers living in India, the researchers said understanding the genetic diversity of tigers in the country is critical to the feline's conservation worldwide. The results of their three-year long study offer insights into genomic variation in tigers and the processes that have sculpted it. Based on the results, the scientists believe there have been relatively recent divergences between subspecies, and intense population bottlenecks that may have contributed to inbred individuals. According to the NCBS scientist, maintaining structural connectivity, enabling tigers to move between protected areas can help overcome these bottlenecks. "This would require the right types of habitat between protected areas, for example having densely populated human settlements would not work. Further, there also needs to be functional connectivity, that tigers do actually move," Ramakrishnan added. In the study, the scientists sequenced whole genomes from 65 individual tigers from four subspecies of the feline, and conducted a variety of population genomic analyses that quantify genetic variability. They investigated the partitioning of genetic variation, possible impacts of inbreeding, and demographic history, and possible signatures of local adaptation. While the total genomic variation in Indian tigers was higher than in other subspecies, the study found that several individual tigers in the country had low variation, suggesting possible inbreeding. According to the research, tigers from northeast India were the most different from other populations in India. "Given our results, it is important to understand why some Bengal tigers appear inbred and what the consequences of this are," said Anubhab Khan, co-first author of the research. The study showed recent divergences between tiger subspecies, within the last 20,000 years, which the scientists believe is concordant with increasing human impacts across Asia and a transition from glacial to interglacial climate change in the continent. However, the scientists believe this finding needs to be investigated further with expanded data and analyses of more tiger genomes. "Most studies focusing on species of conservation concern use limited numbers of specimens to try to gain understanding into how genomic variation is partitioned," said Ellie Armstrong, co-first and co-corresponding author of the study from Stanford University in the US. "It is clear from our work here, and a growing number of other studies, that it is crucial to increase our sampling efforts and use caution when interpreting results from limited sample sizes," Armstrong added. According to Ramakrishnan, the genomic variation of Indian tigers continues to be shaped by the ongoing loss of connectivity. "Population management and conservation action must incorporate information on genetic variation. I hope doing so will help India maintain the gains in tiger conservation achieved so far," Ramakrishnan added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Govt working on four fronts to keep India healthy, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said his government is taking a holistic approach to healthcare in the country and is not just focused on treatment but also wellness. Addressing a webinar on the effective implementation of the Union Budget's provisions in the health sector, Modi said the budget allocated for the health sector now is phenomenal and shows the government's commitment towards this sector. The prime minister said it is time to take accessibility, affordability in healthcare to the next level for which use of modern technology is being increased. To keep India healthy, the government is working on four fronts simultaneously -- prevention of illness and promotion of wellness, healthcare access to all, increase in quality and quantity of healthcare infrastructure and professionals, to work on a mission mode to overcome problems, Modi said. The world has noted the strength shown by India's health sector during the COVID-19 pandemic, he said, asserting that respect for India's healthcare had gone up during the COVID-19 pandemic. In the future, demand for Indian doctors and paramedical staff is going to go up around the world, he said. The prime minister also said that the country has to be prepared for an increasing demand for Made in India vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Dip in fresh Covid cases, over 10,000 infected in a day||India's total tally of Covid-19 cases surged to 1,10,16,434 with 10,584 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries have crossed 1.07 crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,56,463 with 78 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,12,665 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.24 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. The active coronavirus infections in the country have reduced to 1,47,306 which comprises 1.34 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 21,22,30,431 samples have been tested up to February 22 with 6,78,685 samples being tested on Monday. The 78 new fatalities include 18 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 15 from Punjab. A total of 1,56,463 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,806 from Maharashtra followed by 12,466 from Tamil Nadu, 12,299 from Karnataka, 10,901 from Delhi, 10,251 from West Bengal, 8,716 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,167 from Andhra Pradesh. The Union health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Court: Can’t be a mute spectator and allow Varavara's health to deteriorate in custody ||Varavara Rao, the 80-year-old Telugu poet held in judicial custody at a Mumbai hospital, has been granted medical bail for six months by Bombay High Court in the Elgaar Parishad case. The court dismissed the National Investigation Agency’s contention that Rao was not entitled to relief on humanitarian grounds, saying it could not be a “mute spectator” and allow his health to deteriorate in custody. “With all humility at our command, keeping in view human consideration, the well-recognised fundamental rights of the undertrial to have quality medical aid for serious ailments suffered by him, advanced age, inadequate facilities in the hospital attached to the Taloja Central Prison, we are of the opinion that this is a genuine and fit case to grant relief,” the high court bench said. The bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale added: “Or else, we will be abdicating our constitutional duty and (our) function as a protector of human rights and right to health covered under right to life guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India.” Rao’s lawyer Indira Jaising tweeted later: “The most important thing about the judgement is that it recognises the fundamental rights of all prisoners to health, life and liberty. But many less fortunate languish in jail with no medical or legal help, spare a thought for them.” Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, aged 83 and suffering from Parkinsonism, is among several undertrials still in prison in connection with the case. Rao has been directed to stay within the jurisdiction of the NIA court in the city during the bail period and prohibited from establishing contact with his co-accused in the case. Rao will be discharged from the hospital depending on his health. A relative told this newspaper that as other cases too were pending against Rao, they were trying to find out whether he would remain in custody or be released. If freed, a home will have to be rented and geriatric care facilities arranged. Rao has spent the past two years in Maharashtra’s prisons, accused in connection with an alleged Maoist plot to incite violence at an Ambedkarite event in 2018 as well as to eliminate Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In November last year, the high court had ordered Rao to be moved to the Nanavati Hospital for treatment of dementia and urinary tract infection. Both conditions had developed during Rao’s almost two-year-old stint in prison without trial. Jaising had cited a doctor’s observation that the poet’s urinary catheter had not been changed for three months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||UP BJP faces farmers’ wrath: Union minister made to abandon plan to meet villagers||Union minister Sanjeev Balyan’s policy of gate-crashing farmers’ family events to thumb his nose at a Bharatiya Kisan Union call to boycott BJP members triggered a clash that left four villagers hospitalised on Monday and spawned the gherao of a police station. Residents of Soram village in Muzaffarnagar district, western Uttar Pradesh, said Balyan’s “goons” and policemen had used sticks to thrash villagers protesting his visit in the afternoon. After the Muzaffarnagar MP and 2013 riots accused left, policemen entered homes, dragged men and women out and threatened them, they alleged. The villagers held a panchayat and surrounded Shahpur police station, 4km away, demanding action against the minister of state for animal husbandry, fisheries and dairy development. The three-hour gherao ended around 9.30pm after the police promised action on the basis of their complaint. “Balyan’s men had lathis in their cars and attacked those chanting slogans peacefully against their visit. They dragged me out of my home and damaged my doors,” a villager, Sarita Devi, said. “Instead of acting against the minister and his goons, the police have detained five farmers,” local farmer Madan Singh told reporters. Balyan accused the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) of engineering protests while he was attending the terahvin (a post-death ceremony) at a villager’s home, and said he had left as soon as “some people clashed with some others”. But villagers said residents of the neighbourhood had protested when Balyan arrived uninvited and thrust his company on an unwilling host — a tactic that is earning the minister scorn and anger in his stronghold. Balyan has been systematically storming homes, confident that his status and the farmers’ civility would avert any rebuff, since BKU leader Naresh Tikait announced on February 18 that peasants of the region would not invite any BJP member to their homes. This was a huge snub in a region where, as Tikait emphasised, “we tend to invite the entire area to family events like marriages and last rites”. “Those who (host BJP members) will be punished and made to offer food to 100 local people,” Tikait had said. Balyan took up the dare and began visiting homes with a vengeance — taking in villages like Kankra, Goela, and Jaitpur on Saturday and Sunday — either to express condolences for deaths or to attend engagement ceremonies. Sometimes he got outwitted. When Balyan headed for Bhainswal in adjoining Shamli district on Sunday, residents got wind of it and blocked the roads with their tractors. Tikait on Monday appealed for calm, saying a democracy gives everyone the right to state their case. He, however, asked people’s representatives to be mindful of people’s sentiments. The BJP is said to have tasked Balyan with placating his Jat constituency in western Uttar Pradesh, worried by the community’s anger at the new farm laws and recent efforts at reviving the formidable Jat-Muslim “brotherhood” that had been the party’s nemesis for decades. That brotherhood had been shredded by the September 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots, which Balyan is accused of instigating, making him a divisive figure in this context. However, he so far seems to have attracted strong derision from Jat farmers. Sudheer Chaudhary, village panchayat chief of Soram, said Balyan had come to his home from the terahvin and touched his father’s feet. “This angered the villagers as we have been staying away from BJP leaders on the BKU’s call,” he said. Santresh Devi, a Soram resident, said: “Policemen barged into my home after Balyan and his goons left and pointed a pistol at my son. They dragged him out and threatened him.” She added: “Earlier during the clashes, Balyan’s goons attacked (neighbourhood youths) Situ, Yogesh, Omkar and Bablu.” Sarita Devi said: “We had created Sanjeev Balyan and now he is playing with our honour.” Balyan said: “There was a terahvin for Rajveer Singh in Soram. Some RLD workers arrived and started chanting slogans. The villagers drove them away. When the police arrived, I said I didn’t want any action against those people.” He said it was his “democratic right” to meet people and discuss certain issues. RLD leader Ajit Rathi, who was at the Shahpur police station, said: “The villagers have called a mahapanchayat in Soram on February 26 to discuss today’s incident and devise a strategy to keep the BJP at bay.” RLD vice-president Jayant Chaudhary tweeted in Hindi: “Many people have suffered injuries in a clash between the BJP and farmers. At least, you (BJP leaders) can behave properly even if you can’t talk in favour of the farmers.” ‘Ridiculous’ jab Another Muzaffarnagar village, Raipur Nangli, had held a panchayat on Monday morning and reaffirmed the pledge to not entertain BJP members until the three farm laws had been repealed. However, Balyan, BJP zonal president Mohit Beniwal, Budhana MLA Umesh Malik and a few other party leaders visited the home of an apparently unwilling Gajendra Singh Ahlawat, chief of the Ahlawat khap, in Raipur Nangli on Saturday. “The villagers chanted slogans against the Centre, BJP and Balyan. I told Balyan there was no reason to entertain them until the farm laws had been withdrawn. They soon left,” Ahlawat told reporters. “They are turning up at farmers’ family functions without invitations, which is ridiculous.” Rajveer Singh, a farmer in Khatauli, said: “Our houses are mostly open from the front, and we cannot stop anybody from sitting in our courtyards. But we will not invite BJP leaders.” He added: “Those who come without invitation should be ready to face opposition. We appeal to BJP leaders not to test our patience.” The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Monday said agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had insulted the farmers’ movement by saying “laws cannot be repealed by collecting a crowd”. It reminded him that this same crowd had voted for the BJP in previous elections. Additional reporting by Anita Joshua||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Indian Medical Association accuses Union health minister of breaching ethics ||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday accused Union health minister Harsh Vardhan of breaching ethics by joining an event by an ayurvedic company to promote through misleading messages a herbal cocktail touted as an anti-Covid-19 medication. The IMA, the country’s largest body of doctors, asked Vardhan to explain why he had associated himself with an event on Friday where Patanjali Ayurved claimed it had developed the “first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19”. The IMA said Vardhan -- a medical doctor -- had breached a code of ethics doctors are bound to uphold. The event was attended by yoga evangelist Baba Ramdev -– the public face of Patanjali Ayurved -– and featured a banner that said in large red letters: “Announcement of First Evidence Based Medicine for COVID-19 (CoPP-WHO GMP certified)”. CoPP stands for “certificate of pharmaceutical product”, a reference to a certificate from India’s drug regulatory authority relating to good manufacturing practices (GMP) and issued in a format prescribed by WHO. Doctors underlined on Monday that GMP had nothing to do with the efficacy of a product. On Friday, as an impression gained ground after the event that the Coronil tablet had received certification from the ayush ministry as a medicine supporting Covid-19 treatment in line with WHO’s certification scheme, Patanjali managing director Acharya Balkrishna issued a clarification. Balkrishna tweeted: “We want to clarify to avoid confusion that our WHO GMP compliant COPP certificate to Coronil is issued by DCGI, Government of India. It is clear that WHO do not approve or disapprove any drugs. WHO works for building a better, healthier future for people all over the world.” Hours after the event on Friday, WHO’s South East Asia Regional Office had tweeted: “WHO has not reviewed or certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine for the treatment of Covid-19.” However, the way the banner was emblazoned behind the ministers (road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari was the chief guest) and the claim was drafted gave the false impression that the medicine had been approved by WHO, IMA executives said. The IMA, which has a membership of over 350,000 doctors across India, has now questioned the minister’s decision to join the event. The “false and fabricated projection of an unscientific medicine by the health minister” and the denial by WHO is a “slap and insult” to the people of India, the IMA said in a statement released on Monday. “We are asking – why did he have to go there?” said Johnrose Austin Jayalal, the IMA’s national president. The IMA has asked minister Vardhan whether it was appropriate for him to participate in an event where a product was being promoted in “unethical, wrong and false ways to the country”. “We’re in the middle of the Covid-19 epidemic – what if people see the minister and this event on TV channels and then buy the medicine,” said Jayesh Lele, the IMA’s general secretary. The Union health ministry has not responded to an email query from this newspaper seeking Vardhan’s response to the criticism from sections of the medical community. An email sent to the media division of Patanjali Ayurved had not elicited a response until Monday night. Lele and Jayalal said the banner screaming “WHO” and “GMP” was probably intended to create the false impression that the product had WHO certification. “GMP is completely different – it has nothing to do with the efficacy of a product,” Lele said. “Efficacy has to be evaluated through randomised double-blinded placebo controlled trials. Why don’t they do such a trial?” The IMA has underscored that doctors are bound by a code of ethics that prohibits them from approving, recommending, endorsing, certifying or issuing statements on drugs or medicines “in any form or manner of advertising”. Vardhan had tweeted that he was pleased to have joined the event to mark the release of a “scientific research paper on the first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19 developed by Patanjali”. Several doctors had over the weekend expressed concern that the minister’s presence at the programme and his tweets were tantamount to endorsing the product, which they say remains to be rigorously assessed. Doctors at a private medical college in Jaipur who had conducted a clinical trial on Coronil have published a scientific paper in the peer-reviewed medical journal Phytomedicine. But several medical researchers within and outside India have questioned the content of the paper, highlighting what they believe are “flaws” and “inconsistencies”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Revival of brotherhood between Jats and Muslims in western Uttar Pradesh||At 85, farmer leader Ghulam Mohammad Jaula has found a new and invigorating reason to live and die for. The revival of the “bhaichara” or brotherhood between Jats and Muslims in western Uttar Pradesh, abutting Delhi. For decades, the unity between Jats and Muslims had dictated electoral politics in the region, where either community made up about 30 per cent of the population. But the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots had shredded that bond, fuelling the BJP’s rise to dominance in an area where it never had a foothold, and contributing to the emergence of a nationwide political climate that led the party to victory in the 2014 general election. But the Narendra Modi government’s imposition of the three farm laws and crackdown on the farmer protests, particularly the one led by Rakesh Tikait at the Ghazipur border, has tentatively brought the two communities together again, promising to heal the wounds of 2013. “Ab hum unke liye ladenge aur woh hamare liye (Now they will fight for us and we for them),” the six-foot-plus Jaula said, fingers firmly clasped around his stick as he settled in a chair in his outhouse at Jaula village, 40km from district headquarters Muzaffarnagar. “They” meant Jats and “us”, Muslims. Jaula, who derives his surname from the name of his village, wields considerable authority in the region as former right-hand man of the legendary farmer leader Mahendra Singh “Baba” Tikait, and one-time Muslim face of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. “Hamara rishta sagey bhaiyon se bhi gehra tha (Our relationship was deeper than that between blood brothers),” is how Jaula describes his bond with the elder Tikait, whose death in 2011 left the BKU in the hands of his sons Naresh and Rakesh. Jaula had dissociated himself from the BKU in 2013 after Jats and Muslims found themselves pitted against each other as communal violence engulfed Muzaffarnagar. More than 60 were killed and thousands of Muslim families forced to flee. With the Tikait brothers accused of involvement in the riots, Jaula snapped ties and floated his own outfit. Today, the octogenarian doesn’t want to recall the past: the present is too exciting for him. He set off the efforts to bury the hatchet at a January 29 mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar, where he told Naresh Tikait to his face to acknowledge the “two mistakes” he and his Jat brethren had committed. Naresh did. “I told them (Naresh and the Jats) that their first mistake had been to defeat their chaudhary (leader) Ajit Singh (in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls),” Jaula said. Ajit, Rashtriya Lok Dal leader and son of revered farmer leader and former Prime Minister Charan Singh, had been fielded by a combined Opposition that included the Samajawadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party. He lost to the BJP’s Sanjeev Balyan, who stands accused of instigating the 2013 riots. It was Charan who had in the 1970s united the Jats and Muslims, who stood firmly behind him and Ajit through four decades, with the Samajwadis too benefiting courtesy their off-and-on alliance with Ajit. The January 29 mahapanchayat had been called after videos from the previous night showed Rakesh Tikait sobbing at the Ghazipur border, accusing the Uttar Pradesh administration and “BJP goons” of conspiring to beat up and kill or evict the protesting farmers. By the break of dawn, thousands — mainly from western Uttar Pradesh — had arrived at the Ghazipur border in solidarity with the farmers, turning the tide against the government. However, with their pride and dignity hurt like seldom before, Jat farmer leaders Naresh and Rakesh began looking for political muscle to counter the government and hit on the idea of exhibiting Jat-Muslim unity. Jaula was invited to the afternoon mahapanchayat and he readily agreed. At the gathering, Jaula reminded the Jats also about their “second mistake”, which actually came six years before the “first mistake”. “The Muslims had always been with you (the Jats) but you got them killed in 2013,” Jaula told Naresh. A silent crowd, made up mostly of Jat farmers, listened intently. “These are the two big mistakes you must accept before we move forward,” Jaula said. Sitting on the stage at the mahapanchayat, Naresh acknowledged the two mistakes and vowed they won’t be repeated again. The crowd cheered. “When he (Naresh) acknowledged the mistakes, I too brushed aside the past and decided to join the fight,” Jaula said. The following day, Jaula despatched his supporters to the Ghazipur border in more than 200 vehicles in a show of support for Rakesh. “I’m confident the bond has become stronger and will hold,” Jaula said. “We need each other.” Since the mahapanchayat, a series of similar farmer gatherings have taken place across western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, reinforcing the message to the government that the protest wouldn’t be called off until the new farm laws had been repealed. But the implications of a renewed Jat-Muslim unity in western Uttar Pradesh could go beyond the farmer agitation and have electoral repercussions, with Assembly elections just about a year away. Jaula is certain that the farmers’ protest itself would influence the outcome of the state polls, particularly if the government fails to repeal the contentious farm laws. “The Jats and the Muslims will vote together in all future elections,” he said. Jaula’s son Sajid Ali aka Munna Pradhan, a former gram panchayat pradhan, sounded less confident than his father about a complete revival of the old Jat-Muslim ties. “Yes, a change is visible. Not only the older Jats but their youth too are disappointed in the BJP,” Munna said. But he added after a pause: “Waise toh sab thik lag raha hai, lekin kaun janta hai unke dil me kya hai (On the face of it everything looks fine but who knows what’s in their heart).” Recalling the events leading to the Jats’ “first mistake”, Munna said that Ajit, for whom Jaula had campaigned intensely, had looked set to drub Balyan in the 2019 general election. “However, in a sudden change on polling eve, Jat youths and many of their elders shifted loyalties to the BJP,” Munna said. Jaula obliquely pointed a finger at the Tikait brothers. “They (the Tikait brothers) called a panchayat and invited Ajit Singh to assure him support,” he said. “I don’t know what happened (behind the scenes) and the next day, the brothers organised a second panchayat and invited Balyan and promised to support him.” Balyan belongs to the same “khap” -- the Balyan khap --- as the Tikait brothers. The khap panchayats are traditional village councils that lack official sanctity but wield enormous influence. It’s widely believed in Muzaffarnagar that the second panchayat called by the Tikait brothers tilted the scales in Balyan’s favour. Ajit lost by just over 3,700 votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Covid-19: How vaccine anxiety was fuelled||A jumble of opaque decisions, misleading claims and implicit coercion by India’s health and regulatory authorities is likely to have amplified vaccine hesitancy among potential recipients and compounded the challenges before India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign, multiple medical experts have said. The experts say it is unclear whether those actions by officials largely during early January were unintentional blunders or planned moves in an unfamiliar pandemic landscape. But health ministry bulletins show that the vaccination drive has inoculated less than 50 per cent of the target — which is 100 vaccinations per session. Over 10.83 million healthcare and frontline workers had received vaccinations up to Sunday February 20 which is about 47 per cent of the ideal target of 22.94 million recipients through the 229,462 sessions since the campaign's start on January 16. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had last month accused “vested political interests” of spreading rumours and “encouraging vaccine hesitancy”, and asserted that prominent doctors and many other healthcare workers have taken Covid-19 vaccines without any side-effects. While releasing posters to address vaccine hesitancy, the minister had said it was a “paradox” that other countries had sought Covid-19 vaccines from India but “a section of our own is fomenting misinformation for narrow political ends”. Many experts, however, believe that the officials driving the campaign too have fuelled vaccine anxiety. “Their intentions may be good, but intentions must also be seen to be good — this is critical in public health,” said Thekekkara Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “But we’re seeing a style of administration bound to vitiate even good intentions,” John told The Telegraph. John and others say that patchy information and conflicting messages from health officials, coupled with their poor defence of the decisions taken, had mired the vaccine rollout in an avoidable muddle, causing many doctors to question elements of the campaign and decline the jabs. The campaign had up to Monday February 22 inoculated about 6.4 million — or 67 per cent of 9.6 million healthcare workers due to receive their first doses by the second deadline of February 24. Only eight states have vaccinated more than 75 per cent of their healthcare workers. The campaign is using two vaccines: Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford product made by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, the home-grown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. Both were granted accelerated approvals for restricted emergency use with limited data. “Both approvals should have been explained through much stronger scientific defence of those decisions. There are public health reasons to justify the rollout of both vaccines,” said a medical expert who requested not to be named. “But our officials failed to communicate this clearly.” Some researchers have questioned the approval granted to Covaxin on the basis of its safety and immune responses while its efficacy is still under evaluation. They have asked whether the approval was driven by a political desire to introduce an Indian vaccine alongside the UK product. Senior health officials and members of the national Covid-19 task force have repeatedly asserted that Indian drug regulations allow accelerated approvals under extraordinary threats like the one posed by the pandemic. “Approval to Covaxin deviated from standard practice, but no one is playing by the rules. All Covid-19 vaccines elsewhere too have received emergency authorisation,” said a member of the national task force. “There are strong arguments in favour of Covaxin, but no one articulated them the way they should have.” Some scientists have underlined that Covaxin uses a vaccine platform familiar for decades — an inactivated (killed) virus — which makes it potentially safer than alternative platforms that involve live viruses or genetic material. Covaxin, they have asserted, was administered to over 25,000 volunteers during studies on safety and immune responses while around 1,600 volunteers in India received Covishield. Some believe the chest-thumping about Covaxin’s approval and the size of the vaccination campaign didn’t help. John said: “Boastful messages about an Indian vaccine and the world’s largest campaign would likely make medical professionals wonder, ‘Does the vaccination have a public health or a political goal?’” Opaque, misleading The opacity and misleading signals, experts say, were evident on the day of the vaccine approvals. While announcing the approvals on January 3, Venugopal Somani, the head of India’s drug regulatory authority, had outlined the safety, immunological and efficacy studies on Covishield and the safety and immunological studies on Covaxin that led to the accelerated approvals. But, a senior clinical pharmacologist said, Somani’s “eight-minute monologue” provided “scanty” information that contrasted sharply with the volume of information provided by the regulatory authorities in the UK or the US when they released Covid-19 vaccines. The UK’s regulatory authority released a 57-page document detailing its decision to approve the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. Likewise, the US Food and Drug Administration released a 61-page memorandum on its decision on the Moderna vaccine and a 57-page memorandum on thePfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Alongside the lack of regulatory transparency in India, some health officials pitched arguments that experts believe were intended to douse criticism of the accelerated approvals but were misleading. Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, and a senior physician guiding India’s Covid-19 response, had on January 3 said Covaxin would be a backup ifCovishield didn’t work against mutant variants of the coronavirus. But health officials made it clear within days that Covaxin was not a backup. Guleria himself received Covaxin. In a video released to the media by the Union health ministry, Guleria also claimed that the vaccines approved in India would have the same efficacy as those released in other countries. “There’s never been a head-to-head comparison of efficacy across the vaccines – we don’t even know the final efficacy of the vaccines yet. A claim that all vaccines in India are equally effective won’t work, especially among doctors,” one expert said. Neither Guleria nor the health ministry has responded to queries from this newspaper about these claims. The campaign’s protocols too have evoked criticism, with some doctors and researchers highlighting what they believe are contradictions and elements of coercion. Senior health officials have asserted that the beneficiaries would not be able to choose between the two vaccines. Also, the health ministry has remained silent about criteria adopted to determine how the two vaccines would be distributed across the states and within the states. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the decision on distribution has been left to the states. But health officials in two states have told this newspaper that the choice is not easy given the differences between the development status of the two vaccines and the knowledge among doctors that Covaxin has yet to prove its efficacy. Groups of doctors in several states, including Bengal, Delhi and Tamil Nadu, have signalled their preference for Covishield. “The government is pretending that there is only one vaccine, but there are two vaccines being treated differently,” said Satyajit Rath, a medical immunologist at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune. “This pretence has probably added to vaccine anxiety and compounded the challenges.” The drug controller-general of India has approved the use of Covaxin under a so-called clinical trial mode, which will require the recipients to sign an informed-consent form. But, as Rath and others have underscored, the absence of choice between the two vaccines for the recipients and the informed-consent process represent both a contradiction and an implicit coercion. “We’re told the vaccination campaign is voluntary, but we’re also told to take the vaccine offered to us as a duty,” said a senior medical professional in Bengal. “What happens to those who exercise the right to refuse Covaxin as allowed under the informed-consent process? Would they get left out? Is that ethical?” Rath says the confusion could have been avoided through an open call for a much larger Covaxin trial. “They’ve pushed themselves into a mess,” Rath said. “Many doctors and healthcare workers, if offered adequate information about the safety and the promising immune responses of Covaxin, would have happily participated in such a trial.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||Puducherry chief minister V. Narayanasamy resigns ahead of trust vote||Puducherry chief minister V. Narayanasamy and his cabinet colleagues resigned on Monday after the government lost majority, with 11 members in the House against the Opposition’s 14. After staging a walkout from the Assembly before the motion seeking a vote of confidence was put up for voting in the House, Narayanasamy proceeded to the Raj Nivas and submitted his resignation to lieutenant governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. The chief minister said the ruling side walked out after Speaker V. Sivakolundhu did not accept its contention that only elected members have voting rights during the confidence vote, apparently referring to the three nominated BJP members. “Our view that only the elected members can vote in the House was not accepted by the Speaker. So, we walked out of the Assembly and met the lieutenant governor and gave resignation letter of my cabinet,” the Congress veteran said. Legal experts would be consulted on the matter, he said, while dubbing the turn of events surrounding the issue of voting rights of nominated members, the BJP in this case, as a “murder of democracy”. Narayanasamy said he was accompanied by his ministers, Congress and DMK MLAs besides the independent legislator who had earlier supported the government. It was up to the lieutenant governor to decide on their resignation, he added. He, however, did not respond to queries on his next course of action. The Congress governemnt in Puducherry fell after Narayanasamy’s resignation. With the exit of the Congress government in Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are the only three states in the country ruled by the party on its own.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||12 assistant professors axed for dancing to Bollywood tunes with students and kin||Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan has suspended 12 assistant professors of Rajendra College, Chapra, for dancing to Bollywood tunes and pop music with their family members and students at the institution’s annual day function, triggering charges of “moral policing”. The governor — chancellor of all state universities — has also suspended principal Premendra Ranjan Singh, indicted by a probe for “cake-cutting” and “inserting item songs and dance” into an event held on the birth anniversary of India’s first President, Rajendra Prasad, after whom the college is named. Chauhan, a former Uttar Pradesh BJP leader with roots in the RSS, has further suspended three professors of Jai Prakash University, to which Rajendra College is affiliated, on the charge of failing to carry out an “impartial” inquiry into the dance controversy and “giving benefits” to the dancing teachers. The trio were part of a probe committee formed by JPU vice-chancellor Faruque Ali. A letter issued to Ali by joint secretary Raj Kumar Sinha from the governor’s secretariat says the 12 teachers were punished for “gross misconduct and dereliction of duties” and mentions the dancing. Several academics have castigated the February 13 action against the teachers as “unwarranted moral policing” by self-appointed “guardians of our culture”. The presumption is that the real charge, unsaid but left hanging in the air, is that the dancing constituted obscene behaviour. “We danced for just about five minutes. We were dancing with our students, colleagues and family members — wives, daughters and sons. How can anyone dare think there was any obscenity? It was a normal, happy function,” one of the suspended assistant professors said. Another said: “We had participated in such events as students at reputable universities across the country. This is unwarranted moral policing by people who consider themselves the guardians of our culture.” A few purported video clips of the event that The Telegraph has seen do not show anything that would have been out of place at a family wedding. The suspended assistant professors are from the college’s psychology, chemistry, commerce, economics, English and Hindi departments. The action was taken on the basis of social media videos because a few days after the event, purported burglars made off with the college’s digital video recorder which contained recordings of the event. Teachers at the college said the social media clips show some of the 12 teachers dancing. The songs played include the Haryanvi number Teri Aakhya ka yo Kajal by Sapna Chaudhary and London Thumakda from the Bollywood movie Queen. A suspended teacher said the dancing had begun after the chief guests had left, with some teachers joining in at the students’ request. After the video clips went viral, Ali formed a three-member probe committee with professors Ashok Kumar Jha (dean, faculty of science), Uday Shankar Ojha (dean, student welfare) and proctor Kapil Dev Singh on December 5. The committee visited the college and asked teachers to write about the event. Twelve did but many others refused. On the basis of the committee’s report, Ali handed the 12 assistant professors increment and dearness allowance deductions. Raj Bhavan too constituted a two-member probe committee on December 7 with Patna University vice-chancellor G.K. Choudhary and Lalit Narayan Mithila University (Darbhanga) vice-chancellor S.P. Singh. The panel visited Rajendra College on December 10. On February 13, the increment and DA deductions were withdrawn and the suspensions imposed on the governor’s orders. All the 16 academics suspended were given 15 days to explain their conduct. Sinha’s letter to Ali says the chancellor (governor) had acted after reviewing the two-member panel’s report. “He (the principal) showed least respect for the university laws and without having a proper approval, organised the birth anniversary and by inserting item songs and dance in the programme on the stage under the banner of Dr Rajendra Prasad Jayanti Samaroh, as well as, cake-cutting ceremony in his office chamber, deserves to be proceeded against for such an unethical and non-moral practices,” the panel report, a copy of which this newspaper has seen, says. The teachers’ association of the college, which has a faculty strength of 48, said in a statement: “Can a dance performed with family members and children be obscene?... If so, who has the moral authority to decide?” A professor at the college said the suspended assistant professors had all joined the institution within the past three years and helped clean up many malpractices. “They stopped outside interference in admission, classes and examinations, ensured discipline and regular classes and attendance, banned outsiders from loitering on the campus, stopped copying at exams,” the professor said. “Just when the college was looking like a proper place of education after decades, they have been suspended. There’s the hand of the local mafia and politicians in this.” Asked what made the songs and dances obscene and who should be the judge, the governor’s PRO, S.K. Pathak, said on Sunday evening: “I will put the questions before the governor and get back to you if he responds.” There was no response till Monday night. The vice-chancellors who were part of the two-member probe committee refused to be quoted. But one of them said on the condition of anonymity: “The governor took an interest in the case and sent us. We were just a fact-finding committee and we reported the facts. The governor is monitoring everything.” MLC Kedar Pandey, who won from the Saran teachers’ constituency that covers Rajendra College and JPU, questioned the “harsh punishment”. “Several departments in the college have virtually shut down. I have requested Raj Bhavan to be sympathetic towards the teachers. A warning should have been enough if the higher-ups thought they had committed anything wrong,” Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Disha Ravi sent to one-day police custody||A Delhi court on Monday sent 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested for editing and sharing a social media “toolkit” on the farmers’ protest, to one-day police custody. Chief metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma issued the order after police said she was required to be confronted with the co-accused in the case. Disha, who was produced in court on the expiry of her three-day judicial remand, through her lawyer opposed the plea, asking: “Why should I (Disha) be in police custody while those I have to be confronted with are on bail?” The two co-accused, lawyer Nikita Jacob and engineer Shantanu Muluk, “are currently on transit bail”. “It is a case that has transnational ramifications, with the involvement of those who have expressed their disaffection for this country,” the prosecution told the court, seeking five days’ police custody. “There was involvement of all the three accused persons. We have to confront all three. We only have seven days more to seek custodial interrogation,” the prosecution told the court, referring to the law under which the case has been lodged that mandates custodial interrogation only up to 15 days after arrest. Disha has already spent eight days in custody, five of which were in police custody. The defence counsel asked why the police did not summon the co-accused earlier. “I (Disha) was already in their custody for five days. The prosecution is talking in a manner as if they got to know all the information about the case today itself. What is new there to seek fresh police custody? If the investigating officer wants to meet Disha beyond 15 days, what will he do? Two people are already on transit bail, why should I (Disha) be in police custody?” the counsel asked. “Those two people are not in police custody. Why my (Disha) police custody is required for the same purpose is a million-dollar question.” “I (Disha) can be in judicial custody and still be confronted with them. After filing the FIR, you were in a hurry to arrest me. Did you ask me to join probe and I did not join? Even when I was arrested on February 13, you called them for February 22. Were you taking this court for granted that you will get police custody till then? “What was I doing in the last five days in custody? They did not take me to my hometown for probe. They have a valid requirement to confront, but that may be met while I am in judicial custody,” the defence counsel said. The defence counsel also informed the court that a sessions court, a superior court than that of a magistrate’s, had reserved the order on Disha’s bail plea for Tuesday. “I have moved a bail application, order on which is reserved for tomorrow. Right now, seeking police custody means overreaching the sessions court, that has reserved order on bail,” the defence said. The public prosecutor opposed the defence’s submission, saying: “It’s wrong to say we are trying to influence the sessions court….” The prosecution further asked why the accused was treating police custody as punishment and that it was “just for the purpose of investigation”. The defence, however, said even law “disfavours” police custody. On Friday, Disha was sent to three-day judicial custody after police had said her custodial interrogation was not required for the time being. The Delhi High Court on Friday heard Disha’s plea to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material concerning the FIR lodged against her. The high court, in its order, asked media houses to ensure that no leaked investigation material is broadcast as it could affect the probe and directed Delhi police to abide by its stand on affidavit that it had not leaked nor intended to leak any probe details to the press. Disha was arrested by a cyber cell team of Delhi police from Bangalore on Saturday and brought to Delhi. She was booked on sedition and other charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||Rajnath Singh: Half of defence shopping cash for local purchases||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said nearly Rs 70,000 crore from the capital allocation of Rs 1.35 lakh crore in the defence budget would be reserved for domestic procurement and a second negative list of items for imports would be issued soon. “The defence ministry has planned to invest about 63 per cent of the outlay for 2021-22, i.e. about Rs 70,221 crore, for domestic defence procurement during the period,” Singh said during a webinar on defence budget organised by the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM). Overall, this year’s defence outlay is Rs 4.78 lakh crore, a nominal increase from Rs 4.71 lakh crore last year. The allocation for capital expenditure is Rs 1.35 lakh crore, up 19 per cent from last year’s Rs 1.13 lakh crore. Defence secretary Ajay Kumar said the second negative list of imports was expected to be issued next month and around 10 mid-sized projects would be given to the industry in April. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also addressed the seminar and said the 21stcentury defence sector could not stand without private-sector partnership. In August last year, the Centre had announced the first negative list and said it would stop importing 101 items, including weaponry, in a phased manner to try and strengthen the country’s fledging defence production industry under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative. Singh had said contracts worth almost Rs 4 lakh crore would be placed upon the domestic industry within the next 6-7 years, prompting several military veterans to question the move because they felt India did not have enough indigenous capability. They had pointed out that the embargoed items such as artillery guns, sonar systems, light combat helicopters and radars were still at various stages of development by the Defence Research and Development Organisation. The domestic defence players in India now include Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd, the Adanis, Anil Ambani, the Tatas, the Hindujas, L&T, Kalyani Group and Mahindra Aerospace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||Supreme Court pulls up Centre for not filing reply on Jairam Ramesh’s plea against amended RTI Act||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed surprise at the Centre’s failure to file its reply even after being served with a notice on Congress leader Jairam Ramesh’s petition challenging amendments to the Right to Information Act that, he alleges, have diluted the powers of the Information Commission. “The notice was issued in January 2020. It has been a year since then. How is it that you have not filed a reply yet?” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who headed the bench, asked the Centre’s counsel Kanu Agarwal during a hearing. Justice M.R. Shah, the other judge on the bench, asked: “What is wrong with you? It’s a very important matter.” The counsel pleaded for a two-week adjournment as solicitor-general Tushar Mehta was not available. The court then adjourned the matter by two weeks. On January 31 last year, the court had sought a response within four weeks on Ramesh’s petition challenging amendments to the Right to Information (Amendment) Act, 2019, that allegedly vested the Centre with absolute powers to prescribe the tenure and salaries of central information commissioners/state information commissioners. “Such an amendment seriously curtails the independence of the institutions created under the transparency law,” the petition filed through advocate Sunil Fernandez said. Ramesh’s petition has assailed the following amended sections; ⚫ Sections 2(a) and 2(b) of the Amendment Act alter the erstwhile fixed tenure of five years of the central information commissioners to a tenure to be prescribed by the central government. ⚫ Similarly, Sections 3(a) and 3(b) of the Amendment Act alter the erstwhile fixed tenure of five years of the state information commissioners to a tenure to be prescribed by the central government. ⚫ Section 2(c) of the Amendment Act grants absolute power to the central government to prescribe the salaries, allowances, and terms and conditions of service of the central information commissioners that in the pre-amended act was fixed to be on a par with election commissioners under Section 13(5) of the RTI Act. ⚫ Similarly, the central government under Section 3(c) of the Amendment Act is also granted with absolute powers to prescribe the salaries, allowances and terms and conditions of the state information commissioners that were previously fixed to be on a par with an election commissioner for chief state information commissioners and on a par with the chief secretary of a state for state information commissioners under Section 16(5) of the RTI Act. ⚫ Further, Section 4 of the Amendment Act explicitly grants rule-making power to the government over fixing the tenure, salaries and service conditions of information commissioners under Section 27 of the pre-amended act. “Further, the decision of the central government is binding upon the information commissioners. This allows unbridled and uncanalised discretionary power to the central government that jeopardises the independence of information commissioners,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||Bihar budget: NDA government lays special emphasis on education, rural development||This year’s Bihar budget has a different angle compared to other budgets as this is the first budget after series of happenings. Firstly, Bihar Budget 2021-22 is the first budget after devastating impact that the pandemic and the following lockdown have had on the economy. Secondly, it is the first budget after Bihar elections. Thirdly, it is also first budget of the state after Fifteenth Finance Commission recommendations. Finally, among 28 states, Bihar is second to produce its budget after Union Budget 2021-22. West Bengal was the first state to produce its budget for 2021-22. The NDA government on Monday presented a Rs 2.18 lakh crore budget for 2021-22 with special emphasis on education and rural development. The size of the state’s budget has increased nine-fold to touch Rs 218302.70 crore in 2021-22, from Rs 23,885 crore in 2004-05. The pain which the migrants faced throughout the lockdown, translates the reason of allocation of a major chunk of Rs. 24155.75 crore (11.07 per cent) on rural development. Ever since 2004-05, Bihar has consistently been a revenue surplus state. The revenue surplus increased continuously till 2014-15 and then jumped by 153 per cent to reach a record high level of Rs 14,823 crore in 2017-18. However, it declined by 52.5 per cent to reach the figure of Rs 6,897 crore in 2018-19 and is projected to increase by 33 per cent to Rs 9,195 crore in the budget estimate of 2021-22. Budget maths The budget maths of Bihar is quite interesting. The total expenditure in Bihar is expected to be Rs 2.18 lakh crore, indicating an increase of 3.09 per cent over the last year’s estimate of Rs 2.11 lakh crore. While doing budgetary exercise, Bihar always focuses on actual trend. In that case, if we calculate the increase of 2021-22 BE from the actuals of 2019-20 which was Rs 1.44 lakh crore, it shows an increase of 52 per cent over the period of 2 years. The proposed receipt of the government is Rs 218502.70 crore in 2021-22 as against Rs 211961.49 crore in 2020-21, of which revenue receipt is Rs 186267.3 crore (85.3 per cent) and capital receipt is Rs 32235.4 crore (14.8 per cent). Total government expenditure is segregated in to two heads: Revenue and Capital Expenditure. The anticipated revenue expenditure for 2021-22 is Rs 177071.4 crore, which is 7.5 per cent (Rs 164751.2 crore) higher than the revenue expenditure of 2020-21. Contrary to this, the capital expenditure decreased by 12.3 per cent to Rs 41231.3 crore in 2021-22. The increase in revenue expenditure shows government’s commitment towards social services which needs more public spending. But decrease in capital expenditure will also have an adverse effect on the economy as capital expenditure means asset creation. One must note here that Union budget is enhancing its budgetary support for capital expenditure. Receipt and sector-wise expenditure The revenue receipts include state’s share in central taxes, grants-in-aid from central government, state's own tax and non-tax revenue. The share of central taxes has always contributed more than half of Bihar’s total revenues. As per estimates of 2021-22, 67 per cent of the state’s revenue will come from share in central taxes and grants-in-aid which is 1.2 percentage points lower than the estimate of 2020-21, when this share was 68 per cent. As per recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission, the share of states in central tax pool is reduced from 42 to 41 per cent. But in terms of share, Bihar had a benefit of 0.4 percentage points as share of the state was increased from 9.66 per cent (14th Finance Commission) to 10.06 per cent (15th Finance Commission). But this would have profited the state, had the share been 42 per cent. Due to reduction in share from 42 to 41 per cent, ultimately Bihar’s share has decreased. This is also visible from the budget estimate of 2021-22. Although Bihar managed to have surplus budget even after maintaining fiscal discipline as per FRBM norm, the state couldn’t get the benefit of revenue deficit grant. Generally, expenditure in budget is divided into three heads: General, Economic and Social along with loans and advances. A sectorwise glance on allocations shows that giving prime importance to education and rural development the state has earmarked Rs 39467.3 crore (18.1 per cent)for ensuring quality education and Rs 24155 crore (11.1 per cent) to rural development for raising basic infrastructure. Second comes the subjects of water supply, urban development where government allocates Rs 20917.95 crore (9.6 per cent) followed by social security Rs 17508.54 crore (8.0 per cent). Next comes irrigation with Rs 13520.16 crore (6.2 per cent) and after that comes health with Rs 13011.91crore which is around 6.0 per cent of the total budget. But as health has become a prime subject after pandemic and being a state subject needs more attention of the state, there was an expectation that lump sum will go for health. The fiscal deficit is the borrowing requirement of the state and managing fiscal deficit reflects the prudent fiscal management. The state’s fiscal deficit has been estimated at Rs 22510.78 crore in 2021-22 in the budget, which is 2.97 per cent of the GSDP estimated at Rs 757026.0 crore. As per the provisions of the FRBM Act 2003, no state can cross the threshold limit of 3 per cent of GSDP and Bihar throughout has maintained this limit. However, due to pandemic, this threshold has been relaxed to 5 per cent in 2020-21and 4.5 per cent for 2021-22. Finally, this is a balanced budget which has maintained the spirit of welfare by estimating an increase in revenue expenditure which will add on the development expenditure of the state. Yet, it was expected that there will be a higher allocation for health as unprecedented times call for unparallel commitments, but this was missing. However, increase in allocation in education and rural development will boost up these sectors to deliver quality and enhance job opportunities. The government’s focus on rural development is a good indicator as it will lead to jobs opportunities and asset creation in the rural sector which supports 89 per cent of Bihar’s population. New announcement The budget of pandemic times is an inclusive budget as it has allocated Rs 476 crore on Saat Nishchay part-2, which includes youth, women, agriculture and irrigation, rural and urban development, connectivity and health which has become a major issue for all states. To promote higher education among girls, an incentive amount of Rs 25000 will be given to intermediate pass students and Rs 50,000 to female graduates. For this, an allocation of Rs 600 crore has been made. Also, to promote women entrepreneurship, Rs 200 crore has been allocated to industry department. So overall, this is a budget with new ray of hope.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||Anjana Mishra gangrape case: Accused held after 22 years||Odisha police have arrested Bibekananda Biswal alias Biban, the prime accused in the Anjana Mishra gangrape case, twin city police commissioner Sudhanshu Sarangi said on Monday. Biban, who was on the run for the last 22 years, was nabbed from Aamby Valley at Lonavala on the outskirts of Mumbai by a team of commissionerate police assisted by their Navi Mumbai counterparts. Sarangi said Biban, who was working as a plumber and staying at Aamby valley, had changed his name to Jalandar Swain. “He had mentioned Naranpur (Cuttack) in his permanent address. When we initiated an inquiry, we found out that no such person belongs to Naranpur. He had a permanent job, Aadhaar card and bank account there. But he was in touch with his family members and had asked them to get a death certificate in his name to avoid arrest,” said Sarangi. The Cuttack-Bhubaneswar commissionerate police had launched “Operation Silent Viper” to nab the prime accused in the 1999 case which had triggered a political storm in the state and is said to contributed to the fall of the then Congress government led by JB Patnaik. The operation launched three months ago was being led by Badambadi police station inspector in charge (IIC) Rashmi Ranjan Mohapatra who left for Mumbai with his team to arrest Biban on February 19. Along with Maharashtra police, the Odisha police began the operation to arrest Biswal. “Swain, who worked in Aamby Valley as a plumber stayed in staff quarters two-and-a-half km away. Seeing the police, he tried to flee, but was nabbed and brought here,” Sarangi said. He added that witnesses have recognised him and he will be handed over to the CBI, which is investigating the case. Biban was nabbed 22 years after the incident which took place near Barang. Anjana, the estranged wife of an Indian Forest Officer (IFS), currently living with her mother, has demanded death penalty for Biban Biswal. “The CBI sat over the case. Biban should be hanged till death. I feel relieved and happy that he is arrested,” Anjana told reporters. She was allegedly waylaid by three persons near Barang on the intervening night of January 9-10, 1999 while on way to Cuttack with a journalist friend in a car. The miscreants took turns to assault her sexually. The issue took a political turn when Anjana accused former advocate general Indrajit Ray, who was considered close to J.B. Patnaik, of molesting her and then orchestrating the gang rape. Notably, Pradip Sahu alias Padia, a convict in the 1999 case, had died while undergoing treatment at Capital Hospital here in February 2020. The CBI, which was entrusted by the Orissa High Court with the investigation of the case, had maintained that the accused trio had raped her. Padia was the first to be arrested in the case and identified by Anjana. In 2002, the Khurda District Sessions judge convicted him and Tuna Mohanty and sentenced them to life imprisonment. The high court in 2010 had upheld the verdict.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||Coronavirus: Karnataka test-must order hits Kerala ||The Karnataka government’s order that makes negative Covid reports mandatory for all those who enter the state from neighbouring Kerala has affected a large number of people who travel between the two states. With daily Covid numbers still in the range of over 4,000 in Kerala, Karnataka has recently made it mandatory for all incoming passengers to possess negative RT-PCR reports not older than 72 hours. While a similar order was issued to restrict the movement of people from its northern neighbour Maharashtra, the impact was more on Kerala as it depends on Karnataka for vegetables and other essential goods. On Sunday, Kerala reported 4,070 new Covid cases against 413 in Karnataka, triggering concern that travelers from Kerala could be carriers of the virus. Incoming passengers from Kasaragod, Kannur and Wayanad were stopped at makeshift checkpoints at all bordering areas to ensure only those with negative RT-PCR reports were granted entry. This led to a massive friction, with people from Kerala blocking incoming traffic from Karnataka via the Bavali border checkpoint in Wayanad district. The Wayanad district panchayat has written to Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa to lift the restrictions that have also impacted the movement of goods between the two states. While northern Kerala depends on Karnataka for vegetables, farm labourers from bordering areas of Karnataka travel regularly to Kerala’s plantations in Wayanad. “This is a precarious situation that reminds us of the total blockade by Karnataka last year (when Kerala reported a large number of Covid cases),” Wayanad district panchayat president Shamsad Marakkar told The Telegraph on Monday. Karnataka officials had dumped mud across inter-state roads to stop traffic from Kerala. Even ambulances carrying non-Covid patients from Kasaragod, which borders Dakshina Kannada, were denied entry. In a tit-for-tat move, the Kasaragod district administration had blocked more than 20 roads leading to Karnataka when Covid numbers rocketed in Dakshina Kannada in July 2020. “Truckers who go to Karnataka to fetch vegetables are also badly affected by this order as the drivers and cleaners must carry RT-PCR reports. The other issue for residents of Wayanad is that the swab samples for the RT-PCR tests have to be sent to neighbouring Kozhikode as we don’t have any testing facilities here,” Marakkar said. Similar incidents were witnessed in Thalapady, which connects Kasaragod to Dakshina Kannada, where people raised slogans against Yediyurappa and the Karnataka administration on Sunday. Kerala state BJP president K. Surendran defended his party’s government in Karnataka and refuted the allegations. “There were such propaganda even earlier. No roads are blocked. This is part of a regular campaign in Kasaragod,” he said before contradicting his own statement. “But then, each state will be considering its own safety. As far we are concerned, we need travel facilities and there will be interventions,” Surendran told reporters amid his pre-poll roadshow on Monday. Confusion reigned in Karnataka over the foolproof implementation of the order that doesn’t cover other neighbouring states such as Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. “It will be difficult for us to check if someone from Kerala had traveled to some place in Tamil Nadu and was then headed to Karnataka. The same logic applies to those who come from Maharashtra. They can travel to Goa and then enter our state,” a health department official from Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, the implementing agency in the state capital, told this newspaper. “We have health desks at the airport where people will be checked for RT-PCR reports. Bus passengers are checked at the borders. But the main issue is trains that arrive via Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh,” said the official who declined to be named.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||BJP government misleading nation for political benefits: Kashmiri Pandit leaders||Several Kashmiri Pandit leaders have rebutted Union home minister Amit Shah’s claim that the community’s migration from the Valley took place during Congress rule, stressing that it happened in 1990 when the BJP-supported V.P. Singh government was in power. They have accused Shah of having misled Parliament on this and on the subject of government assistance to displaced Pandit families, asking him not to claim credit for UPA initiatives. Shah had claimed in the Lok Sabha last week, during a discussion on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill 2021, that the Pandits were displaced during Congress rule. “They were not displaced during our time. There was Congress rule; they (the government) could not provide them (with) security and they (Pandits) became displaced in their own country,” Shah had said. Satish Mahaldar, chairman of the Reconciliation, Return and Rehabilitation of Kashmir Migrants, said the Pandit exodus took place during the tenure of V.P. Singh’s National Front government, which the BJP supported. “Unfortunately, the BJP didn’t have the courage to pull down the then government on such a national tragedy,” Mahaldar said in a statement. The BJP and the Left had provided outside support to the V.P. Singh government, which was in power between December 2, 1989, and November 10, 1990. The Pandits’ migration began in January 1990. The BJP pulled the V.P. Singh government down after L.K. Advani was arrested in Bihar while leading a countrywide rathyatra demanding a Ram temple on the disputed plot in Ayodhya. Reacting to Shah’s claim that 44,000 Pandit families were being provided with a monthly assistance of Rs 13,000, Mahaldar said Jammu and Kashmir’s relief and rehabilitation department had put that number at 20,889 families. Mahaldar said Shah was claiming credit for former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s scheme, launched in 2008-09, that announced 15,000 job opportunities for migrant Pandits and accommodated 6,000 Pandit youths in the government in the Valley. Agnishekhar, who heads the hard-line Panun Kashmir that supported the BJP in the past, too said it was the UPA government that had provided 6,000 Pandit youths with jobs in the Valley and asked the BJP not to claim credit for it. He too said the Pandits had been “forced to leave” during the rule of the BJP-supported V.P. Singh government. “The party (BJP) did not muster the guts to withdraw support to his government,” he said in a video statement. Agnishekhar said the factual inaccuracies in Shah’s speech were “shameful” and “opportunistic”, and alleged the BJP government was misleading the nation for “political benefits”. He said the Pandits had hoped the BJP would do something for the community. “We had supported the abrogation (of key provisions of Article 370) on August 5. But what did that yield for the Pandits? We are stuck in August 4,” he said. “I want to warn Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi and Amit Shah that if such conduct persists, we will condemn your party worldwide.” The Jagati Tenement Committee Soan Kashmir Front, a group that represents the thousands of displaced Pandits living in Jagti, Jammu, accused the BJP of drawing “political mileage” from their misery. Shadi Lal Pandita, its leader, termed Shah’s claim of providing cash assistance to 44,000 migrant families a “blatant lie”. Mahaldar said the UPA government had built 5,242 two-room tenements for the Pandits in Jammu and provided a one-time assistance of Rs 5 lakh to each family in addition to student scholarships, assistance to farmers and other schemes. “The Modi-led BJP government has been raising our plight at the international level to corner Pakistan. In the country, (it) raises our plight to pin down the Opposition,” he said. “But in practice, what has it done for the community? It has even failed to constitute an inquiry commission or probe panel to investigate the crimes committed against KPs (Kashmiri Pandits).” The Pandits have asked Shah to spell out when the BJP would fulfil its promise of resettling them in the Valley.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court directs SIT to file report on probe into death of DYFI worker||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday directed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed by the West Bengal government to investigate the death of a DYFI activist who had participated in a protest march by the organisation, to file a comprehensive report on the probe into it by March 12. The Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), the youth wing of the CPI(M), filed a PIL in the high court seeking an independent inquiry into the alleged incident. The Left organization claimed before a division bench comprising Chief Justice T B N Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee that the police used excess and unprovoked force on a peaceful demonstration organised by it on February 11 in violation of human rights. It alleged that as a result of the police action, hundreds of protesters suffered serious injuries in vital parts of their body and one of them, DYFI member Maidul Islam Midya, died on February 15. Representing the state, Advocate General Kishore Datta informed the court that the West Bengal government has already constituted an SIT headed by a very senior IPS officer, Damayanti Sen, and the team is probing the matter. Datta also submitted that the victims family has lodged a criminal case, wherein they have sought to make certain named persons liable for the death of the victim. Hearing both the parties, the division bench directed the SIT to file a comprehensive report on or before the next date of hearing, touching all aspects of the matter, including that of filing a criminal case by the victim's family. The bench directed that the matter would be taken up for hearing again on March 12. The youth and students' wings of Left parties had on February 11 organised a march to Nabanna, the state secretariat, demanding jobs. The agitators and the police clashed near Esplanade at the heart of the city after the barricades put up to prevent the protestors from moving ahead were allegedly broken.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP leader Rakesh Singh arrested in drug seizure case||The police on Tuesday night arrested BJP leader Rakesh Singh from Galsi area of West Bengals Purba Bardhaman district in connection with his alleged involvement in a drug seizure case, a senior officer said. His two sons were also arrested by the Calcutta Police's narcotics section for stopping its personnel from entering the residence of the BJP state committee member in the port area of the city, he said. Pamela Goswami, state secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), was arrested along with a friend and her personal security guard from south Calcutta's New Alipore area on February 19 after seizing around 90 gm of cocaine from her car. Goswami then alleged that it was a conspiracy of Singh. The Calcutta police served a notice to Singh asking him to appear before investigators at Calcutta Police headquarters Lalbazar during the day in connection with the case. However, he said that he is travelling to Delhi for some work and appear before the police on February 26. The BJP leader is being brought to Calcutta, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||SC defers hearing on CBI plea against Rajeev Kumar in Saradha case by 4 weeks||The Supreme Court on Tuesday deferred by two weeks the hearing on CBI's contempt plea against former Calcutta police commissioner Rajeev Kumar and others alleging non-cooperation by them in its probe into the multi-crore-rupee Saradha chit fund scam case. The CBI, entrusted with investigating the Ponzi scheme cases in West Bengal by the apex court, filed the contempt plea on February 4, 2019 against Kumar, former Chief Secretary Malay Kumar De and state's DGP Virendra saying that it was not getting their cooperation in the ongoing probe. The agency also sought cancellation of bail granted to Kumar and his custodial interrogation as he was "evasive during questioning". A bench comprising Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna deferred the hearing by two weeks as it has been conducting final hearing into the case related to winding up of six mutual fund schemes of Franklin Templeton. During brief hearing, senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for one of the bureaucrats, said the agency was "reviving something which is age old". "The contempt always remains alive," said Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI. "It becomes alive during elections," said Singhvi. The Saradha group of companies allegedly duped lakhs of people of around Rs 2,500 crore, promising higher rates of return on their investments. The scam was unearthed in 2013 during Kumar's tenure as the Bidhannagar police commissioner. Kumar was part of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) set up by the West Bengal government for probing the scam, before the Supreme Court handed over the case to the CBI in 2014 along with other chit fund cases. In November 2019, the apex court had sought the response of the IPS officer on the CBI's appeal challenging the anticipatory bail granted to him in the chit fund scam by the Calcutta High Court. The probe agency had filed an appeal in the apex court against the October 1, 2019 order of the Calcutta High Court, which had granted Kumar the relief saying it was not an appropriate case for custodial interrogation. The high court had directed Kumar to cooperate with the investigating officers and make himself available before them for questioning on a 48-hour notice by the CBI. On September 21, 2019, a pre-arrest bail plea of the IPS officer was rejected by the Alipore District and Sessions Court in Calcutta. The Centre and the West Bengal government were also locked in an unprecedented standoff after a CBI team had reached Kumar's official residence for questioning him, but had to retreat as the local police detained its officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh shown black flags in Darjeeling||BJP's Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh was shown black flags by Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) supporters as he reached the hill town of Darjeeling on Tuesday to take part in a party programme. Ghosh was shown black flags by GJM supporters near the Ghum railway station as he reached the Hills to take part in the BJP's state-wide 'Poriborton Yatra'. The GJM supporters alleged that though the BJP won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat for consecutive terms, the Hills remained neglected and no development work was done by the Centre. The GJM supporters also raised 'go back' slogan against the BJP leader. Ghosh claimed that supporters of Bimal Gurung and TMC were behind the incident as they were afraid of the growing support for the BJP in the Hills. "This is the situation in Bengal where opposition parties are not allowed to conduct their political programmes. We need to change this atmosphere of fear," he said. In 2017, Ghosh and a few other BJP leaders were allegedly heckled and beaten up by GJM supporters when they were visiting the Hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||CBI at Abhishek's residence to examine his wife in coal pilferage case||A CBI team visited the residence of Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Tuesday to examine his wife Rujira in the coal pilferage case, officials said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee visited the residence of her nephew Abhishek in south Calcutta's Harish Mukherjee Road minutes before the CBI team landed there. The CBI's visit to Abhishek's residence comes after Rujira told the central agency that she will be available for examination between 11 am and 3 pm on February 23, replying to a notice that the sleuths had hand-delivered her on Sunday. The agency sought the examination of Rujira Banerjee to ascertain the details of her bank transactions, suspecting a connection to the proceeds of the illegal coal excavation money, sources said. On Monday, the CBI examined Rujira's sister Menaka Gambhir in connection with the same case. Two woman officers of the CBI visited Gambhir's residence off EM Bypass and had examined her for nearly three hours. The developments come months ahead of the assembly elections in the state with Trinamool Congress alleging it to be a political vendetta. The CBI on November 28 last year carried out a massive search operation in a number of locations across four states -- West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh -- after registering a case against one Anup Majhi alias Lala. It is alleged that Lala, the alleged kingpin of the scam, is involved in illegal mining and theft of coal from leasehold mines of ECL in Kunustoria and Kajora areas, sources said.  Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday visited the residence of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee ahead of the CBI examination of his wife in the coal theft case. The TMC supremo was at the Abhishek's house for around ten minutes. The CBI had on Sunday asked her to join the probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Modi and Mamata govt spar over Jal Jeevan Mission||Prime Minister Na­rendra Modi on Monday tore into the Mamata Ba­nerjee government for an alleged delay in implementing the Jal Jeevan Mission, a project to give pipeline-based water supply to rural households. Modi’s attack is an indication of how such “delay” in the implementation of central schemes would increasingly become a key poll plank for the BJP in the Assembly elections. At a BJP rally in Hooghly’s Sahaganj, Modi said the Centre had given over Rs 1,700 crore to the Bengal government for the pipeline-based water supply initiative to 1.75 crore rural households in the state, but only Rs 609 crore of the amount was spent. “The remaining Rs 1,100 crore was suppressed…. Cou­ld those who wronged the wo­men of Bengal be forgiven? Re­al change is in order. The Trin­amul government does not sp­are a thought for Bengal’s wo­m­en,” said the Prime Minister. Modi said it was astonishing to note that 1.5-2 crore ho­useholds in the state did not get piped water. He claimed his government decided that the deprived households wo­uld be prioritised. “But, despite repeated pr­o­ds to the government here, it was possible to ensure such supply for barely 9 lakh households,” he added. Sources in the state’s public health engineering department said the annual target was to give pipeline connections to 55,58,388 rural households by March 31 this year. “Till Sunday, 11.37 lakh co­nnections could be given and Rs 1,040.79 crore was sp­­­­ent, out of a total of Rs 1,953.66 crore made available for the current fiscal,” said a se­­nior state government official. He said the scheme’s pro­gress was hit hard because of the Covid-19 pandemic as villagers did not allow engineers of the department to enter their areas till around October last year, apprehending the sp­read of the novel coronavirus. “Moreover, the state’s wa­t­er supply schemes were not pl­a­nned for household connections. Once the state joined the central project last year, we had to change the plan from setting up of roadside taps to household connections. This takes some time and it requi­res acquisition of land for boosting centres, wh­ich is also a time consuming process,” said another official. He said the progress of the scheme had gained momentum in recent times as majority of the problems had been resolved. “We gave 9,358 connections across the state on Sunday. If the progress could be maintained, it is expected that we would be able to give 5 lakh more connections by March 31 and we can supply piped water to over 70 lakh homes next year,” said an engineer. Officials said if the pace was kept, the state could meet the target of giving pipeline connections to all rural households in Bengal by 2023-24. “So, it is too early to be critical of the progress,” the official added. Raising the issue at a public meeting by Modi, the sou­rces said, was more a political issue than an administrative affair. “It is clear the Centre would try and attack the state government on central sch­emes. The Prime Minister brought up the issue at a public meeting for the first time apparently after the BJP realised that campaigning over non-implementation of Ayushman Bharat was not working here,” said another official. He said the non-implementation of Ayushman Bharat would not affect the people of Bengal as the state government had brought all 10 crore people under Swasthya Sathi, a health assurance scheme that ensures free treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh for each family. Moreover, attack over non-implementation of PM-Kisan scheme was also blunted after the chief minister agreed to join the scheme by verifying 22 lakh farmers’ applications for the central dole. Trinamul attributed the new line of attack to the BJP’s “fear”. Its Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Ray said Modi and the BJP had realised that breaching Mamata’s Bengal bastion would be easier said than done and that’s why “baseless” attacks would be necessary to keep the saffron campaign afloat. “The financial year is yet to be finished and work took off on a war-footing after the Co­vid-19 scare relatively subsi­ded. Whatever delays there ha­ve been, have been there for the entire country,” he said. “But they will only come forward with such claims regarding Bengal, staying silent on the BJP-ruled states.” “In my 53-year career in politics, I have never seen a Prime Minister or a Union home minister (Amit Shah) who makes such rubbish claims in public, simply for the sake of winning an election, by hook or by crook…. The people of Bengal are much wiser than the saffron camp gives them credit for,” added Ray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek’s sister-in-law questioned in coal case||A team of CBI officers questioned Menaka Ga­mbhir, sister-in-law of Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee, for nearly two-and-a-half hou­rs at her New Garia residence in Calcutta on Monday in connection with a probe into alleged coal pilferage in several states, including Bengal. The CBI team’s visit came within an hour of Abhishek’s wife Rujira informing the agency on Monday morning that she would be available for questioning between 11am and 3pm on Tuesday at her so­uth Calcutta residence. Rujira sent the letter to the officer of the CBI’s economic offence wing who had served a notice on her on Sunday asking her to be available for a round of questioning in the coal pilferage case. A team of CBI officers had turned up at Abhishek’s south Calcutta residence on Sunday looking for Rujira but had to return because of her absence. Around 12.10pm on Monday, seven CBI officers, inclu­ding two women, turned up at Menaka’s residence for questioning. “We have recorded her answers to our questions. Her statements would be a source of vital information for us when we question her sister Rujira on Tuesday,” said a senior CBI officer. While responding to the CBI notice, Rujira has said even as she is prepared to face the officers, she is unaware why the central investigation agency wants to question her and in what connection. The Supreme Court on Mond­ay agreed to examine whe­th­er the CBI could be allowed to pr­obe alleged smuggling of coal through railways in Bengal without the state’s cons­e­nt. A bench of Justices D.Y. Ch­an­drachud and M.R. Shah issued a notice to the CBI and the Centre for responses. The court posted the matter for further hearing to next Monday. The court refused to grant any interim protection from arrest to petitioner Anup Majee, one of the accused in the case and who had sought quashing of the FIR registered in November last year. Majee contended that the CBI had no authority to register the FIR as the Bengal government had withdrawn the general consent to the agency under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act on November 16, 2018. The Mamata Banerjee government withdrew the general consent, saying the Narendra Modi dispensation was misusing the CBI and other central agencies to target political opponents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Centre to institute award in the name of Satyajit Ray: Javadekar ||Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar announced here on Monday that the Centre would institute an award in the name of legendary filmmaker Satyajit Ray. The decision to institute the award, to be on a par with the Dadasaheb Phalke award, comes in the backdrop of the Narendra Modi government’s continuous attempts to forge a Bengal connect in poll season. Javadekar said this at a meeting organised under the banner of the National Film Development Corporation that was attended by the who’s who of the Bengali film industry at a south Calcutta hotel. An actor considered close to Mamata Banerjee said the move to honour Ray shows the desperation of the BJP to fight the outsider tag that Trinamul constantly attacks it with. “While the BJP continues to rely heavily on leaders from outside to run its poll campaign in Bengal, it is trying to reach out to the elite voters in Bengal by instituting an award in Ray’s name,” the actor said. Actors Rituparna Sengupta, Abir Chatterjee, Mamata Shankar, filmmakers Arindam Sil, Goutam Ghose, Srijit Mukherji, Anik Dutta, Kaushik Ganguly were among those at the event. While Sil and Ghose have shared the stage with Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee in the past, Dutta is considered close to the Left Front. Emerging from the meeting, filmmaker Sil told reporters: “We discussed how Bengali cinema can be developed and the development should be holistic.” Actors Rudranil Ghosh and Hiran Chatterjee, both of whom have recently joined the BJP, were also present at the meeting that also had in attendance Union minister Babul Supriyo and BJP MP Roopa Ganguly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Prahlad Singh Patel cites article 370 as a lesson in ‘patience’||Prahlad Singh Patel, the BJP in-charge of north Bengal for the state polls, on Monday cited the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir to advise hill residents to be patient about tribal status for 11 communities and a permanent political solution for the region. The reference comes at a time many in the hills are getting restless with the BJP for its failure to execute the region’s two key demands. Patel said: “When the (party in the) Centre and state will be the same, the old issue can be resolved. For this, I want to provide an example. To remove Article 370, we struggled for long.” He brought up Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s differences with then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru over Article 370 and said “it took 50 years” to remove it. Patel, flagging off his party’s Parivartan Yatra from Kalimpong, then spoke at length about Mookerjee’s life, his differences with Nehru on the special status for Jammu and Kashmir, and his subsequent death in Kashmir after being arrested for visiting without obtaining permanent travel permission. He added that the Article 370 was an example to drive home the point that Narendra Modi was a leader who would deliver. This time, many in the hills have started piling pressure on the BJP to come up with something concrete before the upcoming Bengal elections. Bimal Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, an ally of the BJP for 13 years, recently dumped the saffron party alleging that it had done little to fulfil their election promises. The demand for a separate administrative unit for the Darjeeling region was first raised in 1907. The BJP, however, has not explicitly talked about a separate state of Gorkhaland but come up with a term “permanent political solution” leaving it open to all types of interpretations. However, the clock is ticking for the BJP as the next budget session is scheduled to start from March 8. The model code of conduct is also expected to be enforced soon in Bengal. Once the code is enforced, no new announcement can be made for any poll-bound state. Obliquely addressing the restlessness of hill leaders, Patel said: “I want to remind those who are impatient that the struggle can be long.” While there are no clear indications on whether the two major issues of the region will be fulfilled before Bengal votes, Patel said that his year-old promise to hold a national culture festival in Bengal was being fulfilled. The three-day Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav started at Raj Bhawan in Darjeeling from Monday. The first leg of the event was held at Cooch Behar from February 14 to 16 and the final leg will be held in Murshidabad on February 27 and 28. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will be the chief guest at the closing ceremony of the Darjeeling event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal registers 148 new Covid cases, 3,440 in all||Bengal on Monday logged 231 Covid-19 recoveries, 148 new cases and two deaths, but none from the city. The state has 3,440 active cases, an unbroken drop for 119 days straight from 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami on October 26 last year. Bengal now has 2.38 per cent of the national total of active cases, the share having reduced to nearly a third of what it was a couple of months ago. Bengal’s recovery rate is now 97.61 per cent while the national average is 97.22. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.8 per cent, having fallen steadily for 95 days. On Sunday, Bengal reported 15,112 tests, taking the total past 84.44 lakh, at 93,828 tests per million people. Of the total toll of 10,251, 8,606 deaths (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||‘Platitudes’ over plan for industry in Hooghly||Narendra Modi’s speech in Hooghly’s Sahagunje on Monday belied the party’s hype that the Prime Minister would lay down a roadmap for the industrial revival of a district once known for names like Dunlop and Hindustan Motors. Modi stuck to general assurances in his 30-minute speech in Hooghly, a district with around 120 big and small factories, of which some 54 are closed. The BJP had chosen the venue for the rally in the vicinity of the closed Dunlop tyre factory and campaigned that Modi would come up with major announcements to revive closed industrial units in Hooghly, including a blueprint for Singur where the Tatas had to abort its auto hub after a fierce anti-land acquisition movement that catapulted Trinamul leader Mamata Banerjee to power in 2011. “Hooghly district had a place in India for industries. It is an example of how the district reached such a (bad) situation in the past few decades. There were many big jute, iron and steel factories on two sides of river Hooghly. Now you know better the situation of Hooghly. People from other states used to come here to work and now residents of industrial towns are going to work in other states,” Modi said but did not name the closed Dunlop factory. “The BJP government, who you have decided to bring here, will take steps to change this situation. The BJP government will bring a change in industrialisation policy. The decision will be taken very fast,” Modi said. Modi’s lack of specifics drew flak. Bidyut Routh, the Hooghly unit president of the Trinamul’s trade union wing INTTUC, called Modi’s speech a “gimmick”. “There are two major closed industries in Hooghly, Dunlop and Hind Motor (Hindustan Motors). Modi did not name either. His address was nothing but a gimmick,” said Routh, adding that on Wednesday Mamata Banerjee would speak from Modi’s venue. BJP sources said many in the party expected specific announcements on sick industries from the Prime Minister. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, who spoke before Modi, had referred to Dunlop’s glory, which party insiders said was a cue for Modi. Modi spoke on jute industries in Bengal and their decline, elaborating on what his government had done for the sector. “When the BJP government came into power (at the Centre) it specially thought of jute farmers. The government made it mandatory to use jute bags to pack wheat. We are using jute bags on a large scale to pack sugar too,” Modi said. Modi’s critics pointed out that five central jute mills in Hooghly, Howrah and North 24-Parganas are closed. “During the 2014 poll campaign, Modi promised to reopen all jute mills in Hooghly. That hasn’t happened...,” said Tirthankar Roy of Bengal Chatkal Mazdoor Union and Citu leader. Modi referred to Hooghly for its iron and steel factories, which exposed his lack of knowledge, pointed out Citu leader Sarbik Ghosh. INTTUC president and Rajya Sabha MP, Dola Sen, echoed Roy: “Modi has forgotten that five Centre-run jute mills are closed....Mamata Banerjee has reopened 26 closed jute mills and now production is on in over 50 jute mills.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Prime Minister accuses Mamata Banerjee government of indulging in appeasement politics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday accused the Mamata Banerjee government of indulging in appeasement politics and preventing traditional customs like Durga Puja, falling back on the polarisation narrative. “This kind of politics (tushtikaran or appeasement) strengthens the vote bank over nationalism, appeasement over development for all,” Modi told a rally on the Dunlop ground at Sahagunje in Hooghly district. Modi’s thrust appeared to be part of a concerted attempt with multiple BJP leaders flagging issues such as Rohingya refugees or adding a communal colour to a reference to even Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, either conveniently forgetting or blissfully ignorant of history. On his second trip to Bengal in a month, the Prime Minister was in Hooghly to inaugurate railway and Metro projects. Before the railway programme, he addressed the public meeting at which he said the people of Bengal had made up their mind to bring about “asal paribartan (real change)” in the state. Modi promised reindustrialisation without mentioning any specifics and rolled out a litany of alleged lapses by the Mamata Banerjee government. The appeasement question came up while Modi was saying that Vande Mataram Bhavan in Hooghly, which was the residence of Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay for five years, had not been properly looked after. Modi went on to allege that the Trinamul government’s politics of appeasement was the reason for the lack of care for the building associated with the “Vande Mataram” call. “This politics stops the people of Bengal from celebrating Durga Puja, stops them from immersion (of the goddess).… The people of Bengal will not forgive those who have insulted their traditions for the sake of vote bank politics,” Modi told a crowd of over 1.5 lakh. “Today I want to assure you that when the BJP comes to power in Bengal... there will be development for all and appeasement for none.” The BJP has long been seeking to milk a notification issued in 2017 by the Bengal government that suspended the immersion of Durga idols on September 30 and October 1 on account of Muharram, observed by Muslims as a day of mourning. The decision, driven by goodwill and an eagerness to minimise potential flashpoints because both events involve processions, has been amplified by the Right-wing ecosystem as an example of appeasement. However, even BJP leaders concede in private that the scale and scope of celebrations during Durga Puja have grown exponentially under Trinamul rule with the active patronage of the ruling party. The Mamata government had announced Rs 50,000 each for nearly 37,000 community Durga Pujas last year to help them stay on course in spite of a pandemic-induced funds crunch. It is against this backdrop that Modi has raked up the Durga Puja charge. Many BJP leaders believe that polarising voters along religious lines is their best bet in Bengal. At several internal meetings, BJP leaders have placed reports that they can win 200 seats in the Bengal Assembly polls if the voters are polarised. Before Modi’s address, Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari accused Mamata’s party of allowing in illegal immigrants and Rohingya Muslims from neighbouring countries. Even a reference to Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, whose status as Bangabandhu had always overshadowed his religious identity, is now being spun to give it a communal hue. BJP IT cell chief and co-observer for Bengal Amit Malviya criticised Mamata for saying on Sunday at a programme to observe International Mother Language Day that even if she is jailed, she will fight from there -- like Bangabandhu. The Father of the Nation in Bangladesh had led the freedom struggle from behind bars in Pakistan. Perhaps unaware of the role language had played in the creation of Bangladesh, Malviya tweeted: “Y’day Pishi said, like Bangabondhu (Sheikh Mujibur Rehman) she would fight from jail and win. Why doesn’t Pishi want to fight like Netaji or Aurobindo or Rasbehari Bose or Khudiram? Mujibur created Bangladesh, what does she want? Or is there a message for her Muslim vote bank?” February 21 is observed as International Mother Language Day at the initiative of Bangladesh, which uses the occasion to commemorate the martyrs of the Language Movement of 1952 in what was then East Pakistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Tie-up only with Left: Malda Congress||Malda district Congress president Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury has made it clear that the party will not leave a single seat for other party in the district except the Left Front in the Assembly polls. The statement is being seen as the rejection of demand for seats in the Malda district by the Indian Secular Front (ISF) which was floated by Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui. “We have finalised the alliance and sharing of seats with the Left Front. Now, it is not possible to spare even one seat for any other party in Malda and the neighbouring Murshidabad district. There can be adjustments in seat sharing in some other districts but not here,” Choudhury, who is also the Malda South MP, said on Sunday. Siddiqui’s ISF has been holding talks with Left and Congress leaders for an alliance and demanded seats in Malda, a district that has around 55 per cent Muslims. While attending an event in Malda on January 26, Siddiqui said the ISF was planning to contest from at least half of the 12 Assembly seats in the district. Told about Choudhury’s comment, Siddiqui still sounded confident. “Negotiations are always possible if the Congress agrees to share some seats with us,” he said over the phone. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the Congress had contested from nine seats in the Malda district and won eight. “We will field candidates in all these nine seats this time also. The Left can contest from the remaining three seats,” said Choudhury. Ambar Mitra, the district Left Front convener, said: “The Left Front needs at least five seats in Malda district. Instead of considering old electoral records, we should take into account the present political situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Dhaka-Siliguri train talks on||Bilateral talks between officials of Bangladesh Railway and Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) started in New Jalpaiguri here from Monday on modalities for the proposed passenger train service between Siliguri and Dhaka. On Sunday, an eight-member delegation of Bangladesh Railway led by Md Shahidul Islam, the divisional railway manager of Paksey railway division of Bangladesh, reached here for talks that would continue till Tuesday. From NFR, the zone of Indian Railway that will handle the service, divisional railway manager of Katihar division R.K. Verma is leading his team in the talks. “The two-day meeting started today (Monday) to discuss the proposal to start the passenger train service between Siliguri and Dhaka. Senior officials from both sides are at the meeting to discuss a range of issues pertaining to the train service,” said S. Chandra, the NFR chief public relations officer. On December 17 last year, India and Bangladesh reopened an old railway route that used to connect the countries — from Haldibari station (in Cooch Behar) to Chilahati station (Nilfamari district in Bangladesh) — after a gap of over 50 years. The prime ministers of the two countries, Narendra Modi and Sheikh Hasina, had jointly inaugurated the route for a goods train service. In north Bengal, this became the third train route to Bangladesh after Radhikapur-Birol (in North Dinajpur) and Singhabad-Rohanpur (in Malda). After the third train route re-opened, there were indications from both the countries that a passenger train service between Bangladesh capital Dhaka and Siliguri, a key commercial and tourism point in Bengal, will start. “There are hints that on March 26 this year, that is, on the occasion of the Independence Day of Bangladesh, the passenger train service will be launched. That both nations are working on the proposal is evident from the two-day bilateral talks among railway officials,” said a source in NFR. He also pointed out that Indian Railways had developed infrastructure in Haldibari station. As recently as on Sunday, Union railway minister Piyush Goyal inaugurated a new station building, a circulating area, running rooms, signalling and electronic interlocking system in Haldibari, which is the last Indian station along the route. Railway officials said a number of issues were being raised at the meeting such as safety, technical details, probable stations along the route, rakes, fares, among others. Siliguri residents have welcomed the railway initiative, saying thousands of Bangladeshi residents visit north Bengal for various needs such as education, healthcare, trade and tourism, and the passenger train would help them. Soumen Nag, a social researcher based in Siliguri, added: “Also, many north Bengal residents have roots in Bangladesh and want to visit the country. So far, their only option was to take a bus via Changrabandha or a flight from Calcutta. The proposed passenger train service will provide an easier and better option for them to visit Bangladesh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Gautam Deb: Running the last lap||State tourism minister Gautam Deb, believed to be the tallest leader of Trinamul in north Bengal, has remarked that he is “running the last lap to finish the circle of his political career.” Such a remark from the minister, during a door-to-door campaign in his Assembly constituency Dabgram-Fulbari, led to ripples in the political arena of Siliguri ahead of the crucial Bengal polls. “These days, I am running the last lap to complete the circle of my political career spanning over a period of 45 years. I want to work for efficiently for people in the coming days,” the minister told journalist in Tinbatti More area under ward 32 of the city. Deb, now in his sixties, was in politics since his college days. He was in the Congress and joined Trinamul in 1998 when Mamata Banerjee floated her party. His journey as an elected representative started as a councillor in Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC). In 2011, when Trinamul swept the polls, he was elected as an MLA for the first time and became a state minister. In 2016, he could retain his Dabgram-Fulbari seat that comprises 14 wards of the SMC and four adjoining panchayats under Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri district. Since 2011, his back-to-back wins bolstered the confidence of Trinamul workers and local party leaders. But in 2019, Trinamul suffered a setback in Lok Sabha elections when the saffron camp secured a lead of around 86,000 votes in that Assembly segment. The huge margin in Dabgram-Fulbari is believed to one of the prime reasons behind the BJP winning the Jalpaiguri parliamentary seat. Since then, Deb and his party had put in a lot of effort to revive the support base. Ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections, Deb, who otherwise resides in Collegepara of Siliguri, has taken rented a house in a locality under his constituency and is staying there for the past few weeks. He is moving out every day to meet his electorate, playing the development card by inaugurating new projects or laying foundation stones. He has seldom left his constituency during this period. “From May this year, people will see a new Gautam Deb who will stay among them and work for them round the clock. I want to devote my time for people’s development,” Deb said. BJP leaders contacted by this paper abstained from commenting on Deb’s strategy. Political analysts, however, said that the minister seemed to be playing the sympathy card. “The upcoming elections are probably the toughest elections that he has faced in his political career, considering the large margin that BJP has managed to gain over Trinamul in his Assembly segment in the Lok Sabha polls. That is why he is trying to earn compassion from people. It is also a different strategy from the BJP that has been following traditional campaign techniques so far,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Two held with 70 kilos of cannabis in Malda||Two suspected peddlers, including a local youth, were arrested from the Rathbari area in Malda on Sunday night after around 70 kilos of cannabis was seized from their possession. Police sources said the narcotic had been brought from Manipur. The arrested youths had travelled by train to reach Malda. The arrested duo have been identified as Mahadeb Sarkar, who hails from Dinhata in Cooch Behar district, and Sanjay Pramanik, a resident of Sovanagar in Malda. “Sarkar and Pramanik were to sell the consignment, packed in seven packets, in clandestine markets in the rural belts of Malda. The value of the seized cannabis is around Rs 4 lakh,” said Madanmohan Roy, inspector-in-charge of  Englishbazar police station. The police officers also pointed that in the past one year, around four quintals of cannabis had been seized in Englishbazar alone. Altogether, 22 persons have been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Cash-for-job finger at Trinamul MLA of Dhupguri||Mitali Roy, the Trinamul MLA of Dhupguri in Jalpaiguri district, has been accused of taking money from job aspirants after promising them jobs in at least two state government departments. The aspirants have sent written complaints to K.K. Kalyani, the Jalpaiguri district Trinamul president, alleging that the MLA had taken Rs 83 lakh from 13 of them in 2018. Roy brushed aside the charges and alleged that some people were trying to tarnish her image ahead of the polls. According to sources, in October 2018, Roy allegedly took money from candidates after assuring them of jobs as primary teachers in the education department and with the water resources department. “The candidates alleged that they were taken to Calcutta for interviews and even handed appointment letters. In due course, they realised the appointments were fake. Since then, they have been demanding that the MLA return their money,” said a source. With the job aspirants exerting pressure on Roy, one of her relatives reportedly took up the onus to return the money last year, said a source. “This relative issued cheques to the aspirants but they bounced. The aggrieved persons then brought the matter to the notice of the district Trinamul leadership,” the source added. The MLA stoutly denied the charges as a “conspiracy”. “It is nothing but a conspiracy to malign my image and that of my party ahead of the elections. If I had taken money from them, why were they silent so far (since 2018)? Why have the allegations come up only now?” Roy said, referring to the timing of the charges coinciding with the polls. District Trinamul president Kalyani was brief in his reactions. “I need to check whether any such complaint has reached my office. Also, if anything happened, the state leadership will have to look into the matter. The district committee cannot make any move against any MLA of the party,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal forest department to create mini zoo for rescued tigers in Alipurduar||The state forest department has started to construct a mini zoo at the South Khayerbari Nature Park here. According to senior forest officials, tigers, especially those rescued from circuses, will be brought to the park that already has an enclosure and cages. The Asiatic black bear, sloth bear, dhole (a species of Indian wild dog), fishing cat and jungle cat will also be brought to the park. Enclosures will be readied for one-horned rhinos, gaur and deer species, along with an aviary. Forest department sources said that 25 hectares had been marked to develop the largest open enclosure for leopards at the nature park. “Bengal Safari Park (on Siliguri outskirts) has turned out to be a success. Similarly, we intend to open a mini zoo with open enclosures for animals to draw more tourists. We hope to make the infrastructure ready by next winter (2021-end),” said V.K. Yadav, the state principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife). A source said that approval had been obtained from the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) for the largest open leopard enclosure as well. In 2005, a rescue centre was opened at South Khayerbari and 18 royal Bengal tigers rescued from circuses were brought there. A leopard safari was launched as well. In due course, all tigers died of old age. The leopard safari was stopped as the vehicle developed technical snags. Tourism stakeholders in the Dooars have welcomed the mini zoo initiative. “Earlier, South Khayerbari was a popular destination for tourists. These days, there is nothing there to attract tourists. We believe once the mini zoo opens, footfall will increase in the Dooars,” said Biplab Dey, assistant secretary, Dooars Tourism Development Forum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||Opinion||Easier path: Arjun Tendulkar’s IPL selection ||Sir — The selection of Sachin Tendulkar’s son, Arjun, by the Mumbai Indians at the Indian Premier League auctions has, once again, sparked debates surrounding privilege and nepotism. While some have argued that he should be given a fair chance, many believe that Arjun has benefited on account of his family’s connections. It is high time that people acknowledged their privilege. Viraj Sharma,Gwalior Waste not Sir — In a recent programme, the Danish ambassador to India, Freddy Svane, revealed that only 4 per cent of the water that is pushed into the distribution network in Denmark is unaccounted for (“Plug the leak”, Feb 22). This is in stark contrast to most Indian cities, where nearly half of the water that is injected into the network is wasted owing to leaks and other factors. Svane’s revelation must act as a wake-up call for Calcuttans. It has been reported that nearly half of the 488 million gallons of water that the Calcutta Municipal Corporation sends into the city’s distribution system every day goes to waste or is unaccounted for. According to water resource experts, about 250 million gallons of water should be adequate to meet the daily needs of Calcuttans. Astonishingly, a project undertaken by the CMC — it installed water meters in wards 1 to 5 in north Calcutta to read the volume of water entering houses — has revealed that households are consuming 900 litres per day whereas the national limit is 150 litres per person per day in metropolitan cities. These figures are alarming. Moreover, the Hooghly river, which provides a bulk of the water, is becoming more turbid and saline by the day. This colossal abuse and wastage of resources must not be overlooked. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — Calcutta, unlike other Indian cities — in many parts of Delhi, people get running water for only certain hours of the day — has rarely faced an acute water shortage. Thus, the importance of the resource is lost on many of its inhabitants. People often leave taps running with no concern for water wastage. The combined effort of the government and ordinary people will be required to put an end to this criminal waste. Riddhi Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
23-02-2021||Opinion||High price for fuel in India||Fuel prices in India — those of petrol, diesel and cooking gas — are witnessing an unprecedented rise in recent times. Since fuel prices affect many economic activities, the rise is emerging as a national political issue. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government is blaming past governments for not reducing import dependence. This view is unwarranted, coming as it does from a prime minister who has been in power for almost seven years. There is a complex story behind the trend. During the start of the pandemic early in 2020, crude oil prices fell, touching about $40 a barrel triggered by the sharp fall in demand. Now, the price of crude is rising and the Brent crude oil rate stands at around $65 a barrel as demand has started to pick up. Also, Saudi Arabia has voluntarily cut its daily production by one million barrels. This cut will stay till the end of March 2021. In the same period, the Central excise duty on fossil fuels has increased by about 50 per cent. It has risen from Rs 19.98 per litre to Rs 32.98 per litre for petrol and from Rs 15.83 per litre to Rs 31.83 per litre for diesel. These figures seem to be a plausible reason for the steep rise in prices. The government needs tax revenues badly and international price increases are beyond New Delhi’s control. However, the change in prices since 2014, when the current government came to power, is quite revealing. In May 2014, the Brent crude price stood at $108 per barrel. The Central excise was Rs 10 per litre for petrol. The retail pump price was Rs 71. Now, the crude price has dropped significantly to around $65 but the retail pump price has risen to Rs 100 while the Central excise has increased to Rs 32 per litre. The price of cooking gas has jumped by more than Rs 100 in about two months’ time to Rs 796 per cylinder. The fuel price inflation has been balanced by softening food price inflation. However, going forward, that may not last if the monsoons are weak. Also fuel prices hit household expenses, transport costs and agricultural costs of production. In short, the spillover effects of fuel prices are likely to be widespread and hard. It can be seen that the major reason for the price hikes has been the sharp rise in indirect taxes. This is done off-budget, and an increase by even a few paise can bring in tax revenue worth millions. However, indirect taxes hurt the common people. Managing the political fallout can be tricky.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
23-02-2021||Opinion||Free the mind: assault against free speech||The assault against free speech is now a global phenomenon. India, in spite of its democratic roots, is, unfortunately, not an exception to this regression. The causes of this assault vary among countries. But there is one common thread. The right to free speech is increasingly being equated with a propensity to offend public sentiments in polities that are being encouraged by its minders to be hypersensitive. In fact, there is a line of thought that argues that the freedom of speech ought to be tempered if it is found in conflict to the ‘right to be offended’. This association is not, by any means, innocent. This is because Constitutions around the world have already put in place checks and balances on the freedom of speech and expression. In India, the right to free speech is a fundamental — but not an absolute — right. The Constitution has imposed limitations, keeping in mind such imperatives as decency, morality, and public order. In the United States of America, another democracy that India is often compared to, the First Amendment offers meaningful protection against speech that is deemed hurtful or has been designed to provoke. The argument in favour of a ‘right to offend’ is thus specious; there are adequate constitutional and legal safeguards against offences directed at the State, its institutions, communities and faiths. There is another, equally formidable, argument in defence of the right to free speech. Frank but civil exchanges — be they debates or even dissenting opinions — are integral to the democratic ethos. Argumentative Indians have proudly borne, over the years, the tradition of tarkashastra. The passionate and, at times, heated exchange of views deepens democracy and, in the process, nourishes civilizational values. Reforms and policy changes have often been the outcome of spirited debates among and speeches by luminaries in Parliament. A confident, robust democracy is not expected to feel threatened by critical remarks. It is supposed to welcome the contrarian view. Yet, the opposite seems to be happening in New India. Sedition and defamation are allegedly being weaponized by the powers that be and the rights to speech and protest frowned upon. Data bear out the slide: as much as 96 per cent of sedition cases filed in India, says one report, were filed after the Bharatiya Janata Party’s political ascendancy in the states and at the Centre. These are troubling — even offending — statistics to the conscientious, democratic mind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
23-02-2021||Opinion||Lonely lives in the time of a pandemic||The wives of British officials in colonial India — memsahibs, as they were called — wrote extensively about their struggles of living in India. In my study of the literature produced by them, I often came across accounts of boredom, loneliness and melancholia, as they were frequently left alone in their remote bungalows when their husbands were on raj duty. Housework did not take time because there was always an abundance of ayahs, cooks, drivers and so on; unless they had a hobby, these wives had very little to do all day. The raj required little contribution from women; even if they wanted to be involved, they were consistently excluded from imperial activities. The lack of work and the utter lack of a purpose caused further boredom. Making matters worse was the absence of company or regular socializing around the lonely mofussils or stations. Even travel was difficult and often life-threatening. This made the women homesick and prone to despair; they sometimes threatened to kill themselves. Boredom was so pervasive that Emily Eden, who wrote Wanderings of a Pilgrim in Search of the Picturesque (1850), wryly declared that her book should be renamed “Excursions of a Memsahib in Danger of Being Bored”. When Covid-19 hit and lockdowns were imposed globally, staying indoors quickly became oppressive. Deliberations on the idea of loneliness grew. It was the first anomalous period in history witnessed by my generation; the novelty of lockdowns, curfews and social distancing, combined with the spectre of death and disease, became fertile ground for creativity. This was the time when I was finalizing my thesis draft and going over my readings of memsahibs’ works. Uncannily, these writings about boredom in solitary homes resonated with the times, and with me, restricted as I was indoors. I realized that memsahibs were living under similar conditions close to two centuries ago. One of their biggest difficulties was the numbing dullness of the secluded dak-houses without friends and family. But imperial boredom remains a rather unexplored subject in colonial historiography even though Victorian society was already acquainted with it; Jane Austen’s Emma (1815) is a good example. In present times, reading about the pathology of boredom has made me think about the connection between boredom and pathology itself. Throughout history, disease has been tackled with the use of isolation — quarantines — to prevent the spread of infections. In the raj, there was growing concern about epidemics; the segregation of spaces, social distancing and so on were used as prevention. In fact, segregation and social distancing were the primary methods of containing contagious diseases in the Victorian period, as demonstrated in Charles Dickens’ Bleak House. In Emily Bronte’s Jane Eyre, Helen Burns dies of consumption after being quarantined for some time. Later, we are told about how Bertha Mason is kept in confinement owing to a mysterious affliction — a mental illness. Critical enquiries have uncovered the possibility of her ‘madness’ stemming from her captivity, as opposed to Edward Rochester’s argument that she was kept in captivity on account of her illness. Having been quarantined for two weeks myself, I am painfully aware of how maddening isolation can be. Whether it is the pathology of boredom caused by monotony, or the pathologies leading to boredom during isolation, the effects on the psyche are the same. The realities of the raj are not very different from ours. We are fortunate for medical advancements but there are striking resemblances in memsahibs’ boredom and confinement and that of people during present times. Like the memsahibs, we must take comfort in reading and writing; they are the time-tested ways of preventing melancholia during isolation and loneliness. Perhaps our accounts of boredom and loneliness recorded in tweets, articles and Facebook and Instagram posts will be studied in the post-pandemic era as defining literature of this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
23-02-2021||Opinion||An unhealthy health budget||The health budget of 2021 is extremely important given the backdrop of pandemic-induced disruptions in the social and economic lives of the people. This year’s Economic Survey emphasizes that India should increase its spending on health from an average of 1 per cent to 2.5 per cent of GDP, as aspired in the National Health Policy of 2017, in a phased manner by 2025. The High Level Group on Health Sector has also recommended to the Fifteenth Finance Commission that the Centre should allocate Rs 1.78 lakh crore for the health budget of 2021-22. In her budget speech, the finance minister announced an allocation of 2.23 lakh crore for ‘Health and Wellbeing’ expenditure. ‘Health and Wellbeing’ is one of the six pillars of the budget proposal and is already being identified as the much-awaited financial vaccine for India’s crumbling health sector. Therefore, it is necessary to understand how this sixth pillar is going to transform India’s health service system. Apart from the conventional budget categories for health, ‘Health and Wellbeing’ includes outlays for Drinking Water and Sanitation (60,030 crore), Nutrition (2,700 crore), Covid-19 vaccine-related special allocation as a one-time expense (35,000 crore) and the Finance Commission’s grants (49,214 crore for health and water and sanitation) which add up to the sum of 2.23 lakh crore. It is not clear why the Finance Commission’s grant is being shown as part of the budget framework as it is not the Centre’s resource: it is meant for direct transfer to urban and rural local bodies. The allocation of 2.23 lakh crore, apparently, offers a framework of “holistic approach to [h]ealth” to strengthen the “[p]reventive” and “[c]urative” parts of the healthcare system alongside “Wellbeing”. The benefits secured from the wider determinants of health, such as safe drinking water, open-defecation-free villages, nutrition supplements for pregnant and lactating women and children, do partially address the well-being of the population and may avert many diseases. But can these determinants strengthen health service delivery? The health budget was supposed to address the age-old needs of infrastructure expansion, building of a skilled workforce, investing in medical research and technologies, reinforcing community-level health schemes and other issues. Merely clubbing the health budget with other social sector overheads may endorse a holistic approach to health but it cannot address the structural problem of low public financing in India’s health sector. For 2021-22, the overall health budget of the department of health and family welfare (including AYUSH-Indian systems of medicine and health research) has been decreased in absolute terms by nearly 8,349 crore from last year (from 85,251 crore in 2020-21, Revised Estimates, to 76,902 crore in 2021-22). The government’s much publicized flagship programme, Ayushman Bharat (Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana and Health and Wellness Centre), has not seen much increment. The HWC component (implemented under the National Health Mission in rural and urban areas) was increased meekly by 300 crore (from 1,600 crore in 2020-21, expenditure budget, to 1,900 crore in 2021-22). The budget outlay for the insurance/assurance-based PMJAY scheme remains the same (6,400 crore) in comparison to the original expenditure budget of 2020-21. Significantly, the pandemic slashed the PMJAY budget outlay in size (3,100 crore in 2020-21, RE). This may be attributed to access-related problems faced by beneficiaries in availing cashless hospitalization services during the lockdown as well as to the threat of virus infection. The coronavirus finally enhanced the capital outlay on medical and public health after almost three years. It had been falling steadily from 3,048 crore (2017-18) to 2,341 crore (2018-19) to 1,640 crore (2019-20). The pandemic also forced the government to ramp up its infrastructure for medical and public health services by readjusting the allocation to 4,166 crore (RE) from its initial earmark of 996 crore (Budget Estimates) in 2020-21. The budget confirms, once again, that the NHM has been severely underfunded because of PMJAY. The NHM is the mainstay to lowering maternal and infant mortality and increasing institutional delivery. The fund crunch for the NHM has been adversely affecting allocations for Reproductive and Child Health services, including immunization, communicable diseases — tuberculosis, malaria, diarrhoea and so on — as well as non-communicable diseases for the last three years. An excessive focus on purchasing care mostly from the private sector under PMJAY and an overall stagnation in the health budget have withheld the much-needed expansion of the NHM, after excluding HWC, from 34,659 crore (2019-20) to 35,144 crore (2020-21, RE) to 36,575 crore (2021-22, BE). Ironically, the 2021-22 budget was expected to rejuvenate the NHM to energize public service delivery. There is also a proposal for system strengthening in addition to the NHM’s provisions. The new Centrally-sponsored scheme, the PM AtmaNirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, shall have an outlay of about 64,180 crore over a period of six years to upgrade primary, secondary, and tertiary care facilities, strengthen existing health institutions, and build new institutions for research, screening, detection and treatment of prevalent and emerging diseases. All these are at the announcement stage with no reflection in the budget document. The 2021-22 health budget may be historic — but only in popular perception.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
23-02-2021||Opinion||Captive audience||I’ve been watching a lot of films on the various OTT platforms. Besides showing you new films, platforms such as MUBI also allow you to take your pick from old favourites and classics that you’ve maybe seen long ago, and recently I found myself clicking on all sorts of gems from the past. Watching some of these films on my laptop screen is a strange experience. It’s not an exact analogy, but I did find myself thinking of peering at one of those tiny-printed, miniature versions of books, re-reading the ones that you’ve first read in a properly-sized volume. After a lot of such viewing, something also felt a bit off about the fact that I could fast-forward, rewind, pause and go do something or even suspend my viewing of a film for a few days. It occurred to me that from now on, for the foreseeable future, this is how most people would watch films that weren’t on current commercial release. This, of course, took me back to the time when young people of my milieu were discovering cinema in the late 70s. Growing up in Calcutta, the cinema theatres formed clear groupings in the head: it was a completely different experience going to one of the Hindi film theatres, or to a Bangla cinema hall or to one of the ‘English’ ones. Occasionally, when there was a Sunday morning show of an English film in a Bangla hall it just felt wrong; you went in past the Uttam-Suchitra posters and were wrong-footed by the screen when one of the Hollywood logos came on; you walked out, having almost skinny-dipped with Julie Newmar in Mackenna’s Gold, to find Chhabi Biswas locking eyes with you from the wall. Boarding school in small-town Rajasthan found me missing the comforts of Globe and Menoka, but in clement weather the weekly film screenings were outdoors and we watched them sitting on the red sandstone step-benches of a 19th-century pavilion. The projection on the portable screen was dim, the sound from the single film scratchy, the reel changes were frequent, but behind the screen stretched the cricket ground and beyond that was a peak of the Aravalli hills with the moon and stars moving over it. At the time all this seemed unremarkable, but in the memory it’s the whole scene rather than any one film that stays etched as magical. Back in Calcutta and attending college, many of us fell prey to the addiction of serious cinema. This meant getting up early on Sunday mornings and hanging around one of the film society screenings, hoping to catch the eye of some older acquaintance and cadging a pass. It seemed there was no question of anyone under the age of fifty-five becoming a member of a film society; as in the most exclusive clubs, membership opened up on a strict priority dictated by death and geriatricity. Occasionally, a kind dada got you one of the hand-printed parchas that allowed you to file in with all the dhoti-kurta clad kinobabus. This permitted you to sit under the honour guard of fans whirring out of the side-walls at the Sarala Roy Memorial Hall or the Calcutta Information Centre, absorbing whatever you could from the grainy black-and-white or faded East European colour of Polish, Czech or Cuban films. As a student at the old Alliance Française in the spectacularly dilapidated Queens Mansion, one had access to the great works of the French New Wave; the screening room at AF had a pillar almost in the centre and the projector throw somehow magically curved around it like a Zidane pass in constant replay. If you were late to a crowded screening, you spent the evening crushed against the back wall, playing peekaboo with Jean-Paul Belmondo around the dratted pillar. The Chitrabani screening room was small, just a bit bigger than the Seminar Library cubicle in Presidency’s English department, but the selection of films was something you could not easily access elsewhere. By far the best screening venue for art films and documentaries was the properly sloping theatre at Max Mueller Bhavan, but again, getting in was always a challenge. The thing about all these places was that the struggle to get in, the discomforts, the quirks of projection and sound, all added to the sense of having scored a precious viewing experience in an otherwise arid landscape. Obviously there were no VHS tapes, DVDs or internet downloads in the late 70s, nor any sense that these might be around the corner. Therefore you watched each film with a certain intensity, as though you’d been given brief access to a precious manuscript in an exalted library, acutely aware that this might be the first and the last time you were seeing it. With western music, art materials and many other things, landing in America felt like I’d fetched up in a massive sweet shop, and that too one with affordable prices. There may have still been no inkling of the coming technological deluge, but just by poring over the schedule sheet from Bleecker Street Cinema in New York, you could see all sorts of classics and strange new films being offered with regularly repeated screenings. It was here that I discovered the joys of the ‘double-bill’, where for just a bit more than the (already cheap) ticket price for one film you could sit through two films one after the other. And then, since excess was the middle name of this country, a group of friends could even decide to do two double-bills on the same day. This meant that you’d walk into the theatre at around 10 am clutching your bagel and coffee and watch, say, two early Bertolucci films. Coming out at around half past two, you’d quickly nip over to the deli and get yourself a sub sandwich and a couple of beers in brown paper bags before assuming your seats again. Then, through the pall of tobacco smoke from the last few rows, you would watch two more films, say Godard this time, and come out punch-drunk on jump cuts and Godardian aphorisms at 7 pm, a day well spent, an evening still to be ransacked. For certain films the theatre would be jam-packed, for others almost empty, as though you were a movie mogul in your own screening theatre. Whatever the number of fellow viewers, whether the seats were full or empty, something about the scale of the screen, the evidence that you were in a site of collective viewing, the silence and its corollary, the respect demanded by the fact of this being a theatre and not someone’s home, affected the way you watched a film. Each screening was, in a sense, a unique performance to which you were submitting, in which you were participating, and though that sense of scarcity from Calcutta no longer hung over you, the viewing was no less concentrated and intense. Conversely true also was that while watching a film in a dark theatre you relaxed and let go of other concerns, you were ensconced in the amniotic fluid of the audio-visual and the only thing that disturbed or nourished you was that which was unfolding on the screen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Schools cannot hold on-campus exams except boards||Schools across Jharkhand will not be allowed to hold on-campus examinations for students other than those appearing for board exams until further notice, a directive from the Home, Prison & Disaster Management Department stated on Tuesday, further clarifying that schools have to continue offering online classes even after on-campus classes resume on March 1. The examinees appearing for board exams as well as other exams will be exempted from restrictions enforced on containment areas, the notification from the government stated, adding that the admit card of examinees will be treated as their entry pass outside containment zones. The Government has also allowed colleges, skill development centres and coaching institutes to resume regular classes, but they must adhere to the rules set by the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the concerned Jharkhand departments as precautionary measures against the spread of Covid-19 virus. The decisions regarding relaxations provided to Jharkhand residents were taken during a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) last week, but the official notification was issued by the government on Tuesday. Congregations of a maximum of 1,000 attendees will be allowed in open spaces from March 1, keeping the size of the ground in mind in order to ensure social distancing, the notification stated, adding that in closed areas, only 50 per cent of the accommodation capacity would be allowed. Besides, all cinema halls across Jharkhand will also be allowed to reopen with only 50 per cent capacity from March 1. This decision comes as a major relief for cinema hall owners in the state even though the Centre has allowed movie theaters to run at 100 per cent capacity across India. Fairs and exhibitions have also been allowed, but only with 50 per cent accommodation capacity. All amusement parks, entertainment parks, swimming pools will also reopen on March 1. However, swimming pools will be open only for sportspersons for training purpose, the notification stated. This means that swimming pools in clubs and hotels will remain closed. The government has allowed Anganwadi centres to open on March 1, provided all the Anganwadi sevikas get vaccinated before coming in contact with the children. Anganwadi centres are government run facilities that address nutritional needs of children below the age of six years in a bid to address malnutrition – a major challenge in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Mandatory Covid test for MLAs before budget session||The Jharkhand Assembly secretariat issued an order on Tuesday for compulsory Covid-19 testing for all MLAs and officials three days prior to the beginning of the budget session of the House on February 26. While the overall Covid-19 numbers have shown a downward trend for about two months now in the state, officials in the assembly secretariat said that they were following safety protocols to prevent any further spread of the virus, especialy now that five states are reporting a spike in cases. Officials in Ranchi maintained that they would not allow any disregard of safety norms during the Assembly session. “All the MLAs, cabinet ministers and officials required to attend the budget session are requested to get Covid-19 test done prior to 72 hours before the start of the house. In case, if anyone, is found positive, the MLA concerned may, as per the rules of the house, appoint another MLA on his behalf to raise questions,” the order issued by Vidhan Sabha secretary Mahendra Prasad read.  The order also advised anyone having Covid symptoms to voluntarily refrain from attending the House. Social distancing norms will be followed inside the Assembly. Similar rules will also apply to journalists covering the session. The Assembly premises, however, will remain out of bounds for the public whihc means the no one can watch the proceedings from the visitors’ gallery. Assembly staffs is busy putting in place mandatory arrangements in accordance with safety norms for the session. An official said, “There will be provisions for thermal scanning and sanitizer machines will be installed at all entry points. Over the next two days, the entire assembly premises will undergo proper cleaning and fogging.” Starting from February 26, the House will function till March 16. The state budget will be tabled on March 3. Notably, similar protocols were in place during the monsoon session held in September last year when covid-19 was at its peak in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Business chambers support to Traders’ Bandh on Friday over GST issues||Over 1.5 lakh small and medium size traders across Jharkhand will participate in the all India Bharat Vyapar Bandh called by Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) against GST on February 26. Leading business chambers of the state including Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industry ( FJCCI ), Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) and Jharkhand Thok Vastra Vikreta Sangh have extended support to the bandh. “We have extended our support to the bandh which is for a genuine cause of traders. We are against the new provisions of GST,” Praveen Kumar Chhabra, president of FJCCI told The Telegraph Online over phone. The bandh call given by CAIT, the apex body of traders has already been supported by All India Transport Welfare Association (AITWA) . The transporters’ unit has also announced a ‘chakka jam’  on February 26. Several other leading national and state level trade associations have supported the  traders bandh. CAIT national secretary and former president of Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry  Suresh Sonthalia said that the business community, which was enthusiastic about the GST system when it was introduced, now feels highly depressed because of wide complications and imposition of huge penalties even for a small unintentional error. "The traders across the country have been expressing their resentment over the cruel GST provisions which are contrary to the letter and spirit of GST Act passed by the Parliament," said Sonthalia. He added that more than eight  crore traders  across the country will participate in the bandh to express their solidarity over the issue. A functionary of  Jharkhand Thok Vastra Vikreta Sangh M Agrawal said that traders were finding it difficult to comply with the complex GST norms as stipulated by the Centre and in demand for simpler norms would go on a nationwide strike on February 26 to let the government know that the process of constant amendments in GST rules were only confusing traders. He appealed to all urban and rural traders to ensure success of the bandh by keeping their business establishments closed on February 26 and unitedly fight for the cause of simplified GST norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Criminals snatch Rs 6 lakh from elderly couple in Bistupur||Two bike-borne criminals snatched away a bag containing Rs 6 lakh from an elderly man near Bank of Baroda on Bistupur main road on Tuesday afternoon. The incident took place at around 1 pm when Nirmal Dey and his wife Ruma Dey were going to deposit the money which was withdrawn from Bank of India’s main branch, situated on the same Bistupur main road. As the couple reached the entrance of the bank, one of the two bike-borne criminals who was riding pillion snatched the bag from the hand of Dey and fled away towards Bistupur roundabout. The crime took place about 150 meters away from Bistupur police station and 70 meters away from the Bank of India’s main branch. As the criminal snatched the bag, Ruma Dey screamed for help, but despite the road being crowded and bustling with commuters, no one took the initiative to chase the criminals. After the police were informed, a police party led by Bistupur thana OC, Vishnu Raut reached the spot and started an investigation. “Two bike-borne criminals have snatched away a bag from an elderly couple near Bank of Baroda. We are trying to detect the criminals by taking a statement from the victims and also taking out the CCTV footage of the crime scene,” said Raut while talking to The Telegraph Online. Nirmal Dey who is a retired Tata Steel employee was too traumatised to speak, but Ruma Dey did. A resident of Bhatia Bustee in Kadma, Ruma said she was a teacher in a local English school, but after her husband’s retirement, they both had shifted to Bangalore. “The money which was snatched away was my husband’s savings. We had never thought that on Bistupur main road where so many cops remain in patrolling mode such a snatching incident can occur,” said the woman while talking about the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Pathalgadi activists meet governor on scheduled areas||A group of activists met Governor Droupadi Murmu at Raj Bhavan and sought her nod for installing Pathalgadi stone plaques near Jharkhand High Court and the Vidhan Sabha building in Ranchi on Tuesday, a day after they attempted a similar protest with a stone plaque with names of 13 districts inscribed on it. After handing over a memorandum to the governor, the activists said the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution allowed the 13 districts, including Ranchi, to be declared as scheduled areas where the tribal law should come in force. They said that as per the Constitution, tribesmen and tribeswomen living in these areas also enjoyed immunity from legal action and there was a different set of laws for such people. The activists told the media that the governor told them that it was a constitutional matter and any decision regarding their demands could not be taken in haste. “The governor has also assured that police will not harass us unnecessarily,” one of the activists, a bearded man clad in a checkered shirt and a traditional tribal Panchi – a variety of dhoti. Security was beefed up near the Jharkhand high court and the Vidhan Sabha buildings – the two areas where the Pathalgadi supporters have threatened to practice the custom.  As per the 2011 Census, tribals form at least 26.2 per cent of the state’s population of 3.29 crore. While the 32 tribal groups in Jharkhand were spread across the state, their strength was particularly high in the 13 districts which the Pathalgadi supporters cited. These are Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Lohardaga, West Singhbhum, Gumla, Latehar, Saraikela Kharsawan, Sahebganj, Dumka, Pakur, Jamtara, Khunti and Simdega. Pathalgadi, a tribal custom of installing stone plaques and other writings at the border of villages to demarcate the area and pay respects to ancestors, drew the attention of the state government in 2017 after a few plaques restricted entry of administration and police in villages and declared them as liberated zones. The former BJP-led government had decided to tackle the issue with an iron fist and lodged FIR against several hundred Pathalgadi supporters. However, soon after coming to power in 2019, Chief Minister Hemant Soren had announced to withdraw all cases against Pathalgadi supporters in Jharkhand during the 2017 movement. Monday’s security breach near the high court in Ranchi occurred a day after the chief minister’s remark that there had been a few miscreants in the 2017-2018 Pathalgadi movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Agriculture minister attacks Centre over farmers’ loan waiver issue||Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh on Tuesday accused the Centre of deceiving farmers. He charged the state BJP MPs for not raising their issues properly at the Parliament to ensure loan waiver. Inaugurating the Agriculture Exhibition of Farmer’s conclave at the Dhanbad Zila Parishad ground, he asked, “What relief has been provided to farmers of the state during almost 20 years of BJP rule in the state?” “BJP leaders should introspect injustice caused to farmers both at state and central government levels, due to which the farmers are compelled to come on road in Delhi leaving their home and family,” Paralekh said. BJP has not acted on the promised loan waiver of Rs 2 lakh and instead gave only Rs 50,000 to the farmers. “Despite fund constraints during the pandemic we had made a beginning for the loan waiver of farmers and will increase the loan waiver gradually,” claimed Patralekh. Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh on Tuesday accused the Centre of deceiving farmers. He charged the state BJP MPs for not raising their issues properly at the Parliament to ensure loan waiver. Inaugurating the Agriculture Exhibition of Farmer’s conclave at the Dhanbad Zila Parishad ground, he asked, “What relief has been provided to farmers of the state during almost 20 years of BJP rule in the state?” “BJP leaders should introspect injustice caused to farmers both at state and central government levels, due to which the farmers are compelled to come on road in Delhi leaving their home and family,” Paralekh said. BJP has not acted on the promised loan waiver of Rs 2 lakh and instead gave only Rs 50,000 to the farmers. “Despite fund constraints during the pandemic we had made a beginning for the loan waiver of farmers and will increase the loan waiver gradually,” claimed Patralekh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||On-campus admission procedure kicks off at IIT(ISM)||The three-day process of physical verification of documents for M.Tech students kicked off at the IIT(ISM) Dhanbad campus on Tuesday, resuming activity at the institute which had to be shut down since March 2020 amid the pandemic. During its first day, the submission and verification of documents of admission aspirants of 148 students of different branches was carried out. Further proceedings will be conducted over the next two days in other branches as part of the admission process. Students were happy to visit the campus after months of online educational activities being carried out. “It was a pleasant experience returning to the campus after a gap of more than a year. The serene atmosphere of the  IIT offered the much needed solace from the boredom of home studies,” Subhas Tomar, an aspiring student, told The Telegraph Online. “We wish classroom teaching begins at the institute soon,” Tomar, the son of a farmer, added. Ashok Kumar Giri who arrived at the campus with his son for his admission said, “We are quite happy to see the campus buzzing with activities after so long. We expect that the state government provides opportunity to the students to carry out class room teaching as early as possible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city's veteran athlete gears up for national meet ||Veteran athlete Achinto Pramanik is all set to zoom into the 39th Masters National Athletics Championship starting next month. The national meet is scheduled at Dalli Rajhara in Chhattisgarh between March 20 to 24. The 68-year-old is covering a distance of 20 km daily in the morning before practicing stretching exercises at his home in Gamharia. The sexagenarian wishes to compete in 1500 m, 5000 m and 10000 m disciplines. Talking about his routine, he says, "I leave home at 5 am sharp. I take the new Domuhani bridge and preceed towards the NH 33. Keeping my age in mind, I vary my pace and try to take things easy. I run alone and enjoy it to the fullest. I want to bag medals in all the three disciplines I'm competing in and bring laurels for Jharkhand," Pramanik, who won the second slot in the 65 years and above age category at the fifth edition of the Tata Steel Kolkata 25k run-a-thon in December, 2018, said. This will be the first Masters National Athletics Championship after the pandemic. Pramanik also finished second, behind Singapore's Peter Allen, in the Delhi half-marathon (21 km) by clocking 1 hr 51 minutes. The event was held virtually in November last year. "Running comes naturally to me. I think age should not be a barrier for pursuing any sporting activity. In fact, I don't feel tired running. I want to continue it till my body permits," the veteran athlete said, adding he has already sent his entry fee for the Chhatisgarh national meet. Pramanik said he felt completely out of shape during the lockdown. Though he exercised daily at home, but missed running. "I started feeling fit only after the lockdown was lifted. Fitness is of paramount importance while participating in competitive events,” he said. He has won medals for Jharkhand in national masters athletic meets. According to him,  he wants to compete in as many marathons as possible and fulfil his dream of representing the country in world championships. “I have made it to the national masters athletics teams for international competitions on more than one occasion. The goal is to win the prize money since nobody comes forward to sponsor my trips. I have been selected in the Indian team for world competitions but had to back out due to paucity of funds,” he added. He missed a chance to represent India at the World Masters Athletics Championship in Lyon, France held in August 2015. He managed to send an entry to participate in the 2000m steeplechase, but could not afford the trip as Rs 1.5 lakh was needed to go to France. The Masters Athletics Federation of India doesn't sponsor athletes for international competitions. Pramanik, who runs a grocery shop near his home, stays with his family. He has won one gold (200m steeplechase), one silver (800m), and a bronze (1500m) at the national event held in Panjim, Goa in 2015. He also bagged three gold medals (200m steeplechase, 800 m and 1500 m) and a silver medal (4x400 m relay) at the national meet held in Hyderabad in 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Family of dead minor beat up junior doctor in Daltonganj||Around 15 to 20 people on Tuesday beat up a junior doctor on duty  in the emergency room of the Medininirai Medical College hospital in Daltonganj after he declared a patient as brought dead. The doctor, Ramashankar Kumar, said he had even performed an ECG on the 13-year-old girl to confirm the death when she was brought at around 6:30 in the morning but one of the men who had come along started beating him up without any provocation. Daltonganj OC A K Mahatha said they have  registered the case under various sections of the IPC against unidentified people, based on Kumar’s written complaint. The police have assured the doctors that they will make an arrest within 24 hours. Mahatha said that the girl had died by suicide in her Hamidganj residence on Tuesday morning. Following the assault, the family of the girl fled from the hospital to cremate her body but went back to the hospital to hand it over for postmortem after police convinced them to do so. However, the situation continued to deteriorate when junior resident doctors refused to perform an autopsy on the body, even after their seniors tried to pacify them. The family, too, started demanding the body be given to them for the last rites if postmortem couldn’t be done, making the situation more tense. Police ultimately brought the situation under control, after which senior doctors conducted an autopsy of the body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||VHP takes on Hemant for 'Adivasis not Hindus' remark ||Two days after Hemant Soren’s address at a Harvard conclave wherein he said that tribals aren't Hindus, the Vishva Hindu Parishad attacked the chief minister saying he was acting at the behest of Christian missionaries to confuse innocent tribals and forest dwellers. VHP’s central secretary general Milind Parande, in a statement issued from Delhi on Tuesday, asked Hemant to desist from sabotaging religious feelings of tribals, adding that the legendary Bhagwan Birsa Munda also practiced values enshrined in the Ramayana and Mahabharata. “Hemant Soren is committing the great sin of sabotaging the faith of the Vanvasi (forest-dwellers) society by confusing and bewildering them. The immature & thoughtless assertion of the CM that the Adivasis were never ever Hindus, nor are they Hindus now, injures and upsets the belief and faith of our patriotic and Dharmnishth/devout forest-dweller brethren – and the Vishva Hindu Parishad (World Hindu Council) strongly condemns it,” said Parande. “It seems that by denying the Vanvasi society its great personages – their share of the glorious historic credit of unique contributions to the causes of the country, Dharm and culture, he is sitting with and playing into the hands of the scheming and plotting Christian missionaries, communists and Naxalites. It shall never be acceptable,” he added. Parande said the political leadership ought to make statements with responsibility and accountability. “The planned and despicable attempts that Soren is making to confuse, misguide and disorient the Vanvasi society will never succeed. He must keep it in mind that the Vanvasi society has been in a principal role in protecting, preserving and promoting the causes of the country, Dharm and Bharatiya culture since times immemorial,” he said. Invoking legendary illustrations from the mythology and history, he claimed that Bhagwan Birsa Munda was not only adept at practising the values of the Ramayana-Mahabharata, but also strongly opposed the conversion plotting of the British and the Christian missionaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Showcause notice to Dhanbad jail superintendent ||A district court served a showcause notice to the superintendent of Dhanbad divisional jail Ajay Kumar on Tuesday in response to petitions against BJP MLA Sanjeev Singh's transfer to Dumka Central Jail alleging political meddling and that the accused's right to defend himself would be compromised if he was housed in a distant prison. The court of Additional District and Session Judge-IV of Dhanbad Ravi Ranjan served the notice while hearing the petition filed by Sanjvee Singh’s lawyer, Md Javed, regarding Sunday's (February 21)  jail transfer. The judge also asked the Jail Superintendent to submit his reply positively on February 25. Md Javed told The Telegraph online that in all, three cases based on different petitions were heard by the judge on Tuesday. Of these, hearings were completed in the case calling for cross examining eye witnesses of the Niraj Singh murder case, namely, Eklavya Singh and injured Aditya Raj. “The second hearing was on a petition challenging the transfer Sanjeev Singh to Dumka Central Jail from Dhanbad Divisional Jail. The court fixed the next date of hearing on February 25” said Javed. “The third case was related to a demand of showcause to Superintendent of Dhanbad Divisional Jail Ajay Kumar. The court served a show cause seeking a reply on February 25," he added.. Javed in his petition seeking to transfer Sanjeev Singh back to Dhanbad from Dumka,  pointed out that the transfer of an undertrial to a distant prison may adversely affect his right to defend himself and isolate him from his friends and relatives. Family members and supporters of Sanjeev, including his wife Ragini Singh, alleged the shifting was a result of "political reasons" at the behest of Congress MLA of Jharia and her sister in law Purnima Singh. Immediately after Sanjeev was shifted to Dumka jail on February 21, Ragini addressed the Press at Singh Mansion, the palatial residence of Sanjeev, along with senior BJP leaders of the district unit to allege that the transfer has was  carried out to deprive him of the opportunity to consult his lawyer at a time when his trial was at a crucial stage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||State's vaccination rate improves to 32 per cent||As many as 5561 beneficiaries were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Monday, while the second dose was administered to 1892 people, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. After achieving hardly 14 per cent of its vaccination target on Sunday, the state improved its performance significantly on Monday by inoculating 32 per cent of the beneficiaries for the first dose and 54 per cent of those registered for the second dose, NHM stated in a report. While Bokaro achieved 100 per cent of its target in administering the first dose as well as the second dose, Ranchi achieved only 64 per cent of its target for the first dose and 30 per cent for the second dose. As per government data, Jharkhand has administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine to 283704 people, thereby achieving 74 per cent of its target. However, more than 1 lakh beneficiaries have given the first jab of the vaccine a miss. The state reported only one case of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) on the day from Ramgarh district, taking the total count of AEFI cases in Jharkhand to 272, the NHM report further stated. Besides reporting the only AEFI case, Ramgarh achieved only 9 per cent of its vaccination target on the day – the lowest among all districts in Jharkhand. Deoghar has achieved the highest vaccination rate of 88 per cent in Jharkhand, while Ranchi has achieved only 63 per cent of its target so far. However, as many as 30331 people were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Ranchi – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, Ranchi reported a Covid casualty for the second consecutive day on Monday, taking the count of Covid fatalities in the state to 1087 and that in the district to 244, a bulletin released by NHM stated. As many as 41 people, including 27 from Ranchi alone, were found infected on the day. The state also reported 45 Covid recoveries on the day and 28 of the recovered patients were residents of Ranchi, the bulletin further stated. At least 19 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on Monday. As per government data, as many as 119637 people have been infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand and 98.71 per cent of them have recovered. As many as 448 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand on the day and 258 of them were residents of Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: All India Sikh Students Federation to host petrol loan mela till fuel price comes down||A Sikh outfit here has taken recourse to sarcasm to vent their anger against the Union government’s failure to control the price of petrol, which has touched Rs 91.15 per litre in the steel city. The All India Sikh Students Federation’s (AISSF) Jharkhand-Bihar unit has decided to host petrol loan mela every Sunday across Jharkhand till the price of the fuel comes down. The mela was inaugurated near the Sakchi gurdwara in Jamshedpur on Sunday. “Through such initiatives, we just want to show the mirror to the Union government on its failure to tackle the spiraling fuel prices. We organised a petrol loan mela at Jamshedpur on Sunday wherein customers could purchase petrol in easy instalments at zero per cent interest as is done for expensive home appliances and other costly branded items. This is aimed at highlighting how precious petrol has become for people so that they are forced to buy it on loan. The AISSF units will also host similar petrol loan melas in other major cities of Jharkhand from the coming Sunday,” said AISSF eastern unit president and Sakchi-based trader Satnam Singh Gambhir. The AISSF, which was formed in 2008 in Jharkhand and Bihar, currently has over 100 members in Jamshedpur. It has its units in almost all the big cities of Jharkhand. Over 30 persons took slips from the petrol loan mela held between 1pm and 5pm on Sunday. “We had tied up with a fuel retail outlet in Sakchi and anybody showing the slip bearing our stamp would be given petrol at the outlet. For each litre of petrol, one has to make a down payment of Rs 10 and give us a post-dated cheque of Rs 20 to us for getting the slip. Nearly 30 persons took the slips while we received enquiries over mobile phones from nearly 30 more people. We will be tagging the pictures of petrol loan melas on the Twitter handle of the Prime Minister Office,” Singh said. The social media is abuzz with conversations surrounding the fuel price hike as #Petrol100 trended on Twitter. Many users shared cricket anecdotes to mark the occasion as petrol prices reached the Rs 100 mark in major cities of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
