24-02-2021||Calcutta||Coal smuggling: CBI questions Abhishek Banerjee's wife||CBI officials questioned Rujira Banerjee, wife of Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee, on Tuesday for less than an hour in connection with a probe into a coal smuggling case. The CBI team turned up at the south Calcutta home of Rujira around three minutes after chief minister Mamata Banerjee, aunt of Abhishek, had left the address on her way to Nabanna. Mamata lives in the same locality but sources close to her could not recall when she had last visited Abhishek’s home. “She is Abhishek’s aunt and can always visit his home.… She might have visited to stand by the family. Don’t try to read much into it,” said a source close to Mamata. Rujira’s questioning was shorter compared to the two-and-a-half-hour-long session that CBI officers had with Maneka Gambhir, her sister, on Tuesday. Rujira, a Thai national, was questioned as a “witness”. “For the time being, we will analyse what she said and then decide the next course of action,” a CBI source said. A nine-member CBI team, including two women officers, and lawyers from the agency’s legal advisory team reached Abhishek’s house, Shantiniketan, on Harish Mukherjee Road around 11.35am, a few minutes before Mamata was seen walking out of the address. Abhishek’s daughter saw off the chief minister. Police officers said it was an “unscheduled” visit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
24-02-2021||Calcutta||Dakshineswar Metro makes commute a breeze for many||The north-south corridor of Calcutta Metro lived up to its name on Tuesday when a train left Dakshineswar station at 7am and reached New Garia (Kavi Subhash) a few minutes past 8am. The two terminal stations, on the northern and southern fringes of Calcutta, were connected as commercial services on the extended Noapara-Baranagar-Dakshineswar stretch started on Tuesday morning. The Metro passenger count on Tuesday was 2,60,014. Around 9,000 of the passengers were from the two new stations, said an official. Passengers from areas like Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Khardah and other areas on both sides of BT Road took Metro from Baranagar. Many people living across the river in Hooghly took the Metro from Dakshineswar. The Telegraph spoke to many passengers who boarded trains from Dakshineswar and Baranagar on Tuesday morning. Here’s how their daily commute has changed. Ayan Roy, 27 Lives at Hindmotor. Works at an architecture firm in Chandni Chowk, near Yogayog Bhavan. Usual route: Toto from home to Hindmotor station. A suburban train from Hindmotor to Howrah. Then a bus to central Calcutta. Time taken: Around 100 minutes Time taken on Tuesday: Around an hour — 20 minutes on a two-wheeler from his home to Dakshineswar Metro station and “a little less than 30 minutes” on Metro. Roy boarded a train from Dakshineswar at 10.05am. “Getting a toto took some time. The suburban train used to stop for long durations at the Liluah car shed regularly. Compared to the cramped ride on crowded suburban trains and buses, the air-conditioned Metro ride was like a breeze on the first day,” said Roy, an architect who graduated from IIEST, Shibpur. Karamjit Kaur, 29 Lives near Ashokgarh and works at the Deshapriya Park outlet of a parlour chain. Usual route: Her daily journey included two auto rides, from home to Dunlop and then from Dunlop to Noapara. From there to Kalighat on Metro and finally another auto to Deshapriya Park. Usual time taken: Around “90-100 minutes”. Time taken on Tuesday: She took one auto to Baranagar station. The total journey took her “55 minutes flat”. “On several days in the past, while returning from work, I had to walk from Noapara to Dunlop because there was no auto,” the beautician said. The road is riddled with potholes and the walk would take Kaur around 40 minutes. Autos and mini-vans are the only transport options between Dunlop and Nopara. The service becomes erratic as the evening progresses. Baranagar station, in comparison, is “around 10-15 minutes” from her home. “Having Metro at your doorstep makes a world of difference,” said Kaur. Anil Surana, 42 Lives at Rishra, works with a construction equipment supplier at Chandni Chowk Usual route: Walk from home to Rishra station and then a suburban train to Howrah. From Howrah, an air-conditioned bus to Dalhousie. Usual time taken: Ninety minutes. Time taken on Tuesday: Around one hour. Surana boarded a train from Rishra to Bally and then took an auto to cross the Bally bridge and reach Dakshineswar. The journey from Rishra to Dakshineswar took 30 minutes. From Dakshineswar, a Metro ride to Chandni Chowk took 30 minutes. Even if his work got over earlier, Surana used to wait till “8-8.30pm” at his office to avoid the evening rush on buses and trains. “From today, I can expect to leave office as soon as I finish work,” the 42-year-old said. Sarabjit Singh, 32 Lives near Vikram Market in Dunlop, works with a real estate developer’s office near Tollygunge Phari Usual route: Auto from Dunlop to Noapara and then Metro Usual time: 75-80 minutes Time taken on Tuesday: 50 minutes. His house is “walking distance” from Baranagar Metro station. The ride on Tuesday morning took him “around 40 minutes”. Singh took a 10.40am train from Baranagar. His destination was Rabindra Sarobar. The ride took him around 40 minutes. Getting an auto between Noapara and Dunlop is not easy, especially during the evening. During the monsoon, Singh has had to wade through the waterlogged road between Noapara and Dunlop many times because no vehicle was available at night. “By taking the Metro from Baranagar, I will not save more than 15-20 minutes. But the journey is much easier,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
24-02-2021||Calcutta||Doctor falls to death  in Kasba||A 50-year-old doctor died after falling from the terrace of a Kasba building around 11.15am on Tuesday, police said. A few residents of Hastings Tower saw Joyita Ghosh standing on the parapet of the 10th-floor terrace and alerted guards. Before the guards could reach the terrace, Ghosh had fallen. She used to live alone in an apartment on the fourth floor of the building, the police said. Ghosh was declared dead at the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital. No suicide note was found till Tuesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
24-02-2021||Calcutta||Boat patrol to save lives from tigers in the Sunderbans||A patrol vessel equipped with searchlights was deployed by the forest department on Tuesday to prevent fishermen from entering and mooring their boats deep inside the Sunderbans. The vessel, with forest department personnel on board, will be on duty 24X7. MV Aronyo Prahari, deployed by the forest department in collaboration with World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and Discovery India, will maintain vigil in the mangroves to prevent human-animal conflicts and protect tigers from poachers. The patrol vessel has been deployed in the South 24-Parganas division of the Sunderbans. Many fishermen in the Sunderbans, who lived off the fish netted from rivers and creeks, lost their lives in tiger attacks. Metro had reported that two fishermen who had gone to catch crabs and fish deep inside the core areas of the mangroves died in tiger attacks earlier this month. One of the tiger attacks took place in the South 24-Parganas division. Milan Mondal, the divisional forest officer of the South 24-Parganas division, said fishermen from villages in these areas often ventured into creeks and moored their boats to lay crab traps. “Once on land, they are at the risk of being attacked by tigers. We are holding regular awareness camps in the villages,” said Mondal. According to official figures, nearly 20 fishermen died in tiger attacks last year. The actual figure may be much higher. A forest officer said the Sunderbans had fair weather only during four months in a year. “Maintaining constant vigil inside the mangroves is a challenge for the foresters because of a variety of reasons, including inclement weather,” he said. The vessel will bolster the patrolling capabilities of the forest department as well as help prevent human-animal conflict, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
24-02-2021||Calcutta||BJP leader Rakesh Singh detained in drug case||BJP leader Rakesh Singh, whose name came up in connection with a cocaine seizure from a party leader’s car last week, was detained in Galsi in East Burdwan, around 125km from Calcutta, while he was allegedly trying to flee the city. The detention came after a day of drama during which Singh first wrote to police that he was going to Delhi for a party meeting and he would not be available for three days. Then, he went to Calcutta High Court to seek relief. His prayer was turned down. On Monday, he had promised to cooperate with the police in the investigation. Singh’s sons Shubham and Saheb — who had allegedly delayed the police’s entry into their Orphangunge home, in Watgunge, by almost four hours — were detained in the evening and taken to Lalbazar. Singh’s tower location was reportedly tracked by making his sons call him up on a phone he was carrying. Once the call was connected, his location was tracked down to Galsi. Singh was picked up from Galsi some time after the police had stepped out of his home after a three-hour search. The police did not announce the arrest till late on Tuesday. The police said they had found evidence suggesting Singh had planted the cocaine in the car of Pamela Goswami, a leader of the BJP Yuva Morcha, through an associate. The associate was allegedly in the car and got off minutes before a team of officers from New Alipore police station cordoned off the vehicle and seized the banned drug on Friday. The police have found that the associate has fled to Bihar, sources said. A team had left for Bihar looking for him but he was at large till Tuesday evening. Goswami has apparently told the police that this person had promised to take her to a BJP top leader who was in the city on Friday and they were waiting for another person to join them on NR Avenue in New Alipore before heading for Kasba. “According to her statement, this man (Singh’s associate) was on the front seat and had stepped out of the car to make calls when they were waiting for another man to join them. Then suddenly police came and this man fled amid the confusion, Pamela has claimed,” said an officer who had examined Goswami. Sources said investigators have found Singh’s purported text messages on Goswami’s phone threatening to kill a friend of hers. “Prima facie evidence suggests Singh had been threatening Goswami through text messages and voice notes over the past few months,” an officer said. Goswami is also said to have claimed before the police that Singh had been physically abusing her, for which she had earlier lodged a police complaint. Apparently, no action was taken. Goswami, who was arrested with her friend and guard for alleged possession of 90 gram of cocaine, had purportedly told the cops about Singh’s alleged involvement after her arrest. A section of the police brass feels there was a delay in summoning Singh, though his name had emerged four days ago. The ball started rolling only after the case was handed over to the detective department on Monday evening. The police said they had found a purported audio clip in her phone in which one of her friends was warning her to “remain alert” while moving through some parts of the city. Singh was unreachable over the phone throughout the day. The police team that reached Singh’s home around 1pm was made to wait outside by his family for four hours. “How can I allow so many officers to enter my house unless they tell me the purpose of the visit? If they wanted to serve a notice, we are ready to receive it here. They have come with such a large force. They are free to barge in forcefully. But I will not allow anyone inside without producing valid documents,” Singh’s younger son Saheb said when the cops surrounded their home. After 5pm, five officers were allowed to step in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
24-02-2021||Calcutta||Pokhriyal’s IoE claim draws protest from JU||Union education minister Ramesh Nishank Pokhriyal said at the IIT Kharagpur convocation on Tuesday that Jadavpur University was among the institutes of eminence (IoE) in India. An official of JU, which is among the 10 institutes shortlisted for the tag, wondered what good such a label was if it did not fetch any money for the development of the institute. Pokhriyal, who attended the convocation virtually, referred to JU in his address while lauding institutions of higher learning in Bengal. In his speech, the minister named several institutes in Bengal, including IIT Kharagpur, NIT Durgapur and IIEST Shibpur, saying all these were doing significant work. “On the other hand, Jadavpur University has also got the status of IoE,” said Pokhriyal. JU was seventh on a shortlist of 10 “public institutions” drawn up by an empowered expert committee of the UGC in July 2018 for the tag of eminence. The tag would have resulted in a grant of Rs 1,000 crore over five years. JU had then missed out on the funds as the UGC had selected three institutes — IISc Bangalore, IIT Bombay and IIT Delhi — from the list. JU again missed out next year as IIT Madras, Banaras Hindu University, IIT Kharagpur, Delhi University and Hyderabad University were chosen for the tag. Bengal’s education minister Partha Chatterjee had objected to the sudden slapping of a condition that the state government would have to provide more than a matching grant to make JU eligible for the institute of eminence tag. “Nothing has happened since this stand-off has not been resolved. Had we been awarded the status, JU would have received the money? What good is the status if it does not fetch money,” said a JU official. JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das had said in September 2019 that the university was not aware of any such clause (about the state government having to provide a part of the funds). “We were enlisted among the institutes for the status. We have proved our academic worth. But it is a matter of deep regret that we did not receive the money despite repeated attempts and submission of revised budget. Therefore we are at a loss to understand what is exactly our status,” Das told Metro on Tuesday. A JU official wondered how could the Union education minister claim that the university had received the status when his ministry had in August 2019 come up with the condition that the state government would have to provide more than a matching grant to enable the state university to earn the honour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
24-02-2021||Calcutta||Inauguration of renamed IIT Kharagpur hospital ‘deferred’||IIT Kharagpur held its 66th convocation on Tuesday and there was no announcement of the inauguration of the Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. Instead, the director of the institute prefaced his speech with a tribute to Dr B.C. Roy, the revered medical doctor and Bengal’s first chief minister, after whom the institute of medical sciences was initially named. “We have entered into the 70th year of existence and are heading towards the 75th year. Here we must not forget the great visionary, our Dr B.C. Roy, who had thought of such an eminent institute, first time in the country 70 years back,” director V.K. Tewari said. On February 13, Tewari had made a Facebook post on the upcoming convocation: “The Prime Minister will also inaugurate (virtually) Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, IIT Kharagpur”. Asked why the hospital was not inaugurated, IIT Kharagpur registrar Tamal Nath told Metro: “The inauguration has been deferred following some technical reasons”. Asked whether the Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research would be inaugurated on a later date, he said: “At this moment we can only say that the inauguration has been deferred.” Nath had said last week the institute’s board of governors had approved the renaming. Repeated calls to the director went unanswered. He did not respond to text messages either. Sources on the campus said the inauguration plaque — on which “Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research” was written in Hindi, Bengali, Sanskrit and English — was wrapped in a white piece of cloth on Monday night. The super-speciality hospital has come up on an 18-acre plot at Balarampur, just outside the IIT campus. The IIT has set up the hospital as part of its plan to open a medical college. Teachers on the campus said they had got the impression the plan to inaugurate the hospital had been shelved for the time being after several alumni publicly questioned the decision to rename the hospital after someone who had nothing to do with the institute or the medical science. On Tuesday, the Prime Minister gave his convocation address that lasted for about 20 minutes, focusing on issues like “Make in India”. He exited the video screen immediately after his speech. According to the initial plan, Modi was to inaugurate the hospital after delivering the convocation address. The director and other officials were on the dais. This newspaper reported the renaming effort on February 15. The alumni, upset with the decision, expressed outrage by posting comments on the Facebook page of director Tewari. As many as 180 alumni in a letter to the Prime minister had said they were “dismayed to find that the name” of the Dr B.C. Roy Institute of Medical Sciences and Research had been changed to Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. One of the signatories of the letter, Ajay Kumar Roy, a former head of the school of medical science and research at IIT Kharagpur, said on Tuesday: “We are happy to know that the Prime Minister did not inaugurate the hospital. We hope that the super-specialty hospital will continue to be known as Dr B.C. Roy Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. It was named after B.C. Roy because of his contributions to the field of medical science.” B.C. Roy’s name had been proposed by Roy and former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam had laid the foundation stone for the facility in May 2007. On Tuesday, even as the convocation proceedings were being beamed on YouTube, someone who was watching the proceedings wrote in the comment section: “RP Hall hai kya? (Is the RP hall still in existence)?” Another person wrote: “Azad ka naam b na change kr de ye log. (These people can even change the name of Azad hall).” The RP Hall of Residence, one of the hostels on the campus, is named after first President Rajendra Prasad. The Azad Hall of Residence, another hostel, is named after India’s first education minister, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. As many as 2,815 students were awarded degrees on Tuesday. Of them, 75 students were invited to receive the gold and silver medals conferred by the IIT. In addition, several dignitaries were present to receive DSc (honoris causa), Life Fellow and Distinguished Alumnus Awards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
24-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid test for 500 from Doha, Dubai||Passengers arriving on flight from the Gulf countries had to undergo RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 at Calcutta airport from Tuesday. Airport officials said swab samples of nearly 500 passengers of four flights, one from Doha while others from Dubai,were collected at the six counters set up at the international arrival area. “Initially, there were a few passengers asking why they had to undergo a paid test. We explained to them about the new guideline from the Union health ministry,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya. An official of a private airline operating a flight from Dubai said they were making in-flight announcements ab-out the tests at Calcutta airport. The health ministry has issued a new guideline stating that passengers arriving from the UK, Europe, Gulf countries, South Africa and Brazil have to get themselves tested again after arriving in India because mutant strains of SARS-Cov 2 virus that causes Covid-19, have been detected in many countries. Officials said many passengers were asking questions on what they needed to do after giving the sample and what would happen if they tested positive. Metro spoke to the state health department and airport officials to find answers to some of the questions. What do I need to do after arriving at Calcutta from the above mentioned places? Can I go home after swab collection? A passenger needs to stand in an additional queue for giving swab sample at six counters managed by Suraksha Diagnostics. After the swab collection, a passenger can go home and Suraksha would send them the reports by email and message, said an official of the diagnostic centre. However, those passengers on transit to other Indian cities, have to wait at the airport for six to eight hours and can board a flight only after the report is ready. What happens if the RT-PCR test result is positive? The passenger would be contacted by the state health department and taken to the Infectious Diseases Hospital, Beleghata where a separate 120-bed isolation ward has been created for anyone who tests positive for a mutant strain of SARS-Cov 2. “If someone wants to get admitted at a private hospital, he or she can do so provided that the healthcare unit has an isolation room at the Covid ward,” said the official. He said the sample would be sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani, for further testing. Till the report comes, which takes about 10 to 12 days, the person has to be at the hospital, said the official. What happens if mutant strain is detected? The state government would do contact tracing of the passenger. The passenger, who was admitted at the hospital, would be discharged after three days if there is no symptom. Then the person would have to stay in home isolation for seven days. What happens if the result is positive, but not mutant strain? The person gets discharged if there is no symptom for three consecutive days and stays in isolation for a week at home. What happens if the report is negative? The person needs to be home quarantined for seven days. What are the rules for those flying back from Calcutta to these destinations? In most cases, including Dubai and Bangladesh, passengers must be negative in an RT-PCR test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
24-02-2021||Business||Sensex zooms 1,030 points, Nifty tops 14,950||Equity benchmark Sensex soared 1,030.28 points and the Nifty rallied over 270 points on Wednesday, tracking strong buying in financial stocks, after trading hours were extended following a technical glitch at NSE. After resumption of trade at 3.45 pm, NSE Nifty zoomed 274.20 points or 1.86 per cent to end at 14,982. Similarly, the 30-share BSE index settled 1,030.28 points or 2.07 per cent higher at 50,781.69. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 5 per cent, followed by HDFC twins, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and SBI. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Dr Reddy's, TCS and Asian Paints were among the laggards. Minutes before the scheduled closure of trade at 3.30 pm, leading bourses BSE and NSE said their equity and derivatives markets will remain open till 5 pm. The move came after the National Stock Exchange (NSE) suffered an outage earlier in the day due to technical glitches. Trading across segments came to a halt at 1140 hrs due to connectivity issues. However, the broader Indian markets were not impacted as communication lines at BSE remained operational. "A late surge by bulls across financials post lifting of the embargo on the grant of GOI business to private banks took indices up 2 per cent when trade time was extended till 5.00 pm," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a negative note. Stock exchanges in Europe, however, were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.96 per cent higher at USD 65.10 per barrel. In the forex market, the rupee gained 11 paise to settle at 72.35 against the US dollar supported by positive domestic equities and weakness of the American currency in the overseas market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
24-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 pts; Nifty tops 14,850 after trade resumption||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 500 points and Nifty jumped more than 150 points in late afternoon session on Wednesday after trading hours were extended following a technical glitch at NSE. Minutes before the scheduled closure of trade at 3.30 pm, leading bourses BSE and NSE said their equity and derivatives markets will remain open till 5 pm. The move came after the National Stock Exchange (NSE) suffered an outage earlier in the day due to technical glitches. Trading across segments came to a halt at 1140 hrs due to connectivity issues. However, the broader Indian markets were not impacted as communication lines at BSE remained operational. After resumption of trade at 3.45 pm, NSE Nifty was quoting 152.95 points or 1.04 per cent up at 14,860.75. The 30-share BSE index was trading 551.03 points or 1.11 per cent higher at 50,302.44. HDFC Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, SBI, Axis Bank, HDFC and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, TCS, Dr Reddy's, NTPC, Sun Pharma and Bajaj Auto were among the laggards. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a negative note. Stock exchanges in Europe, however, were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.59 per cent higher at USD 64.86 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
24-02-2021||Business||Trading halts on NSE due to connectivity issues||Largest stock bourse NSE on Wednesday said trading across segments came to a halt at 1140 hrs due to connectivity issues. The bourse said it depends on two telecom service providers for connectivity, and both failed simultaneously resulting in the outage. However, the broader Indian markets were not impacted, as communication lines at BSE continued even as NSE faced troubles. "NSE has multiple telecom links with two service providers to ensure redundancy and we have received communication from both the telecom service providers that there are issues with their links due to which there is an impact on NSE system," a statement from NSE spokesperson said. "We are working on restoring the systems as soon as possible. In view of the above all the segments have been closed at 11.40 and will be restored as soon as the issue is resolved," it added. In June 2020, NSE had suffered a technical glitch. At that time, its bank option segment prices were not reflecting on the terminal linked to the exchange. In September 2019 too, the bourse's system faced a trading outage as investors were unable to place orders in the final minutes of the trade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
24-02-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in the opening session on Wednesday tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank, despite weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 207 points or 0.42 per cent higher at 49,958.41. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 69.35 points or 0.47 per cent up at 14,777.15. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, SBI, Reliance Industries, ONGC and UltraTech Cement. On the other hand, TCS, PowerGrid, Infosys, HUL and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 7.09 points or 0.01 per cent higher at 49,751.41, and Nifty settled 32.10 points or 0.22 per cent up at 14,707.80. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,569.04 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. Domestic equities look to be good at the moment despite mixed cues from Asian markets, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "FIIs turning net sellers for last two days can be a reason to worry in the near term. However, we continue to believe that FIIs flow should be favourable in the medium to long-term perspective as underlying strength of Indian equities remains intact," he added. US equities witnessed sharp reversal from initial losses and finished mostly higher as Fed Chairman Jerome Powell continued to sound dovish in his testimony. Powell vowed to keep monetary policy accommodative and gave no indication that rising bond yields or possibility of higher inflation would make the Federal Reserve begin reining in its efforts to support the economy, Modi noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.56 per cent lower at USD 64.12 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
24-02-2021||Business||Janakalyan eyes assets of Rs 350 crore||Sidbi Venture Capital-backed non-bank microfinance institution (NBFC-MFI) — Janakalyan Financial Services Private Limited — has set its sights on an asset base of around Rs 350 crore by 2021-22. The Calcutta-based NBFC-MFI is also planning to expand into new markets such as  Chhattisgarh and eastern Uttar Pradesh next fiscal following a dose of capital infusion by Bhubaneswar-based investor Sun Tech City Pvt. Ltd, which picked up a 12 per cent equity stake. Sun Tech becomes the second institutional investor in the microlender after Sidbi Venture Capital. The MFI, which began operations in 2017, has 75 branches in six cities — Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Assam and Tripura, catering to 1.62 lakh borrowers. “We are planning to expand into Chhattisgarh and eastern UP. In Tripura, there is also scope for further expansion. The equity capital raised will help us leverage more and support the expansion,” said Alok Biswas, managing director and CEO of Janakalyan Financial Services. He is also one of the promoters along with S.K. Mitra, a former banker with experience in SBI and Axis Bank. After the capital infusion, the promoters hold 70 per cent and institutional investors hold the remaining 30 per cent in the microlender. "The capital will also be used for investment in business processes, technology and human capital. This growth capital is critical when debt is also not flowing much into mid-sized MFIs since pandemic," said Biswas. Equity infusion into NBFC MFIs has seen steady growth despite pandemic and from a base of Rs 14,324 crore as of September 2019, it has increased to Rs 17,178 crore as of September 2020, as per data from industry body Microfinance Institution Network (MFIN). Last week, another Calcutta based NBFC-MFI - Arohan Financial Services - had filed for an initial public offer with plans to raise around Rs 1750-1800 crore. According to industry body Sa-Dhan, the combined microcredit portfolio of all lenders as of December 31, 2020, was Rs 2,27,893 crore of which banks held the majority share with 42 per cent followed by NBFC MFIs at 32 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
24-02-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel and Qualcomm Technologies partner to roll out world-class 5G in India||Bharti Airtel and Qualcomm Technologies Inc have announced a collaboration to accelerate the pace of 5G adoption in the country after demonstrating last month in Hyderabad that 5G gigabit speeds could be achieved over existing networks and spectrum bands. Airtel plans to use Qualcomm’s 5G RAN platforms to roll out virtual and Open RAN-based 5G networks. Airtel and Qualcomm Technologies will collaborate to enable a wide array of use cases, including 5G Fixed Wireless Access (FWA) that is designed to deliver broadband connectivity at Gigabit speeds to homes and businesses. Randeep Sekhon, CTO, Bharti Airtel, said, “We are delighted to have Qualcomm Technologies as a key technology provider in our journey to roll out world-class 5G in India. With Airtel’s integrated service portfolio and Qualcomm Technologies’ 5G leadership, we will be well placed to usher India into the next era of hyper-fast and ultra-low latency digital connectivity.” Rajen Vagadia, vice-president of Qualcomm India and president, Qualcomm India, emphasised that there is a compelling case to accelerate the roll-out of 5G networks in India, as it will help fast-track the country’s socio-economic growth and development. This collaboration also aims to allow a faster rollout of broadband services in a cost effective and expeditious manner across India for “last mile” connectivity challenges that are becoming increasingly important in today’s remote, mobile-first society. It promises gigabit size file downloads in seconds and 4K video streaming on the go across smartphones and computing devices, immersive technologies such as Virtual Reality and SMART Homes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
24-02-2021||Business||Reliance Industries unveils O2C spinoff plan||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) expects to get all the necessary approvals to hive off its oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business into a separate unit by the second quarter of the next fiscal year, paving the way for the possible arrival of strategic and financial investors in the subsidiary. RIL will spin off Reliance O2C into a wholly owned subsidiary, with the transfer of assets to O2C done on a slump-sale basis that makes the reorganisation tax neutral to Reliance. The company will transfer $40 billion of long-term assets, $2bn of net working capital and $5bn of non-current liabilities to the O2C entity for a consideration of $25bn of a long-dated floating rate loan and $12 billion of equity. Reliance in September last year had kicked off the process to carve out the O2C business into a wholly owned subsidiary. In July, chairman Mukesh Ambani had told the company’s shareholders they expect to complete the process by early 2021. The proposed subsidiary will house Reliance’s refining & petrochemicals business and the 51 per cent stake held by Reliance in its oil marketing joint venture with British Petroleum. The subsidiary will also have the global energy trading businesses, its ethane pipeline in India and its 75 per cent stake in a polymer venture with Russia's Sibur. The Malaysian petchem and polyester subsidiary will also be part of the O2C businesses. However, upstream oil and gas producing fields such as KG-D6 and textiles business will not form part of the new unit. In a presentation made late on Monday, Reliance said it had received approvals from the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) and the stock exchanges for the reorganisation. Approvals are awaited from the equity shareholders, creditors, some other regulatory authorities, the income-tax department and the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in Mumbai and Ahmedabad. “The proposed O2C reorganisation may facilitate the participation by strategic as well as financial investors. The company has indicated that the discussions with Saudi Aramco are underway for a strategic transaction, without providing any further details on investment and timeline,” Manish Kaneria, managing director of RBSA Advisors said. Fitch Ratings also said the proposed reorganisation was a step towards facilitating participation by strategic investors in its O2C businesses. “We anticipate the reorganisation will have a neutral impact on RIL’s credit metrics and rating. We do not expect any change in RIL’s consolidated adjusted net leverage, which is approaching zero amid declining capex. We expect RIL’s liquidity at the parent level to remain strong. This would be assisted further by cash upstreaming via interest and debt repayments on long-term loans from O2C in addition to potential dividends from its large subsidiaries,’’ the rating agency added. RIL shares on Monday gained almost one per cent to end at Rs 2,024.25 on the BSE as the street responded positively to its move. Sources said the announcement was meant to inform investors of the progress made in creating the O2C business and the road ahead for the entity. During the announcement of its third quarter results,  RIL had said that it would disclose O2C as a separate business segment. The sources added O2C would be a separate business both at balance-sheet and profit and loss levels. Mayank Maheshwari of Morgan Stanley said with the reorganisation, RIL will have four growth engines — digital, retail, new materials and new energy. “While the market appreciates the value for the first two businesses we see significant upside risk to earnings and multiples for O2C as Reliance invests in new energy/technology,” Maheshwari said. Reliance also announced its aim to work with the O2C business to reduce the carbon footprint of the company and become “net carbon zero” company by 2035. Aramco was earlier expected to pick up 20 per cent stake in the O2C business at an enterprise value (EV) of $ 75 billion. Though this transaction could not be consummated, hopes have revived with Aramco indicating last year that it is doing a due diligence on picking up a stake. RIL said in the presentation that talks are ongoing with Aramco for one of the largest downstream transactions in India, thereby suggesting that it still has hopes of getting the Saudi giant on board after the spin-off. Analysts at CLSA said in a note that using the $ 75 billion EV announced for the non-binding 20 per cent stake sale to Aramco in August 2019, will translate into an equity value of $ 45 billion after deducting the $ 30 billion liabilities at the subsidiary level. Thus a 20 per cent stake sale at $ 75 billion EV, may bring in $ 9 billion cash into Reliance. ``Any new investor may be issued fresh shares and this cash inflow may be utilised to payback the loan from the parent’’, they added. The brokerage has retained its out-perform rating on the RIL stock. Thus after the re-organisation, RIL will have businesses like upstream oil & gas, retail (through Reliance Retail where it holds 85.1 per cent), digital services via Jio Platforms where its shareholding stands at 66.3 per cent and the O2C subsidiary. It will also have other businesses like financial services, international trading division & textiles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
24-02-2021||Business||Residential property sales gaining momentum in Calcutta||The sales of residential property appear to be gaining momentum in Calcutta, with big brands cornering a larger share of the pie in a market where launches continue to remain tepid. Brokerages, developers and people associated with the trade say bookings and transactions have picked up from January for established players, rivalling the situation before Covid-19 sent the economy to deep freeze. Consumer preference towards big brands having the right expertise to deliver good projects in a time bound manner is also leading towards consolidation in the marketplace. “There has been a pick-up in demand from October onwards. Well-known builders are getting good traction,” Harsh Vardhan Neotia, chairman of Ambuja Realty, said. Neotia has recently launched an affordable housing project at Maheshtala on the southern fringes of the city. The owner of the land, Highland Group, entered into a development management contract with Ambuja to develop two 10-acre land parcels each, signalling consolidation in the industry. Sushil Mohta, chairman of Merlin Projects, concurred that reputable developers are getting traction. “Weak hands are slowly exiting the market. With a realty regulator in place and strict monitoring by the banks, delivering a large project on time requires a bandwidth which many would not have,” Mohta argued. Merlin is working on multiple projects, some of which will be launched later this year. Consumers’ preference to buy into projects nearing completion is encouraging the shift towards big branded players. “Buyers are not willing to book a project which would be delivered in 3-4 years unless they are sure about the credentials of the developer,” Neotia observed. This would mean that many developers would have to complete the project first to entice buyers, entailing large scale mobilisation of funds. Previously during the boom period, they had the luxury to build using advances from the buyers. This in turn is impacting fresh supply in the market. “Launches have really come down because builders are really focusing on completing ongoing projects rather than taking up new ones. Since supply has become tight, old inventories are getting sold, which is a good thing,” Jitendra Khaitan, chairman of Pioneer Property Management, said. He has projected better tidings for the industry in a year. Numbers shared by brokerage firm NK Realtors showed a gradual rise in bookings from August onwards with January being the busiest. “Our performance has so far been better compared with the months leading up to the lockdown. Bookings are happening in all projects, top grade or otherwise. This is a sign of buoyancy,” Biplab Kumar, vice-president of NK Realtors, noted. While the Calcutta market is on a comeback trail, other cities have bounced back sharply. Sidhha, which has multiple projects in Mumbai and in Calcutta, says pick up is the slowest here compared with other cities. “Even though we are selling 20 per cent more than pre-Covid levels, it is not yet comparable to other cities like Mumbai. I expect demand coming back stronger post election as many buyers are holding back decisions,” Sanjay Jain, managing director of Siddha, said. It has a portfolio of 3,000 units under construction in six projects across four locations in Calcutta. With home loan rates at a historic low and prices yet to bottom out, consumers have realised that it could be the opportune time to buy a home, Jain added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
24-02-2021||Business||India set to clear 45 investment proposals from China||India is set to clear 45 investment proposals from China, which are likely to include those from Great Wall Motor and SAIC Motor Corp, government and industry sources told Reuters, as military tensions between the two countries ease at the disputed border. The proposals have been held up since last year after India tightened controls on Chinese investment in the country in retaliation against alleged Chinese troop incursions in the western Himalayan region. China blamed Indian troops for the standoff. About 150 investment proposals from China worth more than $2 billion were stuck in the pipeline. Companies from Japan and the U.S. routing investment through Hong Kong were also caught in the cross-fire as an inter-ministerial panel led by the interior ministry increased scrutiny of such proposals. An Indian home ministry spokesman did not respond to a request for comment on the proposals to be cleared. Two government sources who have seen the list said most of the 45 proposals set for early approvals are in the manufacturing sector. Top trading partner China has emerged as the top trading partner of India in 2020 despite the clashes in Galwan region, the ban on apps and restrictions on FDI by New Delhi. The two-way trade between the countries stood at $77.7 billion, which, however, is lower than the previous year’s mark of $85.5 billion, as per the provisional data from the commerce ministry. “The data indicate the quantum of integration the industry has with the Chinese economy,” trade analysts said. China had also emerged as India’s biggest trade partner in the first half of the financial year 2020-21, pipping the US, which had held that position since 2018-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
24-02-2021||Business||Centre, RBI at odds over inflation target||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Union government appear to be on a collision course with regard to the inflation-targeting mechanism which is up for review just when Assembly polls are due in four states, including Bengal. The possibility of an impending face-off was visible from chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian's contention in a media interview about the need to “refine’’ the monetary policy target. Subramanian said the RBI’s tools mainly addressed demand-side factors, while the current inflation target was affected by food prices, which was largely dependent on supply-side measures. He said that core inflation — which strips out the effects of food and fuel prices  — could be a better indicator even as he pointed out that there was a need to update the base year of 2011-12. The chief economic adviser  also suggested the review of household consumption items for the collection of monthly consumer price data to reflect the change in consumption patterns in the country. Krishnamurthy’s remarks may indicate that the government is keen to change the current medium term target of four per cent with a band of two per cent on either sides. There have been reports the Centre is looking to relax the target to five per cent with a band of +/- 2 per cent. This, however, is different from what the RBI wants. Earlier this month, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said that there was no need to change the current target set for the monetary policy committee. “By March 2021, the Government would be reviewing the inflation target for the next five years. The experience with successfully maintaining price stability and the gains in credibility for monetary policy since the institution of the inflation targeting framework, barring the Covid-19 period, needs to be reinforced in the coming years,’’ he had said after the interest rate setting body retained the policy repo rate. Observers, however, said  the Centre takes the opinion of the RBI in fixing the inflation framework. There have been instances of sharp disagreements between the central government and Mint Street in the past. But relations have been cordial after Das assumed office in December, 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
24-02-2021||India||Srinagar-Leh national highway to reopen for regulated traffic from Feb 28||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Wednesday announced that the Srinagar-Leh national highway will be reopened for vehicular traffic on February 28, officials said. Kashmir Divisional Commissioner P K Pole convened a meeting to review the status of the Srinagar-Sonamarg-Gumri (SSG) road scheduled to be thrown open for civilian traffic from February 28, they said. On that day, the road will be officially opened by the Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh for traffic movement, they said. Ladakh Divisional Commissioner Saugat Biswas joined the meeting through video conferencing. During the meeting, it was given out that the road stands cleared for one-way traffic but based on a weather advisory, the road shall be opened for civilian traffic from February 28, they said. It was informed during the meeting that several advisories need to be issued in view of the slippery road condition and avalanche warnings, including allowing the plying of vehicles with chains for both HMVs and LMVs and one-way traffic at Zojila pass to avoid accidents. The Kashmir divisional commissioner said both advisories shall be put in place to prevent any exigency while there shall be proper timing to allow movement of vehicles from Sonamarg and Minamarg. The cut-off time for vehicles from Sonamarg side shall be 10 am and from Minamarg the cut-off time for vehicles has been proposed as 11 am, he added. To ensure mobile connectivity for travellers along the highway in case of any emergency, the divisional commissioner directed the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to provide logistic support to BSNL and Reliance Jio networks to resume cellular connectivity. He also directed the Chief Engineer, BRO to provide different kinds of assistance including accommodation, food, petrol, etc to the travellers during emergency along the highway. The divisional commissioner directed for close coordination among the Deputy SPs and Collectors on both sides of the pass to ensure hassle-free movement of vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Delhi government rules out offline examinations for students up to Class 8||The Delhi government issued guidelines to its schools on Wednesday for the assessment of students up to Class 8, ruling out offline examinations and instead, asking them to grade the students on the basis of projects and assignments. The guidelines of the Directorate of Education (DoE) have been issued to the government-run and aided schools for assessment for the 2020-21 academic session, during which schools were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and all teaching and learning activities were conducted online. According to government officials, private schools will prepare their own schedule and decide on the modalities on their own. "Since no classroom teaching and learning has taken place at the primary and middle level, the formal mode of pen-and-paper assessment will be replaced by a subjectwise assessment of projects and assignments for Classes 3 to 8," the DoE said in an official order. According to the guidelines, for Classes 3 to 5, 30 marks will be for assessment based on worksheets, 30 for the assignments given in winter breaks and 40 for the assignments and projects provided from March 1 to 15. Similarly, for Classes 6 to 8, 20 marks will be for assessment based on worksheets, 30 for the assignments given in winter breaks and 50 for the assignments and projects provided from March 1 to 15. "In case a student does not have access to a digital device or internet, the assignments and projects will be given in hard copies by calling his parents to the school while following the Covid-19 guidelines. "While allotting the assignments and projects, the subject teachers will explain the nature and method of attempting the worksheets. They will also keep in mind that words hurting religious sentiments related to caste, contradictory statements having double meaning etc. will not be part of the assignments and projects," the order said. The DoE also said the students should not be called to school for the results, which should be intimated to them through digital means, text messages or phone calls. "Private schools will take their own decision about assessment and act accordingly," another senior government official said. The DoE has also issued guidelines for assessment of students from the KG level to Class 2. "The students of Classes KG to 2 will be given grades on the basis of the winter break assignments and responses to the worksheets shared during the pandemic through WhatsApp or any offline means. "All the currently enrolled students of Classes nursery to 2 shall be promoted to the next class. However, the purpose of the assessment is to understand the impact of the alternative-learning approach that needed to be adopted under the prevailing circumstances this year. The teachers will not ask the students or parents to submit or resubmit any worksheet issued previously," the DoE said. Schools were closed in March last year, ahead of a nationwide lockdown, to curb the spread of the coronavirus. While several states reopened schools from October onwards, the Delhi government has allowed reopening of Classes 9 to 12 from January 18. The board examinations for Classes 10 and 12 will be conducted from May 4. The students of Classes 9 and 11 will have offline exams in accordance with the schedule decided by the schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Ahmedabad to be known as India's sports city, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said that Ahmedabad in Gujarat would emerge as the country's "sports city" as world-class facilities for all kinds of games are being put in place here. Shah made the statement after President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated in Ahmedabad the world's largest cricket stadium, which is now known as Narendra Modi stadium - renamed after the country's Prime Minister. The president also performed the ground-breaking ceremony of a sports complex in the stadium, to be named Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave, for disciplines like football, hockey, basketball, kabaddi, boxing, and lawn tennis among others. Shah said that a complex spread over an area of 17 acres of area with world-class facilities for different sports will also come up in Naranpura area of Ahmedabad. "The Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave, the Narendra Modi stadium and the sports complex at Naranpura will offer complete facilities within the same city at the same place for any sports played internationally. With all these facilities, Ahmedabad will be in a position to get ready within six months to host any international sports event," Shah said. The minister said that the sports enclave will be available to play all the games that are played in Olympics, and it will have stadiums for football and hockey as well as an indoor stadium. "Such sports facilities are not available in any other city in India at present. Ahmedabad, which Modiji transformed into India's heritage city, is now ready to become the country's sports city...Ahmedabad will be considered as India's sports city. "With such sports infrastructure, Ahmedabad will be known as India's sports city, which is the dream that Prime Minister Narendra Modiji saw when he was the chief minister of Gujarat," Shah said. Stating that infrastructure was also being put in place to connect the sports enclave to other parts of the city, he expressed happiness that all the facilities have either come up or are being developed within the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency, which he represents. "All the facilities have been visualised together in such a way that there is no repetition, and they are of international quality. When Ahmedabad city and India have to bid for international games, all the facilities remain within 50 km radius," he said. Shah said that with such facilities being developed, the day is not far when the names of Indian players figure in the list of medal winners of Asiad and Olympic games. He said that Modi's call for 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' should also apply to sports, and urged the youth to work hard towards bringing India on top in the field of sports. Praising the PM for his vision and farsightedness as Gujarat's chief minister for creating sports infrastructure and launching schemes like 'Khelo Gujarat'. He said, Modi took over as the president of Gujarat Cricket Association then and worked with the vision that the money coming in from cricket does not stay in cricket alone but goes into the development of other forms of sports as well. Shah said that Modi wanted Gujarat to go ahead in both sports and Army recruitment, in which the state lagged behind. "When it came to constructing the (cricket) stadium, he (Modi) had told us that whatever happens in Gujarat should be the world's largest. And the stadium, with a capacity of 1.32 lakh spectators which was today inaugurated by the president, is not just the world's largest cricket stadium, but also the world's largest sports stadium...," he said. Shah accused the Congress party of trying to make people forget the contributions made by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and added that history has done injustice to him. But Modi ensured that he remains etched into our memory- through the world's tallest Statue of Unity, and now with the sports enclave, he said. On the same cricket ground, Indian cricketers Kapil Dev, Sunil Gavaskar, Sachin Tendulkar, Srinath and Cheteshwar Pujara have broken records, he said. Shah also praised Kovind for his "simplicity, hard work and dedication", and said he has worked towards enhancing the pride of the Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Government has ‘no business to be in business’, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the government has no business to be in business and his administration is committed to privatising all PSUs barring the bare minimum in four strategic sectors. "It is the government's duty to support enterprises and businesses. But it is not essential that it should own and run enterprises," he said. Modi also said the Centre's policy is to either monetise or modernise public sector enterprises, with the intent that the government has "no business to be in business". Speaking at a webinar on privatisation by the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM), Modi said the Budget has given a clear roadmap to take India to a high growth trajectory. Fiscal support to sick PSUs puts burden on the economy and public sector units should not be run just because of legacy, the Prime Minister said, adding many PSUs are loss-making and supported by taxpayers' money. The government has many underutilised and unutilised assets and 100 assets would be monetised to garner Rs 2.5 lakh crore, Modi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Chamoli glacial disaster toll rises to 70, 205 still missing||Rescuers have recovered 70 bodies and 29 body parts so far in search operations following the February 7 glacial disaster in Chamoli, the district police said on Wednesday. Missing reports of 205 people have been registered at the Joshimath police station, it said in a media bulletin. "So far, 70 bodies and 29 human body parts have been recovered from different places in the avalanche-hit areas, out of which 40 bodies and one human body part have been identified," the police said. DNA samples of bodies and 28 body parts have been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory, Dehradun for matching, it said. The Uttarakhand government has issued a notification authorising officials to declare "presumed dead" 136 people who are missing after the flash flood. The devastating flash flood demolished a 13.2 MW hydel project along the river besides causing extensive damage to the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project along Dhauliganga. About 35 people were feared trapped inside a tunnel in Tapovan. Uttarakhand Health Secretary Amit Singh Negi said on Tuesday that the presumption of death can be made by officials in the affected district only in case of missing people who in all likelihood have died in the disaster but their bodies have not been found. Normally the missing are declared dead only when they are not traced for seven years after the incident responsible for their disappearance but in case of an extraordinary occurrence like the one witnessed in Uttarakhand special provisions can be made, he said. The move to declare those who continue to be missing in the flash flood as presumed dead has been initiated to expedite the process of distribution of compensation among the affected families, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Centre approves imposition of President’s rule in Puducherry||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to impose President's Rule in Puducherry, days after a Congress-led government in the union territory lost power during a vote of confidence. Announcing the Cabinet decision, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters that the decision was taken as no party claimed to form a government in Puducherry following the resignation of the chief minister there. Subsequently, the Lieutenant General had recommended President's Rule in Puducherry and the Union Cabinet has approved the same, the minister said. After the President's assent, the assembly will get resolved, Javadekar said, while adding that further necessary steps for administrative work in Puducherry would be taken soon. He also noted that the model code of conduct was expected to come into effect soon after the Election Commission announces the dates for elections there, along with four states. Puducherry chief minister V. Narayanasamy and his cabinet colleagues resigned on Monday after the government lost majority, with 11 members in the House against the Opposition’s 14. After staging a walkout from the Assembly before the motion seeking a vote of confidence was put up for voting in the House, Narayanasamy proceeded to the Raj Nivas and submitted his resignation to lieutenant governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. With the exit of the Congress government in Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are the only three states in the country ruled by the party on its own.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Covid jabs for those above 60, 45 years with comorbidities from March 1||Everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get COVID-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals, the government said on Wednesday. The Cabinet, which met under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, took the decision on the next phase of the vaccination, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said at a media briefing here. "The second phase of the world's largest vaccination drive will start from Monday in which anybody above 60 years, that may not be less than 10 crore people in the country, and 45 years plus with co-morbidities will be given vaccines in 10,000 government medical facilities and also over 20,000 private hospitals," he said. "Whoever goes to the government centre will be administered vaccine free of cost. Indian government will pay for them. The government will purchase the necessary doses and will send them to all the states," Javadekar said. Those who want to get vaccination from private hospitals will have to pay, but the amount will be decided by the health ministry within the next three-four days as they are in discussions with manufacturers as well as hospitals, he said. Asked if people will have a choice on which vaccine -- Covishield or COVAXIN -- they want to take, Javadekar said India is proud to have two vaccines which are both effective with proven efficacy. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech. Javadekar said the world's largest vaccination started on January 16 with 1,07,67,000 people vaccinated and 14 lakh also having received a second dose. "This section was primarily for health workers and frontline workers and the whole expenditure was borne by the government, they were vaccinated free," he said. Javadekar asserted that the vaccination in India has been successful, "faultless with hardly any complaints". Asked whether ministers and the prime minister, who would be now be in the category of those who can take the vaccination, will get inoculated, Javadekar said those who want to take the vaccination will take it at the place of their choosing from March 1. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who also briefed the media on the Cabinet decisions, said most of the ministers are of the thinking that they will pay to get vaccinated. On another question about leaders and other countries taking the vaccination shots first, Prasad said it is about point of view. "In many places, prime ministers and ministers are getting it done, here we thought that first we will get our health sector fighters vaccinated," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Refurbished Sardar Patel Stadium in Motera renamed after PM||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday inaugurated the world's largest cricket arena in Motera, the refurbished Sardar Patel Stadium, which will now be known as Narendra Modi stadium -- renamed after the country's Prime Minister. The state-of-the-art facility can accommodate an awe-inspiring 1.32 lakh spectators. "This stadium was conceptualised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he was Chief Minister of Gujarat. He was president of the Gujarat Cricket Association at that time," Kovind said in his address after the inauguration. "This stadium is an example of eco-friendly development," he added. The President inaugurated the stadium in the presence of Home Minister Amit Shah and Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju among a host of other dignitaries. "We have decided to name it after the country's Prime Minister. It was Modi ji's dream project," said Shah after the inauguration. The President also performed the ground-breaking ceremony for a sports complex in the stadium, to be named Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel sports enclave, for disciplines like football, hockey, basketball, kabbadi, boxing, and lawn tennis among others. "I am confident that this enclave will give a new global identity to Ahmedabad in terms of world-class sports infrastructure," Kovind said. The cricket stadium opens with the third Test between India and England, a day-night game from Wednesday, and will also host the fourth and final game of the series from March 4. "I am confident that the facilities here will help players to perform better," the President said. "Lot of our players come from small towns and face hardships. Players encouraged by GCA include popular names of today like Jasprit bumrah and Axar Patel," he added. Spread over 63 acres, the stadium has been built at an estimated cost of Rs 800 crore and with a seating capacity for 1,32,000 spectators, it has surpassed the hallowed Melbourne Cricket Ground which can accommodate 90,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||President Kovind inaugurates world's largest cricket stadium in Motera||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday inaugurated the world's largest cricket arena -- the refurbished Sardar Patel Stadium in Motera -- a state-of-the-art facility which can accommodate an awe-inspiring 1.32 lakh spectators. The President inaugurated the stadium in the presence of Home Minister Amit Shah and Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju among a host of other dignitaries. It opens with the third Test between India and England, a day-night game from Wednesday, and will also host the fourth and final game of the series from March 4. Spread over 63 acres, the stadium has been built at an estimated cost of Rs 800 crore and with a seating capacity for 1,32,000 spectators, it has surpassed the hallowed Melbourne Cricket Ground which can accommodate 90,000. "The total area is equivalent to 32 Olympic size soccer fields put together," stated a note from the Press Information Bureau giving specifics of the enormous structure. The facility, which was closed for renovation in 2015, was witness to some major milestones in Indian cricket in its previous avatar. These included Sunil Gavaskar reaching the 10,000 runs mark in Test cricket against Pakistan in 1987 and Kapil Dev claiming his 432nd Test wicket to become the highest wicket-taker in the world in 1994, surpassing Sir Richard Hadlee. Australian architect firm Populous, which designed the Melbourne Cricket Stadium among others, is the architect of the new stadium. It has 11 pitches made of both red and black soil and is the only stadium in the world to have same soil surfaces for the main and practice pitches. "As children, we used to dream about the world's largest stadium in India. And now as sports minister, my happiness knows no bounds that this has finally happened," said Rijiju at the inaguration. "It is one of the most modern sports facilities in the world," he added. Players from both the India and England teams, who have been training here for the past few days, have expressed their admiration for what they have experienced at the arena. The ground claims to have a drainage system which will take just 30 minutes from the time it stops raining to drain out the water. Instead of high mast floodlights, the field of play has LED lights fixed along the perimeter of the roof providing shadow-less light -- a first of its kind arrangement in India. This is the only cricket stadium in the world to have four dressing rooms for the players so that back-to-back games can be played on the same day. It also has a cricket academy, indoor practice pitches, and two separate practice grounds with small pavilion area. The President performed the ground-breaking ceremony for a sports complex in the stadium for disciplines like football, hockey, basketball, kabbadi, boxing, and lawn tennis among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Maharashtra reports over 8,000 new coronavirus cases, Kerala reports 4,106||The rise in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra continued unabated on Wednesday with the state reporting 8,807 new infections, taking its total count to 21,21,119, the health department said. With 80 new fatalities being reported during the day, the state's death toll rose to 51,937, it added. The increase in cases was steep considering that on Tuesday, the state had reported 6,218 new Covid-19 cases. Of 80 deaths, 27 took place in the past 48 hours, while 22 were from the last week. The remaining 31 deaths were from the period before that, officials said. As many as 2,772 patients were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday, taking the total of recoveries to 20,08,623. On the other hand, Kerala logged 4,106 new cases of Covid-19 and 17 deaths on Wednesday, taking the caseload to 10,45,358 and toll to 4,136. State Health Minister K K Shailaja said the state tested 70,568 samples in the last 24 hours and the test positivity rate was 5.82 per cent. She said 5,885 people recuperated from the disease, taking the total recoveries in the state to 9,87,720. There are now 52,869 people under treatment in the state, the minister said in a release. According to the release, 2,28,416 people are under observation out of which 8,006 are in isolation wards of various hospitals. The state has tested 1,12,08,411 samples so far. She said out of the total number of people testing positive for the virus today, 107 had reached the state from outside while 3,174 contracted the disease through their contact. Three people, who returned from the UK, tested positive in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of virus-affected UK returnees to 91. "The sources of infection of 262 are yet to be traced while 23 health workers are also among the infected," the minister said. Among the districts, Pathanamthittareported the highest number of cases--469, followed by Kozhikode with 465 and Enakulam 446. No new hotspot was added today and five regions were removed from the list, taking its total number to 369. Jammu and Kashmir records new cases Jammu and Kashmir recorded 74 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the infection tally to 1,26,093, even as no fresh death due to the virus was reported in the past 24 hours, officials said. Out of the fresh cases, 20 were from the Jammu division and 54 from the Kashmir division of the Union Territory, they said. The officials said Srinagar district recorded the highest of 19 cases followed by 14 in Baramulla district and 11 in Udhampur district. While eight districts did not report any fresh case, nine districts had cases in single digits. The number of active has risen to 771 in the Union Territory, while 1,23,367 patients have recovered so far, the officials said. The death toll in the UT due to the disease is 1,955 as no fresh death was reported from Jammu and Kashmir in the past 24 hours, they added. Teams in states with rising cases The Centre has deputed multi-disciplinary teams to states witnessing a surge in Covid -19 cases, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka and Jammu and Kashmir, to support them in effectively tackling the pandemic. The three-member multidisciplinary teams are headed by joint secretary-level officers in the health ministry, the Union Health Ministry said. "These teams will work closely with the states and UT administration and ascertain reasons for the recent surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. "They will also coordinate with health authorities of the states and UT for requisite Covid-19 control measures to break the chain of transmission," the ministry said. The central teams have been deputed to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Jammu and Kashmir. The states and UT have been advised for regular critical review of the emerging situation with district officials concerned to ensure that gains made so far in Covid-19 management are not lost, the ministry stated. The Centre has also written to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir which have been witnessing a rise in daily Covid cases, along with decreasing proportion of RT-PCR tests and rise in positivity in some districts. In the letter, the Union Health Secretary has exhorted Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir to focus on undertaking aggressive measures to break the chain of transmission and to ensure that RT-PCR testing is amplified to flush out hitherto undetected cases from the population. These states and UTs have been advised to increase testing in a focussed manner in the affected districts with the appropriate split of RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests and to also ensure that all symptomatic negatives of antigen tests are compulsorily tested via RT-PCR tests, the ministry said. The positive persons must be promptly isolated/hospitalised, all their close contacts be traced and also tested without delay. The Centre has reminded the states and UTs that any laxity in implementing stringent measures to curb the spread, especially in view of new strain of virus observed in certain countries, could compound the situation. The Union Health Secretary has separately requested the chief secretaries of these 10 states and UTs to provide time to these high-level Central teams to debrief the respective chief secretaries at the conclusion of their state visits. These measures are in line with the Government of India's graded and proactive approach to contain Covid across the country. The health ministry has been regularly engaging with states and UTs that have been exhibiting either a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, high caseload or reporting higher mortality in some districts, the ministry said. The teams interact with field authorities to get a first-hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Govt ushered historic increase in MSP, says PM||On the completion of two years of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said his government ushered a historic increase in the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for crops and was doing everything possible to double the income of farmers. He also said that over the last seven years, the government has taken many initiatives for transforming agriculture. From better irrigation to more technology, more credit and markets to proper crop insurance, focus on soil health to eliminating middlemen, the efforts are all-encompassing, he asserted. "On this day, 2 years ago the PM-Kisan scheme was launched with an aim to ensure a life of dignity as well as prosperity for our hardworking farmers, who work day and night to keep our nation fed. The tenacity and passion of our farmers is inspiring," Modi said. "Our government had the honour of ushering a historic increase in MSP. We are doing everything possible to double the income of farmers," he said in a series of tweets using the hashtag "KisanKaSammanPMKisan'. He also said insightful content could be found on the NaMo App, offering a glimpse of the work done for farmers. The prime minister's remarks come on the second anniversary of the launch of the PM-Kisan scheme under which a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to small and marginal farmers, payable in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000 each. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. The remarks also assume significance as they come amid a protest by farmers at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Court seeks police response on Shantanu Muluk's anticipatory bail plea||A court here on Wednesday sought response from the Delhi Police on the anticipatory bail application of Shantanu Muluk, who along with Disha Ravi is accused of sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana, who granted bail to Ravi on Wednesday, posted Muluk's bail application for arguments on Friday. Muluk had got transit bail from the Bombay High Court on February 16 for a period of 10 days. During the brief hearing held through video-conferencing on Wednesday, the court also noted that Muluk has been granted protection from arrest till February 26. The matter was adjourned after the public prosecutor said that the investigating officer of the case was not present today and it would be better if the matter is heard in physical presence. Muluk, along with Ravi and another co accused Nikita Jacob, was booked for alleged sedition and other charges. Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi. Muluk and Jacob are currently on transit bail, while Ravi was granted bail on Tuesday after nine-day custody. If convicted for sedition, the accused may get a maximum jail term for life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Covid negative report likely to be mandatory for people arriving to Delhi from 5 states||Amid a spike in coronavirus infections in some states, the Delhi government is likely to ask travellers from five states, including Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab, to show negative COVID-19 test report before entering the national capital, officials said on Wednesday. They said an official order will be issued later in the day and it will be effective till March 15. People travelling in flights, trains and buses from these states will have to produce negative test report before entering Delhi, they said. The requirement of the negative COVID-19 test report is likely to be implemented from Friday night, officials said. The issue had also been discussed in a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday. Maharashtra is showing a daily surge in COVID-19 cases, according to an official of the Union Health Ministry. Kerala is showing an incremental decline, but the daily cases in absolute numbers is still high over there. Punjab, with its daily increase in cases, is also a cause of worry. Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh are also showing an increase in daily cases, the central official had said on Tuesday. Delhi recorded 145 fresh COVID-19 cases and two new fatalities on Tuesday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.25 per cent, authorities said. With this, the toll from the coronavirus infection has gone up to 10,903 and the case tally rose to 6,38,173.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||India logs 13,742 new Covid cases, 104 fatalities in a day||India's total tally of COVID-19 cases surged to 1,10,30,176 with 13,742 new infections, while the recoveries have surged to 1,07,26,702, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,56,567 with 104 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,26,702 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.25 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. There are 1,46,907 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.33 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,30,36,275 samples have been tested up to February 23 with 8,05,844 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 104 new fatalities include 51 from Maharashtra, 14 from Kerala and 10 from Punjab. A total of 1,56,567 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,857 from Maharashtra followed by 12,472 from Tamil Nadu, 12,303 from Karnataka, 10,903 from Delhi, 10,253 from West Bengal, 8,718 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,168 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Day after, Ajit Singh versus Sanjeev Balyan in Soram||Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Ajit Singh on Tuesday visited Muzaffarnagar’s Soram, where Union minister Sanjeev Kumar Balyan’s men had allegedly attacked villagers a day earlier, and demanded action against those behind the assault. Balyan, the Union minister of state for animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries, struck back hours later, accusing the RLD of “vitiating the atmosphere”, linking those behind the Red Fort chaos on Republic Day with those who “resorted to violence” in Soram and alleging a conspiracy against him. Balyan’s ploy of inviting himself to farmers’ family events to counter a Bharatiya Kisan Union call to boycott BJP members over the farmers’ struggle had sparked a clash on Monday, leaving four villagers hospitalised and triggering the gherao of a police station. Residents of Soram in western Uttar Pradesh had said Balyan’s “goons” and policemen had used sticks to thrash villagers protesting his visit. Prominent Jat leader Ajit Singh, who addressed over 2,000 villagers at the chaupal (community centre) in Soram on Tuesday, said: “The police must register a case on the basis of the complaint of the villagers and take action against those who attacked the residents. I agree with the farmers’ decision to boycott BJP leaders till their demand to repeal the three farm laws is met.” Other than residents of Soram, those from adjoining Goela, Shahjudi, Kakra, Rasulpur Jatan and Garhi Bahadurpur village attended the meeting. Ajit Singh, who lost to Balyan from Muzaffarnagar in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections by 6,526 votes apparently due to a rupture in the traditional friendship between Jats and Muslims after 2013 communal riots, claimed that the BJP leader was angry also because people in Soram had questioned him over the farm laws and the rising prices of essential commodities. “The villagers had raised slogans against the minister. His men then started beating them,” Ajit Singh said. Yogesh Kumar, a Soram resident who was among the four youths who suffered injuries in the attack allegedly by Balyan’s “goons”, has stated in his police complaint that the BJP leader was accompanied by “20-25 friends” who assaulted him, Pradeep, Pinkar, Rajendra and Satpal “with the intention to kill us”. The villagers had been chanting “Kisan ekta zindabad” and “Sanjeev Balyan murdabad”. Soram residents also alleged that the police had entered their houses and thrashed them. A few hours after Ajit Singh’s visit, Balyan, a 2013 riot accused, said at a news conference in Muzaffarnagar: “RLD members tried to vitiate the atmosphere in Soram when I had gone there to say something to the khap leaders. I demand that the administration conduct an inquiry into it and study the call details of RLD leaders…. A conspiracy is afoot to divide my community (Jats).” The Union minister didn’t elaborate on the allegation but added: “Where were these leaders during the communal riots of 2013? I had stood with the people at that time.” “Those who were doing live chat at Red Fort recently were also present in Soram on Monday to create violence,” Balyan added. Some of those accused in the Red Fort violence during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day had made social media videos from the spot. Balyan’s desperation was clear a day after he faced protests at Soram, his former stronghold. After Tuesday’s news conference he proceeded to a brick kiln near the village and addressed a gathering. “I have been visiting villages for the past many years. But those who do politics from Delhi are conspiring against me,” he said. Naresh Tikait, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) president, visited Soram a few hours before Ajit Singh and tore into Balyan. “Balyan wanted to address a panchayat for which the villagers were not ready. He shouldn’t have come here when he knew that the farmers had resolved to boycott BJP leaders,” Tikait said. “Balyan has said those who chanted slogans against him in the village on Monday were RLD workers. It is a false claim. All of them were farmers and his goons attacked them brutally,” the BKU leader added. Asked about the image of Balyan, a Muslim leader in Muzaffarnagar told The Telegraph: “Balyan is not a leader; he is an anti-social element, a non-serious person and a coward. He had won only because Muslims and Jats were divided in 2014 and 2019 in the aftermath of the bad memories of the 2013 riots.” The leader alleged that Balyan had in 2013 instigated the communal violence in Muzaffarnagar in which 60 lives were lost. “Qureshis, Jokhas and Maula Jats are rich and powerful. The rioters in August-September 2013 had targeted those villages where poor Muslims of the Shaikh, Ansari, Lohar and Dhobi castes live. This was the reason they attacked Kutbi-Kutba, the village in Balyan where poor Muslims live. The victims of Kutbi-Kutba had taken shelter in adjoining Bashikalan because they knew that the rioters wouldn’t dare to enter the village where Qureshis, Jokhas and Maulan Jats live,” the Muslim leader said. A large number of Muslims in Muzaffarnagar and Shamli districts call themselves Maula Jats, claiming that they were converted from Hinduism to Islam during Mughal rule. Abhishek Yadav, senor superintendent of police of Muzaffarnagar, said: “We have received an application from the villagers of Soram and probing it before a case is registered against those involved in Monday’s violence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Activist Lakha Sidhana cocks a snook at Delhi cops||Gangster turned activist Lakha Sidhana, wanted in the violence during the farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day, surfaced at Mehraj, the ancestral village of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh in Bhatinda district, on Tuesday for a rally he had called through social media platforms. Accompanied by private bodyguards, Sidhana — also a native of Bhatinda — addressed the rally before leaving on a motorcycle within an hour with supporters and locals throwing a human wall around him to prevent any attempt by police to arrest him. While it is the Delhi police which has put out a lookout notice for him, Sidhana warned that the chief minister would have a lot of explaining to do if Punjab police assisted the capital’s cops in arresting anyone booked for the incidents of January 26. Delhi police, which had announced a Rs 1 lakh award for information on his whereabouts, did not comment on Sidhana’s appearance or respond to queries on whether they had requested Punjab police to nab him when he visited Mehraj. Tuesday’s rally had been announced by Sidhana himself in a video released on Saturday, giving the police advance notice. Addressing the rally, Sidhana urged people to gherao Delhi police if they came to arrest anyone for the Republic Day chaos. Given that the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the farmers’ movement — did not allow him to use their stage even prior to the incidents of Republic Day, Sidhana said he and his followers would not allow any of the farmers at Tikri, Singhu or Ghazipur to be arrested even if the SKM did not support him. The SKM did not officially comment on Sidhana, not even on his announcement of support for the movement. Union leaders privately pointed out that they could not stop anyone from supporting the movement but maintained that the SKM had always kept the likes of Deep Sidhu, the actor-activist who was sent to 14 days’ judicial custody on Tuesday, and Sidhana at an arm’s length. The SKM leaders said they suspected that Sidhu and Sidhana were agents of the State. That suspicion has intensified after what happened on Republic Day, which the SKM had publicly acknowledged had damaged the movement momentarily. Sidhana’s surfacing in Punjab, that too in the chief minister’s ancestral village, was used by the Right-wing ecosystem to allege Congress connivance in the events of Republic Day. BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh tweeted: “Punjab CM @capt_amarinder connivance with those who insulted national flag at #RedFort exposed with #LakhaSidhana presence at Mehraj rally in CM native place in Bathinda under Punjab police patronage. Lakha Sidhana, facing charges of sedition, carries Rs1 lakh reward by Delhi police.” The protesting farmers at the three protest sites around Delhi, at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, observed the day as Pagdi Sambhal Divas to mark the 140th birth anniversary of revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh’s uncle Sardar Ajit Singh. Sardar Ajit Singh had led the Pagdi Sambhal Jatta movement for the rights of peasants over 100 years ago. Bhagat Singh’s family members joined the protesting farmers at the Singhu border where his nephew Abhay Sandhu announced that he would go on a fast unto death if the farmers’ demands for repeal of the three farm laws and enactment of a legal guarantee for minimum support price were not met by March 23, the martyrdom day of his uncle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||S. Jaishankar stresses on sovereignty at meet on human rights violations||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Tuesday stressed the need to respect the principles of non-interference in internal affairs and national sovereignty while addressing human rights violations, speaking at a time India’s record is coming under the scanner in various world capitals. “We believe that violation of and gaps in implementation of human rights should be addressed in a fair and just manner, with objectivity, non-selectivity, transparency and with due respect to the principles of non-interference in internal affairs and national sovereignty,” Jaishankar said. The minister was addressing the high-level segment of the 46th session of the Human Rights Council. He fell back on India’s past record in the global promotion and protection of human rights essentially iterated a stated position of the external affairs ministry. But the statement assumes significance given the frequency with which New Delhi has had to push back on comments from world capitals on human rights issues over the past couple of years. “India has always played an active role in global promotion and protection of human rights. Our strong commitment to the welfare of entire humanity, inspired by our civilisational ethos of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ or ‘the world is one family’, has provided the very foundation on which our constitutional and legal framework of human rights has been built. “Our approach is based on our own experience as an inclusive and pluralistic society and a vibrant democracy. Our Constitution has enshrined basic human rights as fundamental rights, guaranteeing civil and political rights, stipulating provisions for progressive realisation of economic, social and cultural rights. These continue to evolve through legislation by Parliament, progressive interpretation of laws by the judiciary and active participation of civil society and citizens.” Without referring to any of the criticism that has been coming the Narendra Modi government’s way on human rights, Jaishankar sought to assure the world that India “remains steadfast in our commitment to take all the possible steps to ensure fullest enjoyment of basic human rights of our people, including inclusive and sustainable development”. India is building a better and fairer society at home; it is also contributing to a better and fairer world, he added for good measure, drawing attention to some of the Modi government’s flagship policies and also the Vaccine Maitri diplomacy through which Covid jabs are being sent to several countries. This apart, Jaishankar pitched terrorism as one of the gravest threats to humankind. “It is a crime against humanity and violates the most fundamental human right — namely ‘the right to life’. As a long-standing victim, India has been in the forefront of the global action against terrorism. This is possible only when there is a clear realisation, including in bodies dealing with human rights, that terrorism can never be justified, nor its perpetrators ever equated with its victims.” Just last week, special rapporteurs (SRs) of the Human Rights Council had voiced concern that the constitutional changes made in Jammu and Kashmir could undermine minorities’ rights. It had drawn a sharp response from the government, which billed their conclusions as “inaccurate assumptions” and “deliberately timed” to coincide with the visit of foreign envoys to the Union Territory. India took the position that the rapporteurs’ statement calls into question the larger principles of objectivity and neutrality that the SRs are mandated by the Human Rights Council to adhere to. “We expect the SRs to develop a better understanding of the issues under their consideration before jumping to hasty conclusions.…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Delhi riots: M. Mumtaj recalls the day when his restaurant was burnt down  ||M. Mumtaj recalled the day exactly a year ago when his restaurant was burnt down and he was robbed at gunpoint at Sherpur Chowk in northeast Delhi where 53 people were killed in riots in 2020. “At Dayalpur police station, I was told that if I want compensation, my FIR should not name anyone. Even though I could identify the rioters as we had bought property from them, I gave a complaint without names,” Mumtaj told a news conference organised by the CPM on Tuesday in the capital. Mumtaj had moved court to register a first information report naming BJP legislator Mohan Singh Bisht and 21 others for rioting. He said his family was under threat as the case proceeded in the court. He was called again to the police station that day. When he returned home at night, Mumtaj said, Bisht was present on the road in front of his home near the torched eatery. “We have worked for him for years. He was telling those gathered there ‘abhi toh in ***** ke dukaan jalaye hain, ab ek ek karke in kutton ko maaro (Only the shops of these ****** have been burned, now kill these dogs one by one)’. I was a BJP activist (since 2010) and their (election) office ran from one of the properties of my family. We have not had the heart to speak to vidhayakji (the MLA) after I heard him speak that day,” Mumtaj added. Mumtaj said he saw Bisht throw a countrymade grenade at his home on the morning of February 25. The court asked the police to submit a report on the complaint in November, which had not been submitted when the case was last heard on January 27. “I am yet to receive compensation or find a job. The landlord has opened a restaurant in the place of mine. My family has received several threats to withdraw the case,” he added. Contacted on Tuesday, Bisht told The Telegraph: “I am not involved in any case.… You are under the wrong impression. Neither am I involved nor are any of my people involved.… I have no knowledge of this.” At the news conference, several riot victims spoke out against administrative apathy that has denied them justice so far. The victims narrated how they continue to face threats and are unable to get on with their lives as compensation has been absent or inadequate. Mallika, a 30-year-old mother of three, said she witnessed her husband Musharraf, a driver, being pulled out of their home in Bhagvati Vihar and beaten with steel rods on the evening of February 25. The riots had started on February 23, 2020. “Most of our neighbours had fled, and we had locked the door and turned the lights off. A mob shouting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and wearing motorcycle helmets barged in. I had hidden my husband in our box bed under clothes, but they opened it and prodded with the rods and found him. They dragged him down the stairs and the last I saw of him was them hitting him with rods.… The police have not yet recorded my statement.” Mallika ran after applying vermilion on her head to appear as a Hindu. While fleeing, she was stopped by a mob that stripped her three-year-old son to check if he was circumcised. As the boy’s circumcision ceremony had not taken place, they were assumed to be Hindu and let off. Days later, Musharraf’s body was fished out from the Brijpuri drain. Mallika is now a street vendor in Uttar Pradesh. The police have made 1,753 arrests on the basis of 755 FIRs and so far named 1,553 accused in 342 chargesheets. Of those arrested, 544 are out on bail. Out of the 53 killed, 40 were Muslim. The policemen seen kicking injured men — 23-year-old Faizan died later — and making them sing the national anthem are yet to be identified. In response to a Delhi High Court directive to probe BJP member Kapil Mishra for making a provocative speech that preceded the riots, the police told the court last year that “no actionable evidence has surfaced yet”. On Tuesday, CPM politburo member Brinda Karat said: “There is a deliberate subversion of justice as truth has been hijacked to conceal the role of BJP leaders.… To hide police complicity, even statements of victims have not been taken.” She added: “The Delhi government’s compensation package should have included livelihood and not just cash. Many like Mumtaj have not even got the cash yet.” M. Wakeel, a grocer, has been blinded in both eyes by acid thrown at him when he was found hiding on his terrace. He could get medical help only several hours later after fleeing with his family. Although the prescribed compensation for permanent incapacitation is Rs 5 lakh, he only got Rs 2 lakh for “serious injury”. Ram Suharg said his 15-year-old son Nitin Paswan — the youngest casualty of the riots — was killed after being hit on his head by a tear smoke shell on February 26 when he had stepped out to buy chow mein. “His medical report says it is death by falling down.… Why the police killed my son, they have not told me. I only received Rs 5 lakh as compensation for a son who was my future,” he said. Relatives of adult casualties are given Rs 10 lakh and those of minors Rs 5 lakh. So far, only Rs 26.09 crore has been paid to 2,221 victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi bail order demolishes almost every charge levelled against her||Let noble thoughts come to me from all directions. Quoting the Rig Veda and reminding the nation that “this 5,000-year-old civilisation of ours has never been averse to ideas from varied quarters”, a Delhi sessions court on Tuesday granted bail to climate activist Disha Ravi. The bail order demolishes almost every charge levelled against the young Bangalorean, in judicial or police custody since February 14. She had been arrested from her home a day earlier on the charge of editing and sharing an online “toolkit” on the farmers’ protest and booked for sedition. Disha was released late on Tuesday night. “Considering the scanty and sketchy evidence available on record, I do not find any palpable reasons to breach the general rule of ‘bail’ against a 22-year-old young lady, with absolutely blemish-free criminal antecedents and having firm roots in the society, and send her to jail,” additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana said. Recalling the pre-independence Niharendu Dutt Mazumdar v. Emperor AIR case, Judge Rana said: “The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of governments.” The 1942 verdict was among several that had implied that sedition cannot come into play without incitement to violence. The bail order answered several questions that will affect the young and the restless, including the status of protest toolkits in a democratic society, the urge to engage with people around the world and respond to issues of public interest regardless of borders and the use of social media to build public opinion. In one of the most prudent observations, the judge said: “Creation of a WhatsApp group or being editor of an innocuous toolkit is not an offence. Further, since the link with the said toolkit… has not been found to be objectionable, mere deletion of the WhatsApp chat destroys the evidence linking her with the toolkit… also becomes meaningless.” The police — and a section of pro-government media — have been making a mountain out of the contention that Disha had deleted a group chat. Judge Rana said the nub of the issue was whether Disha (bail applicant/accused) was merely involved in peaceful protest and dissent against the farm laws or actually involved in seditious activities under the guise of protesting against the legislation. The following are some of the key charges levelled by Delhi police and the paraphrased response of the judge whose order adds that “nothing observed herein shall have any bearing upon the merits of the case”. Charge: The accused engaged with secessionist forces. A pro­Khalistani secessionist group, the Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF), and people associated with it are directly linked with creation of the toolkit document. Disha’s associates Nikita and Shantanu attended a Zoom meeting with 60­70 people from across the world, including Mo Dhaliwal and Anita Lal. Judge: The additional solicitor-general fairly admitted that the PJF is not a banned organisation and no criminal action is pending against Dhaliwal and Lal. There is nothing on record to establish any direct link between Disha and Dhaliwal and Lal. There is nothing on record to suggest that there was any call, incitement, instigation or exhortation on the part of Disha and the organisations mentioned and associates to foment violence on January 26. In my considered opinion, it is not mere engagement with persons of dubious credentials which is indictable. Rather, it is the purpose of engagement which is relevant for the purpose of deciding culpability. Any person with dubious credentials may interact with a number of persons during the course of his social intercourse. As long as the engagement/interaction remains within the four corners of law, people interacting with such persons, ignorantly, innocently or for that matter even fully conscious of their dubious credentials, cannot be painted with the same hue. In the absence of any evidence that Disha agreed or shared a common purpose to cause violence on January 26 with the founders of the PJF, it cannot be presumed by resorting to surmises or conjectures that she also supported the secessionist tendencies or the violence caused on January 26, simply because she shared a platform with people who have gathered to oppose the legislation. Not even an iota of evidence is brought to my notice connecting the perpetrators of the violence on January 26 with the PJF or the applicant/accused. More than hundreds of persons involved in the violence have been arrested and interrogated by Delhi police but no evidence connecting Disha with the actual perpetrators of the violence has been brought forth on record by the prosecution till date. Charge: On January 11, 2021, a banned terrorist organisation, the Sikhs for Justice, issued an open communication declaring a reward of $250,000 for anyone who will hoist the flag of Khalistan at India Gate on Republic Day. Judge: There is absolutely no link established on record between Disha and the banned organisation. Charge: There is link between Indian conspirators, including Disha and Kisaan Ekta.co (Vancouver) through an organisation, Extinction Rebellion. The WhatsApp group Intl Farmers Strike was used in furtherance of a request that came from Kisaan Ekta.co. Judge: It has neither been averred nor proved that Kisaan Ekta.co is an organisation with seditious agenda. Charge: In the toolkit document, there was a segment titled “Prior Action” which included Digital Strike through hashtags on January 26 and earlier, Tweet Storm from January 23, physical action on January 26 and joining the farmers’ march into Delhi and then back to the border. Another part of the same document mentioned tasks such as disruption of India’s cultural heritage such as yoga and tea and targeting Indian embassies abroad. Judge: The perusal of the said toolkit reveals that any call for any kind of violence is conspicuously absent. In my considered opinion, citizens are conscience keepers of the government in any democratic nation. They cannot be put behind the bars simply because they choose to disagree with the state policies. The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments. Difference of opinion, disagreement, divergence, dissent, or for that matter, even disapprobation, are recognised legitimate tools to infuse objectivity in state policies. An aware and assertive citizenry, in contradistinction with an indifferent or docile citizenry, is indisputably a sign of a healthy and vibrant democracy…. Except for a bare assertion, no evidence has been brought to my notice to support the contention that any violence took place at any of the Indian embassies pursuant to the sinister designs of Disha and her co­conspirators. Charge: The toolkit has embedded hyperlinks with an intent to malign India abroad. Two such hyperlinks were brought to my (judge’s) notice. The first one led to the website askindiawhy.com and the second one led to Genocide.org. Judge: I find absolutely nothing objectionable in the said page. Upon perusal of the material available on Genocide.org, it is revealed that it carries certain facts about the status of human right violations in somewhere about 40 countries, including India. I concur with the additional solicitor-general, without commenting upon the sanctity of the information, that the imputations are really objectionable in the said website. However, even if the said imputations are found to be objectionable in nature, I cannot but disagree with the additional solicitor-general that the material is seditious in nature. The imputations may be false, exaggerated or even with a mischievous intent but the same cannot be stigmatised as being seditious unless they have tendency to foment violence. Charge: Disha created the WhatsApp group, “Intl farmers strike”, and added certain persons in the group. She deleted the group chat from her phone in an attempt to destroy the crucial evidence linking her with the toolkit and the PJF. She is one of the editors of the toolkit. She tried her best to conceal her identity so that legal action could not be taken against her. She gave a global audience to the secessionist elements by manipulating support of international youth icon Greta Thunberg. Disha’s co­accused Shantanu came to Delhi to ensure the execution of the plan. Judge: In my considered opinion, creation of a WhatsApp group or being editor of an innocuous toolkit is not an offence. Further, since the link with the said toolkit or the PJF has not been found to be objectionable, mere deletion of the WhatsApp chat to destroy the evidence linking her with the toolkit and the PJF also becomes meaningless. Further, it is rightly pointed out by the defence counsel that the protest march was duly permitted by Delhi police. Therefore, there is nothing wrong in co­accused Shantanu reaching Delhi to attend the protest march. The attempt to conceal her identity seems to be nothing more than an anxious effort to stay away from unnecessary controversies. Charge: Disha sought the support of international personalities using her previous acquaintance. She shared the toolkit with Thunberg. Judge: There is nothing on record to suggest that the applicant accused subscribed to any secessionist idea. The prosecution has, except for pointing out that Disha forwarded the toolkit to Thunberg, failed to point out as to how Disha gave global audience to the “secessionist elements”. Other questions The judge also touched upon other issues, such as the difficulty in proving the conspiracy charges and the view from the other side. Judge: I am conscious of the fact that it is very difficult to collect evidence for the offence of conspiracy but I’m equally conscious of the fact that what is difficult to prove for the prosecution in the affirmative is virtually impossible for the defence to prove in the negative. I’m also conscious of the fact that the investigation is at a nascent stage and police are in the process of collecting more evidence. However, the investigating agency made a conscious choice to arrest the applicant accused upon the strength of material so far collected and now they cannot be permitted to further restrict the liberty of a citizen on the basis of propitious anticipations. Judge: Prosecution has also opposed the release of the applicant accused on bail on the ground that she is required to be confronted with the co-accused. There is no rule of law or prudence, at least that I am aware of, that a person is mandatorily required to be detained in custody to be confronted with the co­accused persons. The applicant accused is already reported to have been interrogated in police custody for almost about five days and placing any further restraint upon her liberty on the basis of general and omnibus accusation would be neither logical nor legal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Sena: Why shouldn't people get benefits of low crude oil price in international market?||The Shiv Sena has said citizens have lost the freedom to criticise the government’s wrong policies and those who still muster the courage face retributive action like the sedition charge and imprisonment. A scathing editorial in Saamana, the Sena’s mouthpiece, said: “Why should the Indian people not receive the benefits of low crude oil price in the international market? Will the citizens get a satisfactory reply to this question? Whoever speaks about this is branded anti-national. Before 2014, actors like Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar had raised questions about petroleum prices. Why are these celebrities silent when petrol price has crossed Rs 100?” The Sena’s attack came after the new Maharashtra Congress chief, Nana Patole, withdrew his threat to disrupt the screening and shooting of films by actors such as Bachchan and Kumar if they didn’t speak up against rising petroleum prices. The Congress has been extremely critical of the Centre but doesn’t support violent tactics. Rahul Gandhi, who is the leading voice in the Opposition against Modi’s policies, tweeted on Tuesday: “Covid — calamity for you, opportunity for the government. After petrol-diesel-gas prices, plan to increase train fares. The middle class under assault of jumlas (fake promises).” Rahul was referring to Modi’s call for “aapda mein awsar (opportunity in calamity)”. The Congress has often accused the Modi government of profiteering off people’s miseries and pursuing policies that helped some crony capitalists to multiply their wealth during the coronavirus-induced crisis. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday posted a video in which Modi as Gujarat chief minister is sermonising on the ill-effects of high petroleum prices, describing it as a failure of the central government. Questioning the silence of certain actors who had not questioned the latest rounds of price rise, the Saamana editorial said: “They are silent or have been silenced? The other credible interpretation is that the citizens had the freedom to express their opinions before 2014. Nobody was dumped in jail on the sedition charge for raising questions about government policies before 2014. We have now lost the freedom to express our grief over petrol-diesel prices.” It added: “Why blame the celebrities? When people don’t have the freedom to support the farmers standing against the bulldozer of new farm laws, how do we expect actors to speak against petrol-diesel prices? …. All the people can do is silently face the heat of the fire ignited by petrol-diesel prices. Narendra Modi as Gujarat chief minister used to call the Congress robbers when petrol-diesel prices were hiked then. If somebody repeats the charge today, he will rot in jail. Those who happily suffer the high prices are patriots today and those who oppose are traitors.” The Sena asked the BJP to deploy its energies on bringing down the prices, which would provide relief to “Ram bhakts”, instead of running a drive to collect donations for the upcoming Ram temple. It also made fun of the Prime Minister’s promise to create a “Sonar Bangla” while forcing the country to grapple with a savage increase in petrol-diesel prices. Ridiculing Modi for blaming the Congress for the burden on the people, the editorial said: “Previous governments established Indian Oil, ONGC, Bharat Petroleum, Hindustan Petroleum and Mumbai High. They explored oil wells in the sea. Modi is selling these public sector units. It is exposing its mental bankruptcy by blaming the previous governments.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
24-02-2021||India||Supreme court may modify school fee order||The Supreme Court on Tuesday indicated that it might “modify” a Calcutta High Court order that directed private unaided schools in Bengal to waive off 20 per cent of the tuition fees to mitigate the hardships faced by parents because of the pandemic. “You give all those details of the schools that have opened etc. File an affidavit. We will go through everything and modify the high court’s order accordingly,” a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R. Subhash Reddy told a battery of senior lawyers appearing for private schools in Bengal. “We will hear everything and decide it finally. We will take it up in the first week of April,” the bench said. During the hearing, senior advocate Rana Mukherjee, who appeared for some schools, pleaded that the high court order be set aside as the pandemic situation was easing and normality was returning to most economic activities in the state. The schools, he submitted, are clueless on how to proceed with the collection of fees in the evolving situation. Another senior advocate, Jaideep Gupta, submitted that the order of the high court should be modified as it pertained to the last academic year. “Schools are opening now. The order had said the directions would apply till the time the schools reopened. We need to move forward now, otherwise next year’s fees will get affected,” he said. The apex court had on October 28 declined to interfere with the high court order to all private schools in Bengal to waive off 20 per cent of the tuition fees between April 2020 and a month after the resumption of in-person classes. The Supreme Court had, however, issued notices to the State and Vineet Ruia, the PIL petitioner in the case, on a batch of petitions assailing the high court’s directions. The top court had stayed directions 8 to 16 in paragraph 61 of the impugned judgment that was related to the setting up of a committee to vet the fee structure of the private schools. “....In the meantime, directions 8 to 16 contained in para 61... be not implemented,” the apex court had said in the earlier order. The private schools had objected to the high court judgment on the ground that it was contrary to a number of Supreme Court rulings that upheld the right of private unaided schools to manage their affairs without any interference from the State. The high court order on fee waiver followed a PIL by Vineet Ruia, who had complained that most private schools in Bengal had stopped students from attending online classes or writing exams on the ground that they had not paid their fees. Many parents could not pay fees because of loss of livelihood amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
24-02-2021||India||Journalist Siddique Kappan returns to Mathura jail after visiting home  ||Journalist Siddique Kappan, who was released on a five-day interim bail to see his ailing mother, has returned to Mathura jail following the completion of the conditional relief that allowed only his near ones to be with him. The visit, which was kept under wraps because of the gag order against speaking to reporters, began when Kappan was flown down to Kozhikode on February 17 evening and taken to his elder brother’s home in Vengara, Malappuram, the following morning, his wife Raihanath told The Telegraph on Tuesday. “As per the order, we were not supposed to know about his arrival. But since we were yearning to see him after more than three months in jail, it was such a relief and excitement at the same time,” said Raihanath. The Supreme Court had on February 15 allowed the interim bail application filed by Kerala Union of Working Journalists that cited failing health of Kappan’s 90-year-old mother Khadija Kutty who has been bed-ridden. The interim bail was sought after a video call allowed by the court for Kappan to communicate with his hospitalised mother did not yield any result as she was in a semi-conscious state. “It was such an emotional moment for all of us. I can’t really explain how happy we all were to see him. But at the same time we had painfully reconciled to the fact that he would have to return to jail on completion of the interim bail,” the wife said. “Umma (Kappan’s mother) started responding to Siddique (Kappan). She even started smiling and uttered a few words,” Raihanath said, alluding to his mother who had to be hospitalised after her health condition deteriorated in January. “When he left (on Sunday) umma asked him where he was going. He told her he was heading to Kozhikode for work. She then went silent. So I feel she is aware of what’s happening and she may have overhead us talking about the case and jail,” said Raihanath, who led a couple of protests seeking justice for her jailed husband. The court had ordered Kappan not to meet journalists or even post anything on social media during the bail period allowed entirely on humanitarian grounds. The court had directed Uttar Pradesh police to take care of his transport to and fro from his native village and ordered Kerala police to ensure adequate security is provided. Six policemen from Uttar Pradesh had accompanied him to Vengara where 25 cops from Kerala stood guard until he was taken back on Sunday evening. Although, he was technically at home for four days as almost a day was consumed in travel, Raihanath thanked the apex court and police department of Uttar Pradesh and Kerala for ensuring everything went well. “The policemen who accompanied Siddique from Uttar Pradesh were well behaved and made us comfortable,” she said. “He called me at around 10am yesterday (Monday) and said he reached the prison at 2am,” she said pinning her hope on the plea for regular bail coming up in the Supreme Court on March 2. Kappan was arrested on October 5, 2020, along with three others while on his way to Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, where a Dalit teen had been gang-raped and murdered. Kappan, a father of three, is the secretary of the New Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists. He is a retainer of Malayalam news portal azhimukham.com. Kappan is accused of planning to foment trouble and being a member of the extremist Popular Front of India (PFI), which he denies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
24-02-2021||India||Tension grips Jammu after Delhi police arrests prominent farm leader and protester||Tensions flared up in Jammu on Tuesday after Delhi police arrested a prominent farm leader and a protester against the farm laws in the Union Territory. Hundreds took to the streets in protest against the arrests. They blocked the Jammu-Pathankot national highway for hours, resulting in massive traffic snarls, and raised anti-government slogans. Police sources said Jammu and Kashmir United Kisan Front chairman Mohinder Singh Khalsa was summoned on Monday evening by local police, who later handed him over to Delhi police in connection with the Republic Day chaos in the national capital. Another alleged protester, Mandeep Singh, also a resident of Jammu, was picked up separately. A relative of Mohinder said a police officer had summoned him around 8 on Monday evening. “He went to the police station on his own after he received a call from the SSP Gandhinagar. After half an hour we also went there and were told that he had been arrested by Delhi police,” a woman who said she was the daughter of Mohinder told reporters in Jammu. The family has denied he was involved in violence, while confirming they were part of the Republic Day protests. A large number of people from Jammu had gone to Delhi on January 26 to take part in the farmers’ protest. Delhi police claimed that Mohinder, 45, was a “key conspirator” in the January 26 violence at Red Fort. Jammu has witnessed a series of protests in recent months against the farm laws. The region has a substantial Sikh population, which has supported the farmers’ movement. A large contingent of policemen was deployed in and around the protest site in Jammu on Tuesday to prevent any violence. The protests remained peaceful. The protesters said they would continue the protests until the two men were released.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
24-02-2021||India||Farmers object as Delhi police put up posters at Tikri border||Farmer unions on Tuesday objected to Delhi police putting up posters at Tikri border allegedly asking them to vacate the protest site. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions under which the protesting farmers are gathered at Delhi’s borders to seek repeal of three laws, said: “Delhi police have placed some posters at the Tikri border protest site where farmers have been warned that they will have to vacate the area. Such posters are irrelevant as farmers have been staging a peaceful protest by exercising their constitutional rights.... We will oppose the conspiracy to end the protest with these kinds of threats and warnings.” Delhi police described the posters as “routine”. “The posters were pasted at the border area after the protest started. It is a routine exercise. The police have conveyed to them through the posters that they are sitting in the jurisdiction of Haryana and they are not allowed to enter the national capital unlawfully,” a senior police officer said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points — Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur — for nearly 90 days, demanding the repeal of the three agriculture laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
24-02-2021||India||Gujarat municipal elections: BJP wins 483 out of 576 seats||The BJP on Tuesday swept elections to the six municipal corporations in Gujarat by winning 483 out of 576 seats. The ruling party retained power in all the six municipal corporations in the state — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar. The main Opposition Congress got a drubbing, as it won only 55 seats and failed to open its account in Surat. The Aam Aadmi Party put up an impressive show by winning 27 seats, all in Surat, and emerged as the main Opposition in the municipal corporation. The AAP had for the first time fielded 470 candidates across all the six corporations. The BJP won 159 out of 192 seats in Ahmedabad, 93 out of 120 seats in Surat, 69 out of 76 seats in Vadodara, 68 out of 72 seats in Rajkot, 50 out of 64 seats in Jamnagar and 44 out of 52 seats in Bhavnagar. The Congress won seats in single digits in three corporations and drew a blank in Surat. The party won 25 seats in Ahmedabad, 11 in Jamnagar, eight in Bhavnagar, seven in Vadodara and four in Rajkot. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, which also contested the local body polls in Gujarat for the first time, won seven seats in Ahmedabad’s Muslim-dominated Jamalpur and Maktampura wards. Three candidates of the Bahujan Samaj Party won in Jamnagar, while an Independent won in Ahmedabad. The BJP had won 389 seats and the Congress 176 across these six municipal corporations in the 2016 elections. The BJP gained 94 seats while the Congress lost 121 seats this time. Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed the victory. “Today’s win across Gujarat is very special. For a party that is serving in a state for over two decades to record such a phenomenal win is noteworthy. It is heartening to see widespread support from all sections of society, particularly the youth of Gujarat towards BJP,” he tweeted. Chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy chief minister Nitin Patel expressed gratitude to the voters and BJP workers for the results. “The grand victory of the BJP in these elections is the victory of the people of Gujarat. This is a grand victory of the politics of development of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Rupani said. “The people of Gujarat have provided a subject to political analysts who can now study how the concept of anti-incumbency does not apply in the state,” he added. Patel tweeted: “Many th­anks and congratulations to all the winning candidates, BJP office-bearers, workers and the voters of Gujarat for the glorious victory of Bhar­atiya Janata Party in the elections.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
24-02-2021||India||Three Odisha Congress legislators spring pedal power on petrol hike  ||Three Congress legislators in Odisha on Tuesday came to the state Assembly on bicycles to protest against the steep rise in the prices of petrol and diesel. MLAs, Suresh Kumar Routray, who is 76, has been in the forefront of protests the other two, Tara Prasad Bahinipati, 65, and Adhiraj Mohan Panigrahi, 45, pedalled their way to the Assembly from the Congress Bhavan, the party headquarters, which is about 1km away. Their protest marked a day when petrol prices were up by 35 paise and diesel prices were up by 38 paise. Routray, who represents Jatni constituency, accused the Narendra Modi government of betraying the common man by hiking the fuel prices. “The price rise has robbed people of their sleep,” he said. “Where is the achhe din. Now it’s all bure din. Even at this age I have to ride the bicycle to protest price rise. The Centre should immediately reduce the tax on petroleum products. I don’t remember how many times petrol and diesel prices have gone up this year,” said Rourtray. Panigrahi told The Telegraph, “Today morning we decided to come to the Assembly on bicycles. We could not immediately contact all the MLAs.  Our legislature party leader Narasingh Mishra did not join us because of health issues.  Both the state and the Centre should reduce their taxes from the petroleum products.” Bahinipati said: “Both the Centre and the state lack concern for the common man. Both the governments are equally responsible for the plight of the people. It’s because of the rise in fuel prices that the prices of other essential commodities have also gone up.” The Odisha Assembly took up the issue of petrol and diesel price hike for discussion through an adjournment motion. Replying to the motion, Odisha finance minister Niranjan Pujari said:  “The state is collecting less amount of tax as compared to the Centre. Oil companies fix the price of petrol and diesel on the basis of basic price, central excise duty and value added tax. While the Centre is collecting Rs 32.90 from fuel, the state government is levying Rs 21.40 towards 32 per cent VAT on it. All the taxes collected are being utilised for various developmental works.” In a related incident, youth wing of the Congress has threatened to remove all the posters from petrol pumps speaking about the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana from Wednesday. Odisha Youth Congress president Smruti Ranjan Lenka quoted The Telegraph’s report saying, “In May 2014, the Brent Current Price stood at 108 dollar per barrel. The crude excise was Rs 10 per litre for petrol. The retail pump price was Rs 71. Now the crude price has dropped significantly to around 65 dollar but the retail pump price has risen to Rs 100, while the central excise has increased to Rs 32 per litre.  The price of cooking gas has jumped by more than Rs 100 while the central excise has increased to Rs 32 per litre. The price of cooking gas has jumped by more than Rs 100 in about two months’ time to Rs 796 per cylinder.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Mandatory for flight passengers from 4 states to produce negative covid report: Bengal govt||Amid a spike in coronavirus infections in Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana, the West Bengal government on Wednesday made it mandatory for passengers travelling in flights from these states to produce negative COVID-19 reports. According to a notification issued by the health department, passengers should undergo RT-PCR tests within 72 hours of the flight departure. "In view of the increasing trend of COVID cases in the states of Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana and in continuation of earlier order issued last August, this is to inform you that the state government has decided that from February 27, all passengers coming to the state from the four states shall mandatorily carry a COVID negative RT-PCR report," it said. Necessary instructions to all the airlines would be issued in this connection, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Modi biggest ‘dangabaaz’, will meet worse fate than Trump, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday lambasted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, branding him as the "biggest rioter", who will face an "even worse fate" than former US President Donald Trump. Mamata, speaking at a rally at Sahaganj in Hooghly district, also said Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah are spreading lies and hatred throughout the country. "Naredra Modi is the biggest dangabaaz (rioter) in the country... What has happened to Trump, he (Modi) will meet an even worse fate. Nothing can be gained from violence," she said. "The country is being ruled by a doitya and a danab (demons). They will try to break our spine. They will infiltrate. They will grab Bengal. What do you want? Bengal to stay Bengal or whatever the BJP makes of it? Bengal will control Gujarat. Gujarat will not control Bengal," NDTV quoted her as saying. "I will be the goalkeeper in the assembly polls and you (BJP) will not be able to score a single goal. All shots will fly above the goal post," Banerjee added. The chief minister also condemned the recent CBI interrogation of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's wife in connection with a coal pilferage scam, saying it was an "insult to our women". Meanwhile, cricketer Manoj Tiwary and several Bengali actors joined the TMC at the rally in the presence of the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
24-02-2021||West Bengal||CBI files supplementary charge sheet against businessman close to Mamata||The CBI on Wednesday filed a supplementary charge sheet in a cattle smuggling case and named as accused Calcutta-based businessman Binay Mishra, believed to be close to Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew and TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, officials said. In its charge sheet filed before a special CBI court in Asansol, the agency has shown Mishra as absconding. The CBI on February 18 had filed a charge sheet in the case against BSF Commandant Satish Kumar and six others for their alleged involvement in a cattle smuggling racket operating on the India-Bangladesh border. The agency had taken over the case on September 21, 2020. Besides then Commandant of 36 Battalion of BSF Kumar, the CBI had filed charge-sheet against Enamul Haque, Anarul Seikh, Golam Mustafa, Taniya Sanyal, Badal Krishna Sanyal and Rashida Bibi, the officials said. The CBI alleged that Haque was the mastermind of the illegal cattle trade and was assisted by two other accused in connivance with Kumar who was deployed in Murshidabad and Malda. The central probe agency has recently questioned Banerjee's wife Rujira and sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir in a separate case pertaining to illegal coal mining and pilferage from the mines of Easter Coalfields Limited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri dry port ransack accused arrested||Expelled INTTUC and Trinamul leader of New Jalpaiguri, accused of leading an attack at the inland container depot (ICD) or dry port in the area earlier this month, was arrested by a team of Siliguri Metropolitan Police from Assam on Sunday and brought here on Tuesday. Prasenjit Roy, the former president of Trinamul’s trade union front INTTUC in NJP, was absconding since February 4, when he led hundreds of supporters inside the ICD and ransacked the office of a private firm running the facility to demand local workers be hired. It angered chief minister Mamata Banerjee who was at the branch secretariat Uttarkanya, some 1.5km away. “Roy was arrested in Tinsukia, Assam, and produced at a court that granted his transit remand. On Wednesday, he will be produced at a court in Jalpaiguri,” said a police officer. Mamata asked party leaders and the police to take a stern view on the matter. In a matter of days, the absconding Roy — who ran 30-odd Inttuc-affiliated trade unions in and around NJP — was expelled from INTTUC and Trinamul, and some of his aides were arrested. A five-member police team was formed to find Roy. “Finally, from a specific tip-off and cell phone location, the police arrested him from Tinsukia,” said a source. The vandalism also led to loss of face for Trinamul and state tourism minister Gautam Deb as the ICD is located in his Dabgram-Fulbari seat. Minister Deb reacted briefly to Roy's arrest. “We never tolerate indiscipline. The law will take its own course,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Price buffer for potato farmers in Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to encourage cold store owners in Bengal to buy 10 lakh tonnes of potato at Rs 6 a kilo directly from farmers to cushion them from the vagaries of a demand-supply mismatch in a year likely to see a bumper harvest. The state government initiative is also seen as an attempt to keep over 15 lakh potato farmers across Hooghly, East Burdwan, West Midnapore and Birbhum in good humour with a price buffer ahead of the Assembly polls as the BJP has organisationally strengthened itself in these four districts. “The state government will encourage cold stores to buy 10 lakh tonnes of potato from farmers as a bumper production is expected this year. The government will help the cold stores to secure bank loans for this purpose and the government will compensate the store owners if they incur any loss, which, however, is a distant possibility,” said chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. A senior government official elaborated why a minimum price guarantee was needed in a year of bumper potato production. “This year, around 115 lakh tonnes of potato will be produced against an average annual production of 90 lakh tonnes. The result of the bumper production is already visible as farmers are being forced to sell off potatoes at Rs 4 a kilo these days,” he said, indicating that the minimum price of Rs 6 a kilo would offset their losses. However, some government officials are unsure if the government’s plan to help the farmers can be implemented on the ground. “The plan to ensure a minimum procurement price for the tuber will be successful only if certain preconditions are fulfilled,” said a source. The most important factor, he said, was to ensure that cold-store owners, who actually control the price of the potato in the retail market, actually procure from farmers. “In most cases, traders buy potato from farmers and then sell cold-store owners...If that keeps happening, the benefits will not reach farmers,” he added. According to him, monitoring the procurement by cold-store owners holds the key to the success of the plan. “Orders would have to be issued and the district authorities would have to keep watch on the procurement process... In an election year, such micro-management is easier said than done,” said another official. Some officials think both the targets — procurement price and direct procurement volume — are too low. “Given the rise in input cost, farmers have spent on an average more than Rs 5 to produce a kilo of potato. So, the offer price of Rs 6 is not good enough. Besides, the target volume of procurement (10 lakh tonnes) is also low, it should have been at least 25 lakh tonnes to ensure that the farmers do not suffer from the demand-supply mismatch,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP’s Parivatan Yatra runs into Darjeeling protests||The BJP’s Parivatan Yatra in north Bengal, which had been flagged off from Cooch Behar by Union home minister Amit Shah, reached here on Tuesday amid protests not just by its rivals but even by two hill allies which accused the saffron party of not being serious about its promises. Supporters of Bimal Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, which had been supporting the BJP for 13 years until recently, waved black flags at the yatra, while the Kalimpong Krishak Kalayan Sangatan — a federation of hill farmers — staged a dharna which was supported by an apolitical organisation representing 11 hill communities seeking tribal status. If this was not enough, the Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), which had backed the BJP in the last Lok Sabha election, refused to participate in the yatra and said its support was for fulfilment of hill demands and not for the saffron camp’s political programmes. The turn of events on Tuesday, many believe, could be an indicator that the BJP might find it difficult to win over the voters in the hills unless their promises were translated into delivery. The BJP’s two main promises are tribal status for the 11 communities and “a permanent political solution” for the hills. “The promises remain only on paper... Time is running out,” said a source in the BJP admitting that the non-fulfilment of the promises would hit the party in the run up to the polls. With the model code of conduct round the corner, the BJP is under pressure as the budget session will resume only on March 8. Once the MCC is in place, new announcements cannot be made for poll-bound states. The BJP had promised tribal status to Bhujel, Gurung, Mangar, Newar, Jogi, Khas, Rai, Sunuwar, Thami, Yakka (Dewan) and Dhimal and also a “permanent political solution” for the region in their 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto. Gurung severed ties with the BJP in last October stating that the party was not interested in fulfilling the election promises. On Tuesday, members of the Gorkha Janmukti Nari Morcha (Gurung camp) waved black flags at the yatra at Ghoom and near Darjeeling Railway station when the cavalcade entered the hill town. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, state vice-president Arjun Singh and Darjeeling MP Raju Bista were present at the yatra. While the women supporters raised slogans like “BJP go back” and “Raju Bista go back” in Darjeeling, members of the Kalimpong Krishak Kalyan Sangathan staged the dharna at Kalimpong to demand tribal status for the 11 hill communities before the Bengal elections. The KKKS was also joined by apolitical United Indigenous Gorkha Community Forum in their one-day dharna. “It would be good if the Parivartan Yatra had been held after fulfilling their promise,” said Bishnu Chettri, the president of the KKKS which had backed the BJP in the last general election. CPRM office-secretary Sunil Rai said: “We supported the BJP for a permanent political solution…Today’s Parivartan Rally is their rally and we will not participate in it. Our parivartan (change) is not to carry the BJP’s flag.” Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) supporters, however, came out in large numbers and attended the public meeting at Darjeeling Motor Stand. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista said the BJP was committed to fulfilling both the promises while admitting that hill people wanted the tribal status before the polls. “The 11 hill tribes’ demand can be fulfilled anytime (by the Union home minister). As far as the permanent political solution is concerned, it is not easy. It is something which will come through the (provisions of) the Constitution.” Bista, however, said he would be here till 2024 and it was unwise to link the demands with elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 3,399 active cases in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday logged 228 Covid-19 recoveries, 189 new infections and two deaths, but none from the city. The state now has 3,399 active Covid-19 cases, down from 37,190 on Dashami last year, in an unbroken slide of 120 days. “We have fewer than 3,400 active cases left, while over 7.4 lakh vaccine doses have been administered, the fifth highest in the country….We are on track to beating this pandemic soon,” said a minister. Bengal now has 2.36 per cent of the nation’s active cases. The state’s recovery rate has touched 97.62 per cent while the national average is 97.23. The state in all has 5.74 lakh cases, including over 5.6 lakh recoveries and 10,253 deaths. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.78 per cent, having fallen steadily for 96 days. On Tuesday, the state reported 18,302 tests, taking the total past 84.62 lakh, at 94,301 tests per million people. Of the total toll, 8,607 deaths (83.9 per cent) have been attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.78 per cent and the national rate is 1.41.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||3,000 Bengal civic casual workers demand pay||As many as 3,000 casual workers of the Trinamul-ruled Bhatpara Municipality in North 24-Parganas on Tuesday demonstrated to demand they be paid their wages — four months due — immediately. Agitating workers locked the entrance to the municipality premises on Tuesday morning, suspending civic services in 35 wards of the town. Sources said the workers vowed to continue the agitation till they were paid in full. “We are being wronged by the municipality authorities who have only given us vague assurances. We are in a financial crisis, we are struggling for basic needs,” said casual worker Bijay Barma, one of the protesters. “We won’t stop our agitation till our dues are cleared.” Municipality chairman Arun Banerjee blamed the previous BJP-ruled civic body’s “misuse” of funds to favour contractors close to BJP MP of Barrackpore Arjun Singh and his nephew, which Singh rubbished. Workers said the civic body had some 3,300 workers on “no-work-no pay basis” who were going without wages since October 2020. “Municipality chairman Arun Banerjee and Trinamul’s Bhatpara assembly committee chairman Dharampal Gupta assured us of clearing our dues by February 11. No money has been paid,” said a worker. On Monday, 150 health workers of the Bhatpara Municipality’s maternity clinic spearheaded the agitation by stopping work. Health workers alleged that they were appointed under a project jointly funded by the Centre and state, and their not being paid was “new and unexpected”. “This is unusual for us. We provide our best services round the clock in public interest, but civic authorities appear to be least bothered about paying our salaries,” a health worker said. The municipality casual workers’ union leader J.L. Barma said the issue had begun fomenting over four months ago. “For months, payment of wages is an irregular affair, each time nothing is paid without some agitation from us,” Barma said. Blaming the preceding BJP-led civic body, municipality administrator Banerjee said: “The previous board is solely responsible for non-payment of dues. The state government had allocated funds for payment of wages but the previous board diverted the funds to pay bills of contractors close to Arjun Singh and his nephew Sourav Singh. This created a backlog of a few months. Nevertheless, we are hopeful of settling the matter soon.” He added that he asked the workers for another week. Rubbishing the allegations, BJP MP Singh said: “The Trinamul-run board reduced the wages of workers after failing to pay them.” Vice chairman Maqsud Alam, however, blamed the Centre for slashing a grant under the urban mission scheme that allegedly caused problems in paying health workers. “The Centre has granted only Rs 5.9 crore against the previous year’s Rs 18 crore,” Alam said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul workers bank on central forces||Around 500 Trinamul Congress leaders and supporters, who have been rendered homeless in four blocks of East Midnapore following the outbreak of political clashes that coincided with former transport minister Suvendu Adhikari’s switch to the BJP in December, are banking on the neutrality of central forces for their “ghar wapsi” ahead of the Assembly polls. Sources said Trinamul workers in several parts of East Midnapore, including Bhupatinagar, Moyna, Khejuri and Potashpur, were living in “exile” for fear of political retribution from the BJP. Several Trinamul leaders said as their multiple pleas to police to escort their men back home had fallen on deaf ears, they asked the district administration to use the central forces for the job. “Around 500 leaders and supporters have fled homes because of political clashes. We are hopeful that with the arrival of the central forces, they will be able to return home,” said Trinamul district coordinator Mahmud Hossain. Trinamul leaders in the Bhaganwanpur block submitted a list of 42 supporters, including Arjunnagar panchayat chief Tanmay Pradhan, to Bhupati Nagar police station on Saturday seeking the help of central forces for their return home. While Pradhan and a few others have been at their in-laws’ homes for the past three months, most are said to have sent their children and wives away to relatives in Calcutta and elsewhere. “We were forced to flee in the environment that ensued after Suvendu’s defection. We feared for our safety and couldn’t return home,” said Pradhan, adding they had repeatedly appealed to the police for help but to no avail. Subrata Malakar, block president in Moyna’s Bakcha gram panchayat, said he and at least 100 others had fled their homes nearly a year back to avoid attacks from BJP workers. The complaints of Trinamul workers who fled their homes have resurfaced in the midst of deployment of central forces in Bengal districts for pre-poll area domination. Sources said one company was already active in East Midnapore and four more would reach the district this week, reportedly for deployment at “250 more vulnerable” booths. East Midnapore superintendent of police Praween Prakash on Tuesday said: “We have received some complaints of (Trinamul) workers willing to return home. We will investigate.” The BJP attributed Trinamul workers’ flight to “intra-party rivalries”. “It has got nothing to do with the BJP,” said Contai district president Anup Chakraborty. Till the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, it had been CPM supporters who begged the administration to facilitate their “ghar wapsi” in the district. Ever since the land agitation of 2007, thousands of CPM workers and leaders, particularly in Khejuri and Nandigram, had to flee their homes following alleged attacks by Trinamul. Before every poll, the CPM would submit to the district administration a list of names of people wanting to return home. Ironically, this time the CPM has not submitted any such list while the ruling party is trying to get their men back home. “They are simply reaping what they themselves sowed with their violent tactics over the past several years,” said a CPM leader. In several south Bengal districts, political parties are preparing lists of vulnerable areas and pockets where their supporters are facing trouble to campaign or write wall graffiti. CPM leaders in Birbhum and East Burdwan said they had asked their local leaders to send name of the pockets and areas where they were facing threat and violence. “We have a list of areas where our workers are being stopped from carrying out political activities. However, we are waiting for the election to be announced to take up the issue with the administration,” said Apurba Chatterjee, a CPM leader in East Burdwan. Personnel of central forces have started carrying out route marches in several districts, particularly in sensitive pockets. “We are conducting route marches, along with police and central force personnel, in vulnerable pockets. If any political party comes to us with complaints, we will act accordingly,” said Sukanta Saha, the subdivisional officer of Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas. Sandip Nandi, BJP president in East Burdwan, said: “We have a list of allegations against several Trinamul leaders for spreading violence in the district. But we will list our complaints only with the Election Commission.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Assam tea pay hike brews Bengal ripples||A notification from Assam’s labour welfare department on the interim hike of Rs 50 in the daily wage of tea workers in the BJP-ruled state prompted the saffron camp in north Bengal to point out that tea wages in the Mamata Banerjee-ruled state were lower now in comparison. Both Assam and Bengal are set to face Assembly polls this summer, making tea wages a political issue in both. On Tuesday, Assam’s principal secretary of the labour welfare department issued a notification, saying that with the hike, the daily cash wage for the state’s tea workers (other than those serving in tea gardens of the Barak valley) increased to Rs 217 a day with effect from February 22. For tea workers of Barak valley, it is Rs 195 a day. In January this year, the Bengal government revised the daily wage of tea workers on an interim basis and it stands at Rs 202 a day now. Manoj Tigga, the BJP MLA of Madarihat in Alipurduar district, said that many state ministers and Trinamul leaders had in January “scoffed at the Assam government” for lower wages there. “Now that the Assam government has made the revision, the wage rate is higher than Bengal. We will raise this issue as we go out to campaign before the Assembly elections,” said Tigga. Trinamul leaders dubbed the hike announced by the Sarbananda Sonowal government as a ploy to woo Assam residents ahead of the polls and underscored a slew of development schemes  introduced by the Bengal government for its tea population. Mannalal Jain, a senior Trinamul leader in the Dooars and the vice-president of Cha Bagan Trinamul Mazdoor Union, said such tactics by the BJP won’t work ahead of the polls. “Unlike Assam, the state government here has taken up many initiatives for tea workers, the most important being free housing. Workers get food grains from the state....Also, wage rate here is uniform, unlike Assam with a different rate for Barak valley,” said Jain, adding that the Trinamul government reopened many closed tea gardens and improved infrastructure in the tea belt. But Trinamul leaders are also aware that most tea garden residents had sided with the saffron camp in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, which helped the BJP win Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Darjeeling. Poll results of some 15 Assembly segments in Bengal depend on the tea population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leaders in Hooghly plant saplings ||Trinamul leaders and supporters in Hooghly’s Sahagunje plant saplings on the grounds of the closed Dunlop tyre factory on Tuesday. The leaders said that they did so as a few trees had allegedly been felled to enable Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s chopper landing on the grounds on Monday. Trinamul leaders also took out a protest rally with slogans like “Modi ele dhongsho, Didi ele sristi (it’s destruction when Modi visits, it’s creation when Didi visits). Trinamul's Hooghly district president Dilip Yadav said: “As several trees were chopped off to facilitate the Prime Minister’s helicopter landing on Monday, we planted trees as part of our protest against such destructive practices.” BJP leaders claimed that the branches of a few trees had been trimmed and all was done to meet security requirements. “No trees were cut off, only the branches of a few trees trimmed, the protest is a Trinamul gimmick,” said Subir Nag, a BJP state committee member and a leader of Hooghly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Chhatra Parishad survey to assess voter mood||A desire to win back voters who had deserted the Trinamul Congress in the 2019 Lok Sabha election in the Goghat Assembly constituency has made the students’ wing embark on a door-to-door campaign to conduct a survey and assess the people’s mood. Armed with a set of 10 questions, members of the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad (TMCP) in Hooghly’s Goghat started its first-ever survey on February 14 and set a target to visit 75,000 households in an Assembly constituency where Trinamul had lagged behind the BJP by over 8,000 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Goghat is part of Arambagh Lok Sabha constituency that Trinamul’s Aparupa Poddar had won by 1,142 votes in 2019. “Our goal is to reach out to the people with questions on LPG price rise, BJP’s rath yatra and schemes of the Mamata Banerjee government. Through the campaign, we are trying to tell the people about the achievements of the state government and the failure of the BJP government at the Centre. We are not asking respondents to fill in the survey form in front of us. They have the option to hand over the forms to us later,” said Syed Ashik Hossain, TMCP president in Goghat-I block. While a question in the survey form asks respondents about their reaction to the hike in price of LPG cylinders, another question wants to know whether Mamata Banerjee’s Swastho Sathi scheme is good or not. “The questionnaire has 10 questions that will give us an insight into people’s perception about various policies of the state and central governments along with other political issues. A political question that is part of the survey will let us know how people are reacting to BJP leaders riding a chariot for political purpose,” a TMCP leader said. One of the questions reflects the Trinamul’s concern about party leaders switching camps and joining the BJP. “We are trying to get an idea what people are thinking about turncoats. A leader who has recently joined the BJP has a good support base, so we need to know the impact of him leaving Trinamul,” said a TMCP leader, who added that five separate groups of supporters were visiting villages every day to complete the survey within 20 days. Ashik, however, said to elicit honest response from the people, the surveyors were not carrying TMCP flags but disclosed their identity if they were asked about it. “The team members are not carrying party flags or raising slogans. We are not wearing our identity on the sleeves as the feedback is important to know how voters are responding to the political situation ahead of the polls,” Ashik said. Asked what prompted the TMCP to take up a people’s mood assessment tool that is usually associated with Left parties, Dilip Yadav, Trinamul’s Hooghly district president, said: “We want to know about the demands of the people. Similar surveys will be carried out in other Assembly segments in the district.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||90 new winged species sighted in 4-day fest at Mahananda sanctuary||Foresters and birders, including ornithologists, have found as many as 90 new species of birds at the Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary on the outskirts of Siliguri. The new avian species were spotted during a four-day bird festival that ended at the sanctuary on Tuesday. It was for the first time that the state forest department hosted such a bird fest in the sanctuary. Among the new species sighted include the Striated Yuhina, the White-bellied Drongo, the Chestnut-bellied Rock Thrush and Blyth’s Leaf Warbler. In all, 16 birdwatchers, eight ornithologists and eight local guides participated at the event, along with foresters. During these four days, they roamed around the sanctuary area, watching birds, clicking pictures and jotting down notes. Rajendra Jakhar, the chief conservator of forests, (wildlife, north) said the inventory of the avian species of the Mahananda sanctuary that they had was made back in 1997 with 292 species. “But during this four-day event, 90 more new species, including some rare ones, were sighted in Mahananda. It is nice to see that the number of avian species that can be sighted here has increased to 382. This will also help us work for their conservation,” Jakhar said. He said that as a follow-up, the department would publish a report with details of the birds that can be seen in Mahananda. The exercise, he said, would increase the popularity of the sanctuary among birdwatchers and ornithologists. In these four days, the participants walked down seven jungle trails, covering Latpanchar, Gulma, Rongtong and banks of the Teesta river. Starting from the foothills, they ascended to around 3,500 feet in the hills within the sanctuary area to obtain details of the birds. Animesh Bose, a wildlife conservationist in Siliguri who had joined the event, said the experience was delightful. “We are delighted that the forest department took the initiative to find out how varied the avian population in the sanctuary is,” Bose said. Later this month, a similar bird watching camp would be held at the Neora Valley National Park in Kalimpong with around 30 participants, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul ‘micro’ formula to retain minorities ||Trinamul leaders have decided to activate its minority cell with “low-key, micro-level” campaigns with the help of youths and clerics to retain votes from the community in the state polls. Adding urgency to this decision are two contenders — the Indian Secular Front (ISF) floated by cleric Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui and the Hyderabad-based All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) — that have the potential to split Bengal’s minority votes. “We don’t need the AIMIM or Abbas Siddiqui for the development of Muslims and other minorities. It is chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s development plan that has largely helped Bengal’s minorities, and it will go on if Trinamul retains power,” said Alok Das, a south Bengal Trinamul leader who works with the minority cell. “That’s why we have decided on micro-level, understated door-to-door campaigns by youths in minority belts across Bengal. We will also ask imams, muezzins and other clerics to personally tell people about initiatives (under the Mamata government),” Das added. Party insiders said the minority cell has been asked to prevent a Muslim vote split. The cell, sources said, will distribute pamphlets in various languages, including Urdu, to apprise the minority population what the Mamata Banerjee government has done for them since 2011. The consequences of the CAA in Bengal will also be put before them. Bengal has 28 per cent Muslim population and their votes decide the results in 110-odd Assembly seats, mostly in Murshidabad, Malda, North and South Dinajpur, North and South 24-Parganas and Calcutta. The AIMIM, foraying in Bengal for the first time, has lined up its first major event, a public meeting at Metiabruz in Calcutta on February 25. “Our party chief Asaduddin Owaisi will speak and we are expecting a good crowd,” said Imran Solanki, a state leader of AIMIM, which won five Assembly seats in Bihar from Seemanchal area close to the Bengal-Bihar border. Siddiqui’s ISF is in talks with the Left-Congress alliance, but is yet to strike a deal on seat-sharing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
24-02-2021||North East||Assam: Five Karbi militant outfits’ members surrender||Altogether 1040 members of five militant outfits operating in undivided Karbi Anglong district in Assam laid down arms here on Tuesday evening, two days ahead of signing a peace accord in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah. Shah is scheduled to visit the poll-bound state on February 25. This is the third major “mainstreaming” of rebels since 2020. Altogether 1,615 members from three National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB) factions had laid down arms in January 2020, three days after the signing of the tripartite Bodo Accord. This was followed by laying down of arms by 64 rebels belonging to four outfits, the big catch being Ulfa(I)’s deputy commander-in-chief Drishti Rajkhowa. The outfits, according to the Joint Action Committee for Autonomous State (JACAS), included both factions of the Karbi Longri N.C. Hills Liberation Front (KLNLF), Karbi People’s Liberation Tiger (KPLT), United People’s Liberation Army (UPLA) and the People’s Democratic Council of Karbi Longri (PDCK). One of the leading and dreaded names in the state militancy, IK Songbijit, who was leading the NDFB (S) before forming the PDCK, was among those who laid down arms on Tuesday evening. He is wanted in several terror cases. The PDCK, which had declared a unilateral ceasefire on February 16 in a memorandum to Shah had urged the creation of an Autonomous State under Article 244(A) as the only lasting solution for peaceful existence between the people of the hills and the plains in the state. A police official said 1040 members have formally bid goodbye to arms and they will sign a peace accord at Dengaon, around 90 km from Diphu, the district headquarters of Karbi Anglong district, during the home minister’s  visit. He also said the development is sure to usher in peace in the hill districts of Karbi Anglong and adjoining Dima Hasao which have witnessed unrest over the creation of a state within state since December. Karbi Anglong was divided into two districts in 2015 — Karbi Anglong and West Karbi Anglong under the administrative control of Karbi Anglong Aurtonomous Council. Welcoming the development, the JACAS “appealed” to the Centre to fulfil the outfits’ long-standing demand “for self-determination, i.e. autonomous statehood as provided under Article 244-A of the Constitution of India” which is basically “a state within the state” comprising undivided Karbi Anglong and Dima Hasao districts. The JACAS also reminded the ruling BJP that “implementation of Article 244-A has been one of its major poll promises made to the people of the hills in 2008. The JACAS, therefore, appealed to Shah to declare the “creation” of the state within state and “fulfil” BJP’s poll promise and also the political aspiration of the hill people to usher in lasting peace while urging the locals to stand in solidarity with the outfits which laid down arms on Monday, JACAS chairman Khorsing Teron said. The KLNLF is the oldest among the outfit, formed in 2004 and entered into a ceasefire in February 2010. The breakaway members from the group form another group, the KPLT in 2011. Besides Karbi Anglong, Shah will also visit Batadrava Than, the birthplace of Srimanta Sankardev in Nagaon district. He will launch the project for development and beautification of the Batadrava Than at a cost of Rs 150 crore. This will be his fourth visit to the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-21
24-02-2021||North East||5,000 members and senior leaders switch from Sikkim Democratic Front to Golay party||The opposition Sikkim Democratic Front received a massive jolt when about 5,000 members and senior leaders shifted their allegiance to the ruling Sikkim Krantikari Morcha at a mass joining programme here on Tuesday. The new entrants were welcomed to the SKM by party president and Sikkim chief minister P. S. Tamang (Golay) by offering them khadas. Among the senior SDF leaders who switched to the SKM included vice-president (organisation) and former minister O.T. Lepcha, former minister Menlom Lepcha, former advisor of the urban development department Sher Hang Subba and former chairperson of Sikkim OBC Board and women’s leader Bina Rai. Golay said his party believed in turning foes into friends and not vice-versa. “Our party believes in inclusive politics. All those, including very senior SDF leaders, joining us today are doing so because they agree with the SKM ideology,” he said. The SKM president also tried to allay fears of old SKM workers that they would be sidelined because of the induction of the SDF leaders and activists. “I want to appeal to our party workers to understand that they have not come to take your place. They are not here to score a goals, but to provide you with assists,” he said, using a football analogy. Such a large-scale switch of SDF activists to the SKM had not taken place since Golay’s party had come to power in May 2019. While the SKM has been on the ascendancy since then, the SDF has been fast losing ground to its rival. All the former senior SDF leaders who spoke at the programme said they were left with no choice but join the SKM because SDF president and former chief minister Pawan Chamling had completely disappeared from the scene. “I as vice-president of the SDF am clueless as to where he (Chamling) is. He has disappeared. This left us with no choice but to join the SKM which has welcomed us with open arms,” said O.T. Lepcha. No SDF leader could be contacted for reaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-21
24-02-2021||Opinion||Take the shot: vaccine diplomacy||A vaccine, under ordinary circumstances, has implications for the realms of health and medicine. But these are not ordinary times. The transformation of Covid-19 vaccines into a tool of diplomacy is a testament to the uniqueness of the hour. It has been reported that Israel obtained the release of one of its prisoners after agreeing to finance an unspecified number of coronavirus vaccines for its adversary, Syria. India, too, has not been averse to use ‘vaccine diplomacy’ to its advantage. New Delhi has bolstered its regional and international standing by sending free Covid-19 medication to Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Afghanistan and Seychelles. That India remains keen to maintain this momentum was evident from the prime minister’s welcome comments that were made at a recent workshop that was attended by health and diplomatic representatives of a number of Asian nations, including — significantly — Pakistan. Addressing the event, Narendra Modi suggested a number of collaborative steps, including the creation of a regional platform for collating and examining Covid-19-related data, a special visa scheme for doctors and nurses that will be operative in the region as well as an air ambulance for the neighbourhood. India’s neighbours were reportedly receptive to these proposals. If a consensus were to emerge on the matter, it would not only lead to the sharing of knowledge but also generate considerable goodwill that would impact bilateral engagements in a positive manner. What makes sharing of resources among Asian nations all the more important is the concern that the developed world, given its deeper pockets, is likely to have a monopoly over Covid-19 doses, reducing the latter’s access to developing nations and poor countries. Of course, the vial as diplomatic capital is not an innocuous proposition. New Delhi’s decision to send vaccines to other countries is a gesture that is as much humanitarian as diplomatic. For Beijing, New Delhi’s principal rival, is also in the fray, sending coronavirus medicines to nations near and far. This rivalry, however, is likely to be compensated by the replenishment of the spirit of multilateralism through vaccine diplomacy. Mr Modi’s idea of a shared pedestal to take on the pandemic has the potential to become a truly broad, representative Asian alliance, leading to a possible reduction in mutual animosities. New Delhi should pursue these proposals earnestly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
24-02-2021||Opinion||Taught well: Golwalkar glorified||Some ironies are hard to swallow. The Union culture ministry’s glorification of M.S. Golwalkar, the second sarsanghchalak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, on his birthday as a great thinker, scholar and remarkable leader whose thoughts inspire and guide generations, brought forth some stinging responses. In defence, the media advisor to the culture minister emphasized India’s diversity and multiculturalism, because of which the culture ministry would not silence the aspirations of any section of society. Golwalkar, who propagated a homogenous nationalism in which minority communities would live as second-class citizens, was celebrated on the ruse of India’s democracy, built upon respect for different values and traditions. This would have been comic, had not it been ominous. Golwalkar believed that the Constitution, the foundation of Indian democracy, should be re-drafted so that federalism could be replaced by a homogeneous nationhood and a unitary State. Federalism is supposed to encourage ‘separatist’ tendencies. It is not difficult to discern here the ‘guiding’ principle behind the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders’ drive for singleness — whether in opinions, political strategy or governance. Golwalkar’s admiration for Hitler’s treatment of Jews — the RSS’s distancing from this idea in his second book notwithstanding — adds a telling dimension to his listing of ‘internal threats’: Muslims, Christians and communists. Both faith and political views are ‘threats’. According to this logic, communists cannot be part of a homogeneous nation. Are women excluded too? The BJP’s guiding light seemed to find their demands for equality strange and was rather sarcastic at the idea of their ‘emancipation from man’s domination’. With such ‘separatist’ sentiments, probably women would not belong to the loyal group that forms the ‘nation’. The suggestion that women must be kept in their place is echoed, much more clearly and expansively, in Golwalkar’s belief in the traditional system of caste. Unity, apparently, comes through caste division. It is not what he wrote but what is happening now that is important. Aggressiveness in the name of nationalism — the silence is only on the subject of China — has encouraged violence against peaceful protesters and critics, champions of the oppressed and even of values such as rationalism, against specific faiths and castes and, overwhelmingly, against rights of the individual. No wonder the BJP-led government felt that this was the right time to remind the country of Golwalkar’s contributions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
24-02-2021||Opinion||The elephant imitates the dragon||Speak of your global commitment to human rights while targeting minorities and cracking down on all forms of dissent at home. Talk of universalism and offer vaccines to other countries while casually threatening your neighbours’ sovereignty. And try and browbeat social media platforms into following your diktat. In each case, count on the size and allure of your giant market to get other nations and companies to still court you. This is a template China has used for more than three decades to rise to levels of economic success unimaginable during the upheaval of Mao Zedong’s Cultural Revolution in the 1970s. But in the bargain, it has lost much of its geopolitical credibility and is battling a growing coalition of democracies uneasy about China’s approach. This is also a template that the Narendra Modi government appears to be embracing now. True, sections of India’s ruling elite across political stripes have long looked up to China, often grudgingly. But for the most part, New Delhi has tried to sharply distinguish the pursuit of its rising ambitions from the approach adopted by China. A cascade of moves and comments from the Modi government and other leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, all in the past few weeks, shows that a silent awe of China’s method has now overtaken that historic discomfort. The irony? The architects of this ‘New India’ are laying its latest bricks at a time Beijing and New Delhi are locked in territorial battles. Indian and Chinese troops stepped back last week from the brink of military conflict in Ladakh after a stand-off that has lasted for months. But both sides know this is no more than a pause. Where there’s no pause is in the Modi government’s emulation of its geopolitical rival. Since 1989, China has insisted that the Tiananmen Square protests were kindled by support from foreign powers — an allusion to the West and America in particular. In 2021, the Modi administration wants everyone to believe that a Khalistani conspiracy, somehow aided and abetted by the teenaged Swedish climate activist, Greta Thunberg, is behind the farmers’ protests against controversial laws. That a pro-farmer ‘toolkit’ — a social media strategy of the kind every company and political movement uses for marketing and campaigning — is a grave danger to India. And that the 22-year-old activist, Disha Ravi, who helped edit that toolkit, is a threat to India’s sovereignty, deserving of time behind bars. While India’s foreign ministry appropriately highlights the country’s effort to share Covid-19 vaccines with the world, Tripura’s chief minister, Biplab Deb, has spoken of plans being hatched — according to Deb — by the home minister, Amit Shah, to instal BJP governments in neighbouring Nepal and Sri Lanka. Again, the parallels with China, which is leading vaccine diplomacy efforts while encroaching on the territories of its neighbours, are hard to ignore. And just like China couldn’t take social media dissent on Twitter and, instead, developed its own equivalents such as Weibo, the Modi government is promoting a Twitter-like Indian alternative, Koo, after its recent run-ins with the California-headquartered microblogging giant. To be sure, India is not China — and Modi is a wildly popular, twice-elected prime minister. And there are many who see strength in his approach, and indeed in China’s. But there are other differences too between Beijing and New Delhi, none more prominent than the fact that China’s economy is six times the size of India’s and is growing when the economies of most major nations are shrinking. Unless New Delhi is careful, it risks losing friends it has spent years cultivating — without the economic heft of Beijing to offset that criticism. Much of the world will see the arrest of young activists like Ravi as tilting at windmills at best — and as the brutal crushing of opposing views at worst. While many in India may listen to Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’, Thunberg’s bold words carry greater resonance globally. The niece of the US vice-president, Kamala Harris, is among those who have voiced concern over India’s approach to the farmer protests. And the historian, Sanjay Subrahmanyam, the brother of the foreign minister, S. Jaishankar, has criticized the ministry of external affairs’ recent move towards mandating that universities and academics need the government’s approval to hold seminars on matters of national security. Closer home, Nepal and Sri Lanka have both responded sharply to suggestions that the BJP hopes to expand its footprint in those nations. As long as the United States of America sees India as a counterweight to China, it will continue to tom-tom the Washington-New Delhi partnership. But as other US partners with human-rights skeletons — from Saudi Arabia to Israel to the Philippines — have found in the past, America can act as an uncomfortable, nagging elder brother coaxing you to change or face a public or private scolding every now and then. For Modi, who has repeatedly said he prioritizes a ‘neighbourhood first’ policy, rebukes from countries he’s trying to woo aren’t helpful either. The one country that will be happy? China. Imitation, after all, is the best form of flattery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
24-02-2021||Opinion||Prisoners of conscience||One of my neighbours is a friendly student who keeps me up to date. He is sensitive to events and issues, but rarely idolizes them. He expresses feeling only through his guitar. When the Jesuit, Stan Swamy, was arrested, he was upset. A few weeks ago, I heard him strum the beginnings of a song: ‘When are you coming home Stan Swamy?/ When are you coming home?/ The trees are in mourning/ And the festive air is grey./ They said you would be back in December/ The calendar is touching May./ Come home Stan Swamy./ Come Home.’ The student’s song, its plaintive sense of loss and waiting, captures the fate of dissent in our society. One could perform similar dirges for Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Navlakha. The sadness is that little attention is paid to these people beyond the flutter of drawing rooms. The media have created a wall of indifference around such issues. They are reported as gossip but never as debates on rights and suffering. The reports on the ‘toolkit arrest’ have a similar ring, a sense of a middle-class scandal, but the real implications are missing. At the centre of all these events is the fate of dissent in our society. The economist, Amartya Sen, created the myth of the ‘Argumentative Indian’. I wish he had added a chapter on the ‘Dissenting Indian’ after the last decade. The addas have a sense of heaviness and protest a sense of defeat. To understand this, one has to understand the transformation of the State in recent times. When nationalism yielded the nation state, a plurality of visions was reduced to a basic civics of citizenship and governance. Over time, with internal strife and the frictions on the border, the nation state became a National Security State. The sense of violence and paranoia that accompanied it transformed the National Security State into a National Surveillance State where information became a commodity. We moved to create an India between the enclosure and the panopticon. What facilitated this move and legitimized it was the emergence of a majoritarian society. The dominance of the Bharatiya Janata Party added a set of critical details. First, in idolizing the nation state and turning development into an iconic idea, it turned any environmental critique of development into a sacrilege. Environmentalists became the first, official anti-nationals. Sustainability, instead of being a life-giving idea, was subsumed under the logic of security. By this time, riots had become a part of the official regime. Exterminism as a tactic against the minority now became official. The university, which was one of the theatres of debate, was subject to attacks. Undermining of dissent and plurality in a university became part of education policy. We face the paradox of the NEP claiming the university to be a place of diversity, while dissent is defined as unpatriotic. The next few steps were surreally predictable as the regime integrated internal and external security to make all ‘anti-nationals’ security threats. Distinguished dissenters like Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Stan Swamy were all silenced in this lethal net. By this time, the National Security State had graduated into being a National Surveillance State. The interests of State and corporations converged, as surveillance, from a crisis ritual, became an everyday affair. Liberal critics who felt that Julian Assange was a distant possibility in India had to confront a wave of arrests around Greta Thunberg’s sympathizers. The arrest of Disha Ravi, a green activist — she has received bail — has to be read in that context. Supporting farmers, who have courageously stood up to the regime, is now anti-national. The cyber groups doing this are trashed as pro-Khalistani or secessionist. The toolkit, an outline of prospective protest, is reified as real and suspicion spreads like a controlled epidemic. The sedition law is invoked to suppress difference of any kind. The biggest casualty is dissent. Our democracy needs to revive the festivals of dissent it was famous for. The idea of sedition and the suppression of dissent have turned our polity into a dismal entity. To give voice to the voiceless is now an anti-national activity. Dissent, which literally anchored the informal economy of a democracy, is now treated as epidemic. The regime seems afraid of a new generation finding its relevance and articulation around ecology and environmentalism. Its ham-handedness is turning figures like Ridhima Pandey, the Uttarakhand activist, and Disha Ravi into iconic figures. They will become part of the new swaraj, a life-giving imagination, for a new idea of a planetary earth. Suddenly planetary issues, from climate change to the future of farming or the fate of the tribe — each a critical human rights issue — have been defined as anti-national. The demonology being built around Thunberg and climate change is fascinating to watch. After Covid-19, India has been systematically liberalizing environmental rules, allowing corporations to play the role of birds of prey. The issue is not just that India is seeking to destroy its future; it has turned democracy and citizenship into an arid game. At a time when every school and college should be planetary, combining swadesi and swaraj, our regime is turning authoritarian to the very dreams of an alternative future and a liveable society. What the regime with its authoritarianism hates is the pedagogic power of dissent. India becomes a learning society, learning the creative power of difference. It is the regime’s illiteracy about the creative functions of dissent. Democracy needs to rework itself in the following directions. It has to go beyond liberalism and tolerance as lazy theories of difference to make plurality the centre of its imagination. To do so, one cannot look at the Disha Ravi episode anecdotally, establishing Pollyanna-like equivalents to the Greta Thunberg fairy tale. We need to see a broader trend and, maybe, like the mothers of Argentina, link all those harassed into one story — from the Urban Naxal, the university protester, to the environmental activist — into one broad conscience of memory. Civil society has to adopt Disha Ravi and Sudha Bharadwaj as prisoners of conscience. The government has harassed Amnesty International into closure, but the idea of prisoners of conscience must become a civil society agenda. It is time for democracy to reinvent itself around new dissenting and plural imaginations. The sadness is the regime has turned democracy, rights, dissent into a dismal world. Argumentative Indians must return as climate change activists and Urban Naxals to protect the rights of the planet and the fate of marginals, items of little concern to the present ruling class. The very fate of dissent has become an early warning signal about the illiteracy of the regime. Dissent as pedagogic, dialogic politics has to reinvent the tired imagination of Indian democracy today. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia civic body makes make livelihood provisions for the displaced ||Dhanbad District Administration along with Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority (JRDA) have decided to provide livelihood provisions for those displaced at the Jharia Vihar Colony, by engaging them in the construction work of quarters, market complexes, schools, colleges, hospitals and others. The provision is being made for around 5,000 families of the 595 underground fire-affected areas rehabilitated in Belgarhia, are done to make their standards of living better and address issues in connection with basic amenities like power, water and health facilities. Rehabilitation and resettlement officer of JRDA, Gulzar Anjum said, “The livelihood provisions are being  made to make the rehabilitation process all encompassing. The clause related to mandatory engagement of local labourers will be put up in the tender notice for the upcoming construction work.” The officer also informed that as per instructions from Dhanbad Deputy Director Uma Shankar Singh, the JRDA has cleared a shifting allowance of Rs 10,000 each which will be made to 47 families and such an amount will be provided to more beneficiaries. “We have also initiated the process for the pending subsistence allowance of 500 days of minimum wages to some of the residents of Belgarhia as per the Jharia master plan,” he said. Anjum added that they have launched an awareness campaign in fire-affected areas of Jharia since Tuesday, while a BCCL team along with district administration and JRDA workers held a camp in the Bhowra area on Wednesday. “Our team, during the interaction with residents of fire zones, explained the benefits of shifting to Belgharia which has better civic amenities. They also allayed their apprehensions about  loss of source of livelihood at the new place and apprised about the source of employment being generated for them,” he said further. Lack of source of livelihood has been a persistent issue for the rehabilitated families of Jharia, who are primarily engaged in scavenging coal, construction work and other such professions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||IIM Ranchi unveils  Birsa Munda Centre for Tribal Affairs ||Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ranchi has set up a dedicated centre for tribal studies and signed MoUs with two noted non-government organisations working in the field of development of adivasis in the state during a formal ceremony held at the premier business school’s building at Suchana Bhavan on Tuesday. Governor Droupadi Murmu while virtually launching the Birsa Munda Centre for Tribal Affairs (BMCTA), lauded IIM-R for venturing into the field of tribal research and studies as part of its academic responsibilities. She said, “It is our responsibility to take tribal values and make people aware of the cultural heritage of different tribes. Students can learn more about the tribal community through this centre. The government would be able to provide more development to them via this initiative. I hope that IIM Ranchi will ready students for entrepreneurship development in the state of Jharkhand. Thus, the tribal communities’ development will be preserved. Such initiatives can avoid extinction of tribes. It will also help in preserving their culture and heritage.” Other guests present at the low-key ceremony hosted at the IIM campus included Ranchi University vice-chancellor Ramesh Kumar Pandey as guest of honour, Padmashree and founder secretary of Vikash Bharti, an NGO based in Bishunpur, Gumla, vice-president of Friends of Tribal Society for Mumbai Chapter, Namita Pandya among others. Members of IIM’s board of governors on the other hand connected virtually to participate. Speaking on their new initiatives, IIM-R director Shailendra Singh explained the reason behind setting up an exclusive centre for tribals.  He said, “Tribal issues are important because tribal communities are still considered backward. The center’s vision will be to become one of the finest platforms where people can seek knowledge on tribal issues, income generation, entrepreneurship programmes, and how it can be inculcated in tribal youths. We should give development opportunities to tribal people to integrate them with society in accordance with the government of India’s vision to become Atmanirbhar Bharat.” One MoU each that was signed with Vikas Bharati and Friends of Tribal Society is to boost research fueled activities and roll out work integrated education programmes at the village levels. Vikas Bharati’s Bhagat said, “We are proud to be associated with IIM Ranchi at the right time. Sustainable development can be achieved with the help of students, and tribal people are ready. Jobs will be provided in rural areas with the help of the government.” Namita Pandya, President of Friends of Tribal Society for Mumbai Chapter, on the other hand said that IIM Ranchi’s move to sign the MOU of Ekal Abhiyaan, focuses on total integrated village primary education development. “Through the Ekal Abhiyaan programme, we are taking care of tribals for their overall development for the last 30 years,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Student ruckus over name at varsity senate meeting||Members of the students’ union raised ruckus at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University (DSPMU) on Wednesday demanding inclusion of student’s representatives in the varsity’s maiden senate meeting with the Adviasi Chatra Sangh (ACS) calling for rechristening the university after a Jharkhand personality. ACS holds four of five berths in the students’ council of the university and renaming the university after a local hero has been a long-pending demand of the ACS. On Wednesday, some members of the student body gheraoed the office of the vice chancellor Satyanarayan Munda and allegedly manhandled him. “How can you hold the senate meeting without including any member of the student’s council?” asked Sanjay Mahli, president of ACS, adding that his students’ union wanted to make the senate members aware of the growing demand of renaming the university among students. However, officials from the university said that the tenure of the students’ council had ended, and they did not have the right to participate in the meeting. “Around six student representatives attended the senate meeting today (Wednesday). Various issues related to the holistic development of the university were discussed,” said an official. In April 2017, the then BJP-led state government of chief minister Raghubar Das approved the idea of renaming Ranchi College after Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, a barrister, a politician and a former vice chancellor of Calcutta University, which marked the beginning of a political war between student bodies here. Several protest marches and signature campaigns by student unions followed soon after the recommendation was made. Tribal student bodies also handed over memorandums against the rechristening to governor Droupadi Murmu and government officials, but their pleas went unheeded. On Wednesday, governor  Murmu was supposed to attend the meeting in person. But she  eventually joined other senate members via video conferencing. With focus on improving the quality of teachers, she said that teachers not only imparted knowledge to students, but were also responsible for moulding them into responsible citizens. “The mode of education may have changed due to Covid-19 with inclusion of technology, but the basis of education remains the same – even today, teachers continue to guide society,” said Murmu. The senate meeting was delayed by over two hours following the ruckus by students. Talking about the achievements of the university, the vice chancellor said  they had the best of teachers and students had from neighbouring states like West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha had enrolled. He said that the university was consistently striving to include new courses and add more facilities for students. Around 20 items were on the agenda, mostly related to new courses, teachers’ recruitment, promotions, renovation and improvement of the library were discussed, sources present in the meeting said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI Entrepreneurship Summit 2021 goes virtual ||However, this year XES is going virtual and aims to have a bigger impact with its global outreach.  The event like every year has been initiated by its Entrepreneurship Cell (E-Cell ), a decade old institution that engages with startups across the country, the event aims to provide young entrepreneurs access to experienced mentors. It is home to XCEED, XLRI’s incubation centre. To be held from February 26 to 28, the summit will see  a multitude of events like Disrupt Business Plan, Emerging Entrepreneurs for kids, E-Cafe speaker series, Internfair, Workshops and more. Workshops to foster entrepreneurial aptitude that will also be conducted for three days from February 23, in collaboration with edu4sure. These workshops are open to all and will constitute mentors with rich experience from Google, S&P Global and the founder of edu4sure covering topics like ‘Startup valuation and investor pitch’, ‘Start-Up Ideation, Validation and Testing’ and ‘Essentials for Building and Running a Successful Start-Up’. These topics will give the budding entrepreneurs a complete walkthrough of the do’s and don’ts while building their own business. During MBA, live projects play a crucial role in exposing B-school students to real-world problems. It gives them the opportunity to experience a professional work environment. E-Cell has collaborated with startups like Sensio, Finocontrol, Spring works, eWards and Metalmann School International, among others to help students get a taste of real business issues. The projects cover a variety of domains - ranging from business development and marketing to data analytics giving XLRI students the versatility and holistic approach B-school students are known for. Its segment E-Cafe aims to take participants through the journey every entrepreneur goes through and give them an overview of what is required to be successful. With a focus being on inspiring and showcasing women entrepreneurs, the talk shows  will cover various stages of a start-up’s life cycle like ideation, setup, growth, pivoting and acquiring funding. As a part of the summit XES Disrupt B-Plan will also be organised. Disrupt is a platform for investors and mentors to find and invest in the top business ideas and startups from the student community. “ Through this platform, we hope to give the founders a push in the right direction, and the investors and mentors an avenue to discover good business plans and passionate entrepreneurs,” said a member of the Entrepreneurship Cell. Disrupt 2021 had over 1000 participants, of which the top five were chosen to be mentored by a panel of seasoned entrepreneurs. E-Cell had signed up with mentors of those growing startups such as  Pritesh Mittal (COO and Co-founder at Growisto), Sreejith Moolayil (COO and Co-founder at True Elements), Hari Ganapathy (Co-Founder at Pick Your Trail) and Srinivas Rowjee (Co-founder at Sportskeeda.com) and Manoj Sanker(Founder of Nemocare). Another event Emerging Entrepreneurs, as a part of the summit  aims to nurture bright young entrepreneurial talent by providing them a platform to explore creative solutions to tackle current world problems and give them a taste of the business world. Specifically for students from classes VIII to XII, it introduces them to entrepreneurship at a young age and provides them with a platform to explore creative solutions to tackle current world problems. “ In today’s world, it is imperative for us to provide our nation's youth with the right tools and enable them to live up to their tremendous potential. This year EE saw participation from 300 students from 48 schools across the country, with young mentors from Stanford, Wharton, and other leading global institutes. In fact, one of the mentors is already running a start-up worth $1.5 million which he started at the age of 23. In preparation for the grand finale on February 28, 10 finalists have received one to one mentorship from some of the best entrepreneurial minds at XLRI. E-Cell’s focus has been on the learning of the students and to provide them with a platform to excel,” said he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel conducts mock drill to test preparedness for emergencies||On Tuesday, Tata Steel conducted an onsite mock drill to check the company’s preparedness for chemical emergencies inside its Jamshedpur Works’ premise. The National Disaster Response Force ( NDRF ) team led by two deputy commandants were present as observers to witness the compliance of Standard Operating Procedure ( SOP) by various teams of the company. To check the response capability of various teams to a potential gas leak scenario. The  drill entailed the creation of a simulated scenario on various aspects to test the readiness of different teams like - fire brigade, medical, technical and operations. It was mainly aimed at ascertaining the compliance of SOP by various teams and reviewing the emergency preparedness plan to ensure an augmented state of preparedness for any such emergency. The NDRF observers witnessed the entire drill including exhibited skills and techniques for the management of incident and evacuation as well as rescue of the affected people from the simulated gas leakage site. Following the drill, the NDRF team debriefed the onsite emergency management team and shared the observed opportunities for improvement and learnings with them. And even appreciated the evacuation drill by Tata Steel. Significantly, Tata Steel has a robust system of emergency management and has a procedure in place to tackle any kind of safety related emergencies. The emergency management team at the company  is led by vice- presidents and has members from fire brigade, security, medical services, safety, human resources, Corporate Communications and chiefs of operations and maintenance. Significantly, the company conducts mock drill on a regular basis as part of its emergency preparedness plan. Tata Steel is one of world’s most ethical companies The company adds another feather to its cap, as Ethisphere, a global leader in defining and advancing the standards of ethical business practices recognises it as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies. Tata Steel  received this recognition in 2021 for the tenth time .This honour is reserved for a select number of companies with exceptional programmes and a commitment to advancing business integrity. T. V. Narendran, CEO and managing director , Tata Steel, said : “It is indeed an honour to be recognised by Ethisphere as one of the most ethical companies in the world. Today, for companies like Tata Steel that have a global footprint, there is a large societal responsibility and therefore following the highest level of ethical standards receives topmost priority. The robust internal systems that we have created including various policies and initiatives ensure that understanding and maintaining global and regional standards for ethical way of doing business is embraced across the company and around the world. The recognition encourages us to further our journey towards sustainable development by reemphasising our focus on the highest ethical values, environment and well-being of our people and community.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Sadar Hospital to be made into state-of-art healthcare centre||Dhanbad Sadar Hospital is all set to be made into a state of art hospital which will boast of facilities like ‑ clock emergency service, well-equipped ICU, better OPD facility, waiting halls for family members of patients, separate parking facility for two wheelers and cars and more. Established in May 2018, the hospital had been recently reviewed to understand how the healthcare centre could be bettered. The process for the upgrade has been initiated. A detailed report marking details like unused and dilapidated buildings of the old Sadar Hospital campus that could be demolished and made into new units or the equipment that could be brought in to make the patient experience better is to be chalked out by the designated consultant. The infrastructure boost of the hospital is part of district administration’s Health Vision 2024, which is being manned under the leadership of Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh. DC, Dhanbad in the recent past has played a key role in bettering healthcare facilities during the pandemic. A meeting between Singh and his team senior officials of district administration  with the health department comprising ADM (law and Order) Chandan Kumar; civil surgeon - Dr Gopal Das took place recently. Sharing the details, Singh said, “During the interaction we discussed manpower deficiency, lack in infrastructure with health department officials. During this meeting officials of the building division and Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited were also present.” “We will demolish some of the dilapidated buildings to create space for new facilities like dormitories for the patient’s family members, staff quarters, waiting hall and more,” said Singh. Elaborating on the slew of other infrastructure boosts that the Sadar Hospital would be getting soon, he said, “We are planning a better parking arrangement having several facilities for both two wheelers and four wheelers. We are also developing a children’s park in the hospital.” Notably, deputy secretary of the state health, medical education and family welfare department, Seema Udaipuri, who had recently inspected the hospital on February 17 also took stock of the ongoing developmental work of the hospital. She has assured that among other proposed facilities, an intensive care unit (ICU) has also been listed. Significantly, the hospital resumed its OPD services earlier this month, after a gap of nine months. The OPD services which were launched in the hospital last year after the construction of the hospital building were discontinued since the outbreak of Covid-19 crisis in March as the hospital was initially converted into a quarantine centre and later used to conduct Covid-19 testing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Robbers snatch away bag full of jewelleries from man||Two bike-riding men snatched a bag containing jewelleries from a jeweller after dragging him a few metres on the Domchanch-Jai Nagar Road of Koderma on Wednesday, due to which he sustained grievous injuries. Vicky Soni, owner of Neelam Jewelers in Koderma was sent to the Sadar hospital while a search operation was launched to nab the accused. Soni was near his shop with the bag when two men riding a bike tried to snatch it. However, he clutched onto the bag full of jewelleries as the bike continued to move forward, as a result of which he fell on the road and was dragged a few metres. The criminals escaped within seconds after they managed to get the bag, leaving Soni injured. Police said that the criminals had information regarding Soni’s habit of carrying his jewelleries back home and bringing them to the shop everyday. “They must have observed him well and carried out the attack as he was on foot. We are carrying raids in the area, while borders have been sealed,” an official said. It was not clear how much the jewelleries were worth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Two minor girls go missing in Adityapur, police yet to get any clue||Two minor girls aged 13 and 14 have gone missing since the past 24 hours, after they came out of their houses to attend tuition classes at Adityapur in Seraikela-Kharsawan district, leaving investigating officers clueless. Police have launched a search operation from Wednesday to look for Sonali Kumari, resident of Majhitola and Radha Sardar, resident of Tripura Colony of the Adityapur Municipal Corporation area, after one of the girls’ parents lodged a missing person report. "We got to know about the two minors missing from Adityapur area at about 10.30 pm on Tuesday. We have started searching for the girls seriously, " Adityapur Police Station OC Rajendra Prasad Mahto said. Sonali's father Dinesh Prasad said his daughter had gone for her coaching class in Adityapur at 3 pm on Tuesday like she would go every day. "My daughter did not return home by 5 pm, which was her usual time of coming home. But when she didn't return even by 7 pm, we got anxious and started to search for her," he told The Telegraph Online. Prasad who works at a factory in Adityapur industrial area said they first went over to the tuition teacher's house. "But the teacher told us that Sonali had not come to the class on Tuesday. We got more nervous and started searching for her at her friends' houses, during which we came to know that Sonali was seen with one of her friends, Radha Sardar at Adityapur in the evening. On going over to Radha's house in Murari Colony, we found that she was missing from her house too. After that I lodged a missing person report with Adityapur Police Station late on Tuesday night, " said Prasad. Mahto said they are talking to the parents of the missing girls and their close friends. He said they have circulated the girls’ photographs in railway stations, bus-stands and police stations of Seraikela-Kharsawan and adjoining districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Five of family found brutally murdered in Gumla||Five members of a tribal family including a five year old kid were found brutally murdered at their residence in Buruhatu Amtola of the Kamdara block on Wednesday, setting panic among people of Gumla. As the news came out, Gumla SP H.P. Janardhan rushed to the site to take stock of the incident. Kamdara Police, on the other hand, pressed a sniffer dog to kick-start probe into the gruesome murder. Those found dead were identified as Nikudin Toppo (60), wife Josphina Toppo (55), their son Vincent (35), daughter-in-law Shivani (30) and the elderly couple’s grandson Balwina. According to police, Nikudin, Vincent and Balwina were found hacked to death in one room while Nikudin was discovered dead at the veranda of their kutcha house. Josphina was found lying dead on the bed inside another room.  “They were hit by a rod and later hacked to death. Going by the crime scene, there was more than one criminal,” said an official, who was part of the probe team that visited the village in the morning. Police believe that the murder occurred in the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. A few villagers raised alarm early morning after spotting a body in a pool of blood. “It could be a case of some personal enmity of someone with the family, related to either land or something else. The bodies have been sent for the post mortem and further probe is on,” said the official, adding that preliminary interaction with the villagers didn’t yield much information as yet. “Many claimed that the family didn’t have any enmity with anyone in the village and that they eked out living through agriculture. But without a strong motive, no one would resort to such gruesome murder,” he said. Janardhan assured to crack the case soon. “We are probing from all possible angles using scientific methods based on the circumstantial evidence from the spot and will soon crack the case,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi achieves 84 per cent of its vaccination target||Jharkhand on Tuesday administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine to 4387 beneficiaries, while the second dose was administered to 1081 people, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The state achieved 29 per cent of its vaccination target for the first dose and 49 per cent of target for the second dose on the day. As per government data, so far, around 74 per cent of registered beneficiaries have been inoculated for the first time, while 83 per cent of the registered beneficiaries have been administered the second dose of Covishield vaccine. As per a report shared by the NHM on Tuesday, as many as 290133 healthcare workers and frontline workers have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand since January 16. As many as 15,265 people in the state have received the second dose as well. However, more than 1 lakh beneficiaries have given the first dose of the vaccine a miss. Also, around 3000 of those who took the first jab were yet to take the second jab despite being called at the vaccination centre several times. On Tuesday, Ranchi achieved 84 per cent of its vaccination target – the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi, however, has one of the lowest vaccination rate of 65 per cent in Jharkhand since the beginning of the immunization programme. As many as 655 of the 782 registered beneficiaries were inoculated here on the day. Chatra achieved the lowest vaccination rate of 5 per cent on Tuesday as only 49 of over 1100 beneficiaries turned up at the vaccination centre there. Sahebganj and Ramgarh achieved 100 per cent of their target for administering the second dose of the vaccine. At least 93 people were administered the second dose of vaccine in Ramgarh, while Sahebganj administered the jab to 43 people. Meanwhile, as many as 50 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Tuesday, while 51 Covid patients recovered, stated a bulletin from NHM. Ranchi accounted for 33 of the 50 cases and 29 of the 51 recoveries, triggering a spike in active cases here. As per the NHM report, of the 447 active cases in Jharkhand, at least 261 were from Ranchi. All the remaining 23 districts had less than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection. As per government data, as many as 119687 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far and 98.71 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Congress and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha to organise protests against rising fuel prices||Two main constituents of the ruling combine in Jharkhand — the Congress and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha — announced on Tuesday that they would organise protests against rise in fuel prices at the district level later this week. While the Congress will start their two-day protest on Friday, the JMM will do so on Sunday. The Congress, in a release issued on Tuesday, said they would bring out torchlight procession on Friday at all district headquarters across the state and follow it up by a day-long dharna the next day. “The BJP that would once start shouting at the slightest increase in fuel prices is now maintaining silence at the exorbitant rise in prices of petrol, diesel, coking gas and other essentials,” the Congress said in its release. “The Union government was not interested to encourage increase in domestic protection of crude oil as it has curtailed the budget of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC),” alleged state Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon. He added that the ONGC’s budget allocation was reduced from Rs 32,501 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 29,800 crore this year. “The people should also come forward to protest against this price rise,” he further said, adding they would soon start an awareness campaign on the issue. The JMM said it would also bring out torchlight procession at district headquarters on Sunday and would stage a day-long dharna the next day on the same issues. “The rise in prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas doesn’t stand to reason when the price of crude oil reduced in international market,” JMM secretary and spokesperson Vinod Kumar Pandey said in a statement issued on Tuesday. Describing the Narendra Modi government at the Centre as insensitive towards the agitating farmers many of whom died during their agitation, he said that their protest would also be organised for expressing their solidarity with the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
