25-02-2021||Calcutta||Low-key Puja in schools||St Xavier’s Institution, Panihati St Xavier’s Institution, Panihati, celebrated Saraswati Puja with students giving pushpanjali virtually. The traditional rituals were performed with utmost sanctity. Unlike every year, the school premises was devoid of students and parents coming together to take part in the puja. “Although this year the pandemic obstructed the entry of over 11,000 students, guardians and other invitees to the school compound to witness the puja, we at least managed to offer pushpanjali on a virtual platform. Moreover, children have adapted to the new ways of learning very quickly and are making us proud,” said headmistress Anju Banerjee. Principal Lipika Ghosh said: “When I go to a marketplace, I see that people are out on the streets as if there is no fear of Covid-19. So, I wonder why they are so afraid to send their children to school. It seems as if the virus lives in schools and nowhere else. I hope the parents understand this and agree to send their kids to school. And it goes without saying that although we did celebrate Saraswati Puja, every festivity in school is incomplete without the presence of students.” Bidya Bharati Girls’ High School observed Saraswati Puja on a virtual platform because of the pandemic. The kids’ performances had been compiled into a video clip, and then was shared with all teachers and students. The primary theme was Devi Saraswati in the old, middle and modern eras. There were speeches, Saraswati Vandana and a chorus song, presented by the students of classes V, VI and X. The participants explained the vedic system of Saraswati Puja. The programme also showcased various paintings of the idol from the time of Mughal miniature art to Mysore paintings and so on. “Goddess Saraswati symbolises knowledge. She blesses her children with wisdom. Students must respect their teachers, who guide them to acquire knowledge,” said headmistress Sharmistha Banerjee. Abhinav Bharati High School celebrated Saraswati Puja with only a few students of classes X and XII because of the pandemic. Members of the school’s managing committee, faculty and staff members were there. The celebrations continued under safety standards. No cut fruits were distributed. “We just gave a few students, who did turn up, food packets post puja. The celebrations had to be low-key this time given the pandemic. The Class XII students were disappointed to miss out all the fun in their final year. But they did look resplendent and positive as they came decked up for the festivities,” said principal Sraboni Samanta. Present and former students and faculty members of Heritage Academy High School came together to celebrate Saraswati Puja, following the Covid-19 protocols. The students were allowed to enter the school between 9am and 1pm. “Every year our school organises Saraswati Puja, but this year, owing to the pandemic, the festivities were restricted. However, it was welcome that the puja could be organised in a wonderful way, following all the necessary protocols,” said Sourya Sadhan Bose, the administrator. Students and teachers of Fun-Learn Day Boarding School welcomed spring through Saraswati vandana on a digital platform. They invoked the goddess of learning, music and arts through renditions of soulful folk songs from different parts of the country. The children donned yellow costumes and ornaments of marigold flowers to set the mood and colour of spring. They sang folk songs in Bhojpuri, Gujarati, Bengali and Rajasthani mellifluously. “Children are influenced by songs from motion pictures. So, we made it a rule that they should only sing the original folk songs. This was an education for them as they were introduced to the wealth of our Indian folk culture,” said school founder Udita Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
25-02-2021||Calcutta||Eco Park honey hits stores ||Honey collected from flower plants and fruit-bearing trees at Eco Park have hit the shelves in New Town. The 480-acre Eco Park is dotted with flower and fruit-bearing trees. The West Bengal Housing and  Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), the custodian of the New Town park, has tied up with a women’s self-help group to collect and package the honey. More than 50 bee boxes — wooden hives that have a mesh in the middle where the bees deposit the honey — have been placed at various points across the park, particularly in places where there are flower plants and trees like mango, litchi, mustard and calendula. Members of the self-help group, comprising residents of villages across Rajarhat, have been trained to raise bees by apiculture experts. “Several workshops were held last year for the villagers,” a Hidco official said. “It is a dual advantage for us. Bees not only generate honey but are also excellent pollinators. They play a big role in maintaining the health of the trees at Eco Park,” said the official. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said the honey sourced from Eco Park was on sale at the Cafe Ekante restaurants and outlets. Each bottle is priced Rs 100. According to Sen, workshops are being planned across New Town where residents will be taught how to raise bees. “Anyone interested can take home bee boxes and place them on the window ledges,” said Sen. Hidco is also looking for other venues that have favourable conditions for apiculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||Special kids excel in talent hunt||A young adult in Pittsburg played the piano and a nine-year-old girl in Asansol recited from Sukumar Ray’s Abol Tabol. Children and individuals with special needs and mental illnesses participated in an online talent hunt organised by a city NGO, which their parents said helped them to be meaningfully occupied. It made them feel accepted at a time when they have been confined to their homes, a situation that has dealt a major blow to their confidence, some parents said. Around 250 participants from India and some from outside the country took part in the two-day programme “Open the Door” — a talent hunt in singing, dancing, music, recitation and mono act — that was held online for the first time in eight years. “There are many children and individuals who feel restless with confinement and the inability to step out, something that the pandemic thrust upon them. Barely 10 per cent have accepted it while many others could not and some required constant counselling. This kind of a programme kept them occupied with rehearsals, they were excited and had something to look forward to,” said Ishita Sanyal, psychologist and founder-director of Turning Point, the NGO that organised the event. The programme helped them “connect” with the world outside their homes and believe in their “identity as individuals”, Sanyal said. The number of participants this year went up by over a 100, compared with previous years. Not just the students, but parents, too, were excited. One of them, Madhabi Chattaraj, called the organiser the day after the event to confirm if she had heard right that her daughter Priyanka had won a prize. “My daughter’s circle of friends is limited because she is not so physically agile to go out and play. Her world revolves around recitation and music. She recites even during her physiotherapy sessions and such a programme is important because it rebuilds her confidence,” her mother said. Priyanka recited from Abol Tabol. The participants included individuals like a 22-year-old student in Maryland who is majoring in music and 21-year-old Dimitri Seal, a student of hospitality management in Calcutta, who played the synthesizer. “Who does not need encouragement or acknowledgment? We all do. And as for my son, the acknowledgment helps him to push back the negative emotions that develop in him when he is unable to do something,” said Dimitri’s mother Tapasi. The performances, that were not judged through any special lens, left the judges feeling inspired because of their quality and the “self esteem” of the performers. “When we started years back, we thought that this opportunity would change their lives, but their potential and talent have changed our lives. It is so rewarding to watch all of them perform. Some of them are great performances... We find a lot of joy and excitement in discovering that some who don’t speak clearly have a beautiful sense of music and rhythm,” Sanyal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||AMRI asked to pay Rs 3 lakh compensation for keeping parents in the dark||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has asked AMRI Hospitals Mukundapur to pay Rs 3 lakh compensation to the parents of a seven-year-old boy, who had died at the hospital, after it found that the authorities did not communicate the boy’s condition to his parents properly. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said at a news conference on Wednesday that the parents were in the hospital when the condition of the boy, who suffered from Down Syndrome, turned critical. But the hospital apparently “did not counsel the parents and did not communicate the boy’s condition” to them, he said. “The family complained that the parents were in the hospital’s lounge when the child was admitted to the paediatric intensive care unit (PICU), yet the hospital did not inform them when the child passed into a critical stage,” Banerjee said. “The hospital claimed that they had counselled the child’s parents, but we did not find any documentation of the claim,” he added. The commission also asked RSV Hospital in Tollygunge to pay Rs 1 lakh as compensation to the family of a 34-year-old man, who passed away at the hospital in October. The man left behind a note where he wrote that a housekeeping employee of the hospital did not change the bed one night despite it getting wet.  “As the patient tried to urinate on his own, the bed got wet. When he requested the housekeeping employee to change the wet bed, the man refused,” said Banerjee. During Wednesday’s hearing, the hospital claimed they had terminated the service of the employee but the commission felt that the hospital could not absolve itself of all responsibilities by firing the employee. On Wednesday, the commission also asked Dr Pal’s, a hair transplant and hair loss treatment clinic in Salt Lake, to return Rs 1.04 lakh to a person, who had paid the amount to the clinic. “The 41-year-old complainant told us that he had lost hair after undergoing treatment at the clinic, instead of growth of hair,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||Livelihood crunch drives fishermen to jaws of tigers||The lure of crabs that fetch good prices is proving to be fatal for fishermen and inexperienced groups venturing deep inside the core areas of the Sunderbans to lay traps despite the risk of tiger attacks. Metro had reported how two back-to-back tiger attacks on February 17 had left two fishermen dead. With these two cases, at least 22 fishermen have reportedly been killed by tigers in the Sunderbans since January 2020, an official of the state forest department said. These, however, are official figures and actual figures may be higher. According to a forest department official, fishermen spend three to five days in the creeks to lay traps to catch crabs. “Once they return, they can sell their catch for Rs 30,000-40,000 in the wholesale market. The groups generally comprise five or six people. Sometimes three of them venture out on small rowboats to collect crabs,” said the official. The Covid pandemic has doubled the hardships and many people have become dependent on the forests for their livelihood. Many of them are venturing deep into the tiger territory, risking their lives, to catch fish and crabs every day. Licensed boats are allowed to fish in the rivers in the mangrove delta but venturing into the forests and shallow creeks is prohibited. The creeks draw fishermen because of crabs. But they are extremely dangerous because tigers often venture into these creeks. Soumen Roy, a resident of Kultali, was mauled by a tiger deep inside the Pirkhali forest and Atul Baidya was attacked by a tiger in the forests of Benefeli. Both had ventured deep into the core area of the mangroves where fishing is prohibited. A senior forest department official said directives were given to the fishermen on a regular basis. “We have time and again held awareness camps. We ask fishermen not to moor their boats in the creeks and get down to lay traps as that is when they are vulnerable to tiger attacks. However, the attraction of higher earnings leads them to venture deep inside the core areas,” said the official. Tempers, however, are frayed in the region because of the series of deaths. Forest department officials have been holding meetings with panchayat pradhans, members of the joint forest management committee and villagers from the Sunderbans asking them not to harm tigers if they spot one. According to Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve, regular boat patrols are conducted in the core areas and fishing boats found moored along the creeks are asked to move away. “We actively discourage them but the lure of money is too high and they are fully aware of the risks involved,” said Das. Awareness campaigns in the villages will be held where fishermen will be asked not to go into core areas, he said. Migrant youths who had returned home during the lockdown opted for fishing and are desperate to earn a living, villagers said. It is a challenge for a boat with around five personnel to keep a tab when hundreds of fishermen venture out, an official said. “There is no denying that several boats manage to enter the creeks in the core areas.” “We have taken up awareness drives among fishermen, urging them not to risk their lives and to try alternative sources of income like apiculture (bee-keeping for honey), but it appears that the lure of the earnings that crabs fetch is stronger,” an official said. Metro had reported on Wednesday that a patrol vessel equipped with searchlights was deployed by the forest department on Tuesday to prevent fishermen from entering and mooring their boats deep inside the Sunderbans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||Car ride to gauge women’s safety||A woman from Kerala is touring the country in a car to gauge how safe India is for women. Nidhi Sosa Kurian, 33, is stopping by farmlands, fishing villages, temples and markets — wherever she can interact with other women. Emerging out of the informal meetings are many stories of grit, determination and perseverance which Kurian hopes to retell the world in the future. Kurian left her hometown, Kochi, on February 7 in a Renault KWID. She has already covered close to 3,700km, driving across places like Puducherry, Chennai, Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Puri and Bhubaneswar before entering Calcutta on February 20. She intends to complete her 25,000km journey in 100 days. Kurian starts driving early and tries to reach a destination before evening. She spends nights at youth hostels, sometimes at hotels booked via an online aggregator. In Calcutta, she is living with her relatives in Ekbalpore. Much of her journey centres around “exploring a place and its women”, ranging from a woman idol maker in Kumartuli to an artist in Odisha whose canvas is the coconut shell. “There are so many stories that are worth telling. I have met so many fascinating women,” said Kurian, the creative head of a movie production house. In Andhra Pradesh, she spent time with fisher-women who “toil hard from dawn to dusk”. “After collecting fish from a harbour, they bring the catch home to dry it under the sun. They are also the ones who sell it in the market,” said Kurian. Days before entering Calcutta, she encountered a group of women at a mustard field off a highway in Odisha. The women, who were carrying lunch for their men tilling the farmlands, had invited Kurian for lunch. “They even packed me some food; complete strangers but full of warmth and hospitality,” said Kurian. She had also stopped by a village of artists painting on coconut shells where “every house is like a mini handicraft gallery”. One of the artists was a woman, the only earning member of her family. An “aged woman” who runs a small sweet shop outside Puri’s Jagannath temple has also left a lasting impression on Kurian. “Her husband is dead. She lives alone and works hard for a living. But her appetite for life is amazing,” said Kurian. Kurian has a fairly lengthy stop in Calcutta, though this is her third visit to the city. She has already visited Kumartuli. On Wednesday, she drove to Santiniketan. Kurien carries basic kitchen equipment, including a 5kg cylinder, in the boot of her car. She usually cooks a Spartan meal of rice and dal or some curry. “I am not on a food trip but in Calcutta, I have made an exception. The street food here is the best and I will sample some,” said Kurien. She will leave Calcutta this weekend, heading to the Northeast. Himachal Pradesh, Kashmir, Punjab, Delhi and Rajasthan are the next few stops. Kanyakumari is going to be the last destination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||Cocaine trail leads to seat-for-cash claim||A senior police officer said the probe into the cocaine case has led them to evidence that suggests an associate of BJP leader Rakesh Singh had promised Pamela Goswami and a man tickets in the upcoming Assembly elections if they paid Rs 2 crore each. The officer of the city police said a purported meeting had been fixed between the two and a central minister who was in the city on Friday, the day Goswami, a leader of the BJP’s youth wing, was arrested for alleged possession of cocaine. The police have contacted the man and prima facie found that his version matched that of Goswami regarding the promised ticket, a police source said. The police on Wednesday submitted a prayer before court seeking permission to record the statement of the second “ticket aspirant” as one of the “prime witnesses” in this case, sources said. If the prayer is granted, the person will have to appear before a magistrate and get his statement recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC — which is considered as “primary evidence” in court of law. The police have submitted a similar prayer for recording the statement of another “witness”, whose identity has been kept under wraps for security reasons. The police have yet to ascertain whether there had been any financial transaction over the promised ticket or whether the Union minister was aware of such an offer. Asked about the alleged cash-for-seats offer, the Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said: “It is a deep-rooted conspiracy by the police to project the BJP in a bad light ahead of the polls. The allegations are absolutely baseless. One doesn’t get tickets like that in the BJP. Election tickets aren’t sold in our party. There is a proper process. Moreover, why would we give tickets to any Tom, Dick or Harry.” Along with Rakesh Singh, who has been booked for alleged direct complicity in the cocaine case, the police have arrested one of his suspected associates named Jitender Singh in connection with the case. Jitender is suspected to be one of the two linkmen who had allegedly lured Goswami into  believing that she was being taken to meet the minister. The other associate, who Goswami had purportedly said was inside the car but fled once the police arrived, was at large till late on Wednesday evening. Rakesh and Jitender both were produced in the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Court in Alipore on Wednesday and remanded in police custody till March 1. They have been booked under the NDPS Act. If convicted, they can be jailed for up to 20 years. Rakesh’s sons, Saheb and Subham, who were arrested for allegedly preventing public servants from performing their duty when the police had gone to search their Orphangunge house on Tuesday, were produced in another court in Alipore and granted bail against a personal bond of Rs 5,000 each. Goswami and two others, who were arrested last Friday and are in police custody, will be produced in court again on Thursday. Sources said the police would again seek her custody so that she and Rakesh could be questioned together. According to a statement by Goswami to the police, the man who was apparently taking her to meet the central minister had asked the driver to stop the vehicle on NR Avenue in New Alipore. The other person who was also allegedly promised a ticket was expected to join them there, the police said. “The man who was apparently taking her to the minister was on the front seat of the car. Her (Goswami) statement mentioned that the moment they parked the car, the man stepped out on the pretext of calling up the minister’s personal assistant. She said he was speaking in his mother tongue and so she was unable to follow the conversation. Minutes later, the police arrived and this man fled, she has claimed,” said an investigator. On analysing call details of the man (who is still at large), the police have found that he was speaking with Jitender Singh and not with anyone related to the minister. Jitender Singh was arrested with Rakesh Singh on Tuesday night while the BJP leader was allegedly trying to flee to Bihar. Rakesh Singh’s lawyers blamed the police in court for the “illegal act” of searching his home and arresting him when he was “ready to cooperate”. The prosecution said the fact that he was fleeing the city proved his complicity and involvement in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||New Market traders to distribute leaflets to shoppers||Traders in the New Market area will distribute leaflets containing their demands to shoppers and others on Thursday in an attempt to build opinion against encroachment of roads and footpaths by hawkers, the traders said on Wednesday. This is the first time traders in the central Calcutta shopping hub are taking their protests against encroachment to the general public. The leaflets say the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and the police have to find out a solution to the problem. On Wednesday, about 500 traders joined a march that wound its way through Lindsay Street, Bertram Street, Humayun’s Place, Chowringhee Road and returned to Lindsay Street before going past the main gate of the CMC. “There was no slogan. We carried banners and posters that had our demands written on them. We will again organise a rally tomorrow and go to the CMC. We have written to the municipal commissioner saying we want to meet him on Thursday. We will go the CMC headquarters and try to meet him and convey our grievances to him,” said Rajeev Singh, the general secretary of the Joint Traders Federation, the umbrella body of traders at SS Hogg Market, Shreeram Arcade, Simpark Mall, Treasure Island and other markets and standalone shops in the area. The shopowners have also planned to meet the deputy commissioner of police (central) on Friday and narrate their difficulties to him. “We have also decided that we will distribute leaflets among the common people, shoppers and other pedestrians in the area. They must know why we are agitating and that our demands are not unjustified,” Singh said. The traders are demanding that the administration fix the size of the dala (the space occupied to display wares) of hawkers who are allowed to do business. The ones who are barred from doing business should not be allowed to occupy any part of a road or a pavement. They are also demanding that hawkers be barred from packing their wares in plastic and tying them to the walls of the markets at night. “If a fire breaks out at night, the plastic will fuel the flames and the markets will be destroyed,” a trader said. Another demand is that the roads be kept free of hawkers so that ambulances, fire brigade vehicles and customers’ cars can move unhindered. The state government had in 2018 framed hawker rules that barred hawkers from displaying their wares on a road. Violation of the rule is the norm in the New Market area. Hawkers freely display their goods by occupying parts of Bertram Street, Lindsay Street, Humayun’s Place and other roads. A leader of the hawkers said there had been a rise in the number of mobile hawkers, who do not sit at any place but hang their wares from their neck and shoulders. “Most of the youths lost their jobs during the lockdown. But there is no increase in the number of hawkers who hawk on footpaths,” he said. The traders, however, alleged that the numbers of hawkers on pavements and roads had increased so much that even the gates of markets and entry to standalone shops would get blocked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid report must for fliers from 4 states||The Bengal government has made it mandatory from February 27 for all passengers arriving on flights from Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana to have a negative report of the RT-PCR test for Covid-19 before boarding the aircraft. The test has to be performed within 72 hours before the departure of a flight. In a letter to the civil aviation ministry on Wednesday, the state government said the decision was taken because of the increasing number of Covid cases in these states. “In view of the increasing trend of Covid cases in the states of Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana, this is to inform you that the State Government has decided that from 12 noon of 27th February, 2021, all passengers coming to West Bengal from the aforesaid 4 states shall mandatorily carry a Covid negative RT-PCR report for such test conducted within 72 hours of flight departure,” read a letter from Bengal's home secretary H.K. Dwivedi to civil aviation secretary P.S. Kahrola. Calcutta now has three-days-a-week flights from Mumbai. From Kochi in Kerala and Bangalore in Karnataka, there are daily flights to the city. Officials at the Calcutta airport said 19 to 20 flights arrive from Bangalore daily on an average, while three come from Kochi. From Mumbai, flights arrive three days a week with 19 to 20 flights each day. Flights arrive three days a week from Pune, with four flights each day. “We have informed all airlines about the state government's decision,” said an official of the Calcutta airport. Flight operations to Calcutta from six cities that had a high Covid prevalence had remained suspended since July 6 following a request from the state government. From September 1, the state government allowed flights to arrive from these cities three days a week. Now, flights from these cities are arriving on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. “We don’t want to put a ban on flights at this stage. So, getting a Covid negative report is the best option given the fresh surge in cases in these states,” said a state government official. Since Monday, international passengers arriving from Gulf countries, the UK, Europe, South Africa and Brazil are being made to undergo the RT-PCR test for Covid after arriving at the airport even though they tested negative before boarding the flight. The decision was taken by the health ministry in the wake of mutant variants of SARS-CoV2 having been detected in several countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||Kasba school shut after teacher tests positive for Covid||A school in Kasba has been closed indefinitely after a teacher tested positive for Covid. The teacher of Kasba Chittaranjan High School, who underwent the test at a private facility on Tuesday, had been visiting the campus since the resumption of in-person classes on February 12. As he informed headmaster Anindya Chattopadhyay about the test report, the school authorities in consultation with the education department decided to shut down the campus till the situation improved. Schools across Bengal, which had shut down in March last year as a precaution against Covid, reopened for students of Classes IX to XII on February 12 following a nod from the state government. Students of Classes XI and XII of Chittaranjan High School have been asked to undergo tests for Covid as the humanities teacher who tested positive gave lectures to them. The teacher is under home isolation. An official of the education department said the school had been asked to take students of the two classes to a government hospital to undergo the tests. “We plan to take them to the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital for the tests on Thursday. A guardian can take his ward to a private hospital,” headmaster Chattopadhyay said. Students of Classes IX and X could also be asked to get themselves tested. “But as those who are in Classes XI and XII came in immediate contact with the teacher, they have been asked to get tested at once,” he said. An official of the department said two more teachers had been running a temperature and not been going to the school since Tuesday. “The teachers, too, must undergo the test,” said the official. Asked about the two teachers, the headmaster said he did not have any such information. A team from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation went to the school to sanitise the campus. The closure at the school in Kasba has triggered uncertainty across institutions. The headmaster of a school in south Calcutta said the reopening of schools was a must for the Class XII students as they will write the higher secondary practical exams from March 10. Till in-person classes resumed, they did not have the bare minimum hands-on training for the tests. “Now, if guardians get scared and refuse to send their children to school, the Class XII students will suffer the most. How will they appear in the practicals? Some of the guardians have already got jittery,” he said. A teacher wondered whether it was prudent to resume in-person instructions for the students of Classes IX to XI. “We wanted the schools to be reopened only for the students of Class XII science stream,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 258 points to close at 51,039||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 258 points and the Nifty reclaimed the 15,000 mark on Thursday, tracking gains in Reliance Industries, Axis Bank and TCS amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 257.62 points or 0.51 per cent higher at 51,039.31. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 115.35 points or 0.77 per cent to 15,097.35. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 5 per cent, followed by NTPC, Reliance Industries, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank and PowerGrid. On the other hand, ICICI Bank, Nestle India, L&T, Kotak Bank and Titan were among the laggards. "Domestic equities rebounded for the third consecutive day with Nifty crossing 15,000 levels again. A strong cue from global equities followed by favourable comments from Fed Chairman Powell in his second day testimony supported market rally," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities.Barring FMCG, all key sectoral indices ended in green with metal index remaining an outlier. Financials, auto and pharma indices recorded gains to the tune of 1 per cent. Notably, midcap and smallcap stocks outperformed broader indices sharply as improved visibility of earnings recovery attracted investors to this space, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.50 per cent higher at USD 66.51 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
25-02-2021||Business||RBI: Centre, states must act together to tackle rising fuel prices||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das on Thursday said there is a need for coordinated action between the centre and state governments to reduce taxes on petrol and diesel prices. "There is a need for coordinated action between the centre and the states because there are inherent taxes levied by both, the governor said," adding that calibrated reduction of taxes is important. He, however, said both the centre and the state governments have their revenue pressures and they are required to spend high sums of money to enable the country and the people to come out of the COVID-19 pandemic stress. "So the revenue requirement and the compulsion of the governments are fully understood. But having said that the impact on inflation also is something, which comes in from the fact that petrol and diesel prices do have an impact on the cost of manufacturing, production," the Governor said at an event organised by Bombay Chamber of Commerce. On the central bank's digital currency, Das said a lot of work is going on internally in the RBI and some broad guidelines and approach papers will be released on it soon. The governor said RBI has certain concerns on crypto currencies and it has already been communicated to the government. He said RBI is looking into strengthening the regulatory architecture for asset reconstruction companies (ARCs). "(We are) refining and further upgrading the regulatory architecture in respect of the ARCs to ensure that they have a skin in the game, and they are very much in business is receiving a lot of attention from us," Das said. On setting up of ARC for non-performing asset (NPA) management, as announced in the Budget 2021, he said, (in) no way will it jeopardise the activity of the existing ARCs The governor said there is growing realisation and awareness among banks to dealing with bad assets and they are proactively making provision in their books for stressed assets. He said RBI has sharpened and deepened its supervisory methods and is doing deep dive into areas of banking which were not done earlier. "We have a precise idea of build-up of stressed assets in banks and as soon as we see a sign of stress, we immediately enter into a discussion with the banks and proactively deal with the problems," he said. Das also asked public and private sector banks to improve their credit appraisal processes and take measures to stop ever-greening of loans. He emphasised that the country's financial sector currently is in a far much better place than it was earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
25-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points in the opening session on Thursday tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Infosys amid massive buying by foreign institutional investors. A positive trend in global markets also supported the upmove, traders said. The 30-share BSE index was trading 528.28 points or 1.04 per cent higher at 51,309.97. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 161.45 points or 1.08 per cent up at 15,143.45. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, ONGC, Kotak Bank, SBI, HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Infosys. On the other hand, Nestle India, Asian Paints, HUL and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 1,030.28 points or 2.07 per cent higher at 50,781.69, and Nifty zoomed 274.20 points or 1.86 per cent to end at 14,982. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth a whopping Rs 28,739.17 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. "In this volatile market, where dips and bounce backs are sharp, the directional trend is upwards. The 'higher highs' and 'higher lows' indicate the long-term bullish trend, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The fundamental reason for this trend, which is global, is the abundant liquidity available in the global financial system and the Fed's declared commitment to keep liquidity flowing and maintaining interest rates at historical lows, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.17 per cent higher at USD 66.29 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
25-02-2021||Business||Bosch to invest 100 million euros in India||Bosch Home Appliances on Wednesday said it would invest 100 million euros in India to scale IoT-based product solutions and generate new employment opportunities. The company will invest the amount over the next 3-4 years towards personalising solutions, brand-building, strengthening its technology centre and setting up a robust refrigerator factory to bring its German technology to India, a press release said. In the coming years, Bosch would focus on connectivity with its IoT-based product solutions, strengthen its entry-level portfolio, introduce relevant global products and new digital business models for customer value (D2C), it said. Appliances hold potential The household appliances market in India is expected to grow at 14.5 per cent annually (CAGR 2018-2022), resulting in a market volume of $2,028 million by 2022, the company said. Bosch India expects its business in this sector to grow significantly. “We’d like to maintain our premium brand imagery and want to remain the consumers’ first choice backed by innovation and technology as our key pillars at BSH Household Appliances and we are constantly working towards simplifying the day- to-day lives of consumers by re-inventing and regionalising solutions, including branded detergents for washing machines and dishwashers,” said Neeraj Bahl, MD and CEO, BSH Household Appliances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
25-02-2021||Business||Improvement in macroeconomic conditions to alleviate banking sector stress: S&P||S&P Global Ratings on Wednesday said an improvement in the macroeconomic conditions is likely to alleviate the stress on India’s banking sector. It said the Indian government’s strong efforts to shield banks from the Covid-19 pandemic have largely been successful, but a hit from the pandemic is inevitable. “While the Indian economy is on a mend, the permanent GDP loss stemming from the brunt of the coronavirus is huge at 10 per cent. We estimate the banking system's weak loans are at 12 per cent of gross loans,” S&P said in a statement. An improvement in India’s macroeconomic conditions is likely to alleviate stress for the country’s banking sector, said S&P. India’s economic risk trend is stable and credit risk remains very high for Indian banks. “These banks hold elevated levels of stressed corporate assets and, despite new foreclosure laws, progress on their resolution has been slow. The pandemic-induced downcycle has delayed the improvement in asset quality for Indian banks. Small and midsize enterprises (SME) have been hit hardest, followed by retail loans, especially unsecured loans,” S&P added. Steps by the government and the Reserve Bank of India, including an emergency credit guarantee scheme for SMEs, are likely to lessen the stress. The Union budget announcement for fiscal 2022 also includes plans to establish an asset reconstruction company and the strengthening of the National Company Law Tribunal framework. “These measures could benefit banks by ensuring that management resources are not spent on recoveries of weak assets. That said, India’s challenge has always been on the execution front,” it added. S&P expects earnings of Indian banks to gradually recover from the weak base of past few years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
25-02-2021||Business||Sensex zooms 1,030 pts in extended session following technical glitch at NSE||The Sensex on Wednesday soared 1030.28 points on an unprecedented day that saw the trading hours extended till 5 pm after a technical glitch at the National Stock Exchange (NSE) froze activities on the country’s largest bourse for the greater part of the day. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has asked the NSE to probe the halt and submit its report at the earliest. The development left traders high and dry as they had to rush to square off their positions — on the eve of the monthly F&O (forward and options) expiry. There have been such instances in the past as well: in June 2020, the exchange had suffered disruption. At that time, its the prices in the bank option segment were not reflecting on the terminal linked to the exchange. Similarly, in September 2019, its system faced a trading outage as investors were unable to place orders in the final minutes of the trade. Earlier in the day at around 10 am, dealers said that the tickers of indices such as the Nifty were not updating. The exchange halted trading at 11.40am. NSE blamed the glitch on the links of its telecom service providers. “The NSE has multiple telecom links with two service providers ... and we have received communication from both the telecom service providers that there are issues with their links due to which there is an impact on NSE system. We are working on restoring the systems as soon as possible. In view of the above, all the segments have been closed at 11.40am and will be restored as soon as the issue is resolved,’’ it said in a statement in the morning. What intrigued investors and the market regulator was that the NSE did not migrate to its disaster recovery site even after the glitch. Sebi said that it has asked the bourse to explain the reasons for trading not migrating to the disaster recovery site. The market regulator added that while the “trading halt” continued till 3.30pm, given the exceptional situation arising out of this outage, it was decided to extend the trading hours from 3.30pm to 5pm. Due to the glitch, some of the traders settled their positions on the BSE which resulted in its turnover rising. Data from the bourse showed the turnover rising to Rs 40,698 crore compared with Rs 4,520.58 crore on Tuesday. However, after trading resumed in the extended hours, there was a strong rally that saw the Sensex zooming 1030.28 points and the Nifty over 270 points on Wednesday, following strong buying in financial stocks. The NSE Nifty settled 274.20 points or 1.86 per cent higher at 14982. Similarly, the Sensex ended 1030.28 points or 2.07 per cent higher at 50781.69. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 5 per cent, followed by the HDFC twins, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and SBI. “The technical glitch did not impact domestic market sentiment though volatility was high with a positive prejudice, in the first session. During the extra session, the market gathered more strength and hugely outperformed the global peers, triggered by squaring-off F&O positions a day ahead of the pre-fixed monthly expiry date. The global market was mixed, not very convinced that world central banks like the FED will maintain a flexible monetary policy even during rising bond yield & inflation,” Vinod Nair Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
25-02-2021||Business||Finance ministry permits all private banks to handle govt business ||All private sector banks will be allowed to handle government-related banking transactions such as the collection of taxes, pension payments and small savings schemes, the finance ministry announced on Wednesday. “Embargo lifted on the grant of government business to private banks. All banks can now participate,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a tweet. Earlier all PSU banks and three private sector banks — ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank — were allowed to handle the transactions. Now, all private sector lenders such as Kotak Mahindra Bank, Federal Bank, IndusInd Bank and Yes Bank can offer the services. It is not yet clear if the doors of small savings scheme such as the National Savings Certificate (NSC) have been thrown open to the banks. Officials said the details would be notified by the Reserve Bank of India. The government business includes the payment of pension, collection of taxes (both direct and indirect) , maintaining certain government investment schemes such as Public Provident Fund, Sukanya Samriddhi Account, National Pension Scheme accounts, state treasury accounts as well as maintaining departmental accounts of ministries. According to the Central Pension Accounting Office under the Union finance ministry, all PSU banks and ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank can deal with the pension accounts of civil pensioners (other than railways, post and telecommunication and defence). They can also handle the accounts of MPs and the judges of the high court and Supreme Court. Opening up of the government business will allow more private banks to participate. Ananth Narayan, associate professor, SPJIMR, said the central and state government fund flows were quite substantial — across tax collections, expenditures and businesses of public sector enterprises. “It should open up this business to all banks, and the competition should help give better cash management solutions to the government and PSUs.” “It will lead to competition. However, not sure how remunerative this business is even though volumes are large. Should remember that the same volume will be distributed across more banks… important to see if tenders are used for giving this business,” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said. Speaking to The Telegraph, V.G. Kannan, former chief executive of the Indian Banks Association (IBA), said the announcement will also benefit existing customers of these banks in services such as the payment of taxes. At present, they had to route it through other “approved” banks. Harsh Roongta, founder Fee Only Investment Advisers, said such services should not be the stranglehold of a few entities. Opening up will lead to more competition. The All India Bank Employees Association criticised the move. “PSU banks’ social banking obligations have the cost. Lesser rate of interest on agriculture loans, education loans or for MSMEs come at a cost to the banks. The government’s business to these banks helps in cross-subsidisation of the cost.” If the government distributes its business to private banks, the ability of public sector banks to lend to weaker and priority sectors on concessional rates of interest will become difficult, the union said. With inputs from Calcutta & Mumbai Bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
25-02-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India allays yield rise fears||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday said there would be sufficient liquidity in the system and the apex bank would conduct the government’s borrowing programme in an orderly fashion as he sought to assuage the bond markets jittery mood over the government’s gargantuan expenditure appetite outlined in the budget. Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond have been well over 6 per cent since the budget. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced a greater-than-expected borrowings for the rest of this fiscal and the next financial year. Moreover, the RBI’s move to normalise the cash reserve ratio (CRR) has not gone down well with the markets. However, the central bank has maintained the system liquidity will remain comfortable and the CRR normalisation will open up space for a variety of market operations to inject additional liquidity. The rising bond yields have led to fears that it will lead to mark-to-market losses for banks. On Wednesday, in an interview to a TV channel, Das again tried to look for support from the bond markets. “After the monetary policy committee (MPC) meet, I had very clearly said we will ensure that there is a non-disruptive borrowing, which will take place. I would like to assure the markets that what we are looking at an orderly evolution of the yield curve,” he said. “When it falls off the track, as the central bank and as the debt manager of the government, the RBI will obviously take whatever policy measures are required.” “However, liquidity will continue to be sufficient, we will make available liquidity at the appropriate times and we will see that the borrowing programme goes through in a very orderly manner,’’ he said. OMO role Das pointed out that in this fiscal year the central bank bought Rs 3 lakh crore of bonds through open market operations (OMOs) that has tamped down yields. Considering the government’s borrowing programme of the next financial year, there is no reason why it should curtail its open market operations. He added that other relaxation given by the central bank on the HTM front has effectively opened up space for another Rs 4 lakh crore of liquidity. The RBI has extended the time frame for bank statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) holdings in the HTM (held to maturity) category by one more year till March 31, 2023. HTM is a category of investment by banks in bonds which do not have to be marked to market with the current rates, protecting the balance sheet of banks from any valuation hits. Das said the RBI has certain major concerns about cryptocurrency and this has been communicated to the central government. On the central bank digital currency, he said it was a work in progress. On the Centre’s plan to privatise certain PSU banks, he said the RBI was concerned with the fit and proper criteria that the new owner should meet. The RBI is also keen that the bank after takeover is well capitalised and the new promoter has enough financial strength to significantly capitalise the banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
25-02-2021||Business||Suzuki Motor Corp chairman Osamu Suzuki announces retirement||Suzuki Motor Corp’s 91-year old chairman, Osamu Suzuki, announced he will retire in June, stepping aside for a new leader to navigate the shift to electric cars and fight off competition from tech firms such as Tesla and Apple. The chairman, after heading the company for more than four decades that his wife’s grandfather founded, is leaving his son Toshihiro Suzuki, already president and CEO, to hold the reins of the company. Osamu told reporters on Wednesday he decided to retire after the company welcomed its 100th anniversary last year and the approval of its new management plan. But he said he will “remain active” as an adviser. “I will neither run away nor hide,” the patriarch said, who has repeatedly declared in the past he will be a “lifelong non-retiree”. The company also announced on Wednesday it will invest one trillion yen ($9.45 billion), mostly on electrification technology, over five years. The younger Suzuki said the company needed to respond to a global push towards lower emissions. “Carbon neutral is the focus now. Suzuki must not fall behind this global trend,” he said. The announcement by Japan’s fourth-biggest automaker comes less than a week after rival Honda Motor appointed a new CEO, who said he would consider alliances to make bold decisions. Carmakers, particularly smaller players such as Suzuki, are seen at a disadvantage due to the huge cost of developing EVs and technologies such as autonomous driving. Suzuki, alongside other automakers such as Mazda and Subaru, tied up with Toyota in 2019 to slash development and manufacturing costs. Osamu Suzuki, who joined Suzuki Motor in 1958, became president in 1978 and doubled as chairman in 2000. During his tenure, the company solidified its presence as the top maker of compact cars. He spearheaded the company’s decision to enter its key Indian market in 1983. Maruti Suzuki India Ltd, in which the carmaker owns a majority stake , is the top player in the country, selling every second car in the country. In 2016, Suzuki stepped down as CEO to take responsibility for the firm’s use of incorrect testing methods to calculate vehicle mileage but he remained chairman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
25-02-2021||Business||Govt extends PLI scheme to domestic pharma manufacturing||The government on Wednesday extended the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to the domestic manufacturing of pharmaceuticals and production of laptops, tablets, all-in-one personal computers and servers. This is expected to result in an investment of Rs 15,000 crore in the pharma sector and Rs 7,350 crore in the IT hardware sector. For IT hardware, the scheme is expected to lead to production worth Rs 3.26 lakh crore and exports worth Rs 2.45 lakh crore in four years. In the pharma sector, it would result in total incremental sales of Rs 2.94 lakh crore and incremental exports worth Rs 1.96 lakh crore  in six years, from 2022-23 to 2027-28. “The allocations for the scheme will be divided in three categories. Group A includes applicants with global manufacturing revenue (FY 2019-20) of pharmaceutical goods of Rs 5,000 crore and above. Group B will be those having revenue of Rs 500-5000 crore, while Group C will be those having less than Rs 500 crore revenue,” Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters after the Cabinet meeting. Allocations worth Rs 11,000 crore have been earmarked for Group A, Rs 2,250 crore for Group B and Rs 1,750 crore for the relatively small players in Group C. The PLI scheme is an effort to make the industry globally competitive and geared towards the production of high-value drugs, leveraging  India’s position as a country which already exports low-cost pharma goods to more than 200 nations. Based on the initial success of the PLI scheme for mobile phones and specified electronic components, 10 target sectors along with specific product lines having high growth potential were identified by Niti Aayog for the implementation of PLI schemes. Total incremental sales of Rs 2,94,000 crore and total incremental exports of Rs 1,96,000 crore are estimated during six years from 2022-23 to 2027-28. The scheme is expected to generate 1 lakh jobs both skilled and un-skilled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
25-02-2021||Business||Reliance Industries invites bids from buyers of coal gas ||Reliance Industries on Wednesday sought bids from the buyers of coal gas produced from its CBM blocks in Madhya Pradesh at a minimum price of about $6 at the current oil price. It sought bids for 0.82 million standard cubic metres per day of gas from the Sohagpur coal-bed methane (CBM) block, according to the offer notice. Bids have been sought for the supply of gas for one year beginning April 1, 2021. The gas can be used in industries as as well as by city operators to supply CNG to automobiles and piped cooking gas to households. Users have been asked to quote a percentage of Brent crude oil price they will be willing to pay for the gas. Reliance set 9.5 per cent of Brent rate as the base or minimum price and asked bidders to “enter bids that are higher than or equal to it”. At the current price of Brent crude at $65 per barrel, the price of gas produced from coal seams, called CBM, comes to $6.17 per million British thermal unit (mBtu). “A bidder shall be required to quote the variable denoted as ‘V’ in percentage terms as a positive number” of the dated Brent price, the notice said. Gas price will be “higher of (V per cent) x Dated Brent; or PPAC Price”, it said. PPAC price refers to the rate the government fixes every six months for gas produced mostly by state-owned firms such as ONGC. That price for the six months ending March 31, 2021 is $1.79 per mBtu. Reliance started commercial gas production from the CBM blocks in March 2017 and reached the peak of 3 mmscmd before the end of 2018. CBM is natural gas stored or absorbed in coal seams and contains 90-95 per cent methane.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
25-02-2021||Business||Coal India shares end 5.51 per cent up on BSE||Coal India shares ended 5.51 per cent up on the Bombay Stock Exchange on Wednesday after the public sector miner informed the bourses on Tuesday that a second interim dividend for 2020-21 could be under consideration. A meeting of the board of directors of the company will be held on March 5, 2021 to consider and approve the payment of a second interim dividend for the fiscal. It has fixed March 16, 2021, as the “record date” for the purpose of payment of a second interim dividend on equity shares for the financial year 2020-21. The stock had reached an intraday high of Rs 149.90 on the BSE before closing at Rs 144.75 a piece. The board of Coal India last November had approved the payment of interim dividend at Rs 7.50 per share of face value Rs 10. Coal India’s total paid-up capital is Rs 6,162.73 crore. The government, being the promoter, holds 66.13 per cent as of the quarter ended December 2020 and is a major beneficiary of the dividend payout. In the last five years, the public sector miner has paid a total dividend in excess of Rs 55,000 crore. Several brokerages remain bullish on Coal India despite e-auction realisations and volume growth remaining under pressure. With power demand showing signs of improvement, volumes are expected to recover in 2021-22. “Coal India can tide over the current situation given its large cash position,” Motilal Oswal Research said in a report. Between April 2020 and January 2021, Coal India has produced 453.3 million tonnes (mt) of coal, recording a production growth of 0.4 per cent over the corresponding period of the previous year. Offtake of coal during the period was 462.9mt down 2.2 per cent over the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
25-02-2021||India||Mumbai reports 1,145 new infections in 24 hours; total 8702  new discoveries in Maharashtra||Maharashtra continued to report over 8,000 coronavirus cases for the second consecutive day on Thursday, which pushed its overall infection count to 21,29,821, a health official said. The state reported 8,702 cases on Thursday, while this number was 8,807 on Wednesday. With 56 deaths reported during the day, the state's fatality count went up to 51,993. A total of 3,744 patients were discharged during the day after recovery, which took the count of such persons to 20,12,367. The number of active cases is now 64,260, the official said. Since Wednesday, Mumbai, Akola, Pune, Nagpur and Nashik divisions have been witnessing a spike in single-day infection count, he added. Mumbai city reported 1,145 cases on Thursday, which took its cumulative figure to 3,22,844. Five persons died due to the infection in the metropolis, which pushed the toll to 11,463. With this, Mumbai division, which comprises the city and its satellite towns, reported 1,976 coronavirus cases, increasing the tally to 7,20,293. Its fatality figure now stands at 19,802, he said. With 864 new cases, Nagpur city ranked second in the state in terms of daily cases. Nagpur division has so far reported 2,23,178 cases, while the fatality count has increased to 4,805, he said. With several school children testing positive for the infection in Satara district, the daily count of cases jumped to 112. Other areas in Pune division, including Pune city, neighbouring industrial township of Pimpri Chinchwad and other parts of the district have reported a rise in the number of cases. Pune division recorded 1,734 new cases during the day, taking the tally to 5,21,305, while the fatality count stood at 11,727. Nashik division has so far reported 2,88,821 cases and 5,230 deaths, Kolhapur division 1,19,512 cases and 4,062 deaths, Aurangabad division 79,298 cases and 2,042 deaths, Latur division 85,433 cases and 2,515 deaths and Akola division 91,835 cases and 1,724 deaths. With 84,814 tests conducted during the day, the overall test count in the state reached 1,60,26,587. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 21,29,821, new cases: 8,702, death toll: 51,993, discharged: 20,12,367, active cases: 64,260, people tested so far: 1,60,26,587.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||Covid: Beneficiaries can register themselves for vaccine from Monday||As the country gears up to inoculate people above 60 years of age and those over 45 with comorbidities against Covid-19 from March 1, official sources on Thursday said these beneficiaries would be able to register themselves on the Co-WIN platform from Monday itself. There will also be a walk-in provision for the beneficiaries to get themselves registered at the session sites. Everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get the Covid-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at a number of private hospitals, the Centre said on Wednesday. "The eligible beneficiaries would be able to register themselves on the Co-WIN platform from March 1 itself. There will also be a walk-in provision for the beneficiaries to get themselves registered at a nearby session site to get vaccinated," R S Sharma, Chairman of the Empowered Group on Covid-19 Vaccine Administration, said. He said the new version of the Co-WIN platform will be GPS-enabled and the beneficiaries will have the option to choose the inoculation session site both at the government and private facilities. There will be volunteers to help those opting for walk-in registration with the process if they are not tech-savvy. Co-WIN, a digital platform, was created for real-time monitoring of Covid-19 vaccine delivery. One will also have the option to get inoculated in a state different from his or her home state. People aged above 45 years will have to upload a medical certificate mentioning their comorbid conditions. The government is yet to specify the conditions that would be included in the over-45 age group with comorbidities. "Co-WIN will be able to take registrations and appointments from multiple applications, including Aarogya Setu or any other application such as a common service app," Sharma said. A beneficiary will just have to register with his mobile number and in turn, will receive an OTP with which his account will be created. One can also get their family members registered on the account. The second phase of the world's largest vaccination drive will start from Monday, in which anybody above 60 years, that may not be less than 10 crore people in the country, and above 45 years with co-morbidities will be administered the vaccine at 10,000 government medical facilities and over 20,000 private hospitals, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Wednesday. "Whoever goes to a government centre will be administered the vaccine free of cost. The Indian government will pay for them. The government will purchase the necessary doses and send them to all the states," he said. Those who want to get vaccinated at private hospitals will have to pay and the amount will be decided by the health ministry within the next three-four days as it is in discussions with the vaccine manufacturers as well as the hospitals, Javadekar said. Asked if people would have a choice as regards which vaccine -- Covishield or Covaxin -- they want to take, the minister said the country is proud to have two vaccines, both of which are effective with proven efficacy. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune, Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||Explosive-laden vehicle found near Mukesh Ambani's house||A vehicle with gelatin sticks, an explosive material, was found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai on Thursday evening, police said.  The vehicle, a Scorpio van, was found on Carmichael Road near 'Antilia', the multi-storey residence of Ambani, the chairman of Reliance Industries, an official said.  As it aroused suspicion, police were alerted and teams of the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad and Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) reached the spot immediately.  They found there was gelatin inside, but it was not an assembled explosive device, the police official said.  "Twenty gelatin explosives sticks were found in a Scorpio van in the vicinity of industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai. The Mumbai Crime Branch police is investigating the matter and the findings will be out soon," Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh tweeted.  As the area is under CCTV surveillance, the vehicle was spotted by some security personnel and the police were alerted, he had said earlier.  The vehicle was towed away by the police to a safe place, he said, adding that investigators were trying to ascertain the identity of its owner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||Zomato hikes delivery partner remuneration amid rising fuel prices||Online food ordering platform Zomato on Thursday said it restructured its delivery partner remuneration to factor in the fuel price hike, a move that will increase their earnings by 7-8 per cent. The company said the dramatic increase in fuel prices has led to a direct impact on the net earnings of Zomato delivery partners. This also impacts the earnings of the partner in case of a long-distance order, given that the delivery partner is required to return back to the base-working localities to get another order assigned. In a series of tweets, Zomato founder and Chief Executive Officer Deepinder Goyal said the company has increased the pay structure for its delivery partners by 7-8 per cent. He added that the company is "not yet passing on this cost to our customers". Over this past month, Zomato has taken multiple steps to ensure that this increase in the running costs for delivery partners does not impact their net take-home earnings, a statement said. The company explained that its delivery partner travels between 100-120 km in a day, consuming 60-80 litres of fuel in a typical month. The recent increase in prices amounts to an additional monthly spend of Rs 600-800 (about 3 per cent of monthly income) from their take-home income. Zomato has now introduced a revised pay structure for its delivery partners which will include an additional component of distance pay. This component will be applicable over and above the existing remuneration, and will automatically be pegged to adapt to any changes in fuel prices in the future. Besides, Zomato has also introduced long-distance return pay where for every long-distance order completed, its delivery partner would either receive another order within 15 minutes that would bring them back closer to their base areas of working or they will receive an additional payout for travelling the extra distance. "We understand how fuel price hikes can impact their earnings and have decided to factor in such developments in their pay structure. Both of these inclusions combined will increase their earnings by 7-8 per cent," Zomato COO- Food Delivery Mohit Sardana said. He added that the Zomato has already implemented the new structure in about 40 cities and will be rolling it out in other cities in the coming week.Zomato - which has recently raised USD 250 million (over Rs 1,800 crore) in funding from Tiger Global, Kora and others - has 1.5 lakh delivery partners in its fleet, and has been strengthening it further to meet the growing demand for food delivery in India. The online food delivery segment has seen significant growth in the last few years with Zomato and Swiggy competing head-on to grab market share. Zomato -- which competes aggressively with Prosus-backed Swiggy in the Indian market -- has previously stated that it plans to go for an initial public offering (IPO) in the first half of 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||President's rule in Puducherry, Assembly under suspended animation||President's Rule was imposed in Puducherry following a recommendation by the Union Cabinet after a Congress-led government lost power in the Union Territory in a vote of confidence. The notification, signed by President Ram Nath Kovind, said the decision was taken after the president received a report from the administrator of the Union Territory of Puducherry on February 22. It said after considering the report and other information received by him, the president was satisfied that a situation had arisen in which the administration of the Union Territory of Puducherry could not carry on in accordance with the provisions of the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963 (20 of 1963). "Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 51 of the Act and of all other powers enabling me in that behalf, I (a) suspend, until the constitution of the 15th Legislative Assembly of Puducherry, in relation to the said Union Territory of Puducherry...," the notification said. The president also suspended the operation of various provisions of the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963 (20 of 1963), thus imposing central rule in Puducherry. The notification also said the Legislative Assembly of the Union Territory is placed under suspended animation. V Narayanasamy, who led the Congress government in Puducherry resigned on Monday ahead of the confidence vote after his government was reduced to a minority following a spate of resignations by his party MLAs and a DMK legislator in recent days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||Rahul: Fishermen need independent ministry, not just a department||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said fisherfolk need an independent fisheries ministry and not just a department within a ministry, responding to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's swipe at him. At a public meeting in Puducherry, the prime minister expressed shock over Gandhi's statement last week that there was no "dedicated" fisheries ministry. At the time, BJP leaders, including Union ministers, had also taken a swipe at Gandhi. Responding to the prime minister's swipe, Gandhi tweeted, "Dear PM, Fisherfolk need an independent and dedicated ministry of fisheries, not just a department within a ministry." "PS- 'Hum do Humare do' obviously hurt bad," he said referring to the jibe he had used against the government recently to allege that it is being run by Modi and his "corporate friends". Modi, in his remarks in Puducherry, said, "Congress leaders say we will make a fisheries ministry. I was shocked. The truth is, it is the current NDA government that has made a ministry for fisheries in 2019." In 2019, the Modi government had formed a Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. In a separate tweet, Gandhi also attacked the government over a media report claiming that the government has started clearing foreign direct investment proposals from China on a case-by-case basis. Gandhi said, "China has understood that Mr Modi buckles under their pressure. They now know they can get whatever they want from him." In another tweet, Gandhi also attacked the government over the issue of employment and asked the government to create jobs for the youth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||Indian Newspaper Society writes to Google, seeks higher percentage of ad revenue||The Indian Newspaper Society (INS) on Thursday asked Google to compensate Indian newspapers for using their content and insisted that the global search giant increase the publisher share of advertising revenue to 85 per cent. In a letter to Google, INS president L Adimoolam said publishers are also facing a very opaque advertising system, as they are unable to get details of Google's advertising value chain. "The Society insisted that Google should increase the publisher share of advertising revenue to 85 percent, and also ensure more transparency in the revenue reports provided to publishers by Google," the INS said in a statement. It noted that, over the past year publishers across the world have been raising the issue of fair payment for content and of proper sharing of advertising revenue with Google. It is also noted that Google has recently agreed to better compensate and pay publishers in France, the European Union and notably in Australia. In a letter addressed to Google India's country manager Sanjay Gupta, the INS president demanded that Google should pay for news generated by the newspapers which employ thousands of journalists on the ground, at considerable expense, for gathering and verifying information. "Since, the content which is generated and published by newspapers at considerable expense is proprietary, the Society pointed out that it is this credible content which has given Google the authenticity in India ever since its inception," the INS said. It pointed out that publishers have been providing complete access to "quality journalism with credible news, current affairs, analysis, information and entertainment", and "there is a huge distinction between the editorial content from quality publications and fake news that is spreading on other information platforms". Further, it was also pointed out that advertising has been the financial backbone of the news industry. However, newspaper publishers are seeing their share of the advertising pie shrinking in the digital space, even as Google is taking a "giant share of advertising spends", leaving publishers with a small share, it said. The INS also raised the issue of giving greater prominence to editorial content from Registered News Publishers to tackle fake news, as Google picks up content from several sites that are not credible, thus "amplifying misinformation and propagation of fake news". Pointing out that the Society is engaged in discussions with Google on these vital issues, the letter also reiterated that "Indian print media is the most credible source of news and information in the country, and newspapers play a vital role in nation building. However, the pandemic and the current digital business model have been unfair to publishers, making it unviable for the print media industry. We invest heavily on journalism, the core of our news operations, because newspapers play a vital role in society."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||Nirav Modi allowed to be extradited by UK court||Nirav Modi, the diamond merchant wanted in India on charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, on Thursday lost his legal battle against extradition as a UK judge ruled that he does have a case to answer before the Indian courts. The 49-year-old appeared via videolink from Wandsworth Prison in south-west London and showed no emotion as District Judge Samuel Goozee handed down his judgment at Westminster Magistrates' Court in London. "I am satisfied on the evidence that a prima facie case of fraud and money laundering is established, said Judge Goozee, as he read out parts of his judgment in court and concluded that he will send his ruling to the UK's Secretary of State," Priti Patel. It is the Cabinet minister who is authorised to order an extradition under the India-UK Extradition Treaty and has two months within which to make that decision. The Home Secretary's order rarely goes against the court's conclusions, as she has to consider only some very narrow bars to extradition which are unlikely to apply in this case, including the possible imposition of a death penalty. Whatever the ministerial decision, the losing side Nirav Modi has up to 14 days within which to approach the High Court and seek leave to appeal after the Home Secretary's decision. Any appeal, if granted, will be heard at the Administrative Division of the High Court in London.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||‘Soft touch’ regulation crack down on fake news, ‘unlawful’ content||The government has announced tough new rules to crack down on fake news, “unlawful” content and sexually explicit material as it seeks to rein in media giants like Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp and booming streaming services like Netflix. The controls also target online news services. Among the most contentious changes, is the requirement that social media companies allow identification of the “first originator” of any “mischievous” material judged to be offensive by authorities. This could oblige WhatsApp and other messaging services to break their end-to-end encryption and rights activists fear it could lead to greater state surveillance. The new Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules will oblige social media companies like Facebook and Twitter to remove content deemed to break the laws of the land after being served an order by a court or a government agency. The government called the changes “soft touch” regulation. “Social media is welcome to do business in India but users must also be given a proper forum for resolution of their grievances in a time-bound manner against abuse and misuse of social media,” IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told a press conference. The rules would also force digital news media to register with the government and impose additional rules not applicable to traditional news media. These digital news sites would also come under a three-tier regulation system. However, the online sites of newspapers and magazines would not be subject to these regulations. The regulatory overhaul would force OTT streaming platforms to self-regulate content and divide it into five categories according to the levels of violence and sex. The changes come against the backdrop of government displeasure over social media support for the farmers’ protest and a growing move worldwide to rein in the power of the social media and digital news sites. Also, the government was unhappy when Twitter showed reluctance to take down content after being ordered to do so. The government said in a statement the requirement for the release of the originator of messages falling foul of authorities was required for, among other purposes, the “prevention, detection, investigation, prosecution or punishment of an offence related to sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states, or public order or of incitement to an offence relating to the above”. The identification of the originator could also be used in connection with the “rape, sexually explicit material or child sexual abuse material” and would be “punishable with imprisonment for a term of not less than five years,” the government added in the release. The Internet Freedom Foundation, which is based in India, said in a website statement that the rules announced could “fundamentally change how the Internet is accessed and used by millions of users across India.” It also warned that any attempt to weaken encryption could “undermine the privacy and security” of people who use the Internet. Three-level structure The government envisages a three-level structure that would ensure the companies adhere to the government’s “Code of Ethics”. Grievance officers within the companies would have to tackle all complaints within a one-month timeframe. They would also be responsible for notifying people whose comments are removed from the site about the reason for this action. The government will also appoint a committee under a joint-secretary level officer, to hear people who are not satisfied with the action on their complaints. The government’s rules aim to prevent social media content that is defamatory, threatens the unity and integrity, defence, security or sovereignty of India. Social media sites would have to remove such content within 36 hours of complaints of being received. Social media, “users must also be given a proper forum for resolution of their grievances in a time-bound manner against abuse and misuse of social media,” Prasad told reporters. A string of controversies The new rules come in the wake of a string of controversies about content on OTT and social media sites. A few months ago, Sudarshan TV argued that it could not be stopped from broadcasting a programme that painted the Muslim community in a poor light after a government order forbidding its airing. More recently, the cast of a programme, Tandav, were all threatened with arrest because a scene in the series was said to offend religious sentiments. Besides that, there have been continuous complaints about social media content that threaten violence particularly to women. Critics of the new rules point out that the IT Act, 2000 does not apply to the news media and therefore, the IT Intermediary Rules issued on Thursday, which are an offshoot of the act, cannot be extended to apply to news. Additionally, the critics note that digital publishers are already covered by the restrictions in Article 19 of the Indian Constitution and this would lead to an additional layer of regulation. OTT platforms will now have to perform a delicate balancing act and will also have to establish a multi-level self-classification system based primarily on age. Some shows would have to be designated as only suitable for children over the age of 13. Other shows would be for people over 16 and some only for adults. Broadcast Seva The new rules also envisage the setting up of a Broadcast Seva site under the I&B Ministry with which news sites would have to register. Online news sites till now have followed rules applicable to the print and electronic media. Facebook said in a statement it was “carefully” studying the new rules but added it was committed “to people’s ability to freely and safely express themselves on our platforms.” There was no immediate comment from other media outlets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||New rules to curb misuse of social media announced||The government on Thursday announced sweeping regulations for social media firm like Facebook and Twitter as well as OTT players such as Netflix, requiring them to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours and setting up a complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country. The guidelines also make it mandatory for platforms such as Twitter and WhatsApp to identify the originator of a message that authorities consider to be anti-national and against security and sovereignty of the country. The rules about digital media and OTT focus more on in-house and self-regulation mechanism whereby a robust grievance redressal mechanism has been provided while upholding journalistic and creative freedom. This is the first time such rules have been framed for digital and online media operating within the country's jurisdiction. The norms on social media come weeks after a spat between the government and Twitter over certain messages around farmer protests that the government saw as inciting violence. The government sought removal of about 1,500 accounts and messages, a request that Twitter complied with, only after being warned of penal action. IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said concerns have been raised over rampant abuse of social media platforms and spread of fake news. "Social media companies are welcome to do business in India, and empower Indians...We welcome criticism and dissent... but it is important that users of social media are given a proper forum for resolution of their grievances in a time-bound manner," Prasad said. India is a large market for digital and social media companies and is witnessing strong growth on the back of booming smartphone sales and availability of dirt cheap data. Prasad said intermediaries will fall into two categories -- social media intermediary and significant social media intermediary. This distinction is based on the number of users on the social media platform, and the government will soon notify the threshold of user base that will distinguish the two. The rules require the significant' social media intermediaries to follow additional due diligence including appointment of chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person and a resident grievance officer. All the three officials will have to resident in India. Significant social media companies will also have to publish a monthly compliance report disclosing details of complaints received and action taken, as also details of contents removed proactively. In a move that could have major ramifications for players like Twitter and WhatsApp, government said that significant social media intermediaries providing services primarily in the nature of messaging will have to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order. The intermediary, however, will not be required to disclose the contents of any message. The rules also state that users who voluntarily want to verify their accounts should be given an appropriate mechanism to do so, and be accorded a visible mark of verification. Users will have to be provided with a prior intimation and explanation when significant social media intermediary removes content on its own. In such cases, users have to be provided an adequate and reasonable opportunity to dispute the action taken by the intermediary. Rules related to social media will be administered by Ministry of Electronics and IT, while those related Code of Ethics and procedure and safeguards in relation to digital media will be administered by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. On rules related to over-the-top (OTT) and digital media, the government said, guidelines have been framed keeping in mind the difference between viewership in a theatre and television, as compared to watching it on internet. A Code of Ethics and three-tier grievance redressal mechanism would be applicable for news publishers, OTT platforms and digital media. OTT platforms would have to self-classify the content into five age-based categories - U (Universal), U/A 7+ (years), U/A 13+, U/A 16+, and A (Adult). Such platforms have drawn flak for content that contains obscenity, and has at times hurt religious sentiments. Information and Broadcasting (I&B) Minister Prakash Javadekar said such platforms would be required to implement parental locks for content classified as U/A 13+ or higher, and reliable age-verification mechanisms for content classified as 'A'. The publishers of online curated content will also have to prominently display the classification rating specific to a programme together with a content descriptor, he added. Publishers of news on digital media would be required to observe Norms of Journalistic Conduct of the Press Council of India and the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Regulation Act, providing a level-playing field between the offline (print, TV) and digital media, an official statement said. "Digital media portals have no right to spread rumour. Media's freedom is absolute but with reasonable restrictions. Content matter, especially media, OTT and digital media will be administered by I&B ministry. Intermediary platforms monitoring will be done by the IT ministry in the manner they have been doing it," Javadekar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||India, Pakistan agree to follow all ceasefire pact to maintain peace along LoC||India and Pakistan have agreed to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) and other sectors, according to a joint statement on Thursday. The decision on ceasefire, effective since Wednesday midnight, was taken at a meeting between the Director Generals of Military Operations (DGMOs) of India and Pakistan. The DGMOs held discussions over the established mechanism of hotline contact and reviewed the situation along the Line of Control and all other sectors in a "free, frank and cordial atmosphere". "In the interest of achieving mutually beneficial and sustainable peace along the borders, the two DGMOs agreed to address each other's core issues and concerns which have the propensity to disturb peace and lead to violence. "Both sides agreed for strict observance of all agreements, understandings and cease firing along the Line of Control and all other sectors with effect from midnight of February 24/25," the joint statement said. Both sides reiterated that existing mechanisms of hotline contact and border flag meetings will be utilised to resolve any unforeseen situation or misunderstanding, it added. The Jammu and Kashmir National Conference (JKNC) and the PDP welcomed the move. "We welcome it and hope that the statement will be followed in letter & spirit. JKNC has always been a strong supporter of the ceasefire along the LoC," the party said in a statement. "This will allow people living along the LoC & IB (International Border) to go about their normal lives with minimal disruption & risk," the party said. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti in a tweet welcomed the ceasefire announcement and said dialogue was the only way forward. "A big & welcome development that India & Pakistan have agreed to a ceasefire along the LoC. Dialogue is the only way forward if both countries want to stop the unending cycle of violence & bloodshed across the borders and J&K," Mehbooba said. In a written response to a question in Lok Sabha earlier this month, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said a total of 10,752 cases of ceasefire violations have taken place along India's border with Pakistan in the last three years, in which 72 security personnel and 70 civilians were killed. He said 364 security personnel and 341 civilians were injured in cross-border firings along the International Border and the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir in 2018, 2019 and 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Modi targets Rahul over his 'north-south' remarks||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday attacked the Congress and its erstwhile government in Puducherry, saying the V Narayanasamy led dispensation had 'different priorities' than public welfare and flayed party leader Rahul Gandhi over his recent 'north-south' remarks. Hitting out at the "Congress culture," at a public meeting in the poll-bound union territory, he said people were witness to it in the last five years. "Our colonial rulers had the policy of divide and rule. Congress has a policy of divide, lie and rule. Sometimes their leaders put region against region... community against community," he said in an apparent reference to Gandhi's recent 'north-south' remarks which the BJP opposed strongly. During his Kerala visit on Tuesday, Gandhi had said he was used to a "different type of politics" in north India and coming to the southern state was "very refreshing" as people are interested in "issues". Modi also expressed 'shock' over Gandhi's statement that there was no 'dedicated' fisheries ministry at the Centre, adding the NDA government had set it up in 2019 and that its budgetary allocation has substantially gone up ever since. Averring that the people of Puducherry did not deserve a "high command" government that would serve a few Congress leaders, Modi assured that the NDA government, if voted in the coming elections, would treat people as its high command.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Nadda launches 'Lokkho Sonar Bangla' crowdsourcing campaign||BJP chief J P Nadda on Thursday launched 'Lokkho Sonar Bangla' (target to build golden Bengal) manifesto crowdsourcing campaign to seek suggestions from more than two crore people in West Bengal ahead of the upcoming assembly elections. He said the party's manifesto will stress the socio- economic empowerment of the Matua community, women and youth and put an end to the "cut money" and "syndicate" culture of the state. "The Lokkho Sonar Bangla campaign will begin on March 3 and continue till March 30. We aim to reach out to more than two crore people of the state spread across all the 294 constituencies. "There will be 30,000 suggestion boxes. We want to seek suggestions of the common people in our endeavour to build Sonar Bangla," Nadda said during the launch of the programme. Nadda said that the BJP aims to build a West Bengal where women can live without fear and students from the Matua community get education and jobs to lead a good life. "We will end Naxalism in West Bengal. We will end coal smuggling and syndicate and cut money culture," he said. Bengali actor Payal Sarkar joined the saffron party in the presence of Nadda. Assembly elections in the state are due in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Shantanu Muluk granted protection from arrest till March 9||A court here on Thursday granted protection from arrest till March 9 to Shantanu Muluk, who is accused along with Disha Ravi of allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana granted the relief to the activist after the Delhi Police said it needed time to conduct further interrogation before filing a detailed reply to Muluk's anticipatory bail plea. The judge noted the submission and directed the police not to take any coercive action against Muluk till March 9, when court will further hear the matter. Muluk, along with Ravi and Nikita Jacob, was booked for alleged sedition and other charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases above 15,000 after nearly a month||The daily rise in coronavirus infections in India was recorded above 15,000 after nearly a month taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,10,46,914, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. A total of 16,738 infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,56,705 with 138 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. On January 29, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours after which the daily rise of cases stayed below 15,000. The daily deaths were registered above 130 after a gap of 26 days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,38,501 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.21 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. The active caseload increased to 1,51,708 which comprises 1.37 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,38,29,658 samples have been tested up to February 24 with 7,93,383 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Breast examination cuts cancer death toll||A clinical breast examination by trained health workers can detect breast cancer early and reduce mortality by 30 per cent, almost as much as possible through mammography screening, a 22-year-long study in India has suggested. The landmark study by oncologists at the Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH), Mumbai, is the world’s first to validate clinical breast examination as an alternative mode of breast screening in women aged 50 years or older without any overdiagnosis. The findings, which come at a time breast cancer incidence is rising across the country, bolster arguments for introducing clinical breast examination as an effective alternative to mammography screening in India and other middle and low-income countries. While X-ray-based mammography screening is widely practiced in western countries and prescribed to women in cities across India, many doctors believe it is not an appropriate option for low and middle-income countries because of its cost, complexity and a risk of overdiagnosis. “The efficacy of clinical breast examination had not been put to rigorous test — until our study. We now have an answer — it is as effective in preventing deaths as mammography,” said Rajendra Badwe, a study team member and TMH director. Badwe and his colleagues, since the start of the study in 1999, have measured the incidence and outcomes of breast cancer in over 150,000 women, roughly half of whom received cancer awareness information and clinical breast examinations from trained health workers once every two years. The other half received cancer awareness information. The study, published on Wednesday in the British Medical Journal, found a significant 30 per cent reduction in breast cancer mortality in women aged 50 years or older. Among women below 50 years, the examinations helped earlier diagnosis of breast cancers, but there was no mortality reduction observed. Doctors say the reasons for the absence of mortality reduction in women below 50 remain unclear but the findings are similar to those from studies on mammography screening. The researchers speculate that the absence of mortality benefit in women below 50 may result from unknown “biological factors” linked to breast cancers in younger women. “Our findings point to a screening strategy that would be relatively easy to implement on a large scale in India and other low and middle-income countries where routine mammography is impractical,” said Sudeep Gupta, professor of medical oncology at the TMH. “Female health workers who are not even graduates may be quickly trained for clinical breast examination — such a screening strategy could be implemented across the country.” The National Cancer Registry maintained by the Indian Council of Medical Research has suggested that breast cancer incidence has overtaken cervical cancer, which was the most common cancer among women about three decades ago. The number of documented breast cancer patients in India has increased from 142,000 in 2016 to 150,000 in 2017 to about nearly 160,000 in 2018. Two years ago, the American College of Physicians (ACP) had cautioned that annual mammography screening may result in more harm than screening every other year and recommended mammography only once in every two years for women between 50 and 74 years. The ACP, echoing concerns expressed for years by oncologists at the TMC, had listed potential harms as overdiagnosis, overtreatment, false positive results, radiation exposure, radiation-associated breast cancer and worry and distress from tests and procedures including breast biopsies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Renovated Sardar Patel stadium in Motera inaugurated as Narendra Modi Stadium||The Sardar Patel Stadium, Motera, closed for renovation in 2015 and reopened on Wednesday as the largest cricket stadium in the world but under a new name — the Narendra Modi Stadium. The name change appeared to be a secret so well-guarded that a news alert issued by the news agency PTI at 1.18pm said: “President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurates the world’s largest cricket stadium — the revamped Sardar Patel stadium in Ahmedabad.” Twelve minutes later, at 1.30pm, another alert followed: “Refurbished Sardar Patel stadium in Ahmedabad renamed after PM as Narendra Modi stadium.” Nor was PTI alone in the dark. The news agency ANI had tweeted a couple of hours earlier: “President Ram Nath Kovind to formally inaugurate Sardar Patel Stadium, Motera, where pink-ball Test match between India and England will begin today.” Modi, who has often mocked the Congress for naming landmarks after members of the Nehru-Gandhi family and ignoring other tall leaders, especially Sardar Patel, becomes the first Prime Minister of India to have a stadium named after him while he is still in office. Like the monogrammed suit moment of 2015, several incongruous elements stood out on Wednesday. The end names of the stadium are the Adani Pavilion End and the Reliance End. Both Reliance and the Adanis are within their rights to have the ends named after them once they have met the cricket association’s norms. But when perceptions take precedence, the coincidence stood out and drew comment — especially with thousands of farmers staying put on roads and alleging a nexus between the two corporate groups and the Modi government in pushing the farm laws. In India is in the middle of an economic crisis and large sections of the population are yet to come to terms with the debilitating blows of the pandemic. Yet, those around the Prime Minister think nothing of emblazoning his name across the gate of a cricket stadium that is being touted the largest in the world. In Ignominious parallels were also drawn. Many on social media pointed out that there was another leader who had a stadium named after him while in power. The main football stadium of Stuttgart was named Adolf Hitler Kampfbahn in 1933. The name was changed to Century Stadium after the Second World War. Another name doing the rounds was Saddam Hussein’s. Foreign media also took note. The Times, London, had a report headlined: “Cricket stadium named after master of spin Modi.” If Modi was taking guard as the former president of the Gujarat Cricket Association (one of the many hats he has worn), there are indeed precedents. The Mumbai stadium was named after S.K. Wankhede when he headed the Bombay Cricket Association while the one in Bangalore took its name from M. Chinnaswamy who was then helming the Mysore Cricket Association. The Mohali stadium is named after I.S. Bindra. But Narendra Damodardas Modi is not playing as an erstwhile cricket administrator. He is the Prime Minister of India. Even Modi’s supporters could not believe the news from Motera at first. “Would have happened if the Gandhis were in power. But now, NO. Sorry dude, try this trick some other time,” said a Twitter user at 12.38pm, responding to a tweet that said the stadium was going to be renamed after Modi. The Twitter bio describes the user as the leader of a wing of the BJP and declares that she is “honoured to be followed by Prime Minister of India”. The Congress said Modi had taken revenge on Patel, one of the tallest leaders of India’s Independence movement and the country’s first home minister, for banning the RSS after Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination. “Gujarat had two truly illustrious sons, Patel and Gandhi. Both rejected the RSS philosophy. Patel banned the RSS after the Mahatma’s assassination. Modi took revenge today by removing Patel’s name. In 2017, we saw Modi replaced Gandhi’s photographs from the Khadi calendar with his own even as his contribution to Khadi is nil,” party spokesperson Pawan Khera said. “We haven’t forgotten that a book viciously attacking Sardar Patel, Tragedy of Partition, authored by RSS leader H.V. Seshadri, used to be distributed free at the Nagpur headquarters. Now they charge Rs 100 for that book,” Khera added. Conscious of the negative publicity that the erasing of Sardar Patel’s name will trigger in Gujarat and elsewhere, home minister Amit Shah announced the construction of a Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave and the foundation stone was laid by President Kovind. The enclave will include the stadium. Speaking at the inauguration, Shah gave credit to Modi’s vision for bolstering sports in Gujarat and giving the vision of “Atmanirbhar Bharat”. Ahmedabad will be known as “sports city of the country” because the enclave can host any international game, he added. Shah’s cabinet colleague Ravi Shankar Prasad asked if Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi had ever visited the Statue of Unity in Gujarat, referring to the statue of Sardar Patel unveiled by Modi. The pro-government ecosystem also churned out statistics listing the number of public places named after the Nehru-Gandhis, without explaining why the BJP is aping the Congress. Congress leaders were unstoppable. Hardik Patel, a young leader from Gujarat, asked: “Isn’t this an insult of Sardar Patel? People of Gujarat will not tolerate this. The RSS-BJP relation with Patel is based on hate and they want to wipe out his legacy. The respect shown is superficial.” Kerala MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “Maybe they just realised the stadium was named for a Home Minister who had banned their parent organisation!” The party’s communications chief, Randeep Surjewala, said: “The BJP has challenged Gujarat’s self-esteem. Modi cannot become bigger by erasing Patel’s legacy. And why didn’t the President of India object? Why did he become party to this misdeed? The country needs answers.” Rahul tweeted: “Beautiful how the truth reveals itself. Narendra Modi stadium — Adani end, Reliance end. With Jay Shah presiding. Hum Do Hamare Do.” Jay Shah, BCCI secretary, is the son of Amit Shah. The Congress also mocked Modi, suggesting he had the stadium named after him because he knew no one else would. “Modi knows people will remember you only when you have made some historic contribution. He knows he has done nothing,” Khera said. While there are many stadiums in India named after Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, the decision was made only after their death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Option to pay and get vaccinated in private hospital ||Covid vaccines will be offered from March 1 to all people aged above 60 and those older than 45 years with chronic health disorders, the Centre has said. The vaccines will be free in government hospitals. Recipients who opt for vaccinations in private hospitals will need to pay, Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said, announcing decisions taken by the cabinet on Wednesday. The Centre is procuring Covishield at Rs 200 a dose and Covaxin at Rs 295 a dose but analysts believe the cost in the private sector will be higher. Two doses of a vaccine are needed for protection. Adar Poonawala, the CEO of Serum Institute that makes Covishield in India, was quoted on January 12 as saying the company would sell the vaccine in the private market at Rs 1,000. Bharat Biotech, which makes the home-grown Covaxin, has so far not signalled a price for its vaccine in the private market. The vaccines will be available through 10,000 government hospitals and nearly 20,000 private hospitals, Javadekar said. “Those who want the vaccines from private hospitals will have to pay — what amount is to be paid will be announced by the health ministry within three or four days,” he said. This is the first time the Centre has announced an option for people to pay for Covid-19 vaccines although experts say Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on January 11 hinted at this possibility when he asserted that the Centre would bear expenses for the first phase of the campaign to inoculate healthcare and frontline workers. Some might view the pay-if-you-wish option as a departure — at least for the people of Bihar — from a promise made by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in October while she was campaigning ahead of the Bihar Assembly elections. Sitharaman had said that when scientists approve the vaccine and large-scale production in the country begins, “in Bihar, every person will get a free vaccine... this is our first manifesto promise”. If every person in Bihar goes to a government hospital, he or she will get the vaccine free but those who go to private hospitals can say better clarity should have been provided by the minister before the polls. Experts said the health ministry was yet to disclose the process through which potential beneficiaries could register themselves on the digital platform called Co-Win to receive the vaccines and the eligibility criteria for comorbidities or chronic health disorders. Since its start on January 16, the campaign’s first phase — focused only on high-risk priority populations — has inoculated more than 6.5 million healthcare workers and over 4.3 million frontline workers with first doses of vaccines. The second phase starting on March 1 will extend the campaign to vulnerable priority groups from the general population — the elderly and those with comorbidities — and is expected to rapidly expand the fraction of India’s population protected from the coronavirus. Experts expect the second phase of the vaccination campaign to significantly speed up coverage as the first phase had involved around 10,000 hospitals, including 2,000 private facilities. Although starting with people older than 60 and those above 45 with comorbidities, the second phase seeks to eventually immunise all people older than 50 and those below 50 with comorbidities, an estimated 270 million people. High blood pressure, diabetes and cardiovascular and kidney diseases are among the list of comorbidities, said a senior doctor who helped draft the list. Javadekar said the health ministry would announce the costs of vaccines in the private sector after discussions with the vaccine manufacturers and representatives of participating hospitals. Sections of doctors have hailed the cabinet decision saying it would allow the government to focus on providing vaccines to those who cannot afford them while allowing those who can pay to purchase them. The Centre has so far remained silent about the issue of choice of vaccines. During the campaign’s first phase, neither healthcare workers nor frontline workers had a choice of vaccines. A third Covid-19 vaccine — the Russian-made Sputnik V — could also become available in the coming weeks if India’s drug regulatory authority is satisfied with its trial data. Egypt on Wednesday became the 35th country to approve Sputnik V. India would need roughly 540 million doses to vaccinate the 270 million people in the vulnerable priority groups. Serum has indicated that it has a production capacity of 70 million doses a month while Bharat has said it would have 10 million doses ready by February 2021 and could supply 200 to 500 million doses during 2021. The Centre said on Wednesday it had sent public health teams to Bengal and nine other states to determine the reasons for the recent upsurge in some states and guide state health authorities for required control measures. The three-member teams will examine the status of the epidemics in Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Tamil Nadu. The Union health ministry said it had also written to Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab to undertake aggressive public health measures to break the chain of transmission. The states have been asked to flush out undetected cases, increase the number of PCR tests, and ensure that all positive persons receive appropriate clinical management. The average daily cases have more than doubled in Maharashtra over the past two weeks — from 2,692 on February 10 to 6,110 on February 23 — and increased in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
25-02-2021||India||Govt ‘arrogance’ leaves a bitter aftertaste in sugarcane belt||Rambir Singh, a Jat farmer at Basi village in Baghpat district, is furious with the BJP and also Prime Minister Narendra Modi. More than the contentious farm laws, he is angry at the “arrogance” of the government. “Ye ahankari sarkar hai. Ghamand me chur hai (This is an arrogant government. Full of conceit),” he says, pointing to the Modi government’s refusal to repeal the three new farm laws. Omkar Singh, another Jat farmer of Shahdabbar village, slams both the Centre and the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh. “This BJP government only lies,” Omkar burst out. “Modiji had promised to double farmers’ income and here we haven’t yet received last year’s sugarcane dues,” he says, pledging not to press the “lotus” button, the BJP’s election symbol, anymore. Omkar is particularly angry with Adityanath because the state government hasn’t raised the state-advised price (SAP) for sugarcane in the past three years and also not taken any action against private sugar mills for not making timely payments. The SAP is the floor price at which private mills buy sugarcane from farmers. “Prices of everything — diesel, fertiliser, pesticides — are going up but for our sugarcane,” says Rajpat Rathi, another farmer in the same village. “We had trusted Modi and the BJP but this government seems to be totally anti-farmer,” Omkar fumes. The strong-arm attitude of the government while dealing with the farmers’ protest has generated a wave of anger in the districts of western Uttar Pradesh adjoining Delhi. In this region, known as Jat land, sugarcane is the principle crop. The anger has got aggravated because the farmers haven’t yet received their entire payment for sugarcane delivered to mills last year and also the stagnant prices of cane since 2018. It has been almost three months since the sugar season started but the state government hasn’t yet announced the SAP, probably because of a glut in the market. The last SAP three seasons ago was Rs 315 per quintal. With the new SAP still awaited, farmers delivering sugarcane to mills are receiving receipts that leave the price column blank. The anger, however, appears concentrated mostly among the dominant land-owning Jats and the Muslims. Farmers from other communities do not reflect the same level of rage at the BJP and the Modi government. “Ye kisan ka mamla nahi hai, ye rajniti hai (This isn’t about farmers, it’s about politics),” said Jora Singh, a Thakur farmer of Khangapur village. “Aap mujhse likhwalo, Rakesh Tikait phir Bhajpa ke hi saath aayenge (Take it from me, Rakesh Tikait will again come back to the BJP),” says Ankit Saini, a youth. Ankit claims that Rakesh Tikait, a farm leader who is among the driving forces behind the peasants’ movement, had supported the BJP in the last two Lok Sabha polls and also the 2017 Assembly elections and is upset now because he has not been handsomely rewarded. More than the farm laws, western Uttar Pradesh erupted after Rakesh Tikait, son of iconic farm leader Mahendra Singh Tikait, broke into tears on January 28 after the Adityanath government cracked the whip and served an eviction notice on the farmers massed at the Ghazipur border, taking advantage of the chaos during the tractor rally on Republic Day. His tears evoked anger among Jats who viewed it as an assault on their pride and dignity. Since then, several mahapanchayats, or congregations, of farmers have taken place across western Uttar Pradesh, aimed at firming up the resolve not to buckle under pressure and teach a lesson to the government. “Rakesh Tikait ke aankh se khoon ke aasoon tapke hain.… Ek ek bund ka badla lenge (Rakesh Tikait has wept tears of blood.… Each drop will be avenged),” says Atar Singh, a Jat farmer of Budhana who is associated with the Bharatiya Kisan Union faction led by Rakesh Tikait and his brother Naresh Tikait. Although most Jats, who constitute around 14 per cent of the population of western Uttar Pradesh, exhibited anger against the government, many say that barring the farmers’ issue they don’t have any complaint against Modi. “Hamara to bas ek maang hai, MSP ka guarantee kardo. Baki kanoon se matlab nahi (I have only one demand, give guarantee for MSP. The rest of the laws, I’m not bothered),” says Omvir Singh of Basi village. Apart from the repeal of the three laws, the peasants’ unions are demanding a legally guaranteed minimum support price (MSP) for crops. Omvir feels that many rumours and lies are being spread against the farm laws. “Ye afwah hai ki company zameen le legi (It’s a rumour that companies will take over farmers’ land),” he says. “How can somebody else take my land?” Asked whether he too will not vote for the BJP if his demand for legal guarantee on MSP is not fulfilled, Omvir refrains from a direct reply. “Woh toh dekhenge jab chunav aayega (I will take a call when election comes),” he says and goes on to hail Modi, saying that barring the farm laws he has no complaint against the government. “Modiji ne bahut bada bada kaam kiya hai. Kashmir se 370 hatana, Ram Mandir banana (Modi has done many big things such as the abrogating of Article 370 in Kashmir, the Ram temple construction),” he says, adding that the Prime Minister needs to take note of the farmers’ concerns. Although the wider sentiment is of anger against the Centre and the state government, there are also voices like Omvir’s in the Jat community who are with the farmers’ protest but haven’t yet turned against the government. In Loiya village near Meerut, Zeeshan Ahmed, a farmer and RTI activist, shows his Bharatiya Kisan Union identity card. He says that though he supports the farmers’ movement led by Rakesh Tikait, he hasn’t yet found time to go to Ghazipur. Zeeshan says his village is dominated by the Gujjars and they are not very keen about the protest despite being dependent on agriculture. “The Gujjars feel this is a Jat protest and so why should they join?” Zeeshan says. “Many Muslims too feel that Jats are seeking their help only because they want to show their strength,” he adds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
25-02-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha writes letter to President to free farmers||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Wednesday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding “unconditional” release of arrested farmers and withdrawal of “false” cases in connection with the protest against the new agri laws. In its letter, the Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions agitating against the three central laws, also said that notices allegedly being sent by police and other investigating agencies to the protesting farmers should be stopped. “Under the banner of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, farmers have been staging sit-ins around Delhi for the last three months, but hundreds of farmers and agitation supporters have been lodged in jails by the government of India and many state governments and false cases have been registered against them,” said the letter shared by the SKM. It said “innocent” farmers should be released from jails without any condition. The letter was sent to the President as the protesting farmer unions observed the day as “Daman Pratirodh Diwas”. The SKM welcomed the release of climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested by Delhi police and booked for sedition for editing and sharing a social media toolkit on the farmers’ movement. On Tuesday night Disha was released from Tihar jail hours after a city court granted her bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
25-02-2021||India||Kerala damage-control on CAA, temple cases||The Kerala government has decided to withdraw all non-serious cases against those booked for protesting against the citizenship matrix and women’s entry to the Sabarimala temple in a significant pre-poll move. The state cabinet on Wednesday took the call over the widespread demand from Opposition parties to withdraw the cases, provided the charges are not serious in nature. But it did not explain what kind of cases would be withdrawn since most of them were booked under criminal offences such as rioting and unlawful assembly. The Opposition welcomed the decision, but they expressed a larger concern on how the prosecution would decide what is a serious case and what is not. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala described the decision as “wisdom that dawned late.” “We have been demanding this for a long time. We are happy that the government has taken this decision at least now,” Chennithala told reporters. There is no clear idea about how many people have been booked for taking part in these protests. But Opposition parties have all along claimed thousands were booked under charges ranging from rioting to unlawful assembly for protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act. A large number of people were also booked over protests against the Left Democratic Front government’s decision to implement a court order that lifted all age barriers for women’s entry to the hill shrine. Massive protests had rocked the state for several months after the government decided to implement a September 2019 Supreme Court verdict that allowed women of all ages to enter the Sabarimala temple. The protesters argued that allowing women of childbearing age was traditionally disallowed since the deity, Swami Ayyappan, is a “perpetual celibate”. But the Left government had backed anti-CAA protests in the state that saw some of the biggest rallies against the law that discriminated against Muslims. Yet thousands more, including writers and scholars, were booked under similar charges for merely expressing solidarity with the anti-CAA movement. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who had informed the Assembly in January that no cases have been booked against anti-CAA protesters had come under fire when details emerged about hundreds of cases. The Kerala chapter of National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations had secured details of 519 cases filed between January 1 and March 23 last year against anti-CAA protests after filing a series of RTI applications in several districts in the state. While majority of the cases were booked against Muslim right wing parties such as Welfare Party of India (WPI) and Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), and Congress party, a handful of cases were slapped on Left parties and their student wings, as well. Sajeed Khalid, state secretary of the WPI welcomed the withdrawal of cases. “Taking it at face value, we welcome the decision. But we want clarity on what are serious and non-serious cases,” he told The Telegraph. A state-wide shutdown organised by the WPI, SDPI and some Dalit organisations on December 17, 2019, had ended up 46 people including its leaders and some well-known scholars and writers, who had only expressed solidarity, getting slapped with cases. “We hope this is not just a pre-poll gimmick and the cases will be withdrawn,” Khalid added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
25-02-2021||India||No concession for civil services aspirants: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ruled that no “extra attempt” or “age relaxation” could be granted to candidates for the 2021 civil services exams, rejecting a plea that adequate preparations could not be made for the 2020 exams because of the pandemic. The apex court said the plea could not be countenanced as around the same time in September-October 2020, several other competitive exams had been held despite the coronavirus outbreak. The Centre had earlier in February told the Supreme Court that it was agreeable to give an extra chance as a one-time relaxation to UPSC civil service aspirants who had appeared in their last attempt in the 2020 exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic and were otherwise not age-barred. Subsequently, the government had informed the court that it would not be possible to give a second chance because of procedural and legal issues, a stand upheld by the Supreme Court on Wednesday. “This court cannot lose sight of the fact that apart from the present Examination 2020, it has been brought to the notice of this court that remedial measures were adopted for the candidates who had participated in the various examinations/recruitment tests held for central services by the commission (UPSC) at the given point of time during the Covid-19 pandemic,” the court said. “…Apart from that, the state commissions/recruiting agencies must have conducted their examinations/recruitment tests for various services and merely because the present petitioners made a complaint to this court, cannot be taken into isolation for the purpose of seeking additional chance/attempt in the backdrop of the Covid­19 pandemic, which has been faced by not only the candidates appeared in Examination 2020 but by the candidates who appeared in the various examinations/recruitment tests held by the state commissions,” the court added. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Indu Malhotra and Ajay Rastogi passed the judgment while dismissing a batch of petitions filed by civil services aspirants for granting them an extra attempt and age relaxation to appear for the 2021 exams as they could not fully prepare for the 2020 tests on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. Writing the judgment, Justice Rastogi noted that the pandemic had left a trail of devastation across the country and the world, but that did not in any manner give the legitimate right to the petitioners to claim additional benefits or attempts, which are otherwise not permissible under the Civil Services Rules, 2020. The court reasoned that if an additional attempt was offered to only those who had used up their last chance during last year’s exams “for the reason that they had suffered during the Covid-19 pandemic, all attemptees irrespective of the nature of attempt (i.e. 1st, 2nd, etc.) who appeared in Examination 2020 must have faced the same consequences as being faced by the writ petitioners and each one of them has suffered in one way or the other during the Covid­19 pandemic”. “At the same time, this reasoning would equally apply to those who have crossed the upper age barrier,” Justice Rastogi noted. The court said it was within the realm of the executive to take a policy decision based on the prevailing circumstances for better administration and tackling of exigencies, but at the same time it was not within the domain of the courts to legislate on such issues. The civil services exams were initially scheduled in June 2020 but were eventually held on October 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
25-02-2021||India||Lingering effect of Disha Ravi arrest ||Friends and co-volunteers of climate activist Disha Ravi, who was granted bail by a Delhi court on Tuesday in the toolkit sedition case, are relieved but not ready to restart their activities immediately as they have yet to come to terms with her arrest and the subsequent allegations they faced as a community. “Of course, we are all really excited that she has got bail. But it’s going to take some time for us to figure out if we need to make any changes in the way we approach issues,” a volunteer and former college mate of Disha told The Telegraph on Wednesday. A business administration graduate from a city college, 22-year-old Disha was whisked away from her home in north Bangalore by a posse of Delhi police officers on February 13 without even following the basic legal requirements such as informing the local police and procuring a transit warrant from a local court. One of the founding members of the Karnataka chapter of Fridays For Future (FFF), a global group of young climate activists originally started in 2018 by Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, Disha was slapped with charges of sedition and criminal conspiracy for a social media toolkit she edited and shared in support of the farmers’ movement. The Delhi sessions court on Tuesday granted bail to Disha after demolishing almost every charge levelled against her, terming the prosecution evidence “scanty and sketchy”. The volunteers didn’t have concrete information on whether Disha had returned to Bangalore on Wednesday but said she was unlikely to interact with the media since the investigation was on. “We haven’t really had the time and energy to sit down and talk to each other about our plans for the coming days since all of us had been hooked to the bail proceedings,” said the volunteer and former college mate who declined to be named. The arrest has had a chilling effect on the young volunteers of the FFF who have generally preferred to lie low. Many of them have lamented that their parents have now asked them to stay away from social media until the storm blows over. The volunteer pointed to how the whole movement was sullied by those who called it anti-national. “Another thing that hurt us was the way people called us anti-national although we did nothing illegal,” she said. Yuvan Aves, a Chennai-based volunteer of the FFF who kept a close track of the developments after Disha’s arrest, said: “We are very happy with the way the bail order articulated there is not a shred of evidence against Disha. It has set precedence and gives a ray of hope and courage to all young activists like Disha.” “We have been perturbed by the arrest but didn’t allow ourselves to be cowed down by the manner in which the government targeted young people, whether in Hathras or the farmers’ protest,” he said, referring to how young activists and journalists had been arrested in both cases. Another FFF volunteer, who too declined to be named, noted that Disha had only been granted bail. “Obviously the general mood is one of great relief. But we are not rejoicing too much because she has not been acquitted of the charges,” she said. But the volunteers are “careful enough to ensure that this incident will not change our course”. “We don’t want this incident to change the way we worked prior to the arrest. We will sit down to discuss and chart the way forward without hurrying into anything at the moment,” said the young climate activist. Joel, an FFF activist based in Shillong, said: “The only thing that matters now is to see her acquitted in the case.” “It was disheartening at first, but we will not be dissuaded from our campaign for climate justice,” said the young volunteer who has pledged to continue to fight for the cause he believes in. Asked if the FFF planned any awareness programme to ensure others don’t land in trouble, Joel said chapters worked independently. “This is a decentralised movement in which individual chapters use their discretion on what to take up and what to share on social media. But we do recommend certain norms to be followed to be on the right side of the law,” said the volunteer who chose to be known only by his first name. “But as we go forward we will try and create a better understanding of how the system works (in India),” Joel added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
25-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi’s Kerala remark divides Congress||The Congress on Wednesday defended Rahul Gandhi’s remark that he was experiencing “intelligent” politics in Kerala, arguing that his emphasis on issues was being mischievously portrayed as criticism of politics in north India. Rahul had said on Tuesday while addressing a rally in Thiruvananthapuram: “I was used to a different kind of politics being an MP in north India. For me, coming to Kerala was very refreshing as suddenly I found that people are interested in issues, and not just superficially but going into details of issues. Seeing intelligent politics in Kerala was a learning experience for me. I was talking to some students in the United States and I said that I really enjoy going to Kerala. It’s not just affection but the way you do your politics. If I might say so, the intelligence with which you do your politics.” While top BJP leaders pounced on Rahul for what they saw as condemnation of the politics of north India and an attempt to divide the country, even some Congress leaders expressed shock at what they described as “immature articulation” that would damage the party in the Hindi heartland. Former Union minister Anand Sharma, perceived to be a dissenter as he was part of a group of 23 leaders that had written to Sonia Gandhi about a drift in the party, explicitly denounced Rahul’s formulation as his “personal experience” because north India had led the freedom struggle and given illustrious sons like Jawaharlal Nehru, Manmohan Singh and Bhagat Singh. While Sharma clearly demonstrated the unease in the party over Rahul’s statements, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Rahul Gandhi gave a constructive call to do issue-based politics. Issues should dominate politics, politics should not dominate issues. Politics shouldn’t be done for creating a religious divide, politics should be done for uniting India. Rahul meant that people’s real concerns should be the basis of politics, not hate and deception. Time has come to do introspection on this.” Surjewala added: “What are the real concerns? That petrol is selling at Rs 100 and diesel at Rs 90 per litre. That Chinese troops have occupied India’s territory. That the economy and businesses have been ruined and there are no jobs. The issue is that people of India have lost the right to dissent, right to speak, right to express, right to tweet… and they are being branded anti-national for expressing their views. The issue is that lakhs of farmers are sitting at Delhi’s border. But the BJP released a toolkit for a north-south divide.” Surjewala also recalled several intemperate statements made by the Prime Minister, without directly answering questions about the level of intelligence and seriousness that Rahul had hinted at. Many Congress leaders privately argued that Rahul should have refrained from making comparisons even if what he said had substance. Politics in north India indeed is dominated by issues like Ram temple, communal tension and caste divide while states like Kerala have offered a “different kind of experience”. That Sharma chose to publicly discuss the issue exposes the fault lines within the party. Instead of defending or clarifying what Rahul had said, Sharma argued: “He might have shared his personal experience. He was not disrespecting any part of the country. But he can explain in what context he spoke, there should be no scope for conjecture or misunderstanding. The Congress can never divide India on the basis of language, religion or region.” Sharma added: “North India contributed a lot to the freedom struggle. We had illustrious Prime Ministers like Nehru, (Atal Bihari) Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh from the north. We are grateful to voters of Amethi for supporting our leaders, from Indira Gandhi to Rahul. We believe in a united India, in inclusive politics.” Congress loyalists admitted privately that this was an attempt to highlight the avoidable formulation in Rahul’s speech, indicating that the problems within the party were far from resolved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
25-02-2021||India||Modi hails PM-Kisan scheme on second anniversary ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday used the second anniversary of the farmer dole scheme to talk about his government’s commitment to farmers. “On this day two years ago the PM-Kisan scheme was launched with an aim to ensure a life of dignity as well as prosperity for our hardworking farmers, who work day and night to keep our nation fed,” Modi said. Under the scheme, a dole of Rs 6,000 a year — which works out to less than Rs 16.50 a day — is given to small and marginal farmers with cultivable land holding up to 2 hectares. “The tenacity and passion of our farmers is inspiring,” the tweet added. Tens of thousands of farmers have been sitting at Delhi’s borders for three months now, demanding repeal of three laws the Modi government pushed through Parliament that they believe will be their death warrant. The farmers are also seeking a legal guarantee of a minimum support price for crops. Having braved the bone-chilling north Indian winter and the government’s many attempts to thwart their protests — from dug-up highways, lathis and water cannons to stop them from reaching the protest sites, snapped Internet connectivity to deny the protesters a means to communicate, and concertina and concrete barricades to cut them off — the protesting farmers have indeed shown “tenacity and passion”. More than 200 farmers have died. Modi, however, did not mention the protests. The protesting farmers have been dismissive of the PM-Kisan scheme, asserting that farmers’ dignity is ensured by assuring them of a fair price for their produce and not by giving them a measly dole. Modi, in his tweets, iterated that his government was doing everything to double farmers’ income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
25-02-2021||India||Rise in Covid cases linked to complacency: Survey||Public complacency over personal precautions against Covid-19 appears to be driving the troubling upsurge in daily new cases in Maharashtra and some other states, a preliminary scientific assessment and a nationwide survey have independently suggested. Health officials on Tuesday tentatively ruled out any link between the upsurge and mutations in coronavirus variants, even as the private survey found that compliance with mask-wearing has fallen to 30 per cent from 67 per cent in September 2020. Over half of the 8,321 people surveyed in 238 districts across India also said there was “no compliance” in their localities with physical distancing guidelines that require people to avoid crowds and maintain a distance of six feet from others. The survey’s findings come amid concerns among health experts that since the relaxation of restrictions imposed under the Covid-19 lockdown, people have started moving freely, meeting friends and relatives, visiting malls, attending weddings and social functions — while simultaneously abandoning precautions. The further away from large metros and cities, the less the compliance with mask-wearing, according to the study conducted by LocalCircles, a community social media platform that says it undertakes surveys to guide policy and interventions. Mask compliance was 35 per cent in large metros or tier-1 cities, but fell to 29 per cent in tier-2 cities, and to 19 per cent in tier-3 locations and rural districts. The survey sought to capture citizens’ experiences and observations of whether people in their areas or districts are complying with guidelines on masks and physical distancing. It has found that only 12 per cent of those surveyed believe physical distancing “is effective”. Central health teams are trying to decipher reasons for the upsurge in cases in Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. The teams will convey to state authorities the steps they would need to take to curb the growing counts, a senior health official said. Although India’s Covid-19 epidemic has steadily shrunk since its peak with over a million patients in mid-September, health officials and experts have consistently cautioned that a large pools of people across the country remain susceptible to the infection and need to adopt all precautions. Medical experts believe the current rise in several states could be due to either poor compliance with personal precautions, gaps in the public health response, new coronavirus variants that spread quickly, or a combination of any of these three factors. But senior health officials said on Tuesday that preliminary assessments for now do not point to the role of any foreign-origin or domestic coronavirus variants in the observed upsurge. “There is no reason for us to believe on the basis of the scientific evidence today that they (coronavirus variants) are responsible for the upsurge of the outbreak we see in some districts of Maharashtra or in Kerala,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national Covid-19 task force. “But, this is a work in progress — we will continue to watch the variants,” Paul said. A nationwide coronavirus genome sequencing effort has so far detected 187 samples positive for the UK variant and six samples positive for the South African strain. Both these variants have the capacity to spread faster than other circulating coronavirus strains. The sequencing effort has also revealed multiple domestic variants such as those with mutations designated as E484Q and N440K but, Paul said, there is no evidence so far to suggest that either of these variants has any public health relevance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
25-02-2021||India||Bihar liquor smugglers kill police sub-inspector||A Bihar police sub-inspector was killed and his colleague was seriously injured when alleged liquor smugglers opened fire at them in Sitamarhi district on Wednesday. Later, a person from among the people who allegedly fired at the police was killed in an encounter. The deceased have been identified as sub-inspector Dinesh Ram, 45, and alleged liquor smuggler Ranjan Singh, 35. The injured police personnel Lalbabu Paswan is battling for life in a hospital after sustaining bullet injuries in the shootout. According to police sources, the two personnel had gone to Kowari village under Majorgunj police station in the morning as part of a team formed to crack down on illicit liquor trade in the area. However, a few people allegedly fired indiscriminately at them when they reached the village. The two cops sustained bullet injuries and were rushed by the locals to the hospital where Dinesh was declared brought dead while Lalbabu was admitted into the emergency ward. “We had got information that Ranjan Singh, wanted in various crimes, including liquor smuggling, had come to his house in the village. Accordingly, Dinesh Ram and Lalbabu Paswan were sent there. They were fired upon while entering Ranjan’s residence,” Sitamarhi Sadar deputy superintendent of police Ramakant Upadhyaya told reporters. However, the DSP refused to divulge anything about the ensuing encounter in which Ranjan was killed. Sources said a large posse of cops led by senior police officials of the district raided the village in which the encounter happened and Ranjan was shot dead. In another incident in Begusarai district, people involved in illicit liquor trade attacked a police team in Pokharia locality while it had gone to conduct a raid. Members of the team were beaten up with bricks and sticks. Station house officer of Town police station, Abhay Shankar, and a policeman sustained injuries. Asked about the liquor mafia, prohibition, excise and registration minister Sunil Kumar said: “We are breaking their morale. Therefore, they are attacking the police out of frustration.” Bihar has implemented prohibition since April 5, 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
25-02-2021||India||Odisha incentive for special marriage enhanced from Rs 50,000 to Rs 2.50 lakh||The Odisha government has enhanced the incentive for marrying divyang persons (persons with disabilities) from Rs 50,000 to Rs 2.50 lakh. However, the couple have to meet some eligibility criteria to get the monetary benefits. According to the revised guidelines, the bridegroom and the bride must have completed 21 years and 18 years of age, respectively, at the time of marriage. It should be a dowry-free wedding and the couple should be residents of Odisha. Moreover, the spouses should not have availed of the incentive under this scheme earlier. The social security and empowerment of persons with disabilities department said the basic purpose of increasing the incentive was to bring the persons with disabilities to the mainstream and help them lead a dignified life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata rides e-scooter to protest against fuel price hike||In a unique protest against fuel price hike, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday rode pillion on an electric scooter to state secretariat Nabanna. The chief minister was seen sitting behind state minister Firhad Hakim, who rode the battery-powered electric scooter. With a placard protesting against the petrol price hike hanging around her neck, helmet-clad Banerjee waved at people on both sides of the road during the seven-km-long journey from Hazra More to the state secretariat. After reaching Nabanna following a 45-minute ride, Mamata slammed the BJP-led government at the Centre saying, "We are protesting against the fuel price hike. The Modi government only makes false promises. They have done nothing to bring down fuel prices. You can see the difference in petrol prices when the Modi government came to power and now." She said the TMC will launch a stir against fuel price rise from Friday. "The BJP had promised free LPG connections to the people before coming to power and now they are hiking its price," Mamata said. "Modi and Shah are selling the country. They are selling the profit-making PSUs. This is an anti-people, anti- woman, anti-youth, anti-farmer government," she said. The feisty TMC chief also criticised the BJP government for renaming the Sardar Patel Stadium, popularly known as the Motera stadium, in Ahmedabad after Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The way they are changing the names of stadiums, who knows they might change the name of the country in the coming days," she quipped. Speaking on her unique protest, the chief minister said, "I rode on an e-scooter to protest the manner in which petrol, diesel and LPG prices are rising. "A middle-class household needs two LPG cylinders a month which they can't afford now. Over 1 crore people in our state also depend on kerosene which they are not getting now," she said. Banerjee said she will return home in the evening on the e-scooter. The chief minister was trailed by security personnel on other two-wheelers as other vehicles followed her a little distance away. There was tight security along the Hazra-Exide-AJC Bose Road-Vidyasagar Setu route. The opposition parties, however, called her protest an "election stunt". "The CM is resorting to novel theatrics ahead of the elections but the state government is not doing its bit to reduce fuel prices," BJP leader Jai Prakash Majumder said. Congress Legislature Party leader Abdul Mannan said, "This is nothing but an election stunt. Why is the state government not substantially withdrawing cess to blunt the effect of the fuel price hike to help the common man?" Left Front leader Sujan Chakraborty compared her fuel hike protest with her earlier riding pillion on a motorcycle ridden by former PCAPA leader Chhatradhar Mahato during the Lalgarh agitation. "Mamata had ridden pillion on Chhatradhar Mahato's motorcycle in the Jangalmahal region before coming to power in the state but later people of that region witnessed the TMC's intimidation and terror," he said. The TMC supremo had earlier several times ridden pillion on two-wheelers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata questions Modi on Dunlop||The chief minister on Wednesday took the Dunlop battle to Narendra Modi’s court and asked the Prime Minister to explain why his government had been sitting on a state government proposal to revive the closed factory in Hooghly’s Sahaganj for the past five years. The question was clearly aimed at the BJP’s narrative that the party would ensure re-industrialisation of Bengal if voted to power. Mamata Banerjee’s attack on Modi came within two days of the Prime Minister’s rally at the same venue in Sahaganj where he did not even take the name of the closed tyre factory or a plan for its revival in his speech. “We decided to acquire Dunlop and Jessop in 2016 and passed a bill in the Assembly. From 2016 to 2021, the central government did not allow us to acquire it. Ask Narendra Modi why he kept the Dunlop factory closed for the past five years? You (Modi) should have answered it before attending a meeting on the ground of Dunlop. You did not do your job and (is) restraining me to do  it,” Mamata said at the Dunlop ground in Sahaganj. The chief minister added that while the Centre did nothing for Dunlop, her government was providing Rs 10,000 as monthly ex-gratia to all employees for their survival. Sources said the BJP had chosen the venue for Modi’s rally in the vicinity of the closed Dunlop factory, which was known for providing specialised tyres for defence vehicles, expecting that the Prime Minister Modi would come up with major announcements to revive closed industrial  units in Hooghly, including a blueprint for Singur where the Tatas had to abort its auto hub after a fierce anti-land acquisition movement that catapulted Mamata to power in 2011. Mamata questioning Modi for his government’s lack of support for the revival of Dunlop found resonance among several trade union leaders and employees of the closed factory. “This is our question too. Why has the central government been sitting on the proposal for years? We are ready to go to Delhi if the state government takes the initiative. If the state government is at fault then the Prime Minister should tell that publicly. Why did he not speak on the issue when he visited the Dunlop grounds on Monday?” said Sarbik Ghosh, Dunlop employee and leader of the CPM-affiliated Citu. Mamata not only attacked Modi but accused “two” BJP leaders, who she did not name, of taking shelter at the house of Pawan Ruia, who was the last owner of Dunlop before it went into liquidation. The CID had arrested Ruia after he had served the suspension notice in 2016. He is now out on bail. “What is the name of the owner of Dunlop? It is Pawan Ruia. At a time when we have lodged several cases against him, BJP leaders are staying at his house. After denying workers and labourers (of Dunlop) jobs and food, they (BJP leaders) became guests at the Sarat Bose Road house of Ruia,” Mamata said and added that she knew the names of two leaders but would not disclose it. “I feel ashamed to take the names of the BJP leaders. I will confide the names to Dilip Yadav (Hooghly’s Trinamul president). You launch a movement by putting up posters everywhere asking BJP leaders why they became guests of Ruia,” Mamata said at the gathering where around a thousand family members of Dunlop employees were present. Trinamul insiders said the way Mamata took the Dunlop war to Modi was a masterstroke. Hooghly president of the Trinamul-affiliated INTTUC, Bidyut Routh, said Mamata's attack on the Modi government on the fate of Dunlop would help the party campaign among the workers against the BJP. “We have already started to interact with Dunlop workers and will start a movement against the BJP soon,” Routh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata tears into Modi and BJP over ‘lies’ propagated to win polls ||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday tore into Narendra Modi and his party over “lies” they had been propagating to win the Bengal Assembly polls before daring the BJP to defeat her. The chief minister, who held a political rally at the venue of the Prime Minister’s public meeting on Monday, said the Bengal debacle for the BJP would be the beginning of its end around the country, telling people that a “fate… much worse” than that of Donald Trump awaited him. “A party of a danob (monster) and a doityo (demon), a Rabon (mythical monarch and principal antagonist in Ramayan) and a danob. Just the two of them running this country,” said Mamata at Sahaganj in Hooghly, apparently referring to Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, without specifying who was which. “Lies, lies and more lies. To win, somehow…. They will break your backbone and destroy with outsiders everything you hold dear in and about Bengal, should you make the mistake of trusting them with your votes,” she warned, vowing against letting “Gujarat” rule Bengal. The Trinamul Congress chief mocked Modi for his endorsement of former US President Donald Trump who was later voted out of power by Joe Biden. “You saw Trump. He (Modi) went there to get him elected. He can’t even do enough here, but he went there to get Trump elected. The fate that Trump has suffered, much worse awaits him (Modi)…. Violence is eternally incapable of delivering good for mankind,” said Mamata to thunderous applause from an audience of tens of thousands. The chief minister called the BJP the “ugliest, the most corrupt” political party globally and asserted that none other than she was able to speak against them. “All you do is for two industrialists… I have nothing against them. But what about the rest of the country?” the chief minister asked, before accusing Modi of being a “compulsive ribbon-cutter”, inaugurating — and thereby taking credit — for things done by others, such as her during her stint as the railways minister. Mamata also explained how the Prime Minister had been able to — rather arduously —  pepper his recent speeches with Bengali. “He does chalaki (resorts to artifice). Understand it well. He uses a teleprompter, with transparent glass, on either side of him… all of it is pre-scripted. He simply reads that out, making it sound like he knows Bengali,” she said, mocking Modi and other senior BJP leaders over the laboured — sometimes incorrect — Bengali in their addresses. Although vehemently critical of Mamata’s alleged attempts to polarise voters on the basis of a regional sub-nationalism, the saffron ecosystem has appeared unsure of how the outsider label is going to impact the BJP electorally. The likes of Modi, Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda have been falling over themselves to try and convince the people of the state that their party does not lack a Bengal connect and does not exclusively represent the Sangh parivar’s Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan vision now. “A few lines of Bengali here and there… one cannot win Bengal’s heart with that. Bengal only cares for genuine love from the heart,” she said. “You sold off the entire nation. You come here, speak lies and go back…. You dare call us tolabaj (extortionist)? You are the biggest dangabaj (rioter), dhandabaj (opportunist)…. A party of rodents,” she added. The chief minister then dared the BJP to arrest her and others in her party in order to win the election. “We have 20 lakh workers. Arrest everybody, because you cannot fight politically… all you have is vendetta. Arrest all of us, including me, fill your jails…. Plant us here, we will grow out in Delhi. An injured tigress is a lot more dangerous than a fit one,” she said. “The khyala (game) that will happen here, if you are able to defeat them here, they will lose the rest of the country. It will be the beginning of their end. They will be thrown out of the entire nation,” she added. “I respect that chair (that of the Prime Minister). He (Modi) is occupying it today. Tomorrow he won’t.” Several civil society members, including former Team India batsman and Bengal captain Manoj Tiwari, footballer Syed Rahim Nabi, actors Saayoni Ghosh, June Malia and Kanchan Mullick, besides filmmakers Raj Chakraborty and Sudeshna Roy, joined Trinamul at the rally. Former Indian cricketer Ashok Dinda joined the BJP in presence of MP Babul Supriyo, state leaders Suvendu Adhikari and Sabyasachi Dutta at a rally in north Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
25-02-2021||West Bengal||J.P. Nadda to launch 294 LED vehicles or raths today ||BJP national president J.P. Nadda will flag off 294 LED vehicles or raths from here on Thursday to collect suggestions from the people of Bengal for incorporation in the party’s election manifesto. Dubbed as an “outsource campaign”, the programme is one of the many reachout initiatives undertaken by the BJP to establish direct communication with the state’s electorate ahead of the Assembly elections, sources said. “Through the campaign, it (the party) will directly engage with the citizens of West Bengal in crafting the vision for West Bengal for the next five years by inviting citizens to give their suggestions,” a press release issued by the party on Wednesday said. “Two crore suggestions will be collected by the party and will be used in the creation of the BJP’ manifesto for West Bengal,” the release added. Each of the 294 vehicles, equipped with suggestion boxes, mobile phones, and tablets, will cover an entire Assembly constituency. While people will be able to drop their suggestions in these boxes, party workers travelling along the vehicles will make videos of “people’s aspirations” through the mobile phones and tablets. Suggestion boxes will be placed at several points across the state. The press release said 30,000 such boxes — 100 for each Assembly — will be set up. Additionally, the party will release a phone number and email id that can be used by the common people to communicate their ideas. Meetings with representatives of various communities across the state will be held to collect suggestions. Nadda will participate in one such meeting on Thursday evening in Calcutta. BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya on Wednesday said the programme was being launched as a part of the party’s plans to campaign for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled public meeting at Calcutta’s Brigade Parade grounds on March 7. “The initial launch will be to campaign for the PM’s meeting on March 7. However, it will continue even after that,” Bhattacharya said. He added that the BJP had fixed a target for its workers to bring at least 10 people from each of the 78,000 odd booths in the state to the Brigade rally. On March 5 and 6, BJP MPs and MLAs will go on a door-to-door campaign to invite common people to the meeting. During his day-long tour on Thursday, Nadda will be visiting the residence of iconic Bengali authors Bankim Chandra Chatterjee and Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay in North 24-Parganas. He will also visit the Mangal Pandey memorial and is scheduled to have lunch at a jute mill worker’s house. Nadda will take part in the culmination rally of the party’s Parivartan Yatra in the Nabadwip zone on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata ties CBI’s questioning to women’s safety ||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday ended her silence on the CBI’s questioning of nephew Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rujira over its probe into alleged coal smuggling in some western districts of the state, giving it a spin of women being unsafe in the saffron regime. The day after the CBI questioned Rujira, wife of the Diamond Harbour MP, for less than an hour in connection with the probe, the Trinamul chief — without taking names or specifying otherwise that she was referring to the Rujira incident — accused the BJP of hobnobbing with coal pilferers. She attacked the BJP for allegedly trying to barge into homes and hounding women because of her political resistance to the saffron camp. “Two leaders in this nation now. One is a hnodol kutkut… the other one is kimbhut kimakar (both adjectives broadly mean grotesque in Bengali). Showing us physical force…. Today, just think, where they are trying to hit,” she said at Sahaganj. Rujira was questioned as a “witness” by the central agency. “Because I am in politics and you are furious with me… because I am the only one refusing to shut up against you…. But does that allow you to disrespect our mothers and sisters? Barging into our homes. A little girl, 22/23-year-old (Rujira is 33)… a daughter, a wife of the family… calling her a coal thief. That too while hobnobbing with the real coal thieves yourselves. Have you no shame?” asked the visibly furious chief minister. “This is very simple and also predictable. They would have used such agencies to hound that family and others in the top-tier leadership over baseless allegations regarding scams such as Saradha and Narada. But many of the accused from those scams have defected from Trinamul to the BJP now, so that won’t happen,” said a senior Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. The chief minister said “The mothers and sisters of our homes are kawyela (coal) thieves today? Your entire body is covered in mawyela (filth)…. The demonetisation scam’s money alone, where it went… only you must answer, Narendra Modi.” Going on to accuse the saffron camp of general misogyny, she warned women against allowing the BJP to rise here. “A lot of lofty things he (Modi) said here. Women here are supposedly not safe. Are they safe within the BJP? What about women in Uttar Pradesh, in Bihar, in Madhya Pradesh….? Because women here are doing well, they are envious and shameless,” she said. “I don’t need to tell you how much I care about women, how much our party does….” “The BJP party, I know shameful horrific stories about women and their condition in that party. Women are not even safe within that party. People want to speak out, but cannot,” she added. “I know everything. I won’t say it, because my language is not as obscene as yours.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata taps Centre for free vaccine for all before polls ||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his help for the Bengal government to procure Covid-19 vaccines so that everyone in the state can be inoculated free of cost before the Assembly polls. “Government of West Bengal has decided to procure adequate number of vaccines for the members of the public at large. We would request you to kindly take up the matter with appropriate authority so that state government is able to purchase the vaccines from designated point(s) on top priority basis because the West Bengal Government wants to provide vaccine free of cost to all the people,” the chief minister wrote. In her letter, Mamata said as the Assembly polls would be held soon, her government wanted a rapid vaccination programme — with the cost borne by Bengal — for all people. “However, the worrying point is that, in the ensuring elections, the people in general will be forced to go to the polling stations without any vaccine coverage. We feel that it is equally important to reach out to them with a rapid vaccination programme immediately,” her letter read. So far, about 3 lakh health workers, Asha (Accredited Social Health Activists) workers and doctors were administered jabs in the state. Another 2 lakh frontline workers, including policemen and municipal workers, are being given vaccines in the second phase. The Bengal administration has also said all state government employees and staff of state-aided institutes like schools, colleges and panchayats will be vaccinated against the novel coronavirus as they are assigned for poll duties. The Centre had asked the state to give vaccines to all polling officials. “The state would require more than 6 lakh polling officials this year as the number of booths have been increased to 1.01 lakh from over 78,000. So, the state decided to bring all its 8 lakh employees under the vaccination programme,” said an official. The letter by the chief minister, sources said, appears to be a smart one ahead of the polls. “The chief minister had made it clear to the Prime Minister during a video conference just before vaccination started that the state wanted to buy vaccines and give them free to common people. Now, the chief minister reiterated her stand to make it clear she is eager to give free vaccines to all people as she had promised,” said an official. The letter, a bureaucrat said, assumed significance in the backdrop of the Centre’s decision to make vaccines available at some private hospitals. “The decision gives a clear hint that the Centre would not be able to give free vaccine to all. The chief minister wants to put pressure on the Centre ahead of the polls by sending the letter,” said the bureaucrat. Trinamul insiders said Covid-19 vaccination would be a major issue in the polls as people were in panic in the backdrop of the pandemic. “Initially, the BJP was trying to cash in on the vaccination citing that the central government has fast-tracked the process to keep people safe from the virus. But now, the chief minister has caught the BJP on the wrong foot by making it clear that Bengal wants to administer vaccine free of cost to all people, which the BJP-led Centre could not do,” said a Trinamul MLA. Active cases plummet Bengal on Wednesday logged 221 Covid-19 recoveries, 202 infections and three deaths, including one from Calcutta, as the drop in total active cases continued for the 121sth consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 3,377. Bengal now has 2.27 per cent of the national total of active cases, with the share having reduced steadily from nearly seven per cent a couple of months ago. It is now sixth on the list of states with most active cases, having improved from third place. The recovery rate rose for 124 consecutive days to touch 97.63 per cent. The national rate is 97.19 now. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.77 per cent, having fallen steadily for 97 days. On Wednesday, the state reported 20,212 tests, taking the total past 84.83 lakh, at 94,256 tests per million people. Of the total deaths of 10,256, 8,610 (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate is 1.41 per cent. Additional reporting by Meghdeep Bhattacharyya||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
25-02-2021||West Bengal|| Longview tea garden work ‘resumes’||Work “resumed” in the Longview tea garden, the largest estate producing Darjeeling Tea, on Wednesday but in the poll-bound Bengal, a peculiar situation emerged with the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang camp) claiming that labourers were independently running the plantation, a claim disputed by the management. Anit Thapa, the general secretary of the party and also the chairman of the board of administrators at the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, claimed that the party was pursuing the concept of “hamro ghar, afnai bhar (we will stand on our might)”. “The method in which the garden has been opened is in pursuance of our hamro ghar, afnai bhar thoughts. People working in this garden are ours, plantation is done by our own people and it’s being looked after by them. So, where is the problem?,” said Thapa. The hill party said it could not wait for the owners to reopen the estate and had hence taken the initiative. Since December 23, workers had “stopped going to work” as the garden had dues for workers. Amar Pal Singh Dahiya, manager of the garden, however, claimed that the management was still running the garden. “We had neither declared suspension of work or lockout. The workers stopped coming to work but I was always present in the garden. Today, they joined work. We have taken attendance and they will be paid their wages every fortnight,” said Dahiya. The Longview management further claimed that they had disbursed a sum of Rs 15 lakh to workers as wages and Rs 12 lakh to staff and sub-staffs on Wednesday. “As of today, there is no wage due to any labourer,” said Dahiya. However, there are outstanding fringe benefits to be paid. The garden spread over 500 hectares has 1,200 workers on rolls but the management said that “only 300 to 400 workers” would attend work. Dahiya admitted the company faced cash crunch as the garden could only produce 1.5 lakh kg of made tea last year against the average annual figure of 7.5 lakh kg. The management said that 135 workers reported for work on Wednesday. The moot question doing the rounds in the tea industry is the policy adopted by the Morcha. “This is a clear case of the union trying to take control of the garden to gain workers’ sympathy across the region. There is no doubt that the upcoming election is directing the party’s policy, which is worrisome for the industry,” said an official of the Darjeeling Tea industry. Gorkha National Liberation Front accused both Anit Thapa and Bimal Gurung of indulging in politics. “A few days back, Bimal Gurung went to Longview and appointed 15 volunteers to purportedly safeguard the garden. Anit Thapa now comes and declares that the workers committee is going to run the garden. The workers are being sandwiched between the politics of these two,” said Nima Tamang, president, GNLF Kurseong branch committee. The GNLF said that the owner had to be made accountable as many other dues like annual bonus are yet to be cleared. “In the workers committee model the worker will pluck tea leaves and sell it. How will other workers engaged in non-plucking jobs like office and hospital be paid? The owner has to run the garden,” said Tamang. Observers believe that Thapa’s decision is expected to gain sympathy as it would be seen as a “pro-workers approach.” I Thapa, however, said that the decision had nothing to do with politics but only influenced by the deplorable condition of the workers. “The issue of the garden is not political but the issue of hunger. The workers do not have work. They are not able to feed themselves,” said Thapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
25-02-2021||West Bengal||NJP-Dhaka train service from March 26||A passenger train will chug out of Dhaka in Bangladesh on March 26 and head for New Jalpaiguri, marking the commencement of the third passenger train service between the neighbouring country and Bengal. “The passenger train service between NJP and the Dhaka Cantonment station will start on March 26. It will be a bi-weekly train and will be the third passenger railway service between Bengal and Bangladesh,” said R.K. Verma, the Katihar divisional railway manager (DRM) of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) here on Wednesday. In the past two days, DRM-level talks were held between both the countries. Md. Shahidul Islam, DRM of the Paksey railway division of Bangladesh, led the delegation of his country. According to Verma, the train will leave NJP on every Thursday and Monday while it will depart from Dhaka on Friday and Thursday. As of now, two trains run between Bengal and Bangladesh. These are the Bandhan Express that runs between Calcutta and Khulna and Maitree Express which plies between Calcutta and Dhaka. “The NJP-Dhaka route is 513km long and it will be covered in nine hours. The train will not have any stop between NJP and Dhaka Cantonment. It will have 10 coaches and will be run by a diesel loco,” said Verma. Two air-conditioned coaches, six sleepers and two chair cars will make up the train. On December 17 last year, goods train service was introduced along the Haldibari-Chilahati route. Haldibari, which is on the India-Bangladesh border, is in Cooch Behar district of the state, while Chilahati is the first station on the other side of the border, located in the Nilfamari district of the neighbouring country. After the goods train service was commenced jointly by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina, there were indications that the passenger train service would begin on March 26, that is, on the Independence Day of Bangladesh. Modi is likely to be present in Dhaka on that day, sources said. “The running staff will change on the international border. As far as immigration and other formalities of passengers are concerned, those would be carried out both in Dhaka and NJP. The fares, however, are yet to be worked out,” a railway official said. The train, sources said, will reach Haldibari from NJP via Jalpaiguri Town. It would then enter Bangladesh and reach Dhaka via Chilahati, Jaidebpur, Parbatipur, Shantahar and Tangail. “Our relations have always remained cordial and we believe the new train service would strengthen our ties. The train service can also help Bangladeshi residents visit any tourist destination,” said Islam. The delegation of the Bangladesh Railway had been to Darjeeling on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Police’s decision of security downgrade irks leader||Police’s decision to curtail the number of security personnel of former minister and Malda district Trinamul chairman Krishnendu Choudhury left him miffed on Wednesday. Although senior district police officers claimed that the security downgrade had been decided on after a review, Choudhury was annoyed and took up the matter with the state Trinamul Congress leadership. Choudhury, who was appointed the district chairman of the party in January, is also the secretary of the district sports association. He claimed that considering the threat to his life, the state government had assigned security cover to him even during the Left Front regime. According to him, one of his three armed security personnel received a message on his cellphone on Tuesday night. “He was asked to leave my address and report for another duty. I was surprised but without demur, I released all the three immediately. None of them turned up for duty this morning either at my residence or in my office,” said Choudhury. He claimed that a number of attacks were organised on him. “When I was a minister, I was provided with six police personnel. However, I am not bothered about the security downgrade. There are hundreds of Trinamul workers who can take care of my security,” the miffed Trinamul leader said. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda, spoke differently. “We have withdrawn only one of his three security persons after the routine review. Two others are still on duty as his security personnel,” he said. A section of Trinamul leaders believes that the curtailment of the former minister’s security might have a connection with the recent incident which they believe, had demeaned the image of the party. Last week, Choudhury was caught in a controversy after Englishbazar Trinamul MLA Nihar Ranjan Ghosh’s house had been attacked. Ghosh had alleged that Choudhury and the district youth Trinamul president had orchestrated the attack. The district Trinamul chairman, however, rejected the allegation While a section of Trinamul workers believes the police should have informed Choudhury before reducing his security cover, others feel the former minister, who was cornered after the attack on the MLA’s house, is trying to attract attention. “His reaction is undesirable and might send a wrong message to people. It would also raise questions as to whether he has confidence in the party workers. He should have spoken to police officers to resolve the issue,” said a senior Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Raju Bista, Bimal Gurung threaten to expose each other||Darjeeling MP Raju Bista and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung have threatened to expose each other and such has been the bitterness that Gurung has decided to return a pair of shoes that he received as a birthday gift from Bista. The threat has added a lot of spice to the already charged political atmosphere in the hills and this sequence started following Gurung’s warning to expose Bista during a public meeting at Mirik on Sunday. “Our issue is getting derailed because Raju Bista engages in garrulous talk. The other two (BJP) MPs on the contrary derailed our issue by not talking at all….If I am to expose our conversations, the BJP will expel Raju Bista,” Gurung had said on Sunday. The two BJP MPs that Gurung was referring to are Jaswant Singh and S.S. Ahluwalia who had both won the Darjeeling seat riding on the Morcha’s support. While addressing a Parivartan Yatra in Darjeeling on Tuesday, Bista decided to take Gurung by his horn. “It is because of the leaders that the people have achieved nothing. Once (these leaders) reach Delhi, they only want money. So, how will you get Gorkhaland? They only seek money in Delhi. The day I have to reveal, I will reveal everything, I will even reveal (Gurung’s) shoe size,” said Bista. Bista said he was the person who had rescued Gurung from a “toilet, when holed up for two hours” when the hill leader had come to visit Darjeeling municipal councillors in Delhi. “And yet, they say we did nothing for them,” said Bista. The Darjeeling MP, however, did not take Gurung’s name but the pinpointed attack was not lost in the hills. Gurung, too, has decided not to lie low. “Instead of talking about major issues like tribal status, permanent political solution, unemployment, the fate of tea workers, he talks about revealing my shoe size,” he said on Wednesday. “He had gifted me a pair of shoes on my birthday. I have not even worn. I will return it through speed post immediately,” said Gurung, adding he was willing to listen to all the allegations that Bista wanted to reveal in the days to come. BJP draws flak BJP MP Arjun Singh has drawn flak from the Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha for obliquely tagging the Gorkha community with the “chowkidar” profession. Addressing the Parivartan Yatra in Darjeeling on Tuesday, Singh had said: “The place where we stay have a lot of factories. Lot of people from your community, the Gorkhas, would stay there. There is so much trust in the word ‘Gorkha’ that they would entrust their property and leave the place and not an item would be moved an inch. This is the kind of respect towards Gorkhas.” Taking umbrage at Singh’s statement, Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the spokesman for the Tamang camp, said: “Arjun Singh’s speech reflects the BJP’s thought about Gorkhas.” “Arjun Singh and the BJP recognise Gorkhas only as chowkidar. This is deplorable. Our people must be conscious.” A similar reference by a radio jockey to Indian Idol winner Prashant Tamang in 2007 had triggered a law and order problem in the hills and Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Former INTTUC leader in police custody||The chief judicial magistrate’s court here on Wednesday remanded former INTTUC leader Prasenjit Roy in nine days of police custody in connection with the vandalism at the Inland Container Depot near the New Jalpaiguri (NJP) station. Roy had been arrested from Tinsukia in Assam a few days ago. Hundreds of INTTUC supporters had rampaged through the dry port on February 4. When Roy was brought to the court around 2pm, hundreds of supporters raised slogans hailing him. “The party should think about his contribution and bring him back to his post at the NJP. Otherwise, it might impact our vote bank at the NJP and in the adjoining areas,” said a supporter. Roy said he was not present during the vandalism. “It was an undesirable incident and as the local Trinamul leader, I was expelled to ensure that the party’s image is not besmirched.” His counsel Bidyut Ghosh said police should collect the CCTV footage of Roy’s home. “He was at home and not at the spot where the incident happened,” the lawyer said. Mrinmoy Banerjee, the assistant public prosecutor, said 14 persons altogether had been arrested so far in connection with the vandalism and two of them released on bail. “Eleven people are in judicial custody. All of them, including Roy, will be produced in the court again on March 5,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
25-02-2021||West Bengal||TMC leader Vinay Mishra named in cattle-smuggling case||The CBI on Wednesday filed a supplementary chargesheet in the cattle-smuggling case naming Trinamul youth congress leader Vinay Mishra. The chargesheet submitted to the special CBI court in Asansol said Mishra was absconding. The first chargesheet submitted to the court on February 8 had named Enamul Haque, a Murshidabad businessman, as the mastermind. “The supplementary chargesheet reveals the involvement of the accused in the cattle smuggling case with specific evidence. Mishra has been booked under different sections of the IPC, including criminal conspiracy and cheating,” said a senior officer of the CBI. “We can’t divulge the details of the chargesheet though.” The CBI had taken over the probe on September 21 last year. In the February-8 chargesheet, the CBI had named Satish Kumar, a BSF commandant, among the seven accused in the case. Besides Kumar and Haque, several others believed to be close to the duo — like Anarul Seikh, Golam Mustafa, Taniya Sanyal, Badal Krishna Sanyal and Rashida Bibi — were also named in the chargesheet. The CBI claimed that Haque was the mastermind of the illegal cattle trade and was assisted by two other accused in connivance with Kumar, who was then deployed in Murshidabad and Malda zone as the BSF commandant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
25-02-2021||North East||IIT Guwahati makes permission mandatory for all webinars ||IIT Guwahati has made permission mandatory for faculty members to participate in all types of webinars, going a step further than the Union government that had covered only international online seminars. IIT Guwahati registrar Suresh S.M. issued a circular on Monday, making approval mandatory for faculty members and senior officers for participating in meetings of selection committees, screening committees and tender committees, apart from webinars and seminars. “We are aware that faculty members and some of the staff members… are invited by other organisations/government departments as external experts for various selection committee meetings/screening committees/ expert committees/ tender committees or as experts for delivering lectures/ participating in webinars/ seminars,” the circular said. The circular said: “In view of the above, all concerned are requested to take prior permission from the competent authority (dean of faculty affairs for faculty and registrar for staff) to attend any selection committee/ screening committee/ expert committee/ tender committee meetings/ webinars/seminars etc in both online and offline mode.” A faculty member said the requirement would create hindrances. “For webinars, we are not taking any permission now. But the teachers would feel constrained since permission would be taken from now,” he said. But Parameswar K. Iyer, dean, public relations, branding and ranking, IIT Guwahati, said the notice was not intended at curbing the freedom of the faculty to participate in events. “The notification issued by the institute is only to ensure there is a systematic mechanism to collate data on faculty involvement in outreach activities at IIT Guwahati. This is required for providing data for ranking and branding activities of the institute. It is not easy to obtain such data unless processes are put in place to track and monitor such activities. This is not issued for denying permission to faculty for participation in webinars or conferences or any similar academic activities,” Iyer said in an email to this newspaper. “Any misrepresentation of this institute circular as curbing of faculty freedom of participation in events and committees is absolutely baseless,” he added. The Union education ministry had last month made approval mandatory for academics to participate in international webinars and conferences. Such approval will be granted only to events not related to security issues and “internal matters”. The Centre’s guidelines have drawn criticism from academicians globally. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) is learnt to have asked the education ministry to explore modifications in the light of the criticism. Federation of Central Universities Teachers’ Associations (FEDCUTA) president Rajib Ray said the change in the overall atmosphere in the country in the past 10 years was triggering more apprehensions among academics about these guidelines. “There is an atmosphere of more scrutiny and attack on dissent. The academicians are under more pressure now than in 2010. The latest guidelines might have iterated most things from the 2010 guidelines but these are creating more hindrances to the free flow of ideas,” Ray said. But Rajeev Kumar, a computer science professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), supported the guidelines, citing past practices. “This standard operating procedure through the ages implies indirect permission to deliver a guest lecture. In online work-culture, none of the above is required. Notwithstanding, when a faculty speaks in a webinar, she or he is associated with an academic institution, bringing the name of the institute indirectly in her/his expressed views. Therefore, prior permission in a webinar should be treated as enforcing accountability,” Kumar said. He said the guidelines should not be treated as suppression of views. The faculty should impose self-discipline, speaking only on matters of her or his area of expertise and not only subject, Kumar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-21
25-02-2021||North East||Gauhati HC asks Centre to frame rules to regulate supply of fruit ripener ||Gauhati High Court has directed the central government to “frame appropriate rules” for regulating the easy availability of calcium carbide, used as an artificial fruit ripener, in the open market. A division bench of Justices Achintya Malla Bujorbarua and Nelson Sailo passed the order acting on a PIL filed by advocate Bhaskar Baruah in 2018 articulating concerns about artificial ripening of fruits such as banana, papaya and mango by using calcium carbide, a “highly toxic and highly inflammable” chemical substance. The court said: “...We require the authorities in the central government to frame appropriate rules for regulating the open availability of calcium carbide in the market and for the purpose, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India and the ministry of petroleum and natural gas may coordinate amongst themselves for… framing the required rules.” The court also directed the Assam government to “monitor the activities” of senior food safety officers for compliance of its directions to check the artificial ripening of fruits. Baruah had contended in his PIL that such artificially ripened fruits were being sold illegally not only in the markets of Guwahati but also across the state by adopting unfair practices, posing chronic health hazards like abdominal problem, skin diseases and cancer. Calcium carbide is used as a ripener in many other parts of the country too. The method of artificially ripening fruits had reached a “menacing proportion” and that it was now “difficult” to find fruits in the market that were not ripened artificially, the petitioner said. The court was of the view that a “more meaningful interpretation and implementation of the provisions” of the Food and Safety Standards Act, 2016, and the Calcium Carbide Rules, 1987, would be a “requirement” for effecting a “total eradication of the illegitimate procedure” adopted for the ripening of fruits using calcium carbide. It said guidelines were also needed to complement the efforts. The court order took note of certain studies by Baruah on the availability of the chemical in Assam. The study revealed that recognised and licenced industrial houses, which manufacture acetylene gas, may use calcium carbide in a regulated manner. However, calcium carbide was “abundantly available” in the open market and “any person” could procure it at any time because of the prolific use of the chemical in an unregulated manner in motor garages and workshops to generate acetylene gas. Calcium carbide is mainly used for producing acetylene and calcium cyanamide. The court also requested Baruah to be “alert” to whether its directions had been “suitably” followed by the respondents. “In the event of any adverse situation being noticed, the PIL petitioner may bring it to the notice of the court by filing appropriate application,” the order said. Baruah told The Telegraph that his “prayer has been answered” and he was hoping that both the central and the state government would implement the order in the “greater interest” of public health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-21
25-02-2021||Opinion||Lessons to learn: Texas snow storm||Sir — The unprecedented snow storm which hit Texas earlier this month continues to wreak havoc in the lives of millions. While electricity has been mostly restored — much of the power grid had collapsed — a little over 3.4 million people are still facing problems with water supply. Although a confluence of factors have led to the blackout, one of the reasons flagged for the crisis was the complete deregulation of energy providers in the state. With India increasingly moving towards greater privatization, incidents such as these should act as a much-needed warning to the authorities in our country. Ruchira Biswas,Calcutta Victorious moment Sir — Riding the wave of goodwill garnered by the protesting farmers who have been on Delhi’s borders since November, the Congress in Punjab has romped home to a massive victory in the civic polls, with most municipal corporations and a majority of the 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in its bag (“First sign”, Feb 19). Over 71 per cent of the electorate turned out to vote in the largely peaceful local body polls held recently. The Shiromani Akali Dal, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Aam Aadmi Party were pushed to the fringes. The Grand Old Party’s victory, particularly in Pathankot, Hoshiarpur and Bathinda — the latter will get a Congress mayor for the first time in 53 years — is a big blow to the Akali Dal and the BJP that were perceived to have a stronghold in these areas. It is evident that public ire was largely responsible for the losses suffered by the BJP in Punjab. The shadow of the farmers’ protest — it has support from most sections of society — loomed over the election campaigning as the saffron party and its workers faced immense public wrath. Sensing alienation from the masses, the Akali Dal had already broken its long-time alliance with the BJP in September last year. The Punjab poll outcome has dented any real possibility of the BJP making a comeback in the state. The Akali Dal and the AAP need to reconfigure their strategies if they hope to win back the people’s trust. The assembly elections in Punjab, slated to be held next year, will be crucial. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — The Congress has proved a point by sweeping the civic polls in Punjab. The party’s opposition to the agriculture laws and support for the farmers’ protests have borne fruit. The results indicate that the people of the state are more or less unanimous in their opposition to the new legislations. The passage of the bills in the state assembly aimed at negating the Centre’s farm laws — the question of their constitutional validity notwithstanding — seems to have paid dividends. The outcome puts the Congress in a position to win the Punjab assembly elections next year. The BJP could face a significant drop in votes if the farmers in Uttar Pradesh and other parts of the country desert the party owing to its refusal to repeal the laws. The government might just be forced to concede if the farming community decides to vote en masse against the BJP. The results of the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal and Assam are going to be an indication of its political fortunes. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It was great to see the Congress make a clean sweep of the civic body polls in Punjab. The party won Moga, Mohali, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Abohar, Pathankot, Batala and Bathinda. This time the people of Punjab have clearly rejected the BJP, the Akali Dal and the AAP. The emerging scenario is a huge setback for the BJP in Punjab. The Akali Dal, too, seems to have lost its footing in the state owing to its former alliance with the saffron party. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Maharashtra is, once again, witnessing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases, weeks after the state government restarted local trains in Mumbai. The spike has been attributed to both the relaxation of curbs and careless public behaviour. This, coupled with the presence of mutant strains of the coronavirus, has sparked fears that India might witness a second wave of infections. Governmental and public complacency at this point, when vaccinations are on and cases nationwide are at their lowest in over eight months, can undo the hard-won progress and sacrifices made in the fight against the disease. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
25-02-2021||Opinion||High cost: health minister shares Ramdev's 'dream'||New India is setting novel standards for the values of governance. The Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, said he was “pleased” to have been present at the release of a “scientific research paper” which claimed that Patanjali, a commercial organization for which the yoga preacher, Mr Ramdev, provides the ‘face’, had produced “the first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19”. In the first place, why was the minister present at the advertising gig of a company? Mr Vardhan’s frankness was disarming: the years-long closeness of the Narendra Modi-led government with Mr Ramdev was flaunted in the face of citizens by the health minister’s declaration that the government shared Mr Ramdev’s dreams for ayurveda. The Indian Medical Association has pointed out that with Mr Vardhan being a doctor himself, the violation of ethics was professional too, not just related to governance. No doctor is supposed to endorse a drug or medicine in any form or manner of advertising. The presence of the health minister — with the Union minister for road transport and highways — next to Mr Ramdev at the event was nothing short of an endorsement. Its ramifications are dangerous. Scientists and doctors have variously shown up the flaws in the research process published as ‘evidence’ in the paper. In effect, it is an example of pseudo-science that not only has the approval of the government but also poses a serious danger to the people who trust their ministers. Fierce criticism has forced a statement from the company that the World Health Organization had not approved the product, although the banner behind the dais was cunningly designed to give that impression. The IMA has called the health minister’s “false and fabricated projection” of an “unscientific” medicine and the WHO’s subsequent denial of its certification a “slap and insult” to the people of India. But most people watching the event would be unlikely to know about the WHO’s denial. It is one thing to claim scientific glories for ancient India — from plastic surgery for Ganesha’s head to interplanetary travel — and quite another to promote commercial products without the required scientific processes in the name of ayurveda. Far from respecting a traditional system of healing based on years of study and experimentation, this is just exploiting people’s trust. At the cost of their health and pockets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
25-02-2021||Opinion||Justice lives: Rao and Ravi granted bail||A fair investigation is one of the prerequisites of justice. The infirmities in two separate investigations that were exposed and castigated by the courts in two recent judgments merit attention. The Bombay High Court granted conditional bail to the poet, Varavara Rao, infirm and an accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, observing that the National Investigation Agency had kept him in custody without framing charges for an extended period of time. The observations made by a Delhi sessions court while granting bail to Disha Ravi, the young climate activist arrested on the specious charge of sedition, are even more revealing. The court rejected almost every accusation that the Delhi police — it answers to the Union home ministry — brought against Ms Ravi, including her alleged engagement with groups with ‘dubious’ credentials, her association with banned organizations, the motive of incitement as well as the destruction of ‘evidence’. The shoddiness of the investigation raises the disquieting possibility of the inquiry being prejudiced. Of greater import was the court’s observation concerning sedition. Citing a judicial precedent, the court stated that the offence of sedition cannot be invoked to “minister to the wounded vanity of governments”. This can only be read as a comprehensive rejection of the worrying trend of silencing the voices of dissenting citizens with the help of intimidating — dated? — legal instruments. This kind of coercion is no longer limited to the realm of speculation. Reliable data indicate that the alarming spike in cases of sedition has coincided with the political ascendancy of the Bharatiya Janata Party. The courts must remain vigilant against such institutional aggression. The momentum generated by these verdicts needs to be taken forward to kindle an informed debate on judicial reform. Reform, increasingly, is being viewed in an instrumental manner. The discussion on meaningful reform must go beyond the imperative of addressing such paucities as vacancies in judicial posts to look into the urgent need of making law compatible with contemporary ideas of liberty and encroachments on it. Such a discussion must entail considered opinion on the need to do away with antiquated legislations. The sedition law, a colonial relic that is often misused by authoritarian regimes, must be amended, if not rejected. A bold, impartial engagement on the part of the judiciary to examine the need for draconian legislations would deepen the line of separation between court and government. That, too, is the need of the hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
25-02-2021||Opinion||Pakistan senate elections: gearing up for a fight||Senate elections in Pakistan will be held on March 3. All political parties are gearing up to get their nominees elected. The ruling party, the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, is busy consolidating its votes by addressing the grievances of some of its disgruntled members of parliament as well as making sure that the government’s coalition partners are also satisfied. The most interesting contest will take place for the general seat from Islamabad between the finance minister, Hafeez Sheikh, and the former prime minister, Yusuf Raza Gilani, who is a consensus candidate of the Pakistan Democratic Movement, an Opposition alliance of 11 parties. The idea of fielding Gilani was given last month by the Senator, Mustafa Nawaz Khokhar, of the Pakistan Peoples Party. Apart from the other Opposition parties, the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz has assured the PDM of its support for Gilani. The PDM is lobbying to get the votes of the disgruntled PTI members as well as those of government allies. The reason for Gilani’s nomination is that he is well-liked across parties, and if he manages to win his seat from the capital, it will be a symbolic vote of no-confidence against Prime Minister Imran Khan. Some say the government is worried while others say it will win its seats easily. There is a debate going on about an open ballot instead of a secret ballot in the Senate polls. India has already done this, but without amending the Constitution; in Pakistan, it is a bit more complicated, and using an open ballot system may require a constitutional amendment in the end. A bill was moved in Parliament by the government regarding open balloting in the Senate, but the Opposition is in no mood to play ball. The federal government has also filed a presidential reference under Article 186 of the Constitution and sought the top court’s advice regarding the Senate polls — whether they are to be held under the Constitution (Article 226) or under the law (the Election Act, 2017). While the matter is still sub judice, the top court has observed that democracy will remain a dream unless the current voting method, that is, the secret ballot system, is changed. Recently, a few videos from the last Senate polls in 2018 emerged; in them, MPs from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa were seen taking stacks of money in return for selling their votes in the Senate. Some legal analysts say the timing of the leak of these videos in the media seems suspect and it may have been done keeping in mind that the apex court ruling is still pending. The argument in favour of an open ballot in the Senate is that not many people vote as per their conscience; they either vote for their party, for money or under pressure from certain quarters. Thus, in any case, their vote is ‘influenced’. Ideally, all parties should support this move. The Opposition parties are not averse to it, but they do not want to do the present government any favour owing to the way in which they were treated by the PTI dispensation during this tenure. In the long run, the Opposition parties are doing themselves a disservice by not supporting an open ballot just because there is no love lost between them and the PTI. For the Senate elections to be transparent, there should either be an open ballot or direct elections. It remains to be seen what the apex court eventually rules. On the other hand, the bypolls that were held last week have put the government in an embarrassing position. According to unofficial results, the PML-N won two seats out of four; one of them was a seat that had been won by the ruling party in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where the PTI has been in power since 2013. Another seat in Daska, Punjab, was said to have been won by the PML-N when suddenly around 20 presiding officers went missing. Hence, the results were unnecessarily delayed. In a statement, the Election Commission of Pakistan said that it suspected that the results of 20 polling stations had been falsified in the by-election. The PML-N said the government was involved in rigging the polls and there should be new elections in Daska, whereas the prime minister also tweeted for a recount in these 20 polling stations. In a series of tweets, Khan said: “[E]ven though there is no legal compulsion to do so before ECP announces results, I would request our PTI candidate to ask for re-polling in the 20 polling stations Opposition is crying hoarse over... We will always seek to strengthen a fair and free election process. Unfortunately others lack this commitment.” A ruling party losing bypolls is taken as an indication that the government is weak or not performing. The rising inflation and the lack of economic performance in Pakistan may be key factors in why the government could not win those seats. It needs to introspect as to what has gone wrong. The Senate polls, therefore, will also be quite interesting. The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
25-02-2021||Opinion||Bengal’s magpies||In a nation that has slipped six places to rank a lowly 86 among 180 countries in 2020’s Corruption Perception Index, ‘thief’ — chor— unsurprisingly, has often been used as an expression of reproach in politics. In the late 1980s, Calcutta’s walls blazed with slogans condemning Rajiv Gandhi as a thief before a general election. The opprobrium cost Mr Gandhi his prime ministership even though, years later, he was exonerated of the charge. Before the parliamentary elections of 2019, Rahul Gandhi attempted to turn tables on Narendra Modi by weaponizing the word, chor, only to find, on the day of the results, that the tables had been turned on him. It is possible that Potol Das would shake his head in dismay while watching this political mudslinging. Potol, one of the principal characters in Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay’s delightful Pagla Saheb er Kobor, took pride in thievery — his chosen vocation. A despairing Potol even confides in Haribandhu, the young hero, that his son was indifferent to such wonders as hastalaghob, mukhbandhan, vayuniyantran, kumbhak — the tricks that elevated thievery to a form of art. Potol wasn’t pulling a trick here. A cursory examination of social and literary history of thievery — something that Prabir Mukhopadhyay does with wonderful results in his slim, engaging book, Chor Chaturdoshi — would reveal that sacred (Brahminical?) texts have intersected with Bengal’s folk traditions to accord a pride of place to chourjyobritti in recognition of the myriad expertise of the chor. The shastras, Chor Chaturdoshi reveals, acknowledged thievery as one of the 64 principal art forms. Thievery enlivens the Janmukhkalpa, Chouryochorja, Chourjyoswarup — handwritten Sanskrit scriptures (Pnuthis) — as well as the tales in the Jatakas and the Kathasaritsagar. The folk tradition responded in the form of the Chor Chakrabarti, a literary figure respected and, indeed, celebrated as a cerebral hero. In his essay, “Chor er Pnachali”, which has found its rightful place in Chor Chaturdoshi, Chintaharan Chakrabarty argues that Chor Chakrabarti should, in fact, be read as an honorific that was showered upon those blessed with nimble hands. This honour, even in early twentieth-century literature, functioned as a kind of social capital. Thus, in “Jhanu Chor Chanu”, Upendrakishore Ray Chowdhury’s eponymous hero-thief manages to marry the zamindar’s daughter after passing a number of tests, including one in which he steals the zamindar’s horse with the nobleman still perched upon the equine. But it wasn’t slippery hands alone that enabled Bengal’s thieving magpies to win hearts. The literary thief, on occasions, challenged uncomplicated notions of morality by battling dilemmas that were the products of larger social and economic fissures. Mukhopadhyay refers to a story by Anurupa Devi in the journal, Bharati (1912), in which poverty pushes a young man to steal from his childhood friend; a similar plot informs Bhimapada Ghosh’s tale that appeared in Shishusaathi (1936). What makes the chor’s resurrection as the proverbial mirror to broader social cleavages interesting is the fact that Bharati and Shishusaathi were popular with young readers and, thereby, had the potential of kindling, albeit inadvertently, an imagination in which the thief emerged as a wronged, subaltern figure. Strikingly — we are, yet again, indebted to Chor Chaturdoshi here — a potent intellectual assault on the integrity of the chor came from the works by luminaries associated with Bengal’s Renaissance. The chipping away at the thief’s inner moral core was couched in the  form of an education that was undoubtedly tinged with puritan, colonial ethics. Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar denounced thievery as a repugnant habit (Barnaparichay); Madanmohan Tarkalankar attributes larceny to the triumph of greed whose taming is predicated on discipline and restraint; in Dharmaniti, Akshaykumar Dutt links this immorality to man’s capitulation to materialism. This denouncement of the thief, Mukhopadhyay posits, was indicative of a discernible complicity between the Colonial State and the Family — the latter being the State in an atomized form — in the sphere of education. The creation of a peaceful, productive social order was underpinned by the State’s ability to turn citizens into pliant subjects, and the Family was identified as the primary site of this ‘indoctrination’. But if deviance was dreaded and condemned, as is evident from the scorn heaped on the chor, what explains the valorization of the robber — Banglar dakat — in literary works? Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay immortalized Debi Chaudhurani; Nadia’s Bishu, alias Bishe, Dakat, Mukhopadhyay points out, entered the literary canon in 1896 in a ‘historical novel’ that eulogized the outlaw; Dhirendralal Dhar’s Banglar Dakat is proof of this persistent fascination. Mukhopadhyay answers this intriguing question by presenting a singular hypothesis. Bengal’s Robinhoods, as opposed to its thieving Magpies, were perceived to be symbols of indigenous masculinity, courage — even justice and dissent. The robbers’ association with justice and dissent may have been fortified by the shared cultural belief that the dakat, unlike the chor, robbed the rich to help the poor; more importantly, the robber, who often succeeded in eluding the reach of imperial, prejudiced law, was also a symbol of local autonomy. William Henry Sleeman’s brutal campaign against the Thuggee may have played a part in this romanticization of the robber whose collateral damage was borne by the thief. What can be deduced from Mukhopadhyay’s inference of the antipathy in the relationship between the two criminal classes is that public opinion on law and the lawless is inevitably mediated by conflicting pulls and pressures of a particular social epoch as well as by shifting political and moral allegiances. The other contribution of Chor Chaturdoshi is its ability to locate the thief in a twilight zone where the moral and the unconscionable collide with unexpected consequences. This is of critical importance on two counts. Mukhopadhyay suggests that the arrival of the detective not only pushed the chor, in a manner of speaking, to the margins of literature but, secondly, it also stripped the thief of a residual moral self that was fascinating because of its ability to challenge the normative ideas of crime and criminals. This purging of the criminal of grey specks to reveal an overwhelmingly dark heart is no longer limited to fiction. Technology is being  harnessed to achieve a similar, troublesome goal with law and order institutions relying on AI algorithms to create the archetypal criminal. Potol Das, who, in the end, had joined hands to resist the forces of darkness would be a bitter man today. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||BSNL's new command centre in Jamshedpur ||A Command Centre for Network Operation (CCNO) for ensuring synergy across different networks of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) became functional at the Kadma telephone exchange on Thursday. The hi-tech centre, which will provide centralized monitoring of various telecom networks such as voice, data, leased circuits and fibre to the home (FTTH) service, will also help in detecting faults easily. The centre will function from 8 am to 10 pm on all days including Sunday and holidays. The centre was inaugurated by the chief general manager of Jharkhand Circle, K.K. Singh on Thursday evening. Sujeet Kumar, general manager of Jharkhand Circle and Sanjeev Verma, general manager of Jamshedpur Secondary Switching Area (SSA) were also present during the function. During the inauguration, K.K. Singh said that three such CCNO has been established in Jharkhand. The other two are at Ranchi and Dhanbad. “Through the one network – CCNO – we will be able to identify the fault quickly through a cross-functional centralized team which will enhance the service assurance parameters leading to increased customer satisfaction and improved quality of service,” he said. BSNL provides a gamut of telecom services to both retail and corporate customers including landline, broadband, FTTH, internet leased line, mobile, etc. and seamless availability of telecom services is a pre-requisite for sustained operational excellence. For this, it requires continuous monitoring of different network and taking corrective action, as and when the fault is detected. “For ensuring synergy across different networks and to synchronize/prioritize high bandwidth/critical circuits and as per guidelines of the corporate office, the CCNO has been set up at Kadma,” explained Sanjeev Verma. He added, “For providing the state-of-the-art solution for people who are currently working from home, BSNL’s Bharat Fibre has received a significant response from customers across the country including Jamshedpur. Through Bharat Fibre, BSNL is providing speed up to 300 Mbps and data up to 4000 GB per month which comes to around 130 GB per day.” Verma also said they have several other plans for improving the services and strengthening telecom infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi corporation to launch 'no-car Saturdays' from March 13 ||Streets of the state capital can be expected to be free from honking and noxious fumes once a week with Ranchi's civic guardians announcing a "No cars on Saturday" campaign from March 13, the environment-friendly move being cited as one to promote cycling and a healthy lifestyle among residents. Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) commissioner Mukesh Kumar said, “The 'No cars on Saturday' campaign will be rolled out from March 13 from Morabadi ground. On this day, we appeal to everyone—office-goers, market hoppers, students,  among others, to pedal for their health. Doing so at least once in a week will not just keep us healthy, but  also encourage everyone to take up cycling. It will also help decongest roads and keep our surroundings free from sound and air pollution.” To lead from the front, Kumar said all officials and staff of the corporation will cycle to work on Saturdays. “Other government and private entities are also requested to be a part of this campaign to make our city clean, green and healthy,” he said. Ranchi Smart City Corporation general manager Rakesh Kumar Nandkuliar said they had already issued directives to their staff to cycle for work on March 13. “We shall do so on all Saturdays in accordance with the campaign,” he said. Earlier, Kumar chaired a meeting with cycle enthusiasts of the city and officials of the civic body and the urban development department to explore more  activities to promote cycling in Ranchi as per the  Centre's 'India cycle for change challenge' and 'Street for people' campaigns. Kumar said RMC was also working on long-term plans to encourage cycling. Other key decisions taken at Thursday's meeting included setting up a dedicated cycle stand at RMC premises and provisions of free cycle parking for people of the city. “This apart, we will also hold meetings with builders to ask them to make provisions for cycle stands in apartment complexes and residential societies they are constructing,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation unveils menu of thrills to celebrate women on March 8||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF), in line with its commitment and motto to empower women, has planned multiple events to celebrate International Women’s Day on March 8. These events are of varying duration and at different locations, thus providing flexibility and opportunities to participate, experience and celebrate the occasion. Spread across Jamshedpur and Uttarakhand, the events are in the form of leadership development expeditions, rock climbing and water sports. All these expeditions are exclusively for women and will be led by female mountaineers of TSAF. The outdoor events with an essence of adventure are based on this year’s theme of ‘Choose to Challenge’. The main motive of the programme is to let women step out of their comfort zone into the wilderness and experience the thrill of adventures. The first leadership expedition will be led by Bachendri Pal, the first Indian woman to summit Mount Everest. It will be a five-day expedition, starting on March 6 to Dehradun /Mussoorie and is a great opportunity to learn from her personal experiences. The second leadership expedition will be to Dyara top with Poonam Rana, who also has summited Everest. This is a chance to experience snowy peaks and bring out one’s leadership skills while motivating oneself and the fellow trekkers. It starts on March 6 and ends on March 12. The third outdoor activity is a two-day leadership development programme, starting on March 8 in Tumung and Dimna, Jamshedpur. This will include a day for rock climbing in small teams and camping in wilderness. The second day will be about water sports team activities which will challenge one`s leadership skills. This will be led by L. Annapurna, Asmita Dorjee and Swarnlata Dalai. The fourth activity is a one-day water sports adventure where one can have breakfast in the middle of the lake on a floating boat, do some kayaking, swimming, ride a paddle boat and play. This will be led by Premlata Agrawal, the first Indian woman to summit seven peaks. It is scheduled on March 8. "All the events will adhere to all safety protocols as per standard guidelines prepared by TSAF to minimise Covid-19 risks," a TSAF official said. Interested candidates can write to  info@tsafindia.org  for more details and registration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police ordered to bring back Sanjeev Singh to Dhanbad jail   ||Four days after he was shifted to Dumka central jail amid allegations of political influence, a district court issued orders on Thursday to bring former Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh back to Dhanbad divisional jail in order to "ensure the majesty of law". While passing the order on a petition moved by lawyers representing Sanjeev, who was arrested for conspiring to murder his cousin Neeraj in April 2017, additional district and session judge Ravi Ranjan also termed Dhanbad jail superintendent Ajay Kumar's reply to a show cause notice as unsatisfactory. Sanjeev's lawyer Md Javed said, “The jail superintendent, Ajay Kumar, was physically present during the hearing and the court ordered him to transfer back Sanjeev to Dhanbad jail at once in order to ensure the majesty of law. The court said that nobody was above the law whatever post he/she may hold... ." Sanjeev was arrested by Dhanbad police on April 11, 2017 as a key conspirator in the Niraj Singh murder case of March 21, 2017. He was transferred by the Dhanbad jail administration on February 21, 2021, citing security reasons, to Dumka Central Jail. On February 22, Javed  filed two petitions on behalf of Sanjeev;  one challenging the transfer of an undertrial prisoner against an earlier high court order and second, demanding a showcause notice to jail superintendent Ajay Kumar. On February 23, the court issued a showcause notice to the jail  superintendent, asking him to submit a reply within two days. Hours before the court issued the orders on Thursday, the district unit of the BJP staged a demonstration at Randhir Verma Chowk, protesting the shifting of the former MLA of Jharia. They accused the state government of working with a sense of revenge to "murder of democracy". The demonstration, staged less than 100 meter from the district headquarters, began at 10am  in the presence of senior BJP leaders, including Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha, former mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal, district president (urban) Chandra Shekhar Singh, and family members of Sanjeev Singh, including his wife Ragini, mother Kunti, younger brother Manish. The demonstration concluded at 2pm. Ragini said, "My husband's transfer was a political conspiracy of the government, effected a day after we petitioned the court for ordering the jail administration to allow treatment for his ill health."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Preparations on for 2nd phase of vaccination programme ||The Jharkhand government has started coordinating with private hospitals, especially those registered under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, to start preparations for vaccination of senior citizens and middle-aged people suffering from comorbid conditions against Covid-19 from March 1, officials said on Thursday. While the state is yet to receive the modalities for the second phase of the immunization programme, the state health department has enrolled health workers from private hospitals across the state for training sessions on February 27 and February 28, state immunization officer Dr Ajit Prasad said. “Healthcare workers in private hospitals will be trained on February 27 and 28 for the immunization programme. We are yet to receive the SOP for the next phase of the vaccination programme from the Centre, but identification of beneficiaries and other preparations have begun,” said Dr Prasad. The Union ministry of health and family welfare has announced that people above the age of 60 and those suffering from comorbid conditions at the age of 45 years or above will be vaccinated in the second phase of the nationwide immunization programme starting March 1. Beneficiaries will have to download the Co-Win App and register online for the vaccination, the ministry stated. The vaccine will be provided free of cost at government healthcare centres but those getting the vaccine at private hospitals will have to pay for it. However, the government is yet to finalise a price for vaccination against Covid-19 virus at private facilities. Representatives of various private hospitals under the banner of Association of Healthcare Providers (AHPI) met state health secretary K.K. Soan and pledged complete support to the government during the second phase of the vaccination programme. State National Health Mission (NHM) director Ravi Shankar Shukla said the Centre was likely to share the SOP within a couple of days. “As of now, we are focused on the immunization of healthcare workers and frontline workers. We will be in a position to comment on the modalities only after we receive clear instructions from the Centre,” he said. As per government data, more than 2.39 lakh healthcare workers and frontline workers have been administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand since the beginning of the immunization programme on January 16. The second dose has been administered to 17,711 people at least 28 days after they got the first jab. So far, the state has achieved around 75 per cent of its vaccination target.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI students get 100 per cent placement in two days||XLRI achieved 100 per cent placements for the outgoing batch of 2019-21 for its flagship programs two-year Postgraduate Diploma in Human Resource Management and the two-year Postgraduate Diploma in Business Management. All the 358 candidates secured offers through the final recruitment process in a record two days last week, despite the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic. The final recruitment process saw participation from 108 recruiters with 370 domestic  and international offers, inclusive of 23 new finals recruiters. The average salary offered to the batch stood at Rs 23 lakh per annum with the top 10th and 25th percentile average being Rs 37.49 and 34.80 lakhs per annum, respectively. It saw an increase to Rs 25.08 lakh per annum from Rs 24.30 lakhs per annum in 2020. The highest domestic offer at Rs 50 lakh per annum was from the Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI) sector. Information available from the institute's placement committee revealed that 23 new recruiters took part in the placement process. Some of the new recruiters included companies such as Mastercard, DE Shaw, Airbnb, DBS Bank, Nykaa, Freshworks, ZS Associates, Tata Electronics, ProgCap, Rebel Foods and IDFC Bank. Boston Consulting Group, Bain and Co., PricewaterhouseCoopers, Accenture Strategy, Amazon, ITC, PayTM made the highest number of offers among the regular recruiters. In all 33.33 per cent of the students received pre-placement offers. The top segments based on roles offered were consulting, sales and marketing and BFSI. Consulting firms extended offers to 29 per cent of the candidates. Sales and  marketing and BFSI constituted 16 per cent  and 14 per cent of the roles offered to the students respectively. This year also saw healthy participation from PSUs like Power Finance Corporation, GAIL, and others. Director of the institute Fr. P Christie on Thursday said that the entire placement process was conducted in a virtual mode this year. Expressing his happiness, the director said, “We are delighted to announce that despite the pandemic and its adverse ripple effects on the global economy, XLRI has achieved 100 per cent placements in a record timeframe.” “We attribute the outstanding placements as an affirmation by the corporate world of the highly relevant management-centric education we strive to deliver to our students year after year. This stellar success is a testimony to our students' resilient calibre in navigating the industry's shifting trends and their future journey as young business leaders of tomorrow,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Petrol pumps are Modi Tax Collection Centres, rebukes Cong  ||Congress, which is a part of Jharkhand's ruling alliance, held a cycle rally in Ranchi on Thursday ahead of a two-day protest against spiraling fuel prices, the latest agitation coming days after back-to-back tractor rallies in solidarity with protesting farmers. The party’s national spokesperson, Gaurav Vallabh, along with Khijri MLA Rajesh Kachchap and senior members, rode on cycles from Morabadi ground to the Congress office at Sahjanand Road, covering a distance of 4km as a symbol of protest against the Union government’s failure to control prices. Taking a dig at renaming of Motera stadium in Ahmedabad after Narendra Modi, Vallabh advised BJP to also rechristen all petrol stations in the country. “We demand that the BJP and its government rename all petrol pumps as 'Modi Tax Vasooli Kendra (Modi Tax Collection Centre),” he said. “When fuel prices go up, the Union government blames global crude prices. But when global prices are down, why are the rates going up daily? So, it is quite evident that the Union government is solely interested in the business of collecting taxes to fill its coffers,"he explained. Close to 100 party workers, including members of the Congress youth wing, participated in the cycle rally. On Friday, February 26, the party will hold a torchlight procession in district headquarters. On Saturday, February 27, the party will hold protest marches and sit-ins against the price hike. Claiming the government was hell-bent on keeping common people under a financial burden, he said that in February alone, fuel prices were increased  14 times. “Is the government even bothered about the people?,” he asked, adding that ever since the Modi government came to power, excise duties on petrol and diesel had gone up exponentially. “In 2014, the excise duty on petrol was Rs 9.48 and on diesel it was Rs 3.56. Today, they rose to Rs 32.98 and Rs 31.83 respectively. This means, in petrol they hiked excise duty by 248% and in diesel, by 794%. Similarly, LPG prices rose by Rs 175 in 75 days. Currently, crude oil prices have come down by 44% compared to $ 108 per barrel in 2014. But still our fuel prices are going up. This exposes poor fiscal management of the Centre,” he said. He said under the Modi regime, GDP had got a new definition. “Gross domestic product (GDP) has been redefined by Modiji as gas, diesel and petrol. No matter the fall of the GDP, but prices of these three items must keep rising to fill the government's coffers,” he rued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Truck driver injured in gun attack at Ghatshila||A truck driver was seriously injured on Wednesday night when three robbers shot at him near a forest stretch along NH-33 in Dhalbhumgarh in Ghatshila sub-division, as he refused to hand over his belongings to them. Fifty-year-old Pintu Chaudhury, a resident of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, was shifted to RIMS in Ranchi on Thursday morning with injuries on his shoulder and ribs. "Three criminals have looted Rs 15,000 and a mobile phone from a trailer driver having shot at him. We are taking care of the injured driver. We are also trying to detect the criminals," Dhalbhumgarh OC SK Tiwary told The Telegraph Online. The victim was carrying a consignment from Calcutta to Chaibasa along with a cleaner through NH-33 when they decided to make a stop to have dinner. The duo drove to an isolated place close to a forest stretch where they were cooking food when the criminals arrived on a scooter and demanded the driver to give all his cash. As Chaudhury resisted, one of the men fished out a pistol and fired a shot at him from close range. The bullet pierced through the shoulder and got stuck inside his ribs, after which the robbers took out Rs 15,000 and the mobile phone from his pocket and fled the scene. Cleaner Gulab Chand said he was with the victim when the incident took place, but the criminals did not do any harm to him. "I rushed him (Chaudhury) to Ghatsila sub-divisional hospital in our truck. The doctors in the sub-divisional hospital referred him to the MGM hospital. From there, he was sent to RIMS as there is no facility for taking out a trapped bullet in the hospital," Chand told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||State achieves 75 per cent of its vaccination target in the day||Jharkhand on Wednesday managed to administer the Covishield vaccine to around 75 per cent of beneficiaries registered for the first as well as the second dose of the vaccine, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. As per data with NHM, as many as 293490 of 388840 beneficiaries registered for the first dose of the vaccine were inoculated so far, while 17711 of the 23917 beneficiaries registered for the second dose were administered the Covishield jab for the second time after a gap of 28 days since the first dose. On Wednesday, the state managed to inoculate only 3910 of the 14950 beneficiaries registered for the first dose, thereby achieving only 26 per cent of its target. The second dose was administered to 2582 of 5219 registered beneficiaries – around 50 per cent. While Ranchi was the best performer with 68 per cent of beneficiaries getting the jab here, Ramgarh achieved only 4 per cent of its vaccination target – the lowest among the 24 districts in the state. As many as 595 of the 880 people registered for the first dose of the vaccine here got the jab. However, Ramgarh administered the second dose of the vaccine to all the 141 people registered for the dose there on Wednesday, while Ranchi achieved only 60 per cent of its target for the second dose of vaccination on the day, revealed government data. As per figures with NHM, around 93 per cent of the 1.61 lakh healthcare workers registered for the first dose of the vaccine have got the jab in Jharkhand since the beginning of the immunization programme on January 16. Around 63 per cent of the 2.27 lakh frontline workers registered for the first dose have been inoculated. The second dose has only been administered to healthcare workers so far in Jharkhand as the vaccination for frontline workers started late. Meanwhile, one more Covid patient, a resident of Ranchi, died in the state on Wednesday, taking the count of Covid fatalities to 1087 in Jharkhand and that in Ranchi to 245, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on the day. As per the NHM bulletin, as many as 32 people were found infected while 47 Covid patients recovered from the infection on the day. Ranchi reported 19 of the 32 cases and 28 of the 47 recoveries, the bulletin highlighted. As per government data, as many as 431 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand by the end of Wednesday. So far, as many as 119719 people have been infected by the lethal virus and over 98 per cent of them have recovered. At current rate, it would take 2397 days for the number of cases to double in the state, reveals government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Push to clear social security pension pleas in Jharkhand||A delegation of Food Security Public Forum’s West Singhbhum unit has demanded the clearance of all social security pension applications by the district administration. The forum is a network of organisations and activists working on food and social security in the district. On February 16, the forum had organised the state’s maiden public hearing on social security pension at Chaibasa. In a memorandum submitted to West Singhbhum deputy commissioner Arava Rajkamal on Tuesday, the forum said the delay in the sanction of pension was causing problems for a large number of pensioners, most of whom stayed in remote villages. “We have asked the deputy commissioner to intimate the pensioners after their applications for pension are cleared as most of them stay in remote villages and face problems in reaching the district collectorate. We have also urged the administration that pension of a beneficiary should not be stopped for lack of Aadhar card,” said Ashok Mundri, one of the forum members who was part of the delegation. At the public hearing, people had complained that they were yet to get pension despite applying for it several times in the last few years. Most of them did not even a get a receipt of their applications. According to the government's projected population figures for Jharkhand, the elderly population in the West Singhbhum district in 2021 is at least 1,35,369. But the current pension schemes cover only 65 per cent of them. The story is similar for widows and the disabled. The forum collated 1,364 cases of pending applications and 648 complaints of denial of pension. The delegation also recommended a simplified and transparent application process. “The process of making death certificate and disability certificate should be made simpler without making affidavit mandatory. The disability certificate should be issued at the block level instead of making the disabled to come to the Sadar Hospital in Chaibasa. Camps should be held at the block level to address various problems of applicants for social security pension,” Mundri added. The other demands included resumption of pension facility for those whose pension had been stopped for some months and payment of arrears for the same period. The forum also suggested that banks should update the passbook of pensioners regularly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Letter that sowed steel city seed||Not many residents of Jamshedpur, particularly the young ones, know that a letter written on this day 117 years ago had prompted the setting up of their city. The letter was written on February 24, 1904 by Pramatha Nath Bose, a pioneering geologist trained in England, and addressed to Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata who was then toying with the idea of establishing an iron and steel company in India. Bose was then working as a geologist in the princely state of Mourbhanj (Mayurbhanj), now in Odisha, and had discovered a large deposit of iron ore in the hills of Gorumahisani. In 1882, J.N. Tata had come across a report on the financial prospects of iron works in India by German geologist Ritter Von Schwarz and was exploring the possibility of setting up a company in the then Chanda district, now Chandrapur district, in Maharashtra, but abandoned the idea when the quality of deposits was not found to be good enough. “As you are interested in the development of the iron industry of this country, I have to bring to your notice an exceedingly rich and extensive deposit of iron ore which I have just explored in this state (Mayurbhanj),” Bose wrote to Tata in 1904. “They occur in such abundance that for all practical purpose they may be considered to be inexhaustible,” Bose further informed. “Should you entertain the idea of starting iron works in this state, His Highness the Maharaja will, I have no doubt, afford you every facility and grant you liberal concessions,” he assured Tata expecting the latter to start his venture in Mayurbhanj state. Though J.N. Tata’s son, Sir Dorabji Tata, was also exploring the possibility of setting up iron works in Dhalli and Rajhara hills near Nagpur, they gave due importance to Bose’s letter. The rest is history. Though not exactly around Gorumahisani, Tata Iron and Steel Company eventually came up at Sakchi, a sparsely populated tribal village located at the confluence of the Subarnarekha and Kharkai rivers. In 1919, Sakchi was renamed as Jamshedpur by Lord Chelmsford, the then Viceroy of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
