26-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta train timings after cancellation, rescheduling ||Three express and several suburban trains from Howrah, Santragachhi and Shalimar have been cancelled, and some rescheduled, for Saturday because of an infrastructure upgrade. The 02073/02074 Howrah-Bhubaneswar-Howrah Special, 02227/02228 Howrah-Purulia-Howrah Special and the 02257 /02258 Howrah-Digha-Howrah Special have been cancelled. Over 60 EMU locals have also been cancelled. The Howrah-Yesvantpur Special will leave Howrah at 4.50pm instead of 10.50am on Saturday. The Howrah-Mumbai CSMT Special will leave Howrah at 5. 05am instead of 2pm. The Howrah-Ahmedabad Special will leave Howrah at 1am on Sunday instead of 11.45pm on Saturday. The Howrah-Ernakulam Special will leave Howrah at 5. 25pm instead of 2.55pm on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Rs 1 lakh compensation for shock during anaesthesia||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Thursday asked Royd Nursing Home to pay Rs 1 lakh as compensation to the family of a woman who went into shock during anaesthesia and later passed away in another hospital. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said the commission could not probe the cause of the woman’s death because the nursing home on Royd Street did not preserve the syringe or the vial containing the drug used for anaesthesia. “We ordered the Rs 1 lakh compensation against the hospital as they did not preserve the syringe or the drug,” said Banerjee. The 30-year-old woman was admitted to the nursing home in May 2019 to undergo a maxillofacial surgery. During anaesthesia, she went into shock and also had convulsion, said Banerjee. The woman was later shifted to Peerless Hospital, where she passed a few days later. During Thursday’s hearing, Royd Nursing Home told the commission that they did not preserve the syringe or the drug used for anaesthesia as no one had told them about it. The commission also asked Repose Nursing Home to pay a compensation of Rs 20,000 to the family of a 30-year-old man who was allegedly not given any treatment at the hospital for two hours. The nursing home was also asked to return Rs 10,000 that the family had paid them during admission. The family shifted the man to another hospital where he was treated. Banerjee said the man suffered injuries in a road accident. He was taken to the nursing home from SSKM Hospital as the state-run hospital did not have vacant beds. “The doctor who was supposed to treat him said over the phone that he could not come because he was at KPC Hospital. The doctor said that the patient had to be taken to KPC,” said Banerjee. “The patient lay without any treatment for two hours,” he added. Repose, however, did not return the family the initial amount of Rs 10,000. “We have asked the nursing home to return the Rs 10,000 they had paid. We have also asked the nursing home to pay the family Rs 20,000 as compensation,” Banerjee added. The commission also asked Horizon Lifeline Multispeciality Hospital on CIT Road to return Rs 97,000 and Rs 1,03,00 to two patients of the same family because the commission found the bill to be inflated. The two senior citizens were admitted in the hospital in July and August with Covid-19. “We found that the charges for personal protective equipment (PPE) were more than what has been stipulated,” said Banerjee. Charring Cross Nursing Home in Phoolbagan was asked to offer a Rs 13,000 discount to a Covid-19 patient. The bed charges were very high and the hospital also did not offer discounts on pharmacy products, said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||71 shops can sell ‘Banglar Rasogolla’||A little over three years after Bengal bagged the GI tag for Banglar Rasogolla, a clutch of sweet shops in the city and the districts have qualified to sell the GI-tagged pure white sweet spongy ball as “authorised user”. Out of more than a lakh sweetmeat sellers in Bengal, only 71 have cleared the tests carried out by a team of scientists from the patent cell of the West Bengal State Food Processing and Horticulture Development Corporation Limited. The Geographical Indication (GI) tag certification comes after an elaborate and time-consuming testing process because of the specifications that are laid down for the syrupy sweet to qualify as Banglar Rasogolla. What are some of these specifications? The dumpling needs to be made of pure chhana. No starch can be added. Careful kneading is required because the “mouth feel” of a Banglar Rasogolla depends on this. Each spherical dumpling should weigh around 10gm each. The syrup needs to be light — the stipulated sugar concentration is 30 to 40 per cent — and have a transparent appearance. Banglar Rasogolla should also conform to the metric of sponginess and have a smooth, soft texture with an average moisture content of around 50 per cent. “Each of these aspects were carefully tested through different processes and the results were matched with those that have been laid down as specifications for Banglar Rasogolla,” said Mohua Hom Choudhury, the lead scientist of the team under the state government’s department of science and technology. “We are trying to devise a technology that would help a customer scan a code and understand whether the rasogolla seller is authorised for Banglar Rasogolla.” Some of the sweet shops in Calcutta that bagged the certificate are KC Das Private Limited, Mouchak, Sen Mahasay, Mithai, Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick and Chittaranjan Mistanna Bhandar. The representatives were given the certificates at a programme in the city on Thursday, which was organised by Mishti Udyog, an umbrella organisation of sweetmeat sellers across Bengal. “This certificate makes us accountable for selling authentic GI-tagged Banglar Rasogolla. Only those certified as users can sell the real GI-tagged rasogolla from now on,” said Dhiman Das, director of KC Das Pvt Ltd and great grandson of Nabin Chandra Das, who is credited with creating the rasogolla in 1868.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Four workers die in sewer near Kudghat||Four construction workers died after being trapped inside an under-construction sewer under a manhole near Kudghat on Thursday, officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said. The officials suspect the sewer line had become deoxygenated. Three colleagues of the victims were undergoing treatment at Baghajatin State General Hospital. All of them were engaged in the construction of the sewer. An official of the CMC said the civic body was building a sewer network along with a drainage pumping station in the area — Purba Putiary — to improve the drainage capacity. The sewer lines are being built as part of the Calcutta Environmental Improvement Investment Programme (CEIIP). Work was nearing completion and the manhole where the four workers were trapped is barely 25 feet from the drainage pumping station. “We have already built the sewer network in the area. The final connecting line between the sewer lines and the drainage pumping station is being built now,” said an official. “The manhole under which the men got trapped was the intersection point of all sewer lines. From here the sewage will go into the drainage pumping station through one sewer line, which is being built now.” The police identified the four deceased as Sabir Hossain, 19, Mohammad Alamgir, 35, Jahangir Alam, 22, and Liyakat Ali, 20. All four were from Malda’s Purba Talsai, under Harishchandrapur police station. Hossain and Alamgir were declared dead at SSKM Hospital. Alam and Ali were declared dead at Baghajatin State General Hospital. “The sewer lines coming to the manhole had sewage inside. We had built walls on four sides under the manhole where the men were going down to construct the remaining sewer line that will take sewage to the drainage pumping station,” a CMC official said. “One of the workers was trying to find out whether the sewage was leaking through the walls or if the walls had developed any crack. He slipped and fell. The bottom of the under-construction sewer line is nearly 16ft deep there. When he cried for help, three other workers went down. All of them got trapped and could not come up. Fire brigade and disaster management personnel of the police came and brought them out,” the official said. The cause of the death of the four workers was still not clear. A police officer said the bodies had been sent for post-mortem. The police are questioning the contractor who had hired the four men for the work. A professor of engineering at Jadavpur University said that it seemed the workers died because of lack of oxygen. “If sewage had leaked through the walls and filled the area when the men got trapped, then there is a possibility of the men inhaling methane and hydrogen sulphide that are generated in sewage channels. It could also be that the place where they got trapped did not have adequate oxygen because of lack of air circulation,” said the professor. “Ideally, the presence of anaerobic gases should be measured before someone goes underground to work, especially in a sewage line. Also adequate air circulation must be ensured so that there is enough oxygen inside. There are available machines to take these protective measures.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Mystery of the missing toucans at Alipore zoo||Three exotic birds known for their oversized and colourful bills and worth “at least a few lakhs of rupees” have allegedly been stolen from Alipore zoo, their home for the past few months since being rescued from smugglers near the Bangladesh border. The iron mesh of a bird enclosure at the northeastern corner of the zoo, near the 15ft-high boundary wall on Orphangunge Road, was cut open to steal three toucans, a zoo official said on Thursday. An “improvised net” and a makeshift ladder were found at the spot, police said. A case was lodged with Watgunge police station after the alleged theft was detected by keepers who visited the enclosure on Thursday morning. The “steal” comprised two toco toucans and one keel-billed toucans, said a zoo official. “While the bill of a toco toucan is orange, that of a keel-billed toucan is rainbow-coloured with a dominant hue of light green. Both have thick black plumage. They are popular and costly pets,” said birdwatcher and conservationist Sujan Chatterjee. “It is fairly certain that more than one person was involved. The theft seems to have taken place when one guard’s shift ended and another’s was about to begin. The thieves knew minute details and planned thoroughly,” said a zoo official. The zoo has some 90 CCTV cameras and around two dozen guards are deployed at night. But the cameras do not cover all enclosures properly, said sources in the zoo. In August 2009, eight marmosets were stolen from the zoo. Seven of them were rescued from Chhattisgarh three weeks later and a man was arrested. “The toucans, seized last year by BSF personnel, had been kept at an enclosure opposite the lion’s enclosure. The three allegedly stolen birds were kept in a room inside the enclosure. They were recovering from minor injuries sustained in infighting,” said Asis Samanta, the director of the zoo. In 2018, over 50 wild birds seized from smugglers died in quarantine at the zoo, prompting questions on how safe the zoo and its hospital were for an exotic menagerie. Asked about any lapse in security and the possibility of the involvement of insiders in the latest theft, Samanta said: “We are cooperating with the police. All sides are being probed.” Saurabh Chaudhuri, the member-secretary of the Bengal Zoo Authority, said: “I have asked for a complete security audit of the zoo.” Toucan is the common name given to several species of tropical American forest birds. Toucans are not included in the Indian wildlife protection act. “Trading in these birds is allowed if there are valid papers and taxes are cleared. But traders smuggle these birds to evade customs and other taxes,” said a wildlife official. At online trading websites, the price of toucans ranged from $1,900 (Rs 1,45,000) to $ 10,000 (Rs 7,40,000) on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine second dose footfall low||The mop-up drive of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for the first dose receivers was completed on Monday at the Duttabad primary healthcare centre. The second round of vaccination too has started here and according to an official, most of the people on the list have yet to turn up for the second round of shots. “Around 90 persons took the shot during the mop-up of the first round and we are expecting the second round numbers to swell during the mop-up drive as well,” said an official. However, the percentage of vaccine receivers in the first round remained low with around 35 per cent people who featured on the list finally turning up to receive the shot, according to sources at the vaccine centre. A Swasthya Bhavan official said vaccines were now being administered to civic body workers and Bidhannagar Commissionerate personnel apart from healthcare workers at the centre. “The drive for civic workers is on. However many are not turning up. In places where Bidhannagar Commissionerate personnel are being vaccinated the turnout is encouraging,” he said. According to an official at the centre, now even the CoWin app was performing moderately well and sending out text messages to the recipients regularly. “The app, although initially glitchy, is performing moderately well and the recipients are getting SMS updates in the run-up to the date of vaccination regularly,” said the official. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s health department said that they were receiving various reasons from civic workers for not taking the vaccine. “While many are still scared of the vaccine itself many are perturbed that they might have to make lifestyle changes if they take the vaccine,” said the official. According to the official, they were planning to hold awareness camps at Poura Bhavan as well as in different borough offices of the civic body to encourage more civic workers to take the shots. On Wednesday, emphasising it is important to roll out rapid vaccination programme for people of the state before elections, chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, stating that the government of West Bengal had decided to procure adequate quantity  of vaccines for members of the public at large.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Civic boss damper for New Market traders||Traders in the New Market area who have been agitating since Wednesday against encroachment of roads and footpaths by hawkers alleged that they were denied a meeting with the municipal commissioner on Thursday. The traders said the police personnel on duty at the gate of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s headquarters told them that the “commissioner would neither meet them nor receive their letter”. The traders said they had hoped to explain to the commissioner why they were protesting and how encroachment of roads and footpaths was affecting their business. When Metro contacted municipal commissioner Binod Kumar on Thursday evening, he said: “Please check with my office on what happened.” An official in the municipal commissioner’s office said: “Anyone can submit a letter to the commissioner and we will accept it…. As far as we know the traders had come in a group and wanted to submit a memorandum.The CMC rules say a memorandum can only be submitted to the mayoral council member (currently member of the board of administrators) concerned,” said the official. The traders were unhappy at being denied a meeting with the commissioner. “We had submitted a letter outside the municipal commissioner’s chamber earlier intimating him that we would like to meet him on February 25,” said Rajeev Singh, the general secretary of the Joint Traders Federation, an umbrella body of traders in SS Hogg Market, Treasure Island, Shreeram Arcade, Simpark Mall and other markets as well as standalone shops in the area. “We wanted to explain to him our problems. Everything cannot be explained in a letter,” said Singh. “We want a permanent solution to the problems we have been facing for years. Every time we raise some noise, the police come and things are in order for a few hours. As soon as the police leave, the same old chaos resumes,” said a trader. The traders have been demanding that the size of the dala (the space where wares are displayed by hawkers) be fixed.Their other demands include that the hawkers be barred from wrapping their wares in plastic and hanging them from the walls of SS Hogg Market at night. They fear that if a fire breaks out at night, the plastic will fuel the flames and the market will be gutted. The traders distributed leaflets, containing their problems and demands, to shoppers and pedestrians in the area on Thursday. They also organised a rally. The traders have planned to meet the deputy commissioner of police (central) on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Art street in Eco Park||A stretch along the Eco Park boundary wall, parallel to the Major Arterial Road, is coming alive with artistic activity every afternoon. A streetside art gallery has started operating outside gate 1 ticket counter from 4pm to 7.30pm. “We want to create an atmosphere like on the Seine river bank in Paris where artistes paint and sell their work. That way affordable art can be promoted and we hope common people will get interested,” said Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Hidco, who inaugurated Art Street on February 16, which happened to be Saraswati puja. Hidco has entered into a one-year contract with On Canvaz, a platform for art and artistes which is run by a Sector V-based creative agency. “So many artistes pass out of art college every year but fade away for lack of opportunities. We want to create a studio with a bunch of artistes on our payroll,” said Ashis Pal, an artist cum entrepreneur. There are about 300 paintings on display on Art Street, which are taken off the wall every evening when Eco Park closes. There will be live art too with artistes painting on the spot. Passersby can stop to get their portraits created as well. The 30m stretch is designated as “art street” in the masterplan of Eco Park. The park authorities had held a day-long art display and workshop in 2014 but the momentum could not be sustained. Pal is confident of building up visitor interest. “We will get artistes to hold free workshops for children now and then.” He has built up a stock of over 3,000 paintings which he will put on display rotationally. “People may get bored with the same painting hanging in their drawing room year after year. We are ready to rent paintings which we will change every month or so,” he offers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Mamata complains to PM on webinar curbs||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to the Prime Minister on Thursday complaining that the Union education ministry “has put several restrictions in respect of holding online/virtual international conferences/ training even for state aided universities, without consulting the state governments”. As education is on the concurrent list of the Constitution,  Mamata wrote to Narendra Modi, “any non consultation by the Government of India, before issuing any such instructions to the state governments, will be against the spirit of federal structure enshrined in the Indian Constitution”. The education ministry’s revised guidelines of January 15 on “online/ virtual conferences/ seminars/ training, etc”, have sparked concerns across academia. The guidelines say: “Ministry or Department, PSUs, Central Educational Institutions, Public Funded Universities or an organisation owned and controlled by the Government of India or State Government or Union Territory should take approval of its Administrative Secretary for the (virtual) event as well as for the list of participants.” Mamata wrote: “The Union ministry of education office memorandum has put several restrictions... without consulting the state governments.” The chief minister sent the letter on a day The Telegraph reported that IIT Guwahati had made permission mandatory for faculty members to participate in all types of webinars, going a step further from the Centre’s order that had covered only international online seminars. Mamata wrote: “Our universities must enjoy the highest possible degree of self-governance and freedom to conduct their educational activities in regular interaction with their counterparts abroad. Knowledge is neither created by nor belongs to any single country or community.” She mentioned in the letter that “reasonable restrictions and regulations” are understandable. “However restrictions imposed… further highlights the intention of (the) Government of India towards centralization of (the) Higher Education System in our Country,” she wrote. The central guidelines say that while giving approval for online/ virtual conferences/ seminars/ training, the ministry should ensure that the subject matter for online events is not related to the security of the state, border, states in the Northeast, the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, or any other states which are clearly related to India’s internal matters. The guidelines say “appropriate level of scrutiny to be exercised to identify the nature and sensitivity of data or content of the presentations or the information to be shared by an Indian delegation”. Mamata wrote: “In other words, is it not an attempt of the central government to introduce thought policing in educational institutions by trying to impose ‘ONE NATION, ONE THOUGHT’? Such communication will only be seen as an example of contempt for constitutional powers of the states…. “It may be pertinent to mention here that the State Governments are duly empowered under law to deal with any act committed by any educational institution which violates any law or contrary to the interest of National Security.” According to her, digital platforms have become a boon for teachers and students in remote areas, small towns and also in cities to get the benefit of interactions with scholars around the world. The letter ends with an appeal to the Prime Minister that he issues a directive to the education ministry and advises the ministry to hold discussions with the state governments “before issuing any such directions/ orders, in future”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Mask-up call in village trip||Wearing masks is as important today as it was in March 2020. Some time back we, from St. Xavier’s University, had organised a programme in which we distributed masks to people who were not wearing one. Twenty of us, who volunteered for the event, were divided into three groups. The first went to Kathalberia village, which has been adopted by our university, the second went near Rosedale Plaza and the third to Biswa Bangla Gate. Our team reached the Kathalberia village panchayat office and spoke to the head about our plans. Then we started off, with two professors guiding us. At our chosen site, we found no one was wearing a mask. We were also nervous about coming in close contact with them as they could be carriers of coronavirus and infect us while we were handing them a mask. We also stopped vehicles to reason with maskless passengers who tried to pass the buck. Our teachers helped us by initiating the process and eventually we got the hang of it. Some passersby took our masks, wore it to take pictures in and took them off right after the photo session was over. They refused to wear them despite repeated requests and rode off without paying any heed to us. Some people put on the masks and also asked for some more so that they could give them to their family members, which made us feel happy and useful. It was a day well spent and we hope that people wear masks and take every precaution prescribed by the World Health Organisation to curb the spread of the virus. The authors are students of the department of Bachelor of Management Studies, St Xavier’s University, New Town||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Cocaine case: Suspect’s call went to Rakesh, says sleuth||The man who had allegedly told BJP youth leader Pamela Goswami that he was taking her to meet a central minister and was calling the minister’s personal assistant when their car was parked on NR Avenue in New Alipore last Friday had called Rakesh Singh instead, an investigator involved in the cocaine probe said. Minutes after the phone call, a team of officers from New Alipore police station surrounded Goswami’s car and seized 90gram cocaine from inside. The man who made the call apparently fled the spot and could not be apprehended till late on Thursday. Based on Goswami’s statement, the police had analysed the call details of the man who had arranged a purported meeting between her and a central minister and also allegedly promised her a ticket in the upcoming Assembly elections, officers said. The police apparently found that the call he had made from the spot had terminated to a SIM card issued in the name of Jitender Singh, who is known for his proximity to Rakesh Singh. After interrogating Jitender Singh, it emerged that Rakesh Singh had recently purchased a SIM card and a phone using Jitender’s identity documents, the police said. “Jitender Singh claimed that although the SIM card and the phone were in his name, they were being used by Rakesh Singh. The same SIM card and phone were recovered from Rakesh Singh’s possession after his arrest in Galsi (in East Burdwan) on Tuesday night,” said an investigator. Officers at Lalbazar have also stumbled upon information related to another associate of Rakesh Singh, who is believed to have tipped off New Alipore police about the purported cocaine in Pamela’s car, a source said. “Interestingly the same person, who has multiple cheating cases pending against him in Calcutta, had alerted Pamela Goswami to remain cautious and avoid travelling through the jurisdiction of four police station areas, including New Alipore. It is clear now he was playing both sides,” an officer said. Goswami was arrested along with her friend Prabir Kumar Dey and security guard Somnath Chatterjee. Dey and Chatterjee both were allegedly in the same car as Goswami. They had been in police custody since Friday. On Thursday, their police remand was extended till March 4. The police sought her remand during the day to interrogate her in the presence of party colleague Rakesh Singh, a co-accused in the cocaine case. On her way to the court on Thursday, Goswami alleged that one of Rakesh Singh’s associates had trapped her by promising a ticket for her friend Dey and another man named Rajesh Kumar Prasad for the upcoming Assembly elections and that they were supposed to meet a central minister on the same day she was arrested. She also identified the minister. “Rakesh Singh had interest in me. He used to assault me physically. My primary allegations are against him. I was trapped by his man Amrit Singh. He planted the cocaine. That day he was taking us to **** (the central minister). Amrit Singh had promised tickets to Prabir (Dey) and another CA named Rajesh Prasad. My allegations are against Rakesh Singh and OC, New Alipore,” Goswami shouted on her way to the court. The officer in charge of New Alipore police station could not be reached for comment. He did not respond to a text message seeking his reaction. The court on Thursday approved the prayer for recording the magisterial statement of Prasad, a chartered accountant, and ano-ther person named Sandip Agarwal as “witnesses” in the case under Section 164 of the CrPC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Students rock mock parliament||The chairs were set. The chief minister, along with the rural development minister, the finance minister, the health minister and the education minister took their seats in presence of the Speaker and three Opposition members to discuss the current condition and new policies of the state. A mock assembly session was taking place at Labanhrad Vidyapith, organised by the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) in collaboration with the Rotary Club of Calcutta Labanhrad and Prantakatha, an NGO. “It is very important for children to know about their rights and have political awareness while they are growing up. Soon they all will be 18 and will have the right to vote, then we cannot expect them to suddenly be aware of the current scenario. So this is an attempt to make them more aware. It is also important to know what these kids are thinking as it helps us work better,” said Ananya Chakraborti Chatterjee, chairperson of WBCPCR. “Last year was very difficult for children, especially with schools closed. The online way of learning is a very creative approach and now they are again going back to their classrooms. Everyone is still scared to go out but we need to believe that we can overcome this,” said Sudeshna Roy, special consultant of the commission. The session began after the Speaker asked everyone to maintain a minute of silence for those who lost their lives to the pandemic. The chief minister, after introducing herself, talked about the importance of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and how it protects a child from sexual harassment and violence while safeguarding their interests. She also talked about different schemes through which free cycles are given to students, medicines are distributed free as are sanitisers and personal protection equipment for doctors. The education minister talked about building more schools in remote areas and hostels for those who cannot travel everyday to school. The health minister informed the house that they had built more than 400 hospitals, repaired intensive care units and built quarantine centres. But soon the atmosphere of the Assembly changed when the Opposition leaders started raising questions about government schemes and picked faults in them. If the government had indeed built so many hospitals then why were people still dying in hospital corridors and on the road without treatment due to lack of beds, they demanded. They also blamed the government for its failure to keep people at home to stop the spread of the virus. “I have never seen a real Assembly in session but we keep visiting different political gatherings and I know about Pocso. This was my first attempt at a mock parliament and I am happy we did well,” said 17-year-old Shaista Shirawat from Rajabazar, who played the part of the chief minister. “With schools about to reopen, we are repainting and sanitising the premises. This event is like a prelude before we let the students in,” said Sajal Kanti Mondol, headmaster, Labanhrad Vidyapith.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Glimpses of Saraswati Puja across the twin townships||The Saraswati puja at IC Block drew more crowds than last year. “Devotees came from IB Block, Mahabir Vikas and other blocks too. Halfway through, we realised we would fall short of prasad and had to send volunteers to buy fruits afresh,” said Bikash Kumar Singh, one youths organising the puja. The pandal resembled a mountain — brown and lifeless but with faint greenery visible at the edges. “It symbolises the way life is gradually returning to normal after a dry spell under Covid-19,” said Singh. While the pandal clearly mentioned that those without masks would not be allowed in, many walked in unshielded anyway. “They reasoned that lakhs of people were attending political rallies without masks and so it wasn’t a worry anymore.” So the organisers started distributing free masks and sanitiser pouches at the sit-and-draw contest held for children. “We also denied entry to participants at the phuchka-eating contest without masks and that rule worked rather well,” he said. Much of the cultural programmes were called off so the sound would not distract students studying for examinations. Anjali was held but participants were asked to get their own flowers. Jal Vayu Vihar in Salt Lake’s Sector III held a Saraswati puja at their community hall. “To avoid crowding, we allowed only 12 people per batch during the anjali and sent packed bhog to all homes in our complex,” said Bijoy Narayan Chaudhuri, vice president of the board of the co-operative housing society. Students of Bidhannagar Government High School in BD Block pleaded with the authorities to let them hold Saraswati puja and the latter relented. “But to keep crowds at bay we cancelled anjali,” said Chaiti Banerjee, life science teacher who was one of five people at the venue at 11.30am. “The puja will be conducted as per norms, by an ex-student in fact.” Two former students had come for anjali but left disappointed. “We are first year college students and since we’ve not had face-to-face classes yet, we are more attached to our school. We were hoping to meet friends and teachers today but there is hardly anyone here,” said Sagnik Ash, a resident of Shymali Abasan. The Saraswati idol at the Salt Lake BE Block Nagarik Sangha puja had the 108 names of the goddess printed on  a backdrop. The names were given in Bengali and English along with the meanings of the names. “The intention was to educate the next generation,” said Narottam Dutta, secretary. So Mahabhadra is explained as the goddess who is supremely auspicious and Pustakadhruta as the goddess who is holding a book. Held in the community hall, the budget of the puja in its 17th year was less than that in previous years but they still went ahead with free community lunch, where about 160 people joined in for khichudi, labra, beguni, kuler chutney, papad and payesh. Another Saraswati puja was also held in the block this year, organised by a BE (East) committee. The members of Swapnobhor and Snehodiya organised puja at the senior citizens’ club. The priest came all the from Midnapore. Unlike Durga puja, when only fruits were offered, bhog was cooked with members preparing a dish each at home. A cultural show was held in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Mall shift hope for Baisakhi stalls||Vendors of the temporary market at Baisakhi have been asked to submit relevant papers to initiate the process of them moving into the basement of AMP Vaisaakkhi mall but the vendors aren’t counting their chickens yet. They suspect this could be yet another eyewash to keep the voters in them happy before the assembly elections. “We were called for the same verification back in 2014 but it amounted to naught,” said secretary of Baisakhi Bajar Byabsayee Samity Somnath Dey. “After verification we went to meet the then mayor Sabyasachi Dutta and he told us on our faces that as long as he was mayor he wouldn’t let us move into the mall. We never went back to him. MLA Sujit Bose has been trying to help us but it’s taking too long.” Some of these vendors have been selling around Baisakhi since the 1970s till the CPM-led civic body asked them to move into a field so the mall could be built and they be accommodated inside it. That was in 2008. The vendors paid the municipality between Rs 10,000 and 20,000 for mall space but despite the mall opening in 2014, have not received possession certificates from the civic body to move in. This time many of the 200-odd shopkeepers had initially refused to submit their papers a second time. “Before every election, these politicians promise to let us move into the mall and then forget about us after winning,” said vegetable-seller Basanti Rajbanshi. Fishmonger Alauddin Molla talks of the inhumane working conditions in their makeshift market. “We do not have electricity so I cannot sell after dark. Our tinned roof flies or falls off every time there is a storm; we are asked to share with slum-dwellers a toilet that is so dirty that we have stopped using it,” he says. Another fishmonger Basu Das says business is down ever since new hawkers have set up shop outside the temporary market. “If we sit in a clean, hygienic mall I’m hoping customers will prefer us. But I have no faith in politicians any more. We have been shoved around for way too long,” says the vendor who is in the business since 1981. “I won’t believe their promises till I move into the mall and start selling from there.” A civic official looking into the matter said the process had been restarted. “The previous verification had been done by the municipality. Since the system is now under the corporation we had to repeat the process to update it. But no comments can be made on the next step,” he said. Dey, the secretary of the market, said they are on the verge of moving court. “We have suffered enough and are holding back only because of Sujitda’s assurances. Held-up work across the state is getting cleared now because of the impending elections and if we are ignored we shall take the legal course.” Shoppers too are fed up of visiting the dilapidated market. “Most shops shut down after 8pm as the generators stop working. And fish and meat shops don’t even try to stay open after noon as they never receive enough light to cut and chop safely,” said a resident of Baisakhi Abasan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||App bikes stolen, thief tracked||Two app bikes got stolen from New Town recently but thanks to technology, the thief has been arrested and the vehicles recovered. Chartered Bike runs the grey and green cycles visible across New Town. Users can pick them up from designated cycle stands, drive them around and drop them off at any of the other designated stands. The fare is charged through a mobile app. “On February 11, a customer had hired a cycle from the Axis Mall stand and kept it for over 24 hours,” said city manager of Chartered Bike, Pronab Kumar Halder. “We got suspicious and tracked it down.” The bikes have in-built GPS systems which will pinpoint their location at any given time. “However the GPS is in the lock and the customer had broken the lock and fled with the bike. We found the lock lying in a field behind St Xavier’s University.” The officers then scrutinised the account created by the thief on the app. “He had submitted a fake name on the account but the payment had to be made through an authentic mobile wallet. His email account also had to be authentic. We then went to the police armed with all this information,” said Halder. The police arrested and retrieved on February 22. “It wasn’t easy to track the thief but we traced him through the mobile wallet he used for the payment. The thief is a resident the KLC (Kolkata Leather Complex) area and had sold off one bike and retained the other,” said an officer of New Town police station. “We have arrested the thief and the person who bought the stolen bike.” The bikes in question cost Rs 64,000 each. “Chartered Bike does business in several cities of India but this was the first time anyone tried to steal a bike. These bikes are part of public transportation and the thief had tried to steal public property. We hope this sends a message to the masses and we never have to go through such an ordeal again,” said Halder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Tribal museum at Eco Urban Village||A museum showcasing tribal culture will come up in Eco Urban Village. The two-storeyed structure will be inspired by Black House in Kala Bhavana, Santiniketan. “The place is popular for picnic in winter but draws scanty footfall the rest of the year. The main reason seems to be the lack of a central attraction. It will be modelled on the tribal houses of Birbhum and on Kalo Bari of Santiniketan,” said Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Hidco. A circular structure with a thatched roof open on all sides, called Akhra, is being dismantled to make space for the museum. “The hay is rotting and the wooden superstructure damaged for quite a few years now. We were thinking of what to build in its place,” Sen said. The proposal for the tribal museum came from Rupchand Kundu, an artiste who had built the akhra as also designed the two visitors’ galleries at the Village. “The galleries are modelled on Kalobari, painted black and with walls having a clayey texture. But they are made of cement as we had later realised that structures made of natural material were tough to maintain,” Sen added. Kundu, a resident of Anahita Housing Complex in Action Area II, plans to do up the museum with ornaments, musical instruments and artefacts used by tribals. “The walls will have relief work on tribal motifs like they have at Black House,” he said. Built by Nandalal Bose and Ramkinkar Baij in 1934, the Black House is a clay structure coated in coal tar. It has beautiful murals on its walls. An iron superstructure will be built over which the two-storeyed hutment-like structure will come up. To be built over 1,500sq ft space, it will house some sculptures too. The cottages that visitors rent for the day at the Village will be reinforced with brick and mortar as leaky roofs are proving to be a hazard in the sliced bamboo structures. “But we will retain their natural look,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||Local 1932: Shankha Ghosh is born in Chandpur in Comilla on February 5. He grows up to become a renowned poet under the pen name Kuntak. He also becomes a critic and academician and wins the Jnanpith Award in 2016. Ghosh goes on to settle at Iswar Chandra Nivas in Ultadanga in the early 80s. National 1882: Nain Singh Rawat, one of the first Indian explorers employed by the British to survey the Himalayas and Central Asia, dies on February 1. Since the borders to Tibet were closed, Rawat’s work was almost that of a spy-explorer, hiding his techniques of surveying. He hid notes inside prayer wheels; a string of prayer beads, which usually had 108 beads, was modified to have only 100 beads and Rawat was trained to move one bead every hundred paces to count his steps and he was trained to have an exact stride length of 33 inches across varying terrain. 1946: Sailors at Bombay harbour go on strike on February 18, demanding better working conditions. The Royal Indian Navy mutiny spreads across British India, to ships at other locations, the air force, army, police and even the general masses who hold widespread riots from Karachi to Calcutta. Historians later study the episode as a struggle for freedom. 1953: The National Library of India is opened to the public on February 1 by minister of education Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. It is formed by merging several libraries and becomes India’s largest library designated to collect, disseminate and preserve printed material produced in the country. It is founded in Alipore, in what used to be the residence of the Governor-General of India. Global 1840: Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom marries Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha on February 10 but instead of opting for a colourful gown as brides of the day wear, goes for a white silk satin gown with lace work instead. She thereby starts the tradition of Christian brides wearing white. 1918: A deadly virus starts spreading in February and lasts till April 1920, infecting about a third of the world’s population — 500 million people — and kills between 20 and 50 million, making it one of the deadliest pandemics in history. Cases are reported in the US as well as Europe but its news is played down, to prevent panic. The Spanish media gives it extensive coverage, leading to the false impression that Spain is hit very hard. This leads to the name Spanish flu. 1971: The Ramsar Convention is signed on February 2 at Ramsar, a city in Iran. The convention is an agreement among different countries about the protection of wetlands. Every three years representatives of these countries meet to update policies. East Calcutta Wetlands, behind Sector V, is a Ramsar site. Sports & entertainment 1904: Binod Behari Mukherjee is born in Behala on February 7, myopic in one eye and blind in the other. Still, he goes on to become a pioneer of modern art, particularly in Contextual Modernism. One of the first modern Indian artists to popularise murals, he continues painting and creating murals even after going completely blind. He becomes principal of Kala Bhavana and wins the Padma Vibhushan too. 1940: The first of a series of short animated cartoon films releases on February 10. Created by William Hanna and Joseph Barbera, the show is about the friendly rivalry between a Tom, a cat, and Jerry, a mouse. Tom and Jerry becomes immensely popular for generations to come, winning multiple Academy Awards and become the highest-grossing film series of its kind at that time. 1980: Yelena Produnova is born in Russia on February 15 and grows up to become one of the greatest gymnasts of her time. She wins multiple Olympic medals and gets one of the most difficult vaults in women’s gymnastics named after her. Years later Indian gymnast Dipa Karmakar wins hearts by performing the Produnova at the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Fresh guard, new beginnings||Look around and you’ll see a new shop, restaurant, laundry or grocery store around every corner. The pandemic has led to many businesses shutting down but the silver lining is that several entrepreneurs are recovering. They are rebuilding their lives, giving employment to those who have lost jobs and providing fresh options to customers. “I had invested heavily in a cloud kitchen that I opened in September 2019 and just when things were about to look up the lockdown happened. All my staff left and I had to shut down,” says Gaurav Agarwal, who had started the kitchen from his CJ Block home. Not to be deterred, Gaurav has turned the space into a departmental store now — Krishnam. “While the future of the restaurant food was hazy I realised there would be a steady demand for grocery items come lockdown, strike or riot. So I began this store with my friend’s mom.” Rabi Singh was dejected about his business in the infrastructure field. “After demonetisation and GST, Covid was the last nail in the coffin. The only businesses making money during the pandemic were liquor, medicines and food. Since I am a food connoisseur and have a base in Lucknow, I decided to bring authentic Lucknowi cuisine to the city in the form of Galawat in AE Block.” Eyeing an opportunity In the early days of the lockdown everyone was busy trying out new dishes and proof of the pudding would be all over social media. Yashvee Dewan, a home baker, spotted an opportunity here. “People finally had the time to realise their love for baking but top quality ingredients weren’t available. So I started All About Baking in BE Block which sells cooking chocolate, different kinds of cheese, premixes and even cake boxes. Lots of bakers are coming now. About 70 per cent of them bake professionally and the rest bake for their families,” says Yashvee. The new kid in CB Block is Mr Grocer’s. “We realised people were still scared to venture far from home so a friendly neighbourhood grocery store would fill the gap. We have home delivery services and started a mobile app last month too,” says supervisor Joy Kar. Vansh Modi, a college student who had always wanted to host the perfect combination of cafe and restaurant, took the plunge this month. “I am confident about this venture as despite the pandemic, food is something people are not compromising on. We shall offer all-round entertainment in the form of pool table, live music and are also opening a rooftop lounge soon,” says Vansh, who opened Ciel in AJ Block. Lizard’s Skin Tattoos, that has its flagship store opposite South City Mall, decided to branch out to CF Block after getting numerous calls from this part of town during the pandemic. “Tattoos are something people are passionate about; many students save up for months to get one. But they were feeling unsafe to take app cabs to south Calcutta to get inked. So we set shop here,” says manager Sriya Roy Choudhury. Just by chance Then there’s Kabir Ray, a US-based tattoo artiste who had come to visit his family last year and could not return. “I’ve had a tattoo studio in City Centre 2 for 10 years now but obviously that was shut and I started getting random calls from people asking me to go over to their houses and ink them,” says Kabir. So he opened a branch of Black Hive Tattoo in BF Block and has been getting not just clients for tattoos and piercing but also students to learn the art. “I’m also selling tattoo equipment,” he says. Opportunity knocked on Ashish Manpuria’s door when his CF Block tenants — a burger joint — packed up after March. “We run Archies outlets around town but had wanted to dabble in the food business too,” says Ashish, who nimbly took a franchise of Krazy Kulcha and opened up earlier this month. The right time Mabesha, the popular sari shop of Gariahat, has been a permanent fixture at Bidhannagar Mela (Utsav) for years. “Visitors would request us to open a Salt Lake branch and though we had taken up space around Kwality More eight years ago, were somehow unable to open up,” says Keka Paul, a resident of CF Block. Things finally fell into place during the pandemic and they decided to open in February. “Since the fair has been cancelled this year, we wanted to compensate by presenting customers an entire store at around the same time,” Keka smiles. They are slightly apprehensive due to Covid and since many sari shops have had to shut down but are expecting sales to pick up gradually. Osho, the chain of dry cleaners, had plans of opening in BE Block for a while now but waited till November. “We wanted to be sure that people were ready to come out again. Even now customers ask about our safety and hygiene measures,” says an executive of the store, Moumita Das. “Also, a lot of our staff members were not back in town yet. Without them we couldn’t run our Beleghata factory.” They now have a free pick up and drop facility that is being widely patronised. Then there are the likes of Sweet Bengal, that had plans of opening in both CF Block and Lake Town but had their plans deferred due to the pandemic. “These months have been like being in jail for residents. They are now desperate to get out, even at the risk of falling ill,” says Pradeep Ruia, who has started the Chitrakut sweet parlour in DA Block recently. On weekends, people throng the footpath outside their store for breakfast of club kachoris and chhole bature. Some restaurants opened during festive seasons — Durga puja, Christmas, Valentine’s Day — to encash on the heightened footfall. The dhaba Javed Akhtar worked at initially was a partnership with a food home delivery app in CK Block but at the first hint of the lockdown, the app asked them to shut shop. “We knew we had a loyal customer base so afterwards took up space in CJ Block. We ran a cloud kitchen but on public demand opened a dine-in too.” In fact, their space now holds — not one but — three outlets — Just Fry for snacks, Apna Dhaba for vegetarian and Dhaba Wale for non-vegetarian food. Incidentally, this CJ Block space used to house a different restaurant before. Covid worries While Gaurav is satisfied with the performance of his new grocery store, Krishnam, he says competition has got stiff. “Time was when the profit margin in this business was 25 per cent but so many outlets have opened during the pandemic that we are forced to give heavy discounts. Profit margin is now 5-8 per cent,” he says. “Anyway, it’s also true that people are staying away from hyper markets now to avoid crowds. The queues there are serpentine, home delivery takes long. These are points where we score high,” Gaurav explains. Anand Saraf, manager of Yumpty The Family Store in AC Block, says customers have less money in hand now. “Basic food items will always have takers but we specialise in things like luxury chocolates, sale of which has slowed down.” Joy of Mr Grocer’s agrees. “We can make out pockets are tight as the cheaper varieties of rice are selling more than the premium ones,” he says. Upside of pandemic “Since so many shops shut down, newcomers like us got to choose from property in prime locations,” says Singh of Galawat. “Rent has dipped by about 30 per cent too.” Cafe Darshini in CF Block got lucky with recruitment. “Ours is an authentic south Indian restaurant and we wanted southern chefs,” says Arun Kumar. “That we found them easily was only because they had lost their jobs elsewhere.” The outlet, that opened in December, is doing well during breakfast and snack hours, “but we are noticing office-going folks come and ask for thalis so we may start those during lunch time,” says Arun. Small is in The restaurants that have opened in the pandemic are all compact in size, seating about 15 people. And why not, since many customers are preferring take-aways to dining in. The seafood restaurant Pisces has moved out of a 40-seater joint to a 24-seater in CA Block. It is now Rindex Pisces, thanks to a business deal. Millie’s, that used to have three of four tables laid out at their CG Block counter, does not have any seats at all at their newly-opened AE Block outlet. “Customers are asking for sitting arrangement so we will start it but frankly, we don’t want a crowd while Covid-19 is around,” says supervisor Resmi Panda. They are now selling cakes and macarons but have yet to re-start pizzas and other savouries they were famous for. Tweaks and cuts The new outlets are trying new tactics to get customers to come over. Malt, the pub at New Town’s Astra Towers, is hosting even international musicians but maintaining social distancing by limiting the tickets they sell. “Our space is massive, with a capacity of 2,600 but we taking only 200 people for such events now. We had to refuse many reservations for events like Valentine’s Day too,” says director Abhinav Shandilya. Rindex Pisces has edited its previously elaborate menu and adjusted some prices. “We have done away with Goan cuisine and are concentrating on Thai now. Our Red Snapper dish, which used to cost Rs 1,500 is available within Rs 1,200. Previously we used to sell two or three of these everyday but now expensive items have slowed. We have reduced prices of our chicken dishes from Rs 310 to 280 too,” says Kundan Kumar. Seejh, the handicraft store in CF Block, is holding free workshops to pull crowds. “We are teaching them to make 90 per cent of what we sell —jewellery, clay models, chocolate, ghee, pickle etc. It is giving people something interesting to do and also letting them take a look at our store,” says Sulekha Singha Roy. “We also want to hold yoga, meditation classes and discourses on physiotheraphy and ayurveda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Business||India records 0.4 per cent growth in Oct-Dec quarter||After contracting for two quarters in a row, the Indian economy entered the positive territory with a growth of 0.4 per cent in the October-December quarter, mainly due to good performance by farm, services and construction sectors, official data showed on Friday. Trade and hotel industry registered a contraction of 7.7 per cent during the third quarter this fiscal, as the sectors continued to suffer on account of the coronavirus pandemic. According to the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), the farm sector recorded a growth of 3.9 per cent, and the manufacturing sector output grew by 1.6 per cent in the quarter under review. The construction sector advanced by 6.2 per cent, while electricity, gas, water supply and other utility services clocked a 7.3 per cent growth. The NSO said, "GDP at Constant (2011-12) Prices in Q3 of 2020-21 is estimated at Rs 36.22 lakh crore, as against Rs 36.08 lakh crore in Q3 of 2019-20, showing a growth of 0.4 per cent". The gross domestic product (GDP) had expanded by 3.3 per cent in the corresponding period of 2019-20. In its second advance estimates of national accounts, the NSO has projected 8 per cent contraction in 2020-21, showing the pandemic impact. In its first advance estimates released in January, it had projected a contraction of 7.7 per cent for the current fiscal as against a growth of four per cent in 2019-20. "Real GDP or Gross Domestic Product (GDP) at Constant (2011-12) Prices in the year 2020-21 is estimated to attain a level of Rs 134.09 lakh crore, as against the First Revised Estimate of GDP for the year 2019-20 of Rs 145.69 lakh crore, released on 29th January 2021. The growth in GDP during 2020-21 is estimated at (-) 8.0 per cent as compared to 4.0 per cent in 2019-20," it stated. The economy had shrunk by an unprecedented 24.4 per cent in the first quarter this fiscal following the coronavirus pandemic and resultant lockdowns. In the second quarter, the GDP declined 7.3 per cent amid a perk up in economic activities after the easing of the lockdown. The first and second-quarter GDP growth figures are revised from (-) 24.9 per cent and (-) 7.5 per cent provisional estimates, respectively, released in November 2020. The per capita income in real terms (at 2011-12 prices) during 2020-21 is estimated to attain a level of Rs 85,929 as compared to Rs 94,566 in 2019-20 -- showing a contraction of 9.1 per cent in 2019-20 as against 2.5 per cent growth in the previous fiscal, it stated. The per capita income at current prices during 2020-21 is estimated to be at Rs 1,27,768, a decline of 4.8 per cent as compared to Rs 1,34,186 during 2019-20. "The measures taken by the Government to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic have had an impact on the economic activities as well as on the data collection mechanisms. "The data challenges in the case of other underlying macro-economic indicators like IIP (industrial production) and CPI (retail inflation), used in the estimation of National Accounts aggregates and specific measures, if any, taken by the government in the following months with a view to address the pandemic led economic situation will have implications on the subsequent revision of these estimates," the NSO said. Estimates are, therefore, likely to undergo sharp revisions for the aforesaid causes in due course, as per the release calendar. Users should take this into consideration when interpreting the figures, it added. The 0.4 per cent growth in the December quarter shows that the economy has returned to pre-pandemic times and reflects a further strengthening of V-shaped recovery, the finance ministry said on Friday. "Real GDP growth of 0.4 per cent in Q3 of 2020-21 has returned the economy to the pre-pandemic times of positive growth rates. It is also a reflection of a further strengthening of V-shaped recovery that began in Q2 of 2020-21 after a large GDP contraction in Q1 followed one of the most stringent lockdowns imposed by the Government relative to other countries," the ministry said in a statement. "With a growth re-emerging in both GDP and GVA in Q3 FY2021, the pandemic-induced technical recession in India has ended, in line with our expectations," Icra Principal Economist Aditi Nayar said. The NSO has pegged the pace of growth in Q3 FY2021 at 0.4 per cent for GDP, and a higher 1.0 per cent for the GVA, whereas Icra had projected both at 0.7 per cent, she added. "The YoY (year-on-year) performance of the components of GDP indicates a welcome growth of 2.6 per cent in gross fixed capital formation, juxtaposed with mild de-growth of 1.1 per cent in government consumption expenditure and 2.4 per cent in private consumption expenditure," Nayar said. Recouping of GDP to the positive territory by posting a growth of 0.4 per cent in the third quarter is a promising sign, as it portends the end of the pandemic-induced recessionary phase seen in the first half of the year, CII Director General Chandrajit Banerjee said. The growth stimuli available from the Union Budget and the additional measures, including the PLI will lead to a sturdy growth path over the recovery horizon, he added. "The real push will come in the Q4 (January-March) 2021 because lockdowns on many sectors, particularly hospitality and travel eased substantially during this quarter. "It is hoped that it remains that way, given the uptick in Covid19 cases in some pockets and in some states. Important to note that the states coming under uptick constitute a large part of industrial activity, and that is important for Q4 and the next financial year," Deloitte India partner Sanjay Kumar said. China's economy grew by 6.5 per cent in October-December 2020, faster than the 4.9 per cent growth in July-September 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Sensex crashes over 1,900 points to finish below 50,000 mark||The BSE benchmark Sensex nosedived about 1,940 points to settle just above the 49,000-level on Friday, tracking massive sell-offs in world equities after a rout in global bond markets spooked investors. The 30-share BSE index ended with a loss of 1,939.32 points or 3.80 per cent at 49,099.99. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty plunged 568.20 points or 3.76 per cent to close the session at 14,529.15. All 30 Sensex constituents ended in the red. ONGC was the top loser, shedding around 6.50 per cent, followed by M&M, Bajaj Finserv, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank, PowerGrid, HDFC Bajaj Finance and ICICI Bank. Sectorally, banking index suffered maximum loss with over 4.8 per cent drop. Financial and telecom indices too fell sharply by 4.9 per cent and 3.85 per cent, respectively. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses closed with heavy losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals. Analysts said that rising bond yields seem to have eroded investor interest in riskier equities, adding the bond market cues often reflect in equity markets. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.16 per cent lower at USD 65.34 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 1,000 points in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked over 1,000 points in the opening session on Friday tracking losses in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC twins and Reliance Industries amid a negative trend in global markets. After touching a low of 49,950.75, the 30-share BSE index was trading 927.21 points or 1.82 per cent lower at 50,112.10. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 270.40 points or 1.79 per cent down at 14,826.95. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC, M&M, SBI, HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, Nestle India, Maruti, HUL and Bharti Airtel were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex spurted 257.62 points or 0.51 per cent to finish at 51,039.31, and Nifty climbed 115.35 points or 0.77 per cent to 15,097.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 188.08 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. "Recent rise in bond yields globally and concerns with regard to higher commodity prices weighed on investors' sentiments as these two elements reduce the future value of cash flows and earnings," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. US equities witnessed steep fall as sharp spike in bond yields dampened investors' sentiments. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with significant losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.62 per cent lower at USD 65.70 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Haldia Petrochemicals mulls 50% capacity hike||Haldia Petrochemicals has proposed to expand its capacity by 50 per cent, entailing an investment of Rs 8,500 crore. The company is embarking on a project which will enable it to produce 345,000 tonnes per annum of additional polymer, making HPL a 1-million-tonne capacity plant. At present, HPL has an installed capacity of 700,000 TPA. HPL, which counts The Chatterjee Group as the major shareholder, is undertaking two more projects totalling an investment of Rs 1,400 crore. They include a coal based power plant for Rs 800 crore for captive consumption and a unit to produce white mineral oil for Rs 600 crore. Put together, they would represent one of the largest investments to be executed in the manufacturing sector in Bengal and strengthen the state’s presence in the petrochemical sector in India. The company has reached an understanding with Syama Prasad Mukherjee, Calcutta (formerly Calcutta Port Trust) to facilitate these ventures, including allotment of land and access to port facilities. Vinit Kumar, chairman of the port, said HPL would import 300,000 tonnes additional naphtha to make polymer. The port has allotted 6 acres for the project. The plant for white mineral oil, used for pharmaceutical and FMCG products, is going to be an import substitute product. The unit will have 0.2 million TPA capacity. This is going to be produced for the first time in India. The coal-based power plant is a project to make HPL more cost competitive. At present, the company burns expensive naphtha to produce power. To begin with, it will import coal using port facilities. Cumulatively, HPL projects represent the largest share of the port based industries CPT is seeking to promote. It has entered into 35 agreements with various stakeholders worth Rs 25,000 crore. When undertaken, this would be the second instance when HPL is expanding capacity. The company started commercial production from 2001 at the port town Haldia with 420,000 TPA capacity. It was later expanded to 700,000 TPA in 2008. In 2015, the company came back from near bankruptcy to become one of the most profitable ventures in Bengal. Subsequently, it acquired a majority stake in US-based Lummus and also acquired Garden Silk Mills in January. An HPL spokesperson did not comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Calcutta Port Trust embarks on projects to enhance cargo handling capacities||Syama Prasad Mukherjee Port, formerly Calcutta Port Trust (CPT), is embarking on multiple projects to enhance cargo handling capacities in Calcutta and Haldia. Most of these ventures are in partnership with the private sector and spans across liquid cargo, container traffic and bulk cargo. When completed, they would enable the port to handle an additional 10 million tonnes of cargo. A large chunk of the jetties will be dedicated to handle liquid cargo. The terminal the port is building at Haldia for Rs 100 crore will be completed by the year end, allowing it to handle 2.5 MT of liquid cargo. Moreover, it has allotted land to a private firm to build an oil terminal at Salukhali, near Haldia. A new terminal will also come up at Budge Budge, near Calcutta, replacing the existing pontoon jetty which limits operations during high tide, curtailing handling volume. “The world is moving towards liquid cargo as we migrate from traditional fuel to clean energy. CPT is building three oil terminals, adding up with the ones we have, to be ready for the future,” Vinit Kumar, chairman of SMP, Calcutta, said. At present, coal is the most significant cargo for the port. Apart from oil jetties, the port is offering private companies the opportunity to build and operate a container terminal and bulk handling berth at Khidderpore Dock in Calcutta on a 30-year lease. Six bidders have shown interest so far and the award may be given after the polls. The port is also offering berth number 3 at Haldia for end to end mechanisation to handle bulk cargo. The Rs 300-crore project has evoked interest from four private parties. Going forward, two more berths would be awarded for similar makeovers. The port on Thursday also entered a slew of agreements for ship repair, storage logistics and inland water movement among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Govt to consider up to 20 times incremental sales value for computing telecom PLI||The government will consider up to 20 times the value of incremental sales of telecom gear makers for doling out production-linked incentive, according to the norms notified on Thursday. The incentive will be given in the range of 4-7 per cent of the incremental sales value to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and 4-6 per cent to the rest of the companies to manufacture telecom equipment under the scheme, which will come into effect from April 1 this year. “The PLI scheme will be implemented within the overall financial limits of Rs 12,195 crores only for the implementation of the scheme over a period of five years,” the notification said. Telecom gear makers will need to achieve at least three times higher value in sales compared with the investment they are required to make in their plant, other than land and building. The investment and incremental sales will be calculated from the financial year 2019-20. The government has set a minimum investment threshold of Rs 10 crore for MSMEs and Rs 100 crore for others, which excluded investment in land and building. The PLI scheme will be applicable on broadband transmission equipment, 4G and 5G wireless equipment, wifi access points, routers, fibre-to-the-home gears, network switches etc. The government expects the PLI scheme to position India as a global hub for the manufacturing of telecom and networking products.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel raises $1.25 billion through debt instruments||Telecom major Bharti Airtel on Thursday said it has raised $1.25 billion through the issuance of debt instruments. Airtel said this is the first ever dual-tranche dollar bond issued by the company spread across senior and perpetual issuance. “This is the largest issuance by any Indian investment grade issuer since January 2019,” Airtel said in a statement. The fund raising comes just before the start of spectrum auction valued at Rs 3.92 lakh crore. Meanwhile, Vodafone Idea is also looking to raise $2 billion through a credit line. Talks that were due to conclude at the end of January have been extended till the end of this month. Potential lenders, including a consortium headed by Oak Hill Advisors of the US, are looking for “safeguards and milestones”. US-based GoldenTree Asset Management has reportedly exited the consortium following differences over lending terms and valuations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Axis entities-Max Life Insurance deal gets IRDAI's nod||The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has approved the acquisition of up to a 12 per cent stake in Max Life Insurance by Axis Bank and its subsidiaries Axis Capital and Axis Securities. This was disclosed by Max Financial Services Ltd (MFSL) in a regulatory filing on Wednesday. According to the proposed transaction, the Axis entities have the right to acquire up to 19 per cent stake in Max Life of which Axis Bank proposes to acquire up to 9 per cent. Axis Capital and Axis Securities together propose to acquire up to 3 per cent of the share capital of Max Life in the first leg of the transaction, a statement disclosed. Axis entities have the right to acquire an additional stake of up to 7 per cent in Max Life, in one or more tranches, which they intend to acquire over the course of the next few years, it added. The IRDAI approval was an integral step in this long-awaited joint venture transaction which was first announced in April 2020. “We have been looking forward to bringing Axis Bank in this construct as a joint venture partner in Max Life. Our long and successful business association with them has demonstrated to us their value across customer insights, distribution expertise and other functional benefits which will be highly useful for the business,” said Analjit Singh, chairman of Max Group and Max Financial Services. Max Life is the fourth largest private life insurer in the country while Axis Bank is the third largest private bank. The two firms have shared a successful business relationship for over a decade, providing long-term saving and protection products to nearly 20 lakh customers. The total premium generated through this relationship aggregated to over Rs 40,000 crore. "We hope we will be able to make quick progress in harnessing the synergies and benefits from this joint venture between Max Life and Axis Entities," MFSL Managing Director Mohit Talwar said while commenting on the development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Centre set to release second advanced estimates of the GDP for this fiscal||The Centre is set to release the second advanced estimates of the gross domestic product (GDP) for this fiscal on Friday along with the third-quarter figures for the economy, on which there is a broad consensus of the nation returning to the growth path after getting whacked by the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the first and the second quarters. The economy had contracted 24 per cent in the first quarter and 7.5 per cent in the second quarter; for the whole year. The government’s first advanced estimate has projected a contraction of 7.7 per cent and a 4.2 per cent contraction in the nominal gross domestic product. Ahead of the forecast by the National Statistics Office (NSO), Moody’s projected a 13.7 growth in India’s real GDP in the next fiscal — up from 10.8 per cent estimated earlier, on the back of normalisation of activity and growing confidence in the market with the rollout of Covid-19 vaccine. For the current financial year, the US-based rating agency expects the Indian economy to contract 7 per cent, lower than its previous estimate of 10.6 per cent contraction. Moody's Investors Service associate managing director (sovereign risk) Gene Fang said reform implementation remains a challenge in India, and expressed uncertainty over revenue generation through CPSE privatisation announced in the Budget saying such “one-off monetisation policies are less durable in terms of supporting fiscal health for long term”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||RBI governor says Centre and states should coordinate to reduce fuel taxes||Reserve Bank of India governor Shakitkanta Das has on Thursday said there was a need for a co-ordinated action between the Centre and the state governments to reduce the taxes on petrol and diesel and bring down their prices. Fuel prices not only have a direct impact on inflation but also work their way into the pricing of other goods and services to ram up the cost pressures on the economy — with the impact captured by core inflation which is the consumer inflation stripped of their food and fuel components. Later in the day, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told the students of IIM Ahemdabad that there should be less burden on consumers and both the Centre and states should talk with each other over reducing taxes on diesel and petrol . Earlier this month, the monetary policy committee of the RBI had flagged core inflation as an area of concern. Core inflation — a creature of rising fuel prices and high indirect taxes — stood at an elevated 5.6 per cent in December against the consumer price inflation of 4.59 per cent. The monetary policy committee (MPC) said in its statement earlier this month that pump prices have reached historical highs and an unwinding of taxes by both the Centre and the states could ease the cost push pressures. At an event organised by the Bombay Chamber of Commerce on Thursday, Das said that there was a need for the co-ordinated action between the Centre and the states “because there are inherent taxes levied by both”. He said a calibrated reduction of taxes was important. The RBI governor admitted both the Centre and the state governments have their revenue pressures and are required to spend large sums to enable the country and the people to come out of the Covid-19 pandemic stress. “So the revenue requirement and the compulsion of the governments are fully understood. But having said that the impact on inflation also is something, which comes in from the fact that petrol and diesel prices do have an impact on the cost of manufacturing, production.” LPG price hike LPG prices were raised on Thursday by another Rs 25 per cylinder — the third increase this month. The previous increases were on February 4 and February 15  —  a clear indication that rising crude prices will soon start mauling kitchen budgets. The Modi government has refused to cut excise duties on petroleum products. As a result, petrol and diesel prices have risen; it is now the turn of LPG producers to join the fray. The new price of a 14.2kg cylinder in Calcutta is Rs 820. Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday said petroleum products in the country were getting costlier because of rising prices of crude by oil-producing nations. “To earn more profit in the interest of their countries, crude-supplying countries are increasing the prices of crude,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
26-02-2021||Business||NSE blames shutdown on unavailability of ‘online risk management system’||The National Stock Exchange on Thursday said the unavailability of an ‘online risk management system’ led to the shutdown of trading on Wednesday. It is also awaiting a detailed root cause analysis from its telecom service providers and vendors, the exchange said. Market regulator Sebi on Thursday affirmed it will take all necessary measures to ensure the underlying causes, including “institutional deficiencies”, are addressed. The regulator said the decision to stop trading in its entirety was taken by the NSE and Sebi was informed of it only 10 minutes before trading screens froze on Wednesday. The Association of National Exchanges Members of India said in a letter to Sebi that the glitch caused huge monetary losses to members and investors. Zerodha faces flak Brokerage Zerodha is facing a backlash from traders who saw their equity positions abruptly closed during a glitch on Wednesday. Hundreds of traders, who bought stocks via Zerodha, voiced their concern on Twitter, with many posting pictures showing portfolio losses due to trades squared off by the broker. Many signed an online petition for action. “My six months salary has gone...I’ll sue you,” said Twitter user Aashish Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
26-02-2021||Business||Nifty reclaims 15000 mark, Sensex gains 258 points||The Nifty on Thursday reclaimed the 15000 mark and the Sensex gained 258 points as positive global cues led to renewed buying in the heavyweight counters. Analysts said that with the expiry of the forward and options (F&O) contract for the month, the stage was set for stocks to resume their climb amid news of the government planning more reform measures and the economy being on the mend. They, however, caution that adverse news on Covid-19 cases could stem the upside. Thursday’s rally came after a tough Wednesday for investors as the NSE stopped trading for four hours because of a technical glitch. In Thursday’s trading, the benchmark indices remained positive as global stocks posted good gains. PSU shares hogged the limelight as the Centre said it was committed to privatising all PSUs barring the bare minimum in four strategic sectors. This led to the NSE CPSE index rallying 4.43 per cent. Gains in this index were led by Coal India followed by NBCC. The Sensex closed 0.51 per cent higher at 51039.31.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 115.35 points or 0.77 per cent to 15097.35. Market-economy gap Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi on Thursday acknowledged the systemic risk concerns raised by the RBI and the Financial Stability Board over a disconnect between the financial markets and the real economy, but said this is a global phenomenon. “Typically, stock markets have been the barometers of the economy and move in the direction in which the economy moves or is expected to move. However, after the onset of pandemic, several institutions have raised concerns of an increasing disconnect of financial markets with the real economy,” Tyagi said. “However, similar trends have been there across many global markets,” Tyagi said, speaking at an NISM event. Explaining the series of events leading to the shutting down of trading, the NSE said it has multiple telecom links with two service providers to ensure redundancy and the two telcos informed it about "instability of all their links", as per a statement. This instability resulted in an impact to the online risk management system, which is configured in a 'high availability' mode, it said, adding that there was no impact to trading. "Domestic markets added strength on yesterday’s rally supported by positive F&O monthly roll-over and robust global market. Small and mid-cap stocks continued its out-performance over the benchmark indices. World equity market rebound after getting assurance from central banks, importantly the Fed, that good liquidity will be maintained, in spite of being under pressure of rising inflation, since the economy is still well below the pre-Covid standpoint’’ Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
26-02-2021||India||Mumbai: Terminal 1 to reopen for domestic flights from March 10||Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will resume domestic flight operations from Terminal-1 from the second week of March, the private airport operator said on Friday. The Mumbai Airport has two terminals T1 and T2. Terminal-1 caters to domestic passengers and Terminal-2 has international services besides domestic operations of some of the Indian airlines. Prior to the pandemic, some airlines were carrying out their domestic operations from T1. However, after the resumption of domestic commercial passenger services in late last year, following a nearly two-month shutdown in the wake of the pandemic, the flight services were being operated only from T2. The CSMIA is re-opening its Terminal 1 for domestic flight operations with effect from March 10, a release said. From midnight, March 10, GoAir, Star Air, Air Asia and Trujet will resume all its domestic operations from Terminal 1, the airport operator said. In case of IndiGo, while most of its flight operations will be managed from Terminal 2, the base flights will operate through Terminal 1, it added. Since the advent of the nationwide lockdown in March 2020, operations at T1 were suspended temporarily and was consolidated through Terminal 2 for the convenience of the passengers and stakeholders, it said. Upholding the safety of the passengers, the resumption of services via T1 is a step further in ensuring that social distancing is strictly followed, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
26-02-2021||India||Explosive laden vehicle near Mukesh Ambani’s house stolen last week, say police||The vehicle with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai had been stolen last week, and a letter found inside said this was only a "glimpse" of things to come, police said on Friday. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has also started a parallel probe and contacted the Mumbai police crime branch, a senior official said here. A Scorpio with around 2.5 kg of gelatin sticks was found parked on Carmichael Road near 'Antilia', the multi-storey residence of Ambani, the chairman of Reliance Industries, on Thursday evening. There was no assembled explosive device with detonators and batteries inside, police said. CCTV footage showed that the SUV was parked there in the early hours of Thursday, and its driver left in an Innova which had accompanied it to the spot. "The owner of the vehicle (Scorpio), Hiren Mansukh, visited the police commissioner's office in south Mumbai this afternoon after he saw visuals of the SUV found near Ambani's house, which was similar to his vehicle," the police official said. Mansukh, a resident of neighbouring Thane, told reporters that he had parked the SUV near Airoli Mulund Bridge on February 17 after its steering got jammed while he was on his way to attend a family function. "The next day, when I went to get my car, it could not be found....following which I lodged a complaint at Vikhroli police station," he said. Besides gelatin sticks, a letter was also found in the SUV, in Hindi but written in English alphabet and purportedly threatening Ambani, his wife Nita and the family, police said. This was only a "Jhalak" (glimpse) but the next time the "saaman" (explosives) will be fully assembled, the letter said. The letter had several misspellings, which seemed to be an attempt to masquerade the writer's identity, the official said, adding that police were as yet clueless about the intention behind the act. The letter was in a blue bag next to the driver's seat, while the gelatin sticks were kept in a packet with the name of its manufacturer, "Solar Industries, Nagpur". Also, a bag with `Mumbai Indians' printed on it was found in the car. Satyanarayan Nuwal, the owner of Solar Industries, said in a statement on Friday that he received a phone call from Mumbai police about the discovery of the packet. As provided under the Explosives Rules 2008, all the data of production and sale of explosives by the company is submitted to the Explosives Department and police, it said. Mumbai police have formed at least 10 teams to probe the case. Police found that there were four number plates in the Scorpio, two of them matching the registration numbers of cars in the Ambani family's security detail. The number plate fixed on the Scorpio's exterior matched the registration number of the lead car in Nita Ambani's convoy, the senior police official said. The Innova spotted near the parked SUV on Carmichael Road was first seen entering the city from Thane around 1.20 am on Thursday in a CCTV footage. As it headed for south Mumbai, the Scorpio joined it near Priyadarshani Park, and both cars then traveled together towards Antilia, CCTV footage showed. Minutes after stopping on Carmichael Road around 2.15 am, the driver of the Scorpio stepped out and sat in the Innova. The Innova then left and was seen returning to Thane through Mulund check post around 3.05 am. After that its track was lost, the official said. On Thursday morning, traffic police even attached a clamp to the Scorpio parked near Ambani's house as it was in no-parking zone and generated an electronic fine receipt, but it did not arouse further suspicion then, the official said. The number plate of the Innova was also found to be fake, and it too seemed to have been stolen, the official said. The chassis number of the Scorpio car was found to have been scraped off. The police said an FIR was registered in connection with the seized SUV at Gamdevi police station against unidentified persons under IPC sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 506(2) (criminal intimidation; and section four of the Explosive Substances Act (punishment for attempt to cause explosion). Reliance Industries in a statement thanked Mumbai Police for "quick and immediate action". "We are confident that Mumbai Police will complete their thorough investigation quickly," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
26-02-2021||India||On-site registration for vaccine made available for senior citizens ||As India gears up to vaccinate people above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities against COVID-19 from March 1, the Union Health Ministry on Friday said the facility of on-site registrations will be available so that eligible beneficiaries can walk into identified vaccination centres, get themselves registered and get inoculated. The beneficiaries will be able to self-register in advance by downloading the Co-WIN 2.0 portal and through other IT applications such as Arogya Setu etc which will list the government and private hospitals serving as COVID-19 vaccination centres (CVCs) with the date and time of the available schedules. The beneficiary would be able to choose the CVC of his/her choice and book an appointment for immunization, the ministry said. Vaccination will be free of charge at the government vaccination centres. Those taking the COVID vaccine at any designated/empanelled private health facility will have to pay a pre-fixed charge, it said. The Centre shared this information with Health Secretaries and MDs (National Health Mission) of states and UTs during a high-level meeting which was chaired by Rajesh Bhushan, Union Health Secretary, along with Dr R. S Sharma, Chairperson of the Empowered Group on Vaccine Administration (Co-WIN) and member, National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration of COVID-19 (NEGVAC) on the vaccination of age-appropriate groups through a video conference. The nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive was launched on January 16. This is now to be exponentially expanded to the vulnerable age-groups -- all citizens above 60 years and those within the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with specified co-morbidities --from March 1. The states and UTs were explained the basic features of version 2.0 of the digital platform CO-WIN, which is a population-scale software with capacity of processing several thousands of entries, the ministry said. "The new phase of vaccination of age-appropriate groups will expand the COVID vaccination in the country manifold. With a citizen centric approach, the fundamental shift in this phase is that citizens in the identified age groups, as also those healthcare and frontline workers who have been missed out or left out of the present phase of vaccination, can select vaccination centres of their choice," it said. Secondly, the private sector hospitals will be involved as COVID-19 vaccination centres to harness their potential to expand the vaccination capacities, it stated. It was pointed out that all CVCs must be government-run health facilities such as SHCs, PHCs, CHCs, Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centres, Sub-Division Hospitals, District Hospitals and Medical College Hospitals or private hospitals empanelled under Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS), Ayushman Bharat- Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (AB-PM JAY) and similar State Health Insurance Schemes. States and UTs were asked to ensure that private health facilities mandatorily must have adequate space for the vaccination process, as detailed in the comprehensive SOPs issued by the Ministry, basic cold chain equipments, their own team of vaccinators and staff, and adequate facility for management of any AEFI cases for using them as CVCs. All beneficiaries, regardless of the mode of access, will have to carry any one of the following photo ID document -- Aadhar Card, Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC), Photo ID card specified at the time of registration in case of online registration (if not Aadhar or EPIC), certificate of co-morbidity for citizens in age group of 45 years to 59 years (signed by a registered medical practitioner), employment certificate/ Official Identity Card (either but with photo and date of birth) for HCWs and FLWs. States and UTs were explained the simplified process of registration, which shall be through three routes -- Advance Self-Registration, On-site Registration, and Facilitated Cohort Registration. Under the first route, beneficiaries will be able to self register in advance by downloading the Co-WIN 2.0 portal and through other IT Applications such as Arogya Setu etc. "This will show the government and private hospitals serving as CVCs with date and time of the available schedules. The beneficiary would be able to choose the CVC of his/her choice and book an appointment for vaccination. "The facility of on-site registration allows those who cannot self register in advance to walk into the identified CVCs and get themselves registered on-site and then vaccinated," the ministry said in a statement. Under the facilitated Cohort Registration mechanism, the state and UT government will take proactive lead, the ministry said in the statement. Specific date(s) for COVID vaccination will be decided where target groups of potential beneficiates will be vaccinated. State and health authorities will ensure that the target groups are actively mobilised and brought to the vaccination centres. ASHAs, ANMs, Panchayati Raj representatives and Women's Self Help Groups (SHGs) will be utilized for mobilizing the target groups. "Under all the above three routes, all beneficiaries would be captured on Co-WIN 2.0 platform and would be issued digital QR Code based provisional (on receiving the first does) and final (on receiving second dose) certificates. "These can be downloaded from the link shown in the SMS the beneficiary shall receive after the vaccination," the ministry informed. Print outs of these certificates can also be taken from the vaccination centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||Eight-phase elections in Bengal, 3-phase in Assam   ||The Election Commission of India (ECI) announced dates for Assembly elections to four states and one Union territory on Friday with polling scheduled to be held in eight phases in Bengal and three phases in Assam between March 27 and April 29. Counting of votes will be held on Sunday, May 2. In Bengal, with 294 Assembly seats, voting will be held on March 27 (30 constituencies), April 1 (30), April 6 (31), April 10 (44), April 17 (45), April 22 (43), April 26 (36), April 29 (35). In Assam, with 126 assembly seats, voting will be held on March 27 (47 constituencies), April 1 (39) and April 6 (40). Kerala with 140 seats, Tamil Nadu with 234 seats and the Union territory of Puducherry with 30 seats will have single phase elections on April 6. The terms of the assemblies of the four states -- Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and West Bengal -- are coming to an end in May and June. This will be the first set of elections to be held in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic after the Bihar Assembly elections. Earlier in the week, a team of Election Commission officials. Headed by director-general Dharmendra Sharma, visited Assam and West Bengal to review preparedness. The team was reviewing follow-up action taken by the states in response to directives issued during a previous visit in January. Bengal will see a high-stakes battle with two-time chief minister Mamata Banerjee facing a tough challenge from the BJP amid an exodus from her party, the Trinamool Congress, to the BJP and corruption investigations against her party leaders. The BJP is also campaigning aggressively to retain power in Assam, where it won for the first time in 2016, beating the Congress. In the last round of elections in these states in 2016, the Congress could win only Puducherry. But earlier this week, the party lost power in the Union Territory adjoining Tamil Nadu after multiple resignations - a trend seen in other states like Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka where Congress governments crashed because of defections. In Puducherry, President's Rule has been imposed and the Assembly kept under suspended animation after the V. Narayanasamy-led Congress government resigned earlier this week ahead of a vote of confidence. In Kerala, it's an intense battle for the ruling Left-led front and the Congress-led Opposition coalition. Voters of the state have alternated between the two in past state elections. The CPM hopes to continue its gains in the only state it rules after a victory in the recent local body elections. The Congress, stunned by its Puducherry loss, seeks to repeat its 2019 national election success, when it won 19 of 20 Lok Sabha seats. The BJP has so far been a minor player but its recruitment drive this time shows the party is preparing to challenge the ruling Left-led coalition in a big way. The party has roped in "Metro Man" E Sreedharan and other high profile faces in the coastal state. Close to 100 Left workers joined the BJP on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||WHO chief lauds India for supplying Covid vaccines globally||WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi's commitment for supporting vaccine equity and sharing Covid-19 vaccines with over 60 countries across the world, hoping that other nations will follow his example. In a tweet, Ghebreyesus, Director-General of the World Health Organisation, said that India's support in supplying its vaccines is helping over 60 countries to begin the vaccination process. "Thanks India & Prime Minister @narendramodi for supporting #VaccinEquity. Your commitment to #COVAX and sharing #Covid19 vaccine doses is helping 60+ countries start vaccinating their #healthworkers and other priority groups. I hope other countries will follow your example," he said in the tweet on Thursday. India on Wednesday dispatched the first batch of six lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses to the African country of Ghana under the COVAX facility in collaboration with UNICEF, which aims to cover 92 countries under the initiative. The doses are a part of the first batch of Covid-19 vaccine the country is acquiring through the Covid-19 Vaccine Global Access Facility (COVAX), which Ghana among nearly 92 countries have signed into. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on February 12 said that India has provided over 229 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines to various countries out of which 64 lakh doses have been supplied as grant assistance and 165 lakh on commercial basis. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India will continue to take forward the global vaccine supply initiative and cover more countries in a phased manner. Consignments of coronavirus vaccine doses were supplied as gifts to Bangladesh (20 lakh), Myanmar (17 lakh), Nepal (10 lakh), Bhutan (1.5 lakh), the Maldives (1 lakh), Mauritius (1 lakh), Seychelles (50,000), Sri Lanka (5 lakh), Bahrain (1 lakh), Oman (1 lakh), Afghanistan (5 Lakhs), Barbados (1 Lakh) and Dominica (70,000), he said. Srivastava said countries which received vaccines on commercial basis are Brazil (20 lakh), Morocco (60 lakh), Bangladesh (50 lakh), Myanmar (20 lakh), Egypt (50,000), Algeria (50,000), South Africa (10 lakh), Kuwait (2 lakh) and UAE (2 lakh). The vaccines are even being sent to Latin American countries. India, the largest drug producer in the world, is currently manufacturing two Covid-19 vaccines- Covishield and Covaxin. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune, Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||HC grants bail labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur ||The Punjab and Haryana High Court granted bail to labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur on Friday in a case filed under attempt to murder and some other charges, more than six weeks after she was arrested in Haryana's Sonipat for allegedly gheraoing an industrial unit and demanding money from the company. "The court accepted the bail application of Nodeep Kaur. She has been granted bail by the high court," her counsel Arshdeep Singh Cheema said. In her bail plea, the 23-year-old activist had claimed to have been severely beaten up at a police station after she was arrested by the Sonipat police on January 12. The police have denied the charge as "baseless". Kaur had also claimed that she was falsely arraigned as accused in an FIR lodged under various sections, including 307 (attempt to murder), of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The activist claimed she was targeted and falsely implicated in the case as she was successful in generating massive support for the ongoing farmers' movement against the Centre's three contentious farm laws. Kaur is lodged in Haryana's Karnal jail. She is a member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan and a resident of Giadarh village in Punjab's Muktsar district. On February 24, the high court had posted the hearing on her bail plea to Friday. Earlier, a court in Sonipat had granted bail to Kaur in two separate cases of extortion. Kaur's family expressed happiness at the activist being granted bail. Her sister Rajveer Kaur said that the family was happy that she would be released from jail. "She had to spend one-and-a-half months in jail..., Rajveer Kaur said. Nodeep Kaur will walk out of jail once necessary legal formalities are completed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||Election commission to announce poll dates for 5 states||The Election Commission will announce the schedule for assembly polls in Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala, West Bengal and Puducherry on Friday afternoon, the poll panel said. The poll panel has convened a press conference at 4.30 pm for the purpose. The terms of legislative assemblies of four states -- Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and West Bengal -- are coming to an end in May and June. In Puducherry, President's Rule has been imposed and the assembly kept under suspended animation after the V Narayanasamy-led Congress government resigned earlier this week ahead of a vote of confidence. Bengal will see the most high stakes battle with two-time Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee facing a tough challenge from the BJP amid an exodus from her Trinamool Congress to the BJP and corruption investigations against her party leaders. The BJP is also campaigning aggressively to retain power in Assam, where it won for the first time in 2016, beating the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||India-China: Jaishankar, his counterpart agree to set up hotline ||Asserting that peace and tranquillity on the border is essential for development of bilateral relations, India has told China that disengagement at all friction points is necessary to contemplate any de-escalation of troops even as the two sides agreed to establish a hotline contact for timely exchange of views. Last week, armies of the two countries which have been locked in a military standoff in eastern Ladakh concluded withdrawal of troops and weapons from north and south banks of Pangong Tso in the high-altitude region. Releasing details of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's 75-minute telephonic conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Thursday, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement on Friday that China was told that bilateral relations have been impacted severely over last year. "EAM said that Boundary Question may take time to resolve but disturbance of peace and tranquillity, including by violence, will inevitably have a damaging impact on the relationship," the ministry said. The two ministers agreed to remain in touch and establish a hotline, it added. The two leaders discussed the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and issues related to overall India-China relations. According to a late-night press release issued by the Chinese Foreign Ministry in Beijing, Wang said China and India should firmly follow the right path of mutual trust and cooperation between neighbouring major countries, and not go astray with suspicion and distrust nor fall back on a road of "negative retrogression". Wang, also a State Councilor, noted that the two countries need to properly handle the border issue so as to prevent the bilateral ties from trapping into a "vicious cycle" because of it. Jaishankar referred to their meeting in September 2020 in Moscow where the Indian side had expressed its concern on provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter the status quo, according to the MEA statement. Jaishankar said that during their meeting in Moscow last year they had agreed that the situation in the border areas was not in the interest of either side and decided that the border troops of both sides should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage and ease tensions. The EAM noted that the two sides had maintained continuous communication since then through both diplomatic and military channels. This had led to progress as both sides had successfully disengaged in the Pangong lake area earlier this month. Noting the completion of disengagement in the Pangong lake area, the EAM emphasized that both sides should now quickly resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. At the 10th round of the senior commanders' meeting least week, India is learnt to have insisted on a faster disengagement process in areas such as Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang to defuse tension in the region. Jaishankar told Wang that once disengagement is completed at all friction points, then the two sides could also look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area and work towards restoration of peace and tranquillity. Wang, on his part, expressed satisfaction at the progress made so far and said it was an important step forward for restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas, according to the MEA statement. Wang also spoke about the need to improve management and control in the border areas, while Jaishankar highlighted that both sides had always agreed that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas was essential basis for development of bilateral relations. "A prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of either side. It was, therefore, necessary that the two sides should work towards early resolution of remaining issues. It was necessary to disengage at all friction points in order to contemplate de-escalation of forces in this sector. That alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquillity and provide conditions for progress of our bilateral relationship," it said. Wang also noted that the Indian side had proposed "three mutuals" -- mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests -- as the approach to the relationship. He also agreed on the importance of taking the long view of ties between the two neighbours. According to the Chinese Foreign Ministry release, Wang also said border disputes are an "objective reality" and need to be attached adequate attention and taken seriously. However, the border issue is not the whole story of China-India relations, and should be placed in a proper position in their relationship, he said. "Wang said that the rights and wrongs of last year's situation in China-India border areas are very clear, and profound lessons should be drawn from the past," according to the Chinese foreign ministry statement. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong Lake area and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. Subsequently, 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a fierce hand-to-hand combat on June 15 in Galwan Valley, an incident that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in over four decades. Eight months after the confrontation, China admitted that its four soldiers were killed in the fight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||Rajnath remembers Balakot air-strikes on it's anniversary||The success of Balakot air strikes displayed India's strong will to act against terrorism, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Friday. "On the anniversary of Balakot Air Strikes, I salute the exceptional courage and diligence of the Indian Air Force. The success of Balakot strikes has shown India's strong will to act against terrorism. We are proud of our Armed Forces who keep India safe and secure," Singh tweeted. On February 26, 2019, Indian Air Force fighter jets crossed the Line of Control and destroyed terror launch pads in Balakot in Pakistan. The strikes were undertaken days after 40 Central Reserve Police Force personnel were killed in a terror attack in Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir on February 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||India logs over 16,000 fresh Covid cases, 120 casualties in a day||India recorded its single-day increase in coronavirus cases above 16,000 for the second consecutive day as the infection tally rose to 1,10,63,491, while the recoveries have surged to 1,07,50,680, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Friday. A total 16,577 infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,56,825 with 120 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. According to the data, the Union Territory of Lakshadweep has reported its first death. The 120 new fatalities include 56 from Maharashtra, 14 from Kerala, 13 from Punjab. The number of active cases increased to 1,55,986, which accounts for 1.41 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,50,680 which translates into a national recovery rate of 97.17 per cent. The case fatality rate stood at 1.42 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 21,46,61,465 samples have been tested up to February 25, of which 8,31,807 samples were tested on Thursday. A total of 1,56,825 deaths have been reported in the country so far, including 51,993 from Maharashtra, 12,483 from Tamil Nadu, 12,316 from Karnataka, 10,905 from Delhi, 10,260 from West Bengal, 8,723 from Uttar Pradesh, and 7,168 from Andhra Pradesh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||Violence at Congress Bhavan in Odisha||Violence broke out at the Congress Bhavan, the state Congress headquarters here on Thursday, as two groups of party workers clashed in the presence of senior leaders including Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Niranjan Patnaik. Trouble erupted ahead of the party’s general council meeting when one group accused party’s other backward caste (OBC) cell president Bishnu Charan Barik of indulging in anti-party activities and supporting the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD). Both the groups came to blows. They even tore down posters of Congress leaders, including Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. The Congress workers also ransacked furniture of the building. Accusing Barik and his family members of having worked for the BJD in th election to Jagatsinghpur Assembly constituency that led to the defeat of Congress candidate, Chiranjeev Biswal, Jena demanded that action must be taken against Barik. “We request the PCC president to remove Barik from the party immediately,” said a party worker. The opponents of Barik vehemently opposed his participation in the general council meeting. Barik, on the other hand, claimed that he was a loyal worker of the party and had never indulged in anti-party activities. He said that he was being opposed by a group at the behest of Chiranjeev Biswal. “I have been with the Congress since 1978. I tried to save me when a group of Congress workers opposed to me tried to attack me. The bigger question is who hatched the conspiracy to shun me. I am ready for any kind of probe,” said Barik. On the issue of alleged links with the BJD, Barik said, “I have no political connection with the BJD MLA. He used to come to our house as the friend of my younger brother.” Meanwhile, PCC president Niranjan Patnaik has assured action against indiscipline. “We will conduct a thorough inquiry into the allegation levelled against OBC cell president. If he is found to have been involved in any such activities that go against the party’s interest, action will definitely be taken against him. If anyone has any issues, they should bring their resentment to the AICC and PCC. Indiscipline in any form will be strictly dealt with,” Patnaik said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||Farm union calls for Rajnath talks to resolve stalemate||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) has suggested that defence minister Rajnath Singh hold talks with the farmers to resolve the stalemate over the peasants’ protest, at a time their demand that Narendra Modi intervene has not been met and the Prime Minister has continued to hail the contentious farm laws. Addressing a mahapanchayat in Munderwa of Basti district on Thursday, BKU president Naresh Tikait said: “The problem with the central government is that there is none with whom we can talk about the three controversial farm laws. We really don’t know with whom we should hold discussions.” “Rajnath Singh is a farmer and he understands our problems,” Naresh told the well-attended rally. Rajnath, a former agriculture minister, hails from Chandauli in east Uttar Pradesh and represents Lucknow in Parliament. There is a general feeling that he is readily available and flexible. “He has served as BJP national president and chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. He is a farmer and a grassroots-level leader who is people-friendly on most issues,” said a senior BJP leader in Lucknow on the condition of anonymity. Gradually spreading the farmers’ movement from west Uttar Pradesh to the eastern part of the sprawling state, the BKU, Rashtriya Lok Dal and the khaps together have been holding three rallies on an average every day. The attendance at the rallies has been encouraging. Naresh, who heads the Balyan khap, said in Munderwa that the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s borders was a matter of life and death for them. “We will make the Modi government bow before us and repeal the new farms laws. If it does not happen, we will throw them out in 2022 in Uttar Pradesh and in 2024 at the Centre,” Naresh said. Earlier in the day, he had paid obeisance at the Ram Lalla and Hanumangarhi temples in Ayodhya, 60km from Basti. “The farmers had made a mistake by supporting the BJP in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections and the 2017 Assembly polls. This government is trying to snatch our land with the help of the three dark farm laws. A true farmer treats his land as his mother but this government wants to take it from them. It will never be allowed,” he said, adding that the BKU wouldn’t support any political party in the future. “But those who oppose the farm laws would obviously win the next elections,” Naresh said. “East Uttar Pradesh has always stood by the farmers of west Uttar Pradesh.” Jayant Chaudhary, the vice-president of the RLD, addressed a huge rally at Sampurnnagar in Lakhimpur Kheri district and a smaller public meeting in Pilibhit. On Wednesday, Naresh had organised a rally in Barabanki while his younger brother Rakesh Tikait had gone to Agra. Rakesh is the face of the farmers’ protest at the Ghazipur border. Another rally was organised by khap leaders in Shamli, in west Uttar Pradesh, on Wednesday. While the BKU, RLD and the khaps have their base in west Uttar Pradesh, they have gradually moved to the east to “make the farmers aware of the three farm laws and explain to them why they are draconian”. “There is a massive government-sponsored campaign in Uttar Pradesh to tarnish the image of the innocent farmers and claim that the government is pro-peasant. This is why the BKU has planned to hold mahapanchayats in every district of the state and tell the farmers the truth that the Narendra Modi government is a supporter of the privatisation of everything, including our farmland,” Naresh told reporters in Basti. “We are also holding rallies in other states to defeat the anti-farmer BJP in future elections,” the BKU chief added. A khap leader who is in touch with the BKU as well as the RLD told The Telegraph that the three groups had held about 30 rallies in the past 10 days in 30 districts and planned to cover the remaining 45 districts of central and eastern Uttar Pradesh in the next 15 days.“Thereafter, we will focus for a few weeks on Delhi’s borders. Later, we will restart bigger mahapanchayats across Uttar Pradesh,” the khap leader said. Dharmendra Malik, a BKU leader, resigned from the Krishi Samridhi Ayog, a panel of the Uttar Pradesh government, on Thursday. He alleged that the Ayog was not speaking for the farmers. “The BKU is organising mahapanchayats on its own. The RLD and other groups are doing it independently. But the target is the same. We have a strong base in east Uttar Pradesh,” Malik said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||Centre unveiles ethics code for digital media||The Centre on Thursday unveiled an ethics code for digital media, ranging from social media to over-the-top (OTT) platforms like Netflix and Amazon Prime. Although the Centre billed the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, as a “soft-touch oversight mechanism”, it made it mandatory for these sites to develop regulatory and grievance-redress mechanisms and identify the first originator in case of certain kinds of posts or messages. Coming against the backdrop of growing concern internationally about “democratic backsliding” in India and mindful of the global footprint of these platforms, IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad unveiled the guidelines with an assurance that social media is welcome to do business in the country and the government welcomes criticism. He, however, pointed out that it is also important that users have a proper forum for resolution of grievances, in a time-bound manner, related to abuse and misuse of social media. Facebook and the Internet and Mobile Association of India hailed the guidelines. According to Prasad and information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, the government was essentially responding to a demand from the public, articulated through MPs in Parliament and also several cases in the Supreme Court, for some form of regulation of online content.  They contended that the government has opted for the self-regulation route, apparently because it is viewed as the path of least resistance. The OTT platforms will have to self-classify content into five age-based categories — U (Universal), U/A 7+, U/A 13+, U/A 16+, and A (Adult). The platforms would be required to implement parental locks for content classified as U/A 13+ or higher, and reliable age verification mechanisms for content classified as “A”. Further, they will have to prominently display the classification rating specific to each content or programme together with a descriptor informing the user about the nature of the content and advising on viewer description, if applicable, at the beginning of every programme. This will enable the user to make an informed decision prior to watching a programme. Although the OTTs came under no regulation till now, platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime have a content descriptor. News portals will now be required to follow the norms of journalistic conduct as prescribed by the Press Council of India for print content and the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Regulation Act for visual content. This will bring the portals on a par with the mainstream print and television channels, Javadekar said at the media conference, Prasad by his side, to unveil the code. On whether consultations had been held with digital news portals prior to finalising the guidelines, Javadekar said: “We don’t even know how many digital news portals there are. Who do we consult with?... Our doors are always open. If you have suggestions, you are always welcome.” In the case of social media platforms, the government has decided to draw a distinction between the smaller ones and the bigger ones, depending on their user base. While the smaller sites will be called social media intermediaries, the bigger entities will be described as significant social media intermediaries. The contours of such classification will be drawn up in due course. While all social media intermediaries will have to have a grievance redress mechanism for receiving complaints from users or victims — complete with a designated grievance officer to acknowledge complaints within 24 hours and resolve it in 15 days — the bigger platforms have additional due diligence to follow. The bigger platforms will have to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person, for 24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies and a resident grievance officer to perform the functions specified under their grievance redress mechanism. All three have to be residents of India and a monthly compliance report of complaints received and action taken will have to be filed by these platforms. Significant social media intermediaries will also have to enable identification of the first originator of information in cases where messages affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign countries or public order. Asked about the concern among social media platforms that such a requirement would force them to break the end-to-end encryption in violation of privacy, Prasad said: “We are not asking them to disclose the content, we are only asking that they disclose the identity of the person. So, there is an in-built safeguard here.” According to the Internet Freedom Foundation, the guidelines and code released on Thursday have the potential to fundamentally change how the Internet is accessed and used by millions of users across India. “Many of the changes proposed continue with greater finesse, what we had first in 2018 termed as a ‘Chinese model of online surveillance and censorship’. We fear that despite material changes made to the draft rules, and some noticeable improvements in greater precision — the core and the substance of these concerns remain the same, further some new areas of regulation have been added without public deliberation,” the foundation said. Asked for a reaction to the new guidelines, a Facebook spokesperson said: “We have always been clear as a company that we welcome regulations that set guidelines for addressing today’s toughest challenges on the Internet. Facebook is committed to people’s ability to freely and safely express themselves on our platforms. “The details of rules like these matter and we will carefully study the new rules that were just published. We acknowledge and appreciate the recognition from the minister on the positive contributions of social media to the country. Facebook is an ally for India and the agenda of user safety and security is a critical one for our platforms. We will continue to work to ensure that our platforms play an enabling role in fuelling the exciting digital transformation of India.” According to data provided by the IT ministry, Facebook has 41 crore users in India and together with WhatsApp’s 53 crore, that number goes up to 94 crore. Twitter has 1.75 crore users, YouTube 44.8 crore and Instagram 21 crore, making India a crucial market for all these platforms. The Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) welcomed the “much awaited” intermediary guidelines. “The guidelines, focussed primarily on consumer complaints, will help consumers of online curated content, social media users and online news and current affairs resolve their complaints in a process oriented manner,” IAMAI president Subho Ray said. On Wednesday, the IAMAI had sought public consultations on the draft guidelines for OTT platforms. In a statement, OTT streaming platform members of the IAMAI had expressed dismay over reports of the government’s intent to notify guidelines for platforms providing online curated content shortly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||External affairs ministry withdraws widely criticised international webinar order||The external affairs ministry has withdrawn its widely criticised directive making permission mandatory for international online seminars but said such webinars would be governed by home ministry rules. The order created confusion as the home ministry guidelines restrict themselves to face-to-face conferences, not online events, and also deal with the visa requirements of international delegates, immaterial in case of webinars. The education ministry will circulate the latest office memorandum (OM) of the external affairs “as it is”. Neither ministry clarified if permission would be required henceforth for online international seminars. The external affairs ministry on Wednesday night issued the OM under the subject “Guidelines regarding MEA clearance for international conferences/seminars/training etc and Political Clearances for online participation in international events”. “In view of the easing of restrictions on travel and assembly of people by the government of India and state governments, guidelines… dated 25th November 2020 regarding political clearance for international conferences/seminars/training etc due to the Covid-19 pandemic are no longer applicable. All such events will, however, continue to be governed by the same rules and regulations that are applicable to political clearances prior to Covid-19 pandemic. Detailed instructions in this regard can be seen on the website of the ministry of home affairs (https://conference.mha.gov.in),” the OM, signed by Anil Kumar Rai, joint secretary (parliament and coordination), said. The Union home ministry has not issued any directives on webinars. “We will circulate the external affairs ministry order as it is to all institutions of higher education. We may have to seek clarification from the external affairs ministry about the requirement of approval for webinars,” a senior education ministry official said. The education ministry had on January 15 issued guidelines mandating educational institutions to take the prior approval of the secretary of the administrative ministry for holding webinars with international participants. Earlier on November 25, 2020, the external affairs ministry had circulated identical guidelines to all ministries. The home ministry has a long-standing policy on giving clearance to international conferences attended by foreign participants. However, an education ministry official pointed out, the home ministry guidelines are applicable to international conferences being held in India in the face-to-face mode and the issuance of visas to foreign delegates for such events. The educational institutions send their requests to the home ministry through the education ministry. In 2010, the home ministry had revised its guidelines according to which visas would not be granted by Indian missions if the subject of the workshop involves politically or socially sensitive subjects. “Missions shall carefully examine the subject of conferences/seminars/workshops and visa shall not be issued for events which involve politically and socially sensitive subjects,” the 2010 guidelines said. The guidelines also stated that missions would refer to the external affairs ministry visa applications from participants of Prior Reference Category countries like Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq and Sudan, stateless persons, foreigners of Pakistani origin and participants of conferences in areas affected by terrorism, militancy and extremism such as Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast. A professor of Jawaharlal Nehru University said the home ministry guidelines did not deal with webinars because the conferences used to be held in the face-to-face mode before the pandemic struck. “But the main purpose of the home ministry guidelines is to protect the sovereignty of the country from (possible controversial comments by) international as well as Indian experts and safeguard India’s image globally. Webinars are also academic discussions. In all circumstances, the home ministry norms of approval will apply to webinars too. Whether the event is being held in person or online is immaterial,” said the professor who did not wish to be quoted. Additional reporting by Anita Joshua||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Nirav Modi extradition decision to be made by British home secretary Priti Patel||A UK judge ruled on Thursday that fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi not only has a case to answer in the Indian courts but that there is no evidence to suggest he would not receive a fair trial in India. In accordance with English law, the case now goes to British home secretary Priti Patel, who will make the final decision on whether Nirav will be extradited. The Indian external affairs ministry said later that the government would liase with the UK for early extradition. Nirav, wanted in India on charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated $2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, lost his legal battle against extradition on all grounds as district judge Samuel Goozee concluded that there were no human rights concerns that his medical needs would not be addressed. The 49-year-old appeared via video link from Wandsworth Prison in south-west London, dressed in a formal suit and sporting a thick beard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Torture-like wounds on held Dalit activist||A medical report of an arrested trade unionist whose organisation is part of the farmers’ movement mentions two fractures on his hand and foot and broken nail beds on his toe caused by a “blunt object”. The injuries are consistent with details in a harrowing account Shiv Kumar, 24, president of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sanghatan, has shared with doctors. The medical report conducted on February 20 has concluded that the injuries were more than two weeks old. This would suggest that Kumar would have suffered the injuries before February 6. Kumar is in a jail in Haryana since February 2. His testimony to the medical board alleges torture at the hands of police after he was picked up from near the farmers’ protest site at the Singhu border near Delhi on January 16. Haryana police claim he was arrested on January 23 for a clash with the police at the Kundli Industrial Area on January 12. This is the same case for which Nodeep Kaur, 23, another trade unionist, has been picked up. She has also alleged torture. A BJP-led government is in power in Haryana. Kaur’s case had drawn wider attention after American activist Meenakshi “Meena” Harris, niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris, tweeted earlier this month about the arrest. Kaur was agitating against erratic wage payment in the Kundli industrial cluster. Both Kumar, who hails from Haryana’s Sonipat, and Kaur, from Punjab’s Muktsar, are from landless Dalit families. They face charges of attempt to murder, extortion and other offences. The high court in Chandigarh had ordered a medical exam of Kumar after his father Rajbir moved the court for a probe into his son’s case by an “independent agency”. Rajbir said he suspected that his son had been tortured and this was not recorded properly by doctors in Sonipat. The medical examination was conducted by a five-member medical board at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh. The report notes that Kumar has eight injuries, including fractures on the left and right foot. “All the injuries on the person of the patient are more than 2 weeks old and were caused by blunt object/ weapon…. Psychiatric evaluation is suggestive of post-traumatic disorder like symptoms,” says the report. “Right foot swelling present and tender to touch…. Swelling and tenderness on left foot. Nail beds of right 2nd and 3rd toe are broken and underlying skin is reddish in colour and showing healing changes. Left big toe shows blackish discolouration. Nails of left thumb and index finger show bluish black discoloration with tenderness,” the report said. Justice Avneesh Jhingan has sought Kumar’s previous medical report and scheduled the next hearing for March 16. Kaur’s bail plea, as well as a suo motu case on her “illegal detention”, would be heard by the high court on Friday. Harinder Bains, one of the lawyers assisting Kumar and Kaur, told The Telegraph on Thursday: “We learnt from one of his friends that he was taken to Sonipat’s civil hospital this morning where a plaster was put and first aid given, after which he was taken back to the jail. We are speaking to the client (Rajbir) about filing a bail plea for Shiv Kumar in the district court. Kaur has got bail in two cases, and tomorrow bail for the third case will be heard.” Sonipat SP J.S. Randhawa did not respond to questions texted and calls made by this newspaper to him. (Advisory for readers: the following paragraphs have graphic and disturbing details.) Kumar’s testimony recorded by the medical board says: “On 16th, Jan. 2021, the patient was at Kisan Andolan at KFC. Near Kundli, he was picked up by the C.I (criminal investigation) Staff between 2:30 and 3:00 pm. There were about seven people and he was taken to old kacheri, Sonepat, where the C.I staff assaulted him. They tied both his feet, lay him on the ground, and hit him on the soles. His 2nd, 3rd and 5th toe nails of the right foot were torn and the nail of big toe of left foot became blue. “They also hit him on the buttocks with flat sticks, then they tied his hands and stretched his legs. He was made to lie on the ground with both legs straight and a metal pipe was placed on his thigh and rolled over the thighs by two people. They also hit him on both hands and palms and also on the back of his head. He was not allowed to sleep for three days, the C.I staff took his statement and asked him to give names and when he could not do so, they tied him to a chair and poured water on his head.” Kumar’s testimony says: “They presented him to the court on 24th Jan and took 10 days’ remand…. “He was mentally and physically abused in the police remand and they also poured hot water on his feet and any blisters that formed were burst by them.” The psychiatric evaluation of Kumar says: “He appeared sad and distressed with occasional crying spells. He expressed preoccupation with his current situation, reported predominant anxiety symptoms, flashbacks of brutality meted out to him, nightmares, feelings of loneliness, uncertainty about future and sleep disturbances.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Wild elephant kills 3 in Bihar||A wild elephant killed three persons in Nawada, Bihar, on Thursday. The elephant stoked panic among people and sent official into a tizzy as they launched an operation to either direct it towards the jungle or capture it. “Three persons have been so far killed by the elephant that has come from Koderma district in neighbouring Jharkhand. It is moving across the countryside and our senior administrative and forest department officials are engaged in efforts to control it,” Nawada district magistrate Yash Pal Meena told The Telegraph. Meena, who himself was moving in the area where the wild pachyderm was on the loose, said a team from the Patna zoo was on its way to Nawada with tranquillising equipment to tame the elephant. The three people, including a retired teacher, who died, were lifted and flung to the ground by the elephant before being trampled. They all had gone for some work towards the agricultural fields in the Nardiganj, Hisua and Sitamadi areas. Nawada district forest officer Awadhesh Kumar Ojha said the elephant on rampage “seems to have been thrown out of its group over some mischief.” “We will try to tranquillise it, but our task is being made more difficult by the unruly people who are further disturbing the wild animal,” Ojha said. Officials said a large mob was pursuing the elephant all around, trying to make videos and click selfies. They were making so much noise that the animal was running in the wrong directions instead of picking up the route back to its habitat. A large police posse was unsuccessfully trying to keep the people away from the wild pachyderm, which was moving fast across farms, villages and rocky terrain of the district. “It is the people who are behaving wildly. Even the mild use of force is not proving effective on them. They are taking the arrival of the elephant as a big entertainment event and distracting it with their antics,” a senior official said. Sources said the tranquillising operation might be done on Friday as conducting it during the night could be risky.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Tax raids on Haryana MLA backing farmers' protest||The income tax department on Thursday raided the offices and residences of Balraj Kundu, an Independent MLA from Meham in Haryana, in Rohtak. The CBDT claimed it had detected alleged tax evasion of around Rs 125 crore. Kundu is a vocal supporter of the ongoing farmer’s agitation against the new central farm laws. In February last year, he  had withdrawn support to the BJP-led M.L. Khattar dispensation in Haryana, saying he was “deeply hurt” with the government giving a “clean chit” to those involved in the alleged corruption in sugar which he had flagged. Haryana police, in October 2020, had booked the MLA and three others in a cheating case. The FIR was registered in Gurgaon based on a complaint from a resident of the city, the police had said. The MLA had said the FIR was because of “political considerations”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Community service order for faulty MBBS admissions||The Supreme Court has directed 132 medical students in Uttar Pradesh to carry out community services for two years for securing admission in violation of rules. The court said the order would not be treated as a precedent. The bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat said it was passing the order in the peculiar circumstances of the case as cancelling the admissions of the students, who had already completed their second year of the five-year MBBS course, would not serve any useful purpose. The college where the 132 students study had admitted them on September 5, 2017, without the mandatory approval of the directorate of medical education, which sends the list of eligible candidates for admission on the basis of NEET rankings. The court fined Saraswati Medical College, run by the Saraswati Educational Charitable Trust, Rs 5 crore. The amount is to be used by the National Medical Commission to extend financial assistance to needy students seeking admission to medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh by creating a separate trust. “The admission of 132 students in the college for the academic year 2017-2018 being completely contrary to the regulations, the writ petitions are liable to be dismissed. However, taking note of the fact that the students have completed the second-year MBBS course, cancelling their admissions at this stage would not serve any useful purpose,” the Supreme Court said in the order. “The students who joined the college knowing fully well that their admissions are contrary to the regulations are directed to do community service for a period of two years after completing their MBBS course,” the court added. “The National Medical Commission shall decide the details and work out the modalities of the community service to be rendered by the 132 students.” The court passed the directions while dismissing the appeals filed by the college and some students challenging the notice issued by the Medical Council of India (MCI) on  September 29, 2017, directing the institution to discharge 132 of the 150 students admitted to the MBBS course for the 2017-2018 academic year. “Being aware of the fact that admissions cannot be made from students not allotted by the third respondent (directorate of medical education), the college admitted 132 students on its own. Thereafter, the college permitted the students to continue their studies in spite of the direction by the Medical Council of India to discharge the students not being stayed,” the court pointed out. “Intentional violation of the regulations by the petitioner-college while granting admission to 132 students in the first-year MBBS course for the academic year 2017-2018 cannot be condoned. The petitioner-college is directed to deposit an amount of Rs 5 crore in the registry of this court within a period of eight weeks from today. The petitioners are directed not to recover the amount from the students in any manner whatsoever,” the bench added. The court agreed with the MCI that under Regulation 5A of the Medical Council Regulations on Graduate Medical Education, 1997, all admissions to the MBBS course shall be on the basis of the merit list of the NEET. The top court rejected the argument of the college and the students that the admissions had to be expedited since the directorate of medical education had delayed the dispatch of the list, saying the records available did not bear out such a claim. It also rejected the plea that the students could not be penalised for the admissions as they were innocent. “The students who have secured admission cannot be said to be innocent as they knew fully well that their names were not recommended by the director-general of medical education. We also do not agree that the students and their parents were not aware that their admissions in the college are contrary to the regulations,” the court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Journalists and filmgoers protest to free Siddique Kappan||An international film festival venue in Kerala on Thursday witnessed a protest seeking the immediate release of journalist Siddique Kappan who has been jailed in Uttar Pradesh for over three months. A group of around 40 youths, including independent journalists, journalism students and filmgoers, held up placards at the Liberty Theatre compound where the third leg of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) was on. Haroon Kavanoor, a Malappuram-based independent journalist who was among the organisers, told The Telegraph that the idea was to convey the message that journalism is not a crime. “Siddique Kappan went to Hathras only as a journalist trying to bring out the truth,” Kavanoor said, citing how Kappan was arrested on October 5 on his way to the village in Uttar Pradesh where a Dalit girl had been gang-raped and murdered. Kappan was arrested along with three others and slapped with provisions of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and other penal sections for allegedly trying to foment law and order situation. But Kappan denies all the charges. “We even got the solidarity of (Malayalam filmmaker) Kamal who was present at the venue. He expressed his support for the cause,” Kavanoor said, adding the entire event lasted about 20 minutes. Kamal is the chairman of Kerala State Chalachitra Academy that organises the IFFK, the state-funded film festival. The festival was held in Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi before it moved to Thalassery in Kannur district, where it would culminate on February 27, and Palakkad. Kappan had recently visited his ailing mother in Malappuram after being released on a five-day interim bail ordered by the Supreme Court. His regular bail application is expected to come up for hearing on March 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Congress declares the Narendra Modi regime 'morally dead'||The bitterness between the Opposition and the government has peaked a little too early this time even as the next parliamentary election is three years away with the Congress declaring that the Narendra Modi regime was “morally dead”. Arguing that any government would have tried to ease the burden on people when salary cuts and job losses had wreaked finances of the poor and middle class, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “The Modi government has only shown arrogance and insensitivity. It is inflicting new wounds every day; LPG cylinder price was increased by Rs 25 today (Thursday) again. This government is morally dead.” The sparring wasn’t subject-specific; the ruling party fiercely battled with the entire Opposition on a whole gamut of issues and the rebuttal was equally ferocious. While Modi expressed shock at Rahul Gandhi’s understanding — wondering why he was demanding ministry of fisheries which came into being in 2019 — the Congress leader hit back by insinuating that the Prime Minister was rattled by his “hum-do-hamare-do” attack. The Prime Minister, who steadfastly ignores Rahul’s jibes on serious issues such as Chinese intrusions, unemployment, corruption and institutional decay, spoke about his demand for a ministry on fisheries at a rally in Puducherry, saying: “I was absolutely shocked to hear a Congress leader come and say they want to start a fisheries ministry because there is none. The truth is that it already exists. The current NDA government has already set up a fisheries ministry back in 2019 itself.” Rahul promptly responded, tweeting, “Dear PM, Fisherfolk need an independent and dedicated ministry of fisheries, not just a department within a ministry. PS- ‘Hum do Humare do’ obviously hurt bad.” Commenting on a report suggesting that the Modi government had started clearing foreign direct investment from China after intrusion, Rahul said in another tweet: “China has understood that Mr Modi buckles under their pressure. They now know they can get whatever they want from him.” Modi chose to ignore this substantial attack. Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, along with other Congress leaders, also joined the online campaign on jobs, which trended globally on Twitter. While Modi never enjoyed healthy relations with the Opposition, decisions like citizenship law, breaking of Jammu & Kashmir and Delhi riots demolished any chances of reconciliation at the start of his second tenure. The farmers’ movement triggered a full-fledged confrontation that would probably have come two years later. While Rahul has said Modi was working on a sinister project to enslave India, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee publicly called the Prime Minister “dangabaaz (rioter)”. The Maharashtra government is on a warpath, embarrassing the Centre by revealing the WhatsApp chat of their favourite journalist and going so far as to order an investigation into the synchronised tweets of celebrities in support of the Modi government. Assembly elections in Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Kerala — to be followed next year by even bigger electoral battles in Uttar Pradesh Gujarat — are bound to intensify the fighting; probably leading the country into an unprecedented political turmoil. Shrinate used strong expressions like — government’s dacoity on the people, PM lying through his teeth and finance minister’s inability to understand economy — and said: “Where do the BJP leaders live from where they can’t see the ground reality? Instead of providing relief, they are daily raising the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG even as crude oil is selling cheap in international market. They are raising train fares, milk prices are to be increased… there is a conspiracy to privatise everything.” The Congress also plans to gherao the Union agriculture minister on Friday to mark the completion of three months on farmers protest. Over 200 farmers mahapanchayats have already been held across the country and the farm unions are planning to intensify their stir over the next weeks. The Youth Congress is in touch with other youth organisations to launch a massive nationwide movement against unemployment. This is the scenario when the Opposition is supposed to be in disarray, with the Congress not even having a functional president. By May-June when the party sets its house in order, oppositional politics may be able to mount greater pressure on the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Indian Newspaper Society asks Google to pay for content||The Indian Newspaper Society (INS) has urged Google to compensate for the use of content published by newspapers and share its advertising revenues properly. In a letter addressed to Google India country manager Sanjay Gupta, INS president L. Adimoolam demanded that Google pay for news generated by the newspapers, which employ thousands of journalists on the ground at considerable expense for gathering and verifying information. The letter comes at a time Australia’s parliament has passed a law to make Google and Facebook pay media companies for content on their platforms. Many other countries are planning similar measures. “Since, the content which is generated and published by newspapers at considerable expense is proprietary, the Society pointed out that it is this credible content which has given Google the authenticity in India ever since its inception,” the INS said in a statement. Pointing out that publishers have been providing complete access to “quality journalism with credible news, current affairs, analysis, information and entertainment”, the INS said there was a huge distinction between the editorial content from quality publications and fake news that is spreading on other information platforms. The Society said that over the past year publishers across the world have been raising the issue of fair payment for content and of proper sharing of advertising revenue with Google. “It is also noted that Google has recently agreed to better compensate and pay publishers in France, the European Union and notably in Australia,” the INS said. “Further, it was also pointed out that advertising has been the financial backbone of the news industry. However, newspaper publishers are seeing their share of the advertising pie shrinking in the digital space, even as Google is taking a ‘giant share of advertising spends’, leaving publishers with a small share,” the INS statement said. “Publishers are also facing a very opaque advertising system as they are unable to get details of Google’s advertising value chain. The Society insisted that Google should increase the publisher share of advertising revenue to 85 per cent and also ensure more transparency in the revenue reports provided to publishers by Google,” the statement added. “The INS has raised the issue of giving greater prominence to editorial content from registered news publishers to tackle fake news, as Google picks up content from several sites that are not credible, thus ‘amplifying misinformation and propagation of fake news’.” Pointing out that the Society is engaged in discussions with Google on these vital issues, the letter iterated that “Indian print media is the most credible source of news and information in the country, and newspapers play a vital role in nation building”. “However, the pandemic and the current digital business model have been unfair to publishers, making it unviable for the print media industry. We invest heavily on journalism, the core of our news operations, because newspapers play a vital role in society,” the letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Kashmir parties cheer ceasefire agreement||The cross-border consensus on the ceasefire agreement has raised the prospects of a thaw after years of troubled relations between India and Pakistan. Political parties in the Valley cheered the decision and expressed hope this would pave the way for a dialogue for resolving the issues between the two nations. For Valley politicians, particularly its pro-India camp, battling iron fist policies for the past two years, the decision to cease fire has come as a pleasant surprise. A People’s Democratic Party leader hoped the development might ease the “relentless crackdown” on dissent in Kashmir and give the “necessary breathing space” to them. “Just at a time when we thought things might worsen in the coming weeks and months, the decision indicates the two countries might be up something different. Let us pray it is just a beginning and more announcements might follow,” a leader said. “Otherwise, every day we encounter a hostile government and agencies putting curbs on us and doing all they can to drag us in fake cases. A number of our senior leaders are rotting in jails and (former chief minister) Mehbooba (Mufti) ji is repeatedly put under house arrest.” Mehbooba said it was a “big and welcome development” and dialogue was “the only way forward if both countries want to stop the unending cycle of violence & bloodshed across the borders and J&K.” Former chief minister Farooq Abdullah said the decision would go a long way in “ushering long lasting peace”. “National Conference has always been a strong votary of Indo-Pak peace. It is the people of Jammu and Kashmir that have been facing the brunt of escalating tensions alongside the borders. I hope the agreement is followed in letter and spirit,” he said. Moderate Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq said it was a “move in the right direction” and hoped two sides will address the core concern of Jammu and Kashmir in keeping with the aspirations of its people, which he said, “is the cause of conflict and violence in the region”. The joint statement said the two sides reviewed the situation along the LoC and other sectors in a “free, frank and cordial atmosphere” and agreed to address each other core concerns. “In the interest of achieving mutually beneficial and sustainable peace along the borders, the two DGsMO agreed to address each other’s core issues and concerns which have propensity to disturb peace and lead to violence,” it said. “Both sides also reiterated that existing mechanisms of hotline contact and border flag meetings would be utilised to resolve any unforeseen situation or misunderstanding.” Official sources said the India-Pakistan joint statement could become possible because of back-channel discussions at the top level. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s special assistant on national security division and strategic policy planning Moeed Yousuf has also confirmed two sides have been making efforts to break ice. Imran on Wednesday appeared to be toning down his rhetoric. “Our only dispute is Kashmir and it can only be resolved through dialogue,” Imran said while addressing the Sri Lanka-Pakistan Trade and Investment Conference in Colombo. “Immediately when I came into power, I approached our neighbour India and explained to PM Modi that the way forward for the subcontinent is to resolve our differences through dialogue. I didn’t succeed but I am optimistic that eventually, sense will prevail. The only way the subcontinent can tackle poverty is by improving trade relations.” Earlier, Pakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa had said the two countries must resolve the Kashmir issue in a “dignified and peaceful manner”. Delhi this week allowed Imran to use its airspace to visit Sri Lanka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
26-02-2021||India||India-Pakistan consensus on ceasefire agreement||The Indian and Pakistani militaries on Thursday announced that they have agreed to strictly observe the ceasefire agreement along the Line of Control and all other sectors from the midnight of February 24. The move is perceived to be significant considering the record number of violations along the LoC last year, making it one of the most violent since the two countries had agreed in November 2003 to a ceasefire. Sources in the Indian security establishment termed the agreement as a “very important” development amid heightened tension along the LoC and the ongoing standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh since May last year. “The latest agreement between the two armies (of India and Pakistan) comes after at least four months of back-channel talks at various levels,” said a security official. A rare joint statement issued by the armies said the move followed a discussion between India’s director-general of military operations (DGMO) and his Pakistani counterpart over their established mechanism of telephone hotline. The statement said that during their discussion the two sides reviewed the situation along the LoC and all other sectors in a “free, frank and cordial atmosphere”. “In the interest of achieving mutually beneficial and sustainable peace along the borders, the two DGMOs agreed to address each other’s core issues and concerns which have the propensity to disturb peace and lead to violence. Both sides agreed for strict observance of all agreements, understandings and cease firing along the Line of Control and all other sectors with effect from midnight 24/25 Feb 2021,” the joint statement said. “Both sides reiterated that existing mechanisms of hotline contact and border flag meetings will be utilised to resolve any unforeseen situation or misunderstanding.” Earlier this month, India’s defence minister Rajnath Singh had informed Parliament that Pakistan had resorted to 5,133 incidents of ceasefire violations last year in which 46 security force personnel had been killed. Replying to a question in the Rajya Sabha, he had said “appropriate retaliation” to the ceasefire violations had been carried out by the security forces. The defence minister had said 299 incidents of ceasefire violations had been reported till January 28 this year. The November 2003 ceasefire was the biggest confidence-building measure between India and Pakistan but it has been frequently violated in recent years. The relations between the two countries also hit a low after the Pulwama terror attack in February 2019 and India’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August 2019. Sources in the army said there won’t be any let up in counter-infiltration and counter-terrorism operation in the wake of the latest agreement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
26-02-2021||India||Covid: Second wave fear, experts seek data||India’s Covid-19 epidemic appears poised to rise into a “second wave” with growing counts in several states, but experts say only ground investigations into infection patterns and virus-linked lab tests can illuminate reasons for the growth. The seven-day average of daily new cases has increased over the past two weeks in nine of India’s top 20 populated states, the sharpest rise in Maharashtra where counts have more than doubled — from roughly 2,300 on February 11 to 8,702 on February 24. Bengal’s average daily counts over that period increased from 177 to 189. Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Telangana, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir also show varying levels of rising counts. Those increases have pulled up India’s average daily counts from about 11,000 two weeks ago to 16,700 on Thursday and puzzled some experts who expected India’s epidemic to continue shrinking as it has since its mid-September peak with over 93,000 daily cases. “Something is obviously happening, but we still need to understand what’s going on,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, former head community medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and member of an Indian Council of Medical Research expert group on Covid-19 epidemiology and surveillance. The rise is puzzling because surveys have suggested that large fractions of India’s population — 25 per cent nationwide and up to 50 per cent in some large cities — have already been infected by Covid-19 and would be expected to be protected from the virus. Experts say the current growth could be due to either of two mechanisms — as people let down their guard, the virus is exploiting fresh opportunities to spread among pools of susceptible people, or new variants have emerged as they did in South Africa and the UK. “Is this a second wave? I would wait and watch,” said T. Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “I think a nationwide wave is too strong a word for now. We still see declines in many states.” The epidemic has over the past two weeks continued to shrink in Uttar Pradesh, the most populated state, with average daily new cases declining from 135 on February 11 to 98 on February 24. Average daily new cases have also declined in Bihar (238 to 70), Tamil Nadu (477 to 450) and Karnataka (412 to 404). “Wherever the epidemic is growing, we need to know who exactly is getting infected,” Muliyil said. “This is easily done through doing antibody tests on newly infected people. If we find people with antibodies against Covid-19 testing positive again, we may have a new variant to worry about. If we don’t find antibodies, we’ll know the virus is spreading among still susceptible people.” Experts view the surge in Maharashtra as most puzzling because the state has consistently accounted for the largest number of Covid-19 infections in the country and should have thus had the largest pool of protected people. “We have no documented case yet of infections in people already infected by Covid-19 — we need more investigations and virological surveillance,” said Subhash Salunke, a community medicine specialist and adviser to the Maharashtra government. Preliminary assessments have suggested that public complacency with personal precautions against Covid-19 or poor public health responses have driven the recent upsurge in Maharashtra and not any unusual mutant coronavirus strains, a senior Indian Council of Medical Research official said. Health officials say whatever the reasons for the surge, the solutions remain proven public health measures such as aggressive testing, rapid isolation of positive cases, quarantining of contacts, and personal protection measures such as masks, hand-washing and avoiding crowds. Some scientists have pointed to the observations of point mutations — such as one designated as E484K — in coronavirus variants isolated in India and underlined the need for studies to understand whether they are influencing patterns of infections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata fumes over poll schedule, Opposition welcomes move||Questioning the eight-phase assembly elections in West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday that she suspects that the dates were announced as per the suggestions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for better management of the BJP's poll campaign. Addressing a press conference at her residence in Kalighat, Banerjee said the Election Commission should not look at the state "through the eyes of the saffron camp" a reference to the BJP. "With all due respect to the Election Commission, I want to say that questions are being raised on why elections will be held in so many phases in Bengal while other states will be voting in one phase. If EC doesn't provide justice to the people, where will the people go," she said. "I request the Election Commission to consider West Bengal as their own state," the Trinamool Congress chief said. Banerjee also raised questions on the way the phases were divided. "They have divided our stronghold districts such as South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas into three parts. This is unprecedented," she said. Banerjee said that despite "all these tricks", she will win the elections. "I have information from my sources that the poll dates are similar to the ones BJP wanted. Have the dates been announced as per Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah's suggestions? The PM and the home minister cannot misuse their power for the state elections," she added. Banerjee also urged the EC to stop the misuse of money power. "The Union home minister should work for the country. He cannot misuse his powers for the elections here. We welcome the PM, but he cannot misuse his powers for West Bengal polls," she said. Her comments came just minutes after the Election Commission announced that voting for the five assembly elections will begin on March 27, with West Bengal having the maximum eight phases continuing till April 29, while counting of votes for the four states and one Union Territory will be on May 2. Cautioning the Centre against "misuse of power", Banerjee said it would prove detrimental for the BJP. "Centre can't misuse their powers for a state election. If they do it, then it will be a big blunder and they will have to face the music. We are common people, we will fight our battle. I request the EC to stop the misuse of money. BJP has sent money to all the districts through agencies," she alleged. Banerjee also took exception over the EC appointing two special police observers for West Bengal -- Vivek Dubey and MK Das. "Vivek Dubey is the same man who was the observer for Bengal during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. We all know the role he had then played then," she said. Banerjee said she is the daughter of the state and knows Bengal better than the BJP, exuding confidence about her party Trinamool Congress winning the elections. Banerjee's allegations drew sharp reactions from the BJP, which alleged that she is perplexed over the eight-phase elections as her party won't be able to intimidate the voters. "Why is she so worried about eight-phase elections? Is she worried because TMC goons won't be able to influence the elections? We welcome the EC's decision for eight-phase elections to ensure free and fair polls," BJP leader Rahul Sinha said. Opposition parties welcome eight-phase elections in Bengal The opposition parties in West Bengal welcomed the eight-phase elections in the state announced by the Election Commission on Friday with the BJP saying that it was hopeful about the polls being free and fair. "We are happy. We hope that the elections would be free and fair and the people of the state will be allowed to exercise their democratic right without any fear," BJP's state vice-president Jaiprakash Majumdar said. BJP's national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya too welcomed the decision. "Along with the announcement of elections, anti-social elements will also have to be controlled for peaceful elections in West Bengal. Also, fair officers should also be appointed in every district of the state so that there is no disturbance in the election," he said in a tweet. BJP MP from Bengal Babul Supriyo welcomed the EC move and said that it was time for change in the state. "8 phase election in Bengal. I want change, I want BJP in Bengal ...," he said in a tweet. The state Congress said that it was looking forward to an election in 10 to 12 phases, while the CPI(M) maintained that the number of phases does not matter if the elections are held violence-free. State Congress leader Manoj Chakraborty said the elections should have been held in at least 10-12 phases, alleging poor law and order situation in the state. "We have seen how the panchayat polls were held in Bengal. So many people were killed due to violence. We just hope that the Election Commission ensures that polls are held in a free and fair manner," he said. Senior CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakraborty said that instead of increasing the number of phases, efforts should have been made to tighten the security during the elections. "Just seven or eight phases are not enough. The electorate should be free from any sort of fear or intimidation," he said. CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya seemed unable to fathom the "numbers game". "Five-day test match in Chennai becomes a two-day affair in Ahmedabad. One-day election in Tamil Nadu gets stretched over eight phases in West Bengal. Can any of you explain this numbers game?" he asked in a tweet. Congress leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan wondered if there were any "nefarious plans". "If voting for Kerala-140, Tamil Nadu-234 and Puducherry-30 (total 404 seats) can be conducted in a single phase, why Assam-126 and West Bengal-294 (total 420 seats) require 7 & 8 phases? Are there any nefarious plans?" he asked. Elections for the West Bengal assembly will be held in eight phases, up from seven last time, beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora announced in New Delhi. The EC also announced that voting for five assembly elections will begin on March 27 and continue till April 29, while counting of votes will be done on May 2. After having a limited presence in the politically polarised state for decades, the BJP has emerged as the ruling Trinamool Congress's main rival over the last couple of years, managing to win 18 out 42 seats in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 and following it with inducting popular TMC MLAs and ministers into the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata government hikes daily wages of labourers in poll-bound Bengal||Hours before the announcement of dates for the Bengal assembly polls, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said her government has increased the daily wages of labourers working under the state's Urban Employment Scheme. She said unskilled workers would get a daily wage of Rs 202 per day, up from Rs 144, while the same for semi- skilled labourers was raised to Rs 303 from Rs 172. Under the job scheme, the government introduced a new category for skilled workers who will get a daily wage of Rs 404, Banerjee said. "I am pleased to announce a hike in the wages of daily wage workers under WB Urban Employment Scheme," she said on Twitter. The chief minister made the announcement hours before the Election Commission of India declared the dates for the assembly elections in four states Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Bengal and the Union Territory of Puducherry. Elections for the Bengal assembly will be held in eight phases, up from seven last time, beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said while announcing the poll schedule. Mamata said 40,500 unskilled, 8,000 semi-skilled and 8,000 skilled workers will be benefited from the state government's announcement. "These wages are in parity with rural workers' enhanced pay (MNREGA unskilled and semi-skilled). Budget provision for this step has been made available for both FY21 and FY22," she said on the microblogging site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Two held for bomb attack on Bengal minister||The Bengal CID has arrested two persons in connection with the blast in Murshidabad's Nimtita Railway Station in which state minister Jakir Hossain and over 20 others were injured, a senior official said on Friday. Both have been booked under Section 3 of the Explosive Substances Act, 1908, and other sections of the IPC, including attempt to murder, he said. "The two will be produced in court for further legal action," the official said. Sleuths of the CID have been conducting raids at different places in the state as part of the probe. Hossain, Trinamool Congress MLA and the minister of state for labour, was waiting at platform number 2 to catch a train to Calcutta around 10 pm on February 17 when the blast occurred, seriously injuring him and the others. The senior TMC leader and the other injured persons are undergoing treatment at a state-run hospital in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Border Security Force rescues 54 exotic birds from Nadia village||As many as 54 exotic birds were rescued by the BSF from Bijoypur village in Nadia as they were being smuggled into the Indian side of the India-Bangladesh border on Wednesday evening. BSF sources said a group of suspected smugglers had tried to enter India with the birds in seven cages when they were spotted by a border patrolling team. The smugglers managed to flee but left the cages behind. The 54 birds included two Rosy-faced Lovebirds, 45 Budgerigars, one Timneh Parrot, two Major Mitchell’s Cockatoo, and four Common Ravens. All were later handed over to the forest department. A spokesperson for the BSF’s South Bengal Frontier in Calcutta said a patrolling team of the 54th battalion, acting on a tip-off, intercepted the group of smugglers. “They were carrying cages in their hands. Once they came closer to the border alignment, our personnel challenged them upon which they fled through the bushy vegetation,” the spokesperson said. “After a search in the area, we spotted the cages with the birds lying on the ground. The birds were rescued and fed before we informed forest department officials, who identified their species,” the spokesperson added. Sources said all five varieties of the birds were likely to have been caught in Bangladesh and smuggled to India to be handed over to an Indian counterpart. Bird watcher Anupam Saha said that all five species were exotic. “Most of these birds are also endangered species and are protected. However, these have a huge demand in India and abroad and each of them fetches a handsome price, which is the main attraction for the smugglers,” Saha said. “It is good that the birds, who are an integral part of nature, were rescued by the BSF,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Artistes campaign for Mamata Banerjee||A team of performers from different walks of life campaigned for Mamata Banerjee and her party through a skit in Jalpaiguri district on Thursday. The troupe has readied as many as 15 skits, each of which is around 10-minute-long, to be held at street corners, particularly in rural pockets. Scripts have been prepared in Bengali, Rajbanshi, Nepali, Hindi and Sadri languages, keeping in mind the diverse demography of Jalpaiguri district. “The basic idea is to tell people about the array of development initiatives that has been carried out by the Trinamul government since 2011, vis-à-vis the performance of the erstwhile Left Front government,” said Bhaskar Sarkar, the district media coordinator of Trinamul in Jalpaiguri. He added that the team has people from different professions and are not actively associated with the party. “Initially, the team is working in Jalpaiguri and Maynaguri Assembly constituencies. Eventually, they will perform skits in all seven constituencies of the district,” Sarkar said. They were sending the team to weekly markets in the rural areas and to key crossings in urban and semi-urban areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt forms 8-member board for Rajbanshi Muslims||The Mamata Banerjee government has constituted a development board for Nasya Sheikhs or Rajbanshi Muslims with eight members. The state backward classes’ welfare department constituted the West Bengal Nasya Sheikh Development Board with its headquarters in Cooch Behar through a notification on February 22. The notification says the district magistrate of Cooch Behar will be the chairman of the board that has prominent faces of the community from different districts of north Bengal as the members. “It is a major development for us. We had been raising the demand for years and it is good that the state government has finally created the board that will carry out works for socio-economic development of the community,” said Bazlay Rehman, the chairman of Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy and a member of the board. In the past few months, Nasya Sheikhs had vehemently raised the demand for the board. “In fact, a section of them had made it clear that if the board was not announced ahead of the Assembly elections, they would rethink about supporting the Trinamul Congress. The new board can help Trinamul keep political forces like the AIMIM and Indian Secular Front at bay,” said an observer. Around 35 lakh Nasya Sheikhs reside in the north Bengal districts of Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri, North Dinajpur, Malda, Alipurduar and Darjeeling. “As a whole, the support of Rajbanshis determines the fate of candidates in almost half of the 54 Assembly seats in the region,” the observer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP’s promise to grant citizenship to Matuas is “fake”: Abhishek Banerjee||Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Thursday said the BJP’s promise to grant citizenship to Matuas after the completion of the Covid-19 vaccination drive was “fake” because it would take nine years to inoculate 130 crore people in the country. Speaking at a rally in the Matua stronghold of Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas, the Trinamul youth wing president questioned the rationale behind the assurance given by Union home minister Amit Shah. “They are making fake promises once again ahead of the Assembly polls. They have promised to provide citizenship only after the Covid vaccination drive is completed. How many people live in India? Just do a reality check. How many years will it take to complete the vaccination? It will take at least nine years to cover the entire population,” said Diamond Harbour MP Banerjee. While addressing a rally in Thakurnagar on February 11, Shah had reiterated the BJP’s commitment to the Citizenship Amendment Act, but said it would be implemented only after the Covid vaccination drive. Citizenship is a major issue for Matuas who form a sizable section of voters in Nadia and North 24-Parganas districts. The community had voted for the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, helping the party defeat Trinamul in Ranaghat and Bongaon Lok Sabha constituencies. With the history of the 2019 defeat in mind, Abhishek urged Matuas owing allegiance to the Trinamul-backed Sarba Bharatiya Matua Mahasangha not to be misled by the BJP’s “fake promise”. He reiterated that government documents in their possession were enough to substantiate their citizenship. “Before the Lok Sabha polls, they had promised you citizenship and you helped them win...You voted them to power using your voter’s card and you do not need to establish your citizenship? If you are unauthorised people by being Matuas, then people like Narendra Modi are also unauthorised,” said Banerjee. “As long as Mamata Banerjee is alive, you need not worry about your citizenship.” Responding to the claim, BJP MP Santanu Thakur told The Telegraph: “Abhishek and his aunt (Mamata) are misleading people. Amit Shah never meant that citizenship would become a reality only after the vaccination drive. He actually meant that once the process and preparedness of the Covid vaccination ended, the CAA would be implemented.” Abhishek also used the rally to talk about the CBI’s questioning of his family members and accused the BJP of political vendetta. He, however, vowed not to surrender under pressure. The CBI had questioned Abhishek’s wife Rujira on Wednesday in connection with a probe into the alleged pilferage of coal worth thousands of crores of rupees. “Use CBI, ED or income tax to do whatever against me. Bring more such agencies to use against me. But you will get nothing. This will only make me double my strength. I will never surrender,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s  nephew. “You hack my throat but I will continue to roar ‘Joy Bangla’ and ‘Long live Mamata Banerjee’,” he added. Echoing Mamata, the Trinamul MP said: “People will give a befitting reply to such harassment in the ensuing polls.” He claimed Trinamul would win at least 250 seats, while urging party supporters to take the election as a challenge to ensure the defeat of the BJP’s “outsiders”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee rides electric scooter to protest against rising fuel prices||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday held a unique form of protest against the relentless rise in fuel rates in India by riding from her home to the state secretariat and back on an e-scooter and demanded a rollback in the price of LPG cylinders to the level of the UPA II regime. The Bengal chief minister threatened a much wider agitation from Friday, before urging other non-BJP forces across the country to do their bit on the fuel price rise. “The price of everything, other than that of people’s lives, has at least doubled in this regime, across the country…. Every day, a leader will come (to Bengal), but you will not hear one word out of them on the price rise…. Only lies, as they please.... this price rise will not go on, it will not be tolerated,” she said at her residence in the evening, after her journey back from Nabanna. “The LPG cylinder price must be brought back to Rs 400, where it was before they came to power. Or else, going forward, we will launch a much wider agitation…. Gas ka price vapas karo, nahi toh Narendra Modiji wapas jao (Roll back the price of LPG for domestic consumption, or else go back, Narendra Modi),” Mamata added. Visibly pleased over her maiden e-scooter run, the chief minister said: “Now it becomes very easy for me. I will go anywhere, alone… I made so much progress in just a day.” The Trinamul Congress chief warned the Prime Minister, asserting that he wouldn’t be able to handle the situation if the common man began to follow what India’s farmers had started. “When the Modi government hadn’t come to power, a domestic LPG cylinder used to cost Rs 400. Today, it is Rs 825. A normal household needs a couple of cylinders a month. If two cylinders come for over Rs 1,600, what will the common man eat, buy, spend on children and their education, travel?” she asked. The chief minister alleged a “big, mysterious game” behind the scenes, causing fuel prices in India to be disproportionately high even when crude oil prices had been low, internationally. She then urged the non-BJP forces across the nation to unite on the issue. “Whichever section of society tries to protest against these anti-people policies, agencies are unleashed to hound them and they are branded as terrorists.” “All other (non-BJP) forces in other states too, (Shiv Sena chief) Uddhav Thackeray in Maharashtra, DMK’s Stalin in Tamil Nadu, the CPM government in Kerala, the Congress government in Rajasthan, the  Delhi government… everywhere. I urge people to come forward and protest,” she added. The Trinamul chief accused the Modi government and the BJP of being opposed to most sections of the society. “This government has sold off the nation. Modibabu and Amitbabu…. Anti-people, anti-women, anti-youth, anti-farmer, anti-worker…. Shorbonashi shorkar (a government that destroys everything),” she said. “From history and geography to names of roads, places, everything, they will change. Names of stadiums too,” she added, apparently referring to the Motera stadium being renamed after Modi on Wednesday. “They have no respect for the nation’s real heroes and icons…. They will now change the name of this country too, perhaps.” BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh reacted with scorn. “Neither can she control the scooter, apparently, nor the state. What is the point of taking all this needless risk, for the sake of a gimmick, at her age? All of this will amount to naught and the BJP will throw her out.” On her way to Nabanna in the morning, Mamata rode pillion on an electric scooter that Firhad Hakim, urban development minister, rode. In the evening, Mamata herself occupied the rider’s seat briefly, braving lack of practice at riding a two-wheeler. At least twice, the scooter seemed off balance but accompanying security guards and policemen intervened just in time. After riding briefly on the Second Hooghly Bridge, Mamata gave the rider’s seat to Hakim. She was back on the rider’s seat from Rabindra Sadan till she reached her Harish Chatterjee Street residence in Kalighat.Along the way, curious onlookers on the roadside as well as highrises waved at the chief minister. Many clicked pictures and others cheered Mamata, who was “covered” by a team of around 25 policemen in plainclothes on two-wheelers. Late in the evening, the Trinamul Congress launched a social media campaign with a picture of Mamata riding the scooter, The caption read: “Banglaar energy/ Mamata Banerjee.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||J.P. Nadda ridicules Trinamul’s ‘daughter’ slogan||BJP national president J.P. Nadda ridiculed Trinamul’s new slogan of Mamata Banerjee as the “daughter (gharer meye)” on Thursday in Barrackpore. At the Anandapuri grounds, Nadda questioned Trinamul for promoting Mamata as “daughter” when she apparently “failed” to ensure the security of women in the state. “We have no objection to your being portrayed as didi or daughter...But are you at all concerned about the security of girls in Bengal? Why did you fail to ensure their security? Why are cases of rapes and domestic violence and trafficking of women so high in Bengal?” he said. He also attacked Mamata’s appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide free Covid-19 vaccinations to people. “Much before her appeal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi arranged vaccination for all. From March 1, people aged over 60 will get the vaccine, followed by people over 45 with comorbidities,” Nadda said, adding that the people of Bengal were part of it. Trinamul leaders tore into Nadda’s attacks, asking BJP “to look at UP first before looking at the security of women in Bengal” and pointing out that Mamata’s appeal to Modi for urgency in vaccination was because Bengal was heading for polls amid a pandemic. However, the “decent” 30,000-plus footfall at Anandapuri grounds, Barrackpore, was a relief for the state party leadership that had been hauled up after Nadda had to abort a recent meeting in Jhargram owing to low turnout on February 9. In Jhargram to flag off one of the BJP’s Parivartan Yatras and address a cultural event, Nadda left the local party office as only a handful had turned up for the cultural event, and later pulled up the state leadership over it, sources said. Nadda also visited the ancestral homes of literary icons Bankim Chandra Chatterjee and Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay, and lunched at a jute mill worker’s home in line with his party’s Bengal-connect strategy. Later in the evening at a meet at Science City in Calcutta, Nadda took a dig at Mamata’s e-scooter ride to protest against the fuel price hike. “She should move around in e-scooters as that is what she will have to do after the polls," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Journalist P. Sainath accuses Modi government of using “a good crisis”||Journalist-activist P. Sainath on Thursday accused the Narendra Modi government of using “a good crisis” like the Covid-19 to thrust farm laws and labour codes on farmers and workers, expecting that the pandemic-hit peasantry and working class would give in to them during these tough times. However, the government had underestimated the farmers, as is evident by their ongoing mass movement, added Sainath, who was in Santiniketan to address a mass convention by Left student organisations against fascism. He said: “What were they (Rightwing intellectuals and economists) saying? They were saying that peasants and workers are on their knees because of the pandemic. They (farmers or workers) wouldn’t dare to come out of their home (to resist) as they are pulverised by the pandemic....They will not be able to resist and this is the time to pass these laws.” The labour codes allow industries flexibility in hiring and retrenchment and make industrial strikes more difficult by clamping new conditions. Sainath, speaking in front of a gathering of 500 people at the convention on  fascism in the country and on the Visva-Bharati campus, asked people to understand why the Modi government chose this particular period of the pandemic to introduce the farm laws and tweak labour codes when it could have done so earlier or after the crisis. “After all, the NDA government had a majority between 2014 and 2019. In 2019, the BJP got a very sizeable majority on its own. But they did not pass these laws or introduce these laws for 10 months between May 2019 and March 2020… If the pandemic is controlled in the next 10 or 12 months, they will still have a huge majority for two years,” said the 2007 Ramon Magsaysay Award winner. He pointed out that the laws were passed without talks at a time the government needed to tackle pressing issues such as improving health infrastructure or helping people access food grains that they desperately needed because of joblessness amid the lockdown. Charging the government of being hand in glove with big business, he said the only persons who knew about the farm laws when they were being drafted were corporate bosses. “The only people they ever consulted were their corporate bosses. How do we know those people (corporate bosses) were consulted as they drafted the laws? They knew what was coming because they started building silo storages knowing that the essential commodities act is about to be gutted. They already built hundreds of silos in Himachal Pradesh, for example, for storing produce before the laws were even passed in Parliament,” said Sainath. Sainath, however, said that the Modi government now found itself in a fix because it had miscalculated the power of resistance of the farmers. Farmers from states including Punjab Haryana, Rajasthan and even in Maharashtra have proved the government wrong by mobilising huge mass movements against the laws for months. “On January 25, around 40,000 of Maharashtra’s poorest farmers gathered at the historic Azad Maidan from 36 districts of the state...One more interesting thing, the pandals et cetera could not be done in the normal way (as these people had no funds) ...(Yet) Huge pandals and shamianas were erected. Do you know who built those? Migrant labourers from UP, who are farmers in their own villages but work as migrant labourers in Mumbai, they made the pandals,” he said. SFI leader Aishe Ghosh in her meet criticised Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty for allegedly suspending and gagging voices of those who dared to criticise the policies of the varsity administration. “The attitude of the varsity authorities is no different from the fascist tendencies that we are witnessing in those ruling the nation,” said Aishe and added that it was time to resist fascism. Visva-Bharati students also took an oath that they would together protest against the fascist tendencies of the VC. Addressing the convention virtually, economist Prabhat Patnaik warned the gathering against the dangers of fascism emerging in a new form in the country. SFI leader Aishe Ghosh criticised Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty for allegedly suspending and gagging voices of those who dared to criticise the policies of the varsity administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
26-02-2021||West Bengal||'Joy Bangla' masks a Trinamul Congress poll tool, says BJP||Masks, which have worked as a safety essential since the onset of the pandemic, can apparently raise political temperatures in poll season. Central paramilitary force personnel carried out route marches on Thursday wearing masks emblazoned with the phrase “Joy Bangla”, a Trinamul slogan, causing the BJP to claim that Mamata Banerjee’s party was using the forces in the party’s poll campaign. Late on Wednesday night, two companies of the paramilitary forces reached the district and on Thursday morning, a contingent came out for a route march in Raiganj wearing “Joy Bangla” masks. These masks, paramilitary sources said, had been given to them by North Dinajpur police. “Visiting personnel had asked for masks from the district police and were given those. What led to a row is that the masks had ‘Joy Bangla’ printed on them,” said a police source. Biswajit Lahiri, the BJP president of North Dinajpur, saw in the masks an attempt by Trinamul to “use the central paramilitary forces in their poll campaign”. “They (the forces) have been given masks that carry the party’s slogan. The administration should see to it that no such mask is handed over to the paramilitary forces or is used during the election process,” Lahiri said. Later in the day, other state BJP leaders unmasked their reservations. Sayantan Basu, a state general secretary of the BJP, accused the administration of being biased. “This is why we need a change in Bengal. The party and administration have become one. There is no difference between them. We will surely inform the Election Commission of India about this incident,” Basu said. In the evening, the BJP blocked the MG Road in Raiganj, to protest against the masks for around 45 minutes. It was withdrawn after the police intervened. The paramilitary forces wearing “Joy Bangla” masks attracted residents in droves as the contingent moved through the town. Most paramilitary personnel had no clue why they were the subject of so much curiosity. “Initially, we did not know why people were looking at us and speaking among themselves. Later, we learnt what the issue was,” said one of them. District Trinamul leaders found the whole brouhaha a “non-issue”. “It is obviously our slogan but there is nothing political in it. Any person who loves Bengal can wear the mask. The BJP is politically bankrupt and is creating a fuss over a non-issue,” said Kanaialal Agarwal, the district Trinamul chief. Senior police officers, when asked about the masks, said they provided them from their stocks. “These masks are meant for government supply. We received those from Nabanna and distributed them among the central paramilitary forces,” said Sumit Kumar, the North Dinajpur superintendent of police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Seven foxes, a bull electrocuted to death at North Dinajpur village||Seven foxes and a bull were allegedly electrocuted to death at a village in North Dinajpur on Wednesday night after they came in touch with illegal live wire laid around a farm. Owners of the plot, brothers Suman and Bhadra Roy, who had tried to hush up the deaths by digging a trench for the dead animals on Thursday, absconded when villagers came to know about it. An organisation working for animal welfare has filed a complaint with the police against the duo and investigations have started. Sources said Suman and Bhadra, both residents of Durgapur-Jharpara village under Kaliaganj police station of the district, had cultivated wheat in their farm and laid illegal energised fences to keep animals away. Police said this was illegal. “On Wednesday night, seven foxes came in touch with the livewire and died instantly. A bull roaming the area followed suit. We want appropriate legal steps against the owners of the plot as they are responsible for the animal deaths. It was an inhuman act,” said a representative of Uttar Dinajpur Peoples’ for Animals which filed the case. According to the villagers, early on Thursday, Suman and Bhadra noticed the carcasses in the field and dug a trench to bury the animals. “However, as more and more people started gathering at the spot, they fled,” said a villager. As news spread, a police team from Kaliaganj police station inspected the area, sent the carcasses to the veterinary hospital in Raiganj for post-mortem and spoke to residents. The police also found the illegal energised fence at the spot. Also, a team of Uttar Dinajpur Peoples’ for Animals reached the village and filed a complaint with Kaliaganj police against the owners. “We are waiting for post-mortem reports to know the exact cause of deaths of these animals. Our officers are working to arrest the duo,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government extends Anit Thapa’s GTA term for six months||The Bengal government on Thursday extended the tenure of Anit Thapa-headed board of administrators at the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) for a further period of six months. The board of administrators at the GTA has been receiving a six-month extension since September 20, 2017 but in the poll-bound Bengal, the fresh term is significant as rival hill parties were attributing the support enjoyed by the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha led by Binay Tamang and Thapa to the power they wielded at the autonomous Darjeeling body. A notification issued by home and hill affairs department on Thursday stated: “NOW, therefore, the Governor, in terms of the relevant proviso of Section 17(1) of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration Act 2011, is pleased to allow further extension to the aforesaid Authority of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration to function for another period of 06 (Six) months with effect from 20.03.2021.” The Tamang camp quickly circulated the notification, an indication of the importance of the extension. A senior leader of the Morcha’s Bimal Gurung faction had recently told The Telegraph: “Without the GTA, they (Tamang and Thapa) are not a force to be reckoned with. Their support base is purely on account of the power they yield at the hill body.” Thapa is the chairman of the board of administrators. The extension of the GTA board is seen as a snub to the Gurung camp. Both the factions of the Morcha back the Trinamul Congress. “This is a major boost for us. It has put to rest all speculations and is also an affirmation of the state government’s faith in the Tamang faction,” said a source in the Tamang camp. Binay Tamang had headed the GTA board till May 2019 but after he decided to contest the Darjeeling Assembly byelection, Thapa was made the chairman. Not just the Gurung camp but other hill parties, too, were keeping a hawk’s eye on the extension. “Once the model code of conduct is enforced, the state government cannot extend the term,” a hill political leader had recently told this correspondent. “It would be interesting to note the support Thapa will receive if he has no power,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
26-02-2021||North East||Amit Shah vows flood-free Assam in next five years||The ruling BJP on Wednesday promised to make Assam flood-free in the next five years, the announcement coming in wake of the Opposition criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not raising the flood and erosion issue at a rally in flood-prone Dhemaji on February 22. Union home minister Amit Shah made the announcement during his day-long trip during which he addressed a rally each in Nagaon and Karbi Anglong district while offering prayers at the Maha Mrityunjay Temple in Nagaon district for the ‘Pran Pratishtha Mahotsav’ of the temple where the “world’s tallest” Shivalinga at 126 feet is located. Shah said the ruling BJP has done a lot of work in Assam but there is one thin g we want to do now: Make Assam flood-free in the next five years. “We want to make Assam baadh-mukt, Modi ji want to make Assam baadh-mukt. So much people suffer because of flood, because of floods lakhs and crores are displaced. In the past four years we have done satellite mapping of the state. We have identified places from where water will be diverted and where we will build big lakes to store the water for tourism and for irrigation purposes to make Assam flood free. I have come to tell the people of Assam that elect BJP government one more time and in the next five years we will make Assam flood free,” Shah said. Modi had during his visit to Dhemaji on February announced projects worth Rs 3,222 crore in Assam but did not dwelt on the flood and erosion despite the district being one of the worst affected in the state, triggering criticism by the Opposition parties. Every year flood causes extensive damage in the state. Last year was particularly severe as flood coincided with the pandemic. Flood had affected over 56 lakh people, 5,305 villages, 30 of the 33 districts while leaving over 107 dead last year, reflecting the enormity of the problem that people of the state face every year. A significant part of the Shah’s 23-minute speech was devoted to the development that has taken place in Assam under the BJP-led government. On Wednesday too, he launched a Rs 180 crore project to beautify Batadrava in Nagaon district, the birthplace of Vaishavite saint Srimanta Sankardeva and make it as popular as the Golen Temple. Sticking to his peace and development pitch at both his rallies, Shah said that the Modi government has allocated Rs 53,000 crore for Assam’s development while throwing an open challenge to the Opposition Congress to show what the latter achieved in their “70 years in comparison to the BJP’s seven years”. Shah also attacked the Congress-AIUDF alliance, asking the crowd whether a Congress, which is “seen only” during elections, or a BJP government can prevent influx, corruption or ensure peace and development. “You have given us free years and seen the development that has taken place. Give us another five years and we will ensure Assam becomes one of the developed states in the country. We have to make Assam, northeast the biggest GDP contributor in the country,” Shah said. He, however, praised deceased Congress chief minister Tarun Gogoi for his great contributions. Gogoi had ruled Assam from 2001 to 2016. At Dengaon in Karbi Anglong, Shah continued with his development and peace pitch, hailing the members of the five militant outfits who laid down arms on February 23, because peace was must for development. He also assured the militant outfits that whatever has been assured to them will be fulfilled within a year and that the revels who joined the mainstream will “have as much right as I have”. Shah also said that special care would be taken for the development of Karbi Anglong making it one of the developed regions of the state. As many as 1040 rebels surrendered their arms on Tuesday. The Congress hit back in equal zeal, on BJP’s “latest” promise of checking flood to what it has done for the country. “Let them first complete the dredging of the Brahmaputra they had promised. Let them first fulfil the promises they have made since 2014: throwing out illegal migrants, ST status to six communities and implementation of Clause 6 of the Assam Accord, among others. Its a pretty long list,” PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma told The Telegraph. She also listed out what the Congress’ contributions to India’s development journey. “The airports that he moves around in various parts of India, the computer that he uses, the TV channels and Radio, including DD and AIR, that his party uses, the MP houses that they live in — the institutions that they are trying to sell one by one... privatise one by one... who established all these? I can hand him a book on what the Congress did in the last 70 years. All this is nothing but loose talk.” Sharma added, “Home minister Amit Shah’s speech is full of contradictions. He criticises the Congress government and seeks to wipe out 15 years of Tarun Gogoi government that brought peace and development to Assam and at the same time says that the BJP has recognised late Gogoi’s contribution by giving him Padma Bhushan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-21
26-02-2021||Opinion||Right call: Court smashes Disha Ravi case, grants bail||Sir — The scathing observations of the judge, Dharmender Rana, while granting bail to the 22-year-old climate activist, Disha Ravi, arrested by the Delhi police in connection with the toolkit case, are an indictment of the unprofessionalism of the Delhi police, which functions directly under the Union home ministry (“Justice lives”, Feb 25). Rejecting the resistance to Ravi’s bail plea as more ‘ornamental in nature’, the Delhi sessions court found the proof against her to be too scanty and sketchy to warrant further incarceration. It also said that any call for violence was conspicuously absent in the toolkit that Ravi had edited. Importantly, the judge also made a stinging but significant observation that the offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments, thereby recognizing the freedom of speech and expression as an inviolable fundamental right. One hopes that the reasoning in this bail order will apply with equal force to many others across the country who are languishing in prisons on questionable charges of sedition. What is shocking is that while the Delhi police rushed all the way to far-off Bangalore to arrest Ravi and bring her before a Delhi court without obtaining a transit remand from a competent court in Bangalore, the same police force finds itself too helpless to arrest a Punjab-based gangster-turned-activist, Lakha Sidhana, a key accused in the Red Fort violence case, who was recently seen in public, as if daring the police to arrest him. Is the police’s inaction a result of its sheer incompetence or something even worse? The Delhi police commissioner should be held directly accountable and penalized for such blatantly discriminatory behaviour and for his failure to take Sidhana, clearly mocking the police force, into custody. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Sir — While passing the bail order for the imprisoned climate activist, Disha Ravi, the additional sessions judge, Dharmender Rana, quashed almost every charge levelled against her — he highlighted Ravi’s absolutely blemish-free record and her firm roots in society. The fact that the court found “not even an iota of evidence” against her is a strong blow to the ruling dispensation at the Centre as well as the Delhi police. Interestingly, the judge not only quoted the Rig Veda and reminded the nation that “this 5,000-year-old civilisation of ours has never been averse to ideas from varied quarters”, but he also imparted a decent lesson on both democracy and the vision of our founding fathers. The Delhi police had accused Ravi, along with Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk, of collaborating with the allegedly pro-Khalistani group called Poetic Justice Foundation to create a toolkit. Ravi, however, claimed that she had edited only two lines in the document, but she did want to support the farmers in their campaign against the controversial farm laws. She had said, “If highlighting farmers’ protest globally is sedition, I am better [off] in jail.” As the sessions court rubbished the police’s ‘toolkit case’, it has exposed the Bharatiya Janata Party’s own ‘toolkit’ — after all, charging citizens with sedition without proof is just another instrument of subjugation for the ruling party at the Centre, besides using different law-enforcement agencies to oppress its political opponents and toppling state governments by means of horse-trading. The Delhi police has stooped low to appease its political masters. It is shameful that the police force decided to pick on a young activist to teach other dissenters a lesson. This reveals  its blatant incompetence at pursuing the real secessionists. The verdict will surely encourage Ravi and ensure that she rises strong against the government’s wrongdoings. One only hopes that Ravi does not have to face such problems in the future. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Look deeper Sir — It was good to know that India has supplied free Covid-19 vaccines to several neighbouring countries as a gesture of goodwill and has gained a lot of international recognition in the process (“Take the shot”, Feb 24). But given that new strains of the virus are now surfacing, India needs to be more proactive, both in terms of vaccine development and inoculating its own people at a faster pace. The pandemic does not seem to be going anywhere, and scientists have also warned that this outbreak is not a one-off event. This means that multiple companies need to be involved in research and development to come out with a vaccine which treats the mutant strains. India should consider this a golden opportunity to boost the nation’s research and development sector; we must not let go of this chance. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The fact that India is sending free vaccines to other countries is laudable. But it must be ensured that all Indians — regardless of their social or economic standing — are able to get the shots. International applause will be of little help if the country’s own citizens are not inoculated. Sneha Chandra,Delhi Caught out Sir — The two worlds of sport and politics are inextricably intertwined in India. Even without having the faintest political sense, sportsmen enter politics and win votes for political parties. On the other hand, sports arenas are often named after political leaders instead of eminent sports personalities. This time, a new controversy has arisen as the Gujarat government has named the revamped Motera stadium, reportedly the largest cricket stadium in the world, after the prime minister, Narendra Modi — many claim that it was previously known as the Sardar Patel Stadium. Did the ruling dispensation just get caught out while aiming to hit a six? Sarbajeet Choudhury,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
26-02-2021||Opinion||Fair deal: Big Tech and news||Business relationships, as a matter of principle, ought to be complementary. But the ties between Big Tech — Google and Facebook being its two principal representatives — and the indigenous news industry are far from even. It is this imbalance in terms of market share and revenue that lies at the heart of the global pushback against Google and Facebook through affirmative legislation. Australia has become the first country in the world to frame a legislation, the News Media Bargaining Code, to address the anomaly by forcing the two technology behemoths to pay for news content and share revenue in a fairer manner. There is evidence in support of such course correction. The dominance of Google and Facebook on internet traffic has enabled these companies to gobble up a disproportionate share of advertising revenue — as much as 70 to 80 per cent according to some estimates — in their favour, starving news publishers of much needed funds. The Australian law seeks to address this skewedness, even though critics suggest that late changes to the draft have gifted Facebook an escape clause. What is undeniable is that a global momentum has been generated as a result of Canberra’s move. Canada is in talks with Australia to frame a similar template of redistribution; corrective action is likely to be bolstered in the European Union — France has taken the lead here — as well as in the United States of America. Strangely, India — one of the biggest markets for the digital giants — has not witnessed similar demands for equity so far. The Centre, which has not hesitated to challenge these corporations for their alleged indifference to India’s compliance edifice, must side with domestic news outlets in this battle to balance the scales. Such an intervention is necessary not only because there must be a level playing field among competitors but also the news industry plays a critical role. It is a custodian of the democratic ethos and is responsible for the dissemination of correct information. But these functions are being hampered with the drying up of revenue, leading to an existential crisis for the industry and its personnel. New Delhi must explore ways to bring about a compatible, equitable partnership between news organizations and Big Tech that can benefit the stakeholders. The government has an additional incentive to act. A profitable domestic news industry would be more amenable to cough up taxes than bullish tech firms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
26-02-2021||Opinion||Winning game: Puducherry conundrum||The erosion of principles in politics makes laws meaningless. The provision for president’s rule and the anti-defection law have been repeatedly used — or not used — to mask frank tussles for power. The hollowness of the anti-defection law is now starkly evident. The resignation of the chief minister of Puducherry, V. Narayanasamy, marks the untimely fall of another Congress government during Bharatiya Janata Party-led rule at the Centre. Resignations of Congress members from the assembly allowed the Opposition, of which the Bharatiya Janata Party is a part, to overtake the Congress in numbers. Advantage BJP. But with assembly elections in the Union territory to come soon, the BJP seems to be careful about perceptions. It won no seats in the 2016 assembly elections, but nominated three members in the assembly as a provision allows the Centre to have nominated members in a UT legislature. That was legal, but not ethical: the people did not want the BJP. But the removal of a lieutenant-governor hostile to the chief minister and the induction of a Tamil-speaking — thus linguistically sympathetic — lieutenant-governor might divert charges of toppling an elected government. Resignations rather than direct changeovers to the BJP could look good too. People’s wishes or democratic principles of legislature formation had never been pressing concerns for the BJP; Goa, Manipur, Karnataka and some other governments would have been different then. The Tenth Schedule of the Constitution or the anti-defection law was intended to keep governments stable by preventing legislators from switching sides. Only when two-thirds of legislators in a party merged with another could disqualification be avoided. What happens, however, is that the bar to switching sides is quite openly subjected to various tricks in favour of the more powerful party at any time. Resignations are common — rewards come to those who wait a bit. Delay in disqualifying defectors by the presiding officer in a legislature can also be to a waiting party’s advantage. The frequent fall of non-BJP governments in the most recent phase of India’s history is a painful exhibition of the law’s toothlessness. Re-drafting it by plugging its loopholes — these are many — may save it from derision. But it is only principled politics, scruples among elected representatives and their urge to keep the people’s faith that will make a difference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
26-02-2021||Opinion||True Value: remuneration for household work||Ahead of the Tamil Nadu assembly elections slated to be held later this year, the actor-turned-politician, Kamal Haasan, announced his party’s manifesto and sparked a debate by backing the idea of paying housewives for doing the household work. At first, it seemed to be a very empowering move, one that can ensure financial independence and recognize the efforts put in by wives to run the house. Yet, it also raised a few doubts. Doing housework is not a choice for every woman. Given that women are conditioned from a tender age to live a life of servitude, performing household labour has been accepted by many women without much protest. In a recent motor vehicle compensation case, the Supreme Court observed, “...the sheer amount of time and effort... dedicated to household work by individuals, who are more likely to be women than men, is not surprising when one considers the plethora of activities a housemaker undertakes”. The court further stated that “the issue of fixing notional income for a homemaker, therefore, serves extremely important functions... [i]t is a recognition of the multitude of women who are engaged in this activity, whether by choice or as a result of social/cultural norms”. It is time we acknowledged that women’s work at home contributes to the economic growth of the family and the nation at large. According to the United Nations, homemakers contribute 13 per cent to the global gross domestic product. It would thus be derogatory to affix a monetary amount to the labour, services and sacrifices of homemakers. But at the same time, the romanticization of the burden that is put on the woman to demonstrate her love must stop. In a deeply patriarchal society, generations of women have had their own battles to fight. Pioneering women in the 1950s broke the glass ceiling to a great extent to pursue careers; the next generation established themselves as the second bread earners in their families; now it is the turn of the present generation of women to provide for themselves and demand an unemployment allowance if, owing to circumstances, they need to stay at home. The compensation is not for the ‘love’ that is often attributed to women; it is for the full-time work they do at home, which is often done for many compulsions other than love. In our society, homemaking is still considered the centre of a woman’s life. The female labour force participation rates in India have never crossed 35 per cent after Independence, and women have mostly been confined to housework. According to the ministry of statistics and programme implementation, women spend 299 minutes a day on housework, whereas men spend just 97 minutes. It becomes clear that women in India are still rarely encouraged to pursue education or career growth. As such, implementing a policy to compensate only women for housework will do more harm than good. It will strengthen the stereotype of the kind of work that women are suited for, and will confine more women to the home. The choice to build a career will get restricted further, resulting in a decline in the number of women in the nation’s workforce. The fight against patriarchy cannot be won unless women are financially independent or, at least, not dependent on the goodness of men. However, the decline of women in the labour force from 31.2 per cent in 2011-12 to 23.3 per cent in 2017-18 cannot be ignored. Adopting the compensation policy will only further this downward trend and ensure that the sacrifices made by our predecessors for the inclusion of women in the workforce go in vain. The belief that women who stay at home do not ‘work’ or add economic value to the household is worrisome. The proposal to pay housewives is a heartening reflection of changing attitudes. But we need to recognize that domestic work holds value, and ensure social equality and dignity of life for women. The essentialist principle of women just being mothers and wives is the root cause of their deprivation. It is time to come out of it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
26-02-2021||Opinion||The trickster||Memory is a tricky thing. Most of us, I reckon, tend to fall back on our memories if we’re asked to give an account of who we are, what we do, how we spend our time, what we enjoy or dislike and so on and so forth. Our identities are inextricably tied to our remembrance of past things; yet, even as we use memory to validate an idea or express an opinion, we are often painfully aware of the inconstancy and fallibility of our memories. As someone who spends a disproportionate amount of time reading, thinking about, discussing and, occasionally, writing about books, I am sometimes asked about the first book I remember. The answer is simple: the earliest book I can recollect handling, probably when I was about two years of age, was the gorgeously-illustrated, flimsy paperback, Tutu-Bhutu — recounting the adventures of a kitten dressed in yellow t-shirt and red dungarees (Bhutu) and his black-shorts-and-blue-singlet-wearing friend — the puppy, Tutu. For decades after I first encountered Tutu and Bhutu, as well as the rest of the brilliant cast of supporting characters, I had absolutely no idea who the writer or the illustrator of the book was, but the luminous images still form a part of my mental landscape. I’ve also often wondered if my love of the Bengal countryside wasn’t — at least in part — triggered by the images I had encountered in Tutu-Bhutu as a city-bred child: the ponds, the fishing, the mango grove, the nullah over which the friends build a bridge with planks of wood… Even as I peck these words out on my laptop, I feel the familiar frisson of excitement I had first felt when I had picked up Tutu-Bhutu well over fifty years ago. But there are strange gaps in my recollections of this beloved book. Family lore has it that I would ‘read’ Tutu-Bhutu by running my index finger along the lines of text and reciting from memory the oft-told tale, which had been read out to me, my brother, and assorted cousins countless times by our patient grandmother. I clearly remember ‘reading’ the last words of the tale, which were “Now we are civilized and educated”, spoken to Bhutu by his saree-clad mother. But these lines occur towards the very beginning of the book, when Bhutu is being scolded for having unexpectedly attacked and injured some chickens in the midst of playing games with them in the village green. When I chanced upon a copy of Tutu-Bhutu some years ago, this discovery came as such a shock that I tried to find out if there had been an earlier edition of the book where these words were, in fact, the concluding lines of the story. There hadn’t been, and they weren’t. I did find out, though, that Tutu-Bhutu had been written and illustrated by the prodigiously talented Dhiren Bal, first published in 1959, and is still in print. My memory of Tutu-Bhutu, therefore, like so many of my memories, is imperfect and full of gaps, but also profoundly important in the narrative that is the story of my life. We string together memories to create stories — not just our own, but that of our families, our friends, neighbours, communities, the place we live in (or would like to live in), the planet we wish to leave for our children — and we pass on these stories to others we wish to bring around to our way of seeing and understanding the world we inhabit. These stories need not be made up of memories of places, people, things or events we have encountered at first hand. We often take the memory-strings given to us by others and weave them with our own to create new memories, new narratives, new stories, which, we, in turn, pass on to others. If these stories also serve to edify, educate, instruct, paint a moral, or clinch an argument, then they become so much more believable and powerful. The greatest storytellers knew, and know, this. They are able to, as it were, make up memories for us — of things that we know didn’t actually happen to us, yet which we feel we have seen, or heard, or experienced in our own lives. These stories become, often in strange and unexpected ways, part of what goes into the making of that ‘I’ that we typically think of as our unique, authentic self. What we perhaps need to keep in mind is that when it comes to weaving memories to create stories — whether personal ones, or larger tales involving (many) others — there is, inevitably, an element of selection at play. Such selection may be deliberate, or unconscious, willed, or unwilling. We may ‘lose’ a memory, only to ‘recover’ it at some point in the near or distant future, and it is by no means clear why this should be the case. As the memory scientist, Martin A. Conway, put it in a special issue of The Psychologist (the official monthly journal of The British Psychological Society) devoted to memory and desire, memories “are alive, free, sometimes alien, occasionally dangerous, mental representations that can overwhelm as easily as they fulfill.” Memories, whether our own or those of others, play a powerful part in creating identity. We weave memories together to build the stories that make up the ‘I’ that lives, and moves, and has its being in the world. It is this ‘I’ that not only remembers, but also craves, and anticipates. Memory, as has been long recognized, is twin to desire. In the same essay, Conway writes of how memories can “cause feelings of surprise, recognition, perplexity, even wonderment, and trigger an intense sense of the self in the past”; to which we might add that memories also have the power to trigger an intense desire for something we want to possess now, or in the future. My memory of the idyllic verdant world of Tutu-Bhutu is interfused with my memories of the many happy days I have spent in rural Bengal, reinforcing each other to create a desire to spend more time away from the bustle of the city — and, during this pandemic lockdown, often creating a sense of loss and longing for not being able to do so. In similar fashion, might the recollection of insult and/or injury caused by members of a specific group on members of another become commingled with individual experience to create a hyper-memory which angers, provokes, and spurs action against those deemed to have caused the injuries and insults in the first place. Your — real or imagined, factual or fictional — trauma, and the memories you weave into your tale of woe, can all too easily be passed on to me, leading me to wreak vengeance on an individual, or a group, perceived as the guilty party. Memories, and the stories woven from them, can be used for a variety of purposes — to heal or to harm, to attack or to shelter, to bring together or break apart. Nation-builders and propagandists know this all too well. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
26-02-2021||Jharkhand||Governor Murmu hails Hemant govt focus on jobs amid pandemic||Jharkhand governor Draupadi Murmu hailed the Hemant Soren-led government for its effective management of the state’s finances even as it battled a pandemic while addressing MLAs on the first day of the Budget session of the state Assembly on Friday. “Through various policies and livelihood-oriented schemes, the government has exhibited its commitment towards all sections of the society,” Murmu said in her over 40-minute speech in the Assembly. She also noted that policy decisions taken by the state government in over a year of its formation had instilled confidence among people. The Assembly session, the first of 2021, will continue till March 23 and have 16 working days. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon will table the 2021-22 budget on March 3. The House began amid strict adherence to Covid-19 safety norms. While provisions of sanitisers and thermal scanning were made available at entrances,  MLAs were made to sit in accordance with social distancing norms in the Assembly. Except JMM’s Dumri MLA and state education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who is recovering from a post-Covid lung transplant surgery, all other MLAs were present in the 81-member House. As is customary, chief minister Hemant Soren greeted Speaker Rabindranath Mahto by offering him a bouquet before the start of the day’s proceedings at 11am. This was followed by a speech by the Speaker to welcome legislators and pave the way for the Governor’s address. In her address, Murmu said the government was working with an attitude of zero-tolerance to corruption to speed up growth. “In 2020-21, around 47 corruption cases have been lodged and as many as 51 government officials have been jailed,” she said. She also praised the government for working towards balancing industrial growth and environment conservation. To tackle issues of migration and concerns of labourers and workers, the state government was also working out plans to ensure that they got the right wages, she explained. Murmu spoke of how Jharkhand cared for thousands of migrant labourers during last year’s lockdown and mentioned the initiative of running Mukhyamantri Didi kitchens to provide free meals to lakhs of people. “The government also walked the extra mile by setting up a one-stop call centre to address issues related to migrants and those stranded outside the state and also provided Rs 1,000 as assistance to close to 2 lakh migrants during the lockdown,” she said. Acknowledging the government's attempts to create jobs, Murmu said 2021 had been dedicated for recruitment. “For the first time in several decades, the government has come up with fresh rules and regulations for state civil service examinations,” she said, adding that the government had also inducted district sports officers across the state and was now providing direct employment to qualified players. The Opposition, however, was critical of the Governor’s address. Speaking to reporters outside the House, Ranchi MLA and senior BJP member C.P. Singh said, “The government made the Governor read a speech which was full of lies. The speech didn’t talk about the failing law and order, massive corruption and illegal sand mining which is going unabated under this regime.” Chandankyari MLA Amar Bauri said they would counter the government on the floor of the House on Monday. But state finance minister and Congress MLA Rameshwar Oraon hit back. “Let them (Opposition leaders) say what is wrong. Didn’t we give jobs to players? Didn’t we run free kitchens for months for migrants? Didn’t we give farm loan waivers? Or didn’t we waive hefty examination fees of JPSC recently? Unlike the BJP, this coalition government is fulfilling all its promises made in the manifesto,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
26-02-2021||Jharkhand||Around 1.5 traders across state participate in Bharat Vyapar Bandh||Around 1.5 lakh small and medium size traders across the state participated in the All India Bharat Vyapar Bandh in Jharkhand on Friday, evoking a good response in the state. Several trade unions including Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FJCCI ), Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI), Jharkhand Electric Suppliers Association and Jharkhand Thok Vastra Vikreta Sangh extended support to the bandh. Members of the Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry and CAIT went around Bistupur and Sakchi on Friday morning to ensure that traders voluntarily shut down their shops. All retail garment, electronic and jewellery stores remained closed in commercial markets of Kolhan region in Jamshedpur. Similarly, a section of traders in Ranchi, Dhanbad and elsewhere in the state participated in the bandh by not opening their shops. "We extended our moral support to the bandh," said Praveen Kumar Chhabra, president of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The call of Bharat Vyapar Bandh was given by CAIT to lodge strong protest of the business community against some of the ‘arbitrary’ and ‘draconian’ amendments made in GST Rules on  December 22. The protesters sought their immediate deferment. The CAIT also protested against unethical business practices of foreign e-commerce companies who are continuously and openly “violating the FDI policy” much to the disadvantage of domestic trade of the country. CAIT national secretary Suresh Sonthalia said that the arbitrary and unfettered powers given to tax officials will bring Inspector Raj in the country once again. He feared that instead of using it against the tax offenders, the harassment and victimisation of the honest and tax complying traders cannot be ruled out on the basis of the traders’ past experience. “The CAIT has demanded that the controversial provisions of GST rules should be kept in abeyance and traders should be taken into confidence before bringing any amendment in law or the rules,” he said. “Tax offenders and evaders must be given exemplary punishment but the distinction between error and evasion should be spelled out clearly,” Sonthalia added. CAIT, the apex union of traders, demanded the immediate issuance of a new press note to replace press note No.2 of the FDI policy plugging the loopholes and escape route to e-commerce companies who are bent upon in violating the law and policy. Indian laws are weak and can be twisted to their side even after repeated warnings from the Centre, the organisation said. The movement has already been supported by All India Transport Welfare Association (AITWA), the top organisation of transporters, which also  observed a 'Chakka Jam' on Friday. Movement of heavy vehicles, especially trucks and trailers, were affected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
26-02-2021||Jharkhand|| Body of unidentified woman found floating in a steel city pond ||The body of a middle-aged woman was found mysteriously floating in a pond near Indian Wire & Steel Products (IS&WP) company in Telco on Friday afternoon. She has not been identified, the police said. A team of officials from the Telco Police Station rushed to the site soon after passers-by noticed it when the body popped up on the water surface at around 12:30 pm, and spread the information. A huge crowd gathered as police fished out the body, but nobody could identify the woman, who appeared to belong from a decent family and had henna (dye) on her hair. Telco Police Station OC Ajay Kumar confirmed it to be a case of drowning, but said it was surprising that no one could identify the body. "In the first case, the woman, apparently from a well-to-do family, was unlikely to have to come to the pond to use its water. Secondly, it is unlikely of anybody to come and get their hair washed at such a faraway place," Kumar told The Telegraph Online. The OC said if the deceased was a local resident then someone must have recognised her. "As there is no mark of injury on the body, we cannot confirm it to be a case of murder either. We have therefore shifted it to the MGM Medical College mortuary where the body will be kept for the next 72 hours for identification and autopsy," Kumar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
26-02-2021||Jharkhand||With medals in her bag, national level archer now sells ground nuts and ‘pakodas’ ||National level archer Mamta Tuddu, a gold medal winner in junior and sub-junior levels in 2010 and 2014, is compelled to sell grocery items at her village in Damodarpur in Dhanbad amid heightened poverty due to the Covid-induced lockdown. The 23-year-old alleged the insensitivity of the concerned authorities and red tapism of the system, which added to her present condition. Mamta, daughter of a retired BCCL employee, was undergoing training at Center of Excellence for archery in Ranchi from 2018. She returned to her Damodarpur residence during the lockdown after her academy closed but could not go back due to economic constraints. “I am the eldest among the seven brothers and sisters. All of my younger siblings had to quit their studies midway as my father’s pension is yet to start. So,our family is totally dependent on the income from the  makeshift shop where we sell items like roasted and sprouted grams, pakoras, rice flakes and other such items,” Tuddu said. Divulging more details the archer said she decided to stay back at home with her family to support their income when she returned from Ranchi. “I am still playing at the senior level but need government support for sustaining life” said Tuddu, who won several bronze medals at various championships, apart from securing the top spot twice. Md Shamshad, who was her coach at the Tata Steel Jharia Division Feeder Center from 2009 to 2011 said, “She was one of the most talented archers of our centre. In 2010, she had participated in the Mini National Archery Championship held at Vijayawada.” “I had lost contact with her but we recently met. When I came to know that she is compelled to sell grams and Pakoras at her village to support the family income, it hurt me” said Shamshad. District Secretary of Dhanbad Archery Association, Jubair Alam said, “Though no application for any financial assistance has been sent by her or her father, we will visit her on Saturday and find out the reason for penury and try our level best to extend help to her.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
26-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC misses ISL play-off slot fourth time in row||Jamshedpur FC entered the Indian Super League 2020-21 field with an impressive package -- a high profile and successful coach, a goal machine and a cool-headed captain. It was anticipated that the Men of Steel would come up with a solid show with some even predicting a trophy finish. But all expectation was busted with the Tata Steel-owned club failing to reach the top four for the fourth time in succession. Jamshedpur finished their ISL VII engagement with a 3-2 win over Bengaluru FC in Goa on Thursday. The club stood sixth with 27 points (20 matches, seven wins, as many loses and six draws) in the cash-rich tournament. Jamshedpur FC made their ISL debut in 2017-18 season  and experimented with four coaches (Steve Coppell, Cesar Ferrando,Antonio Iriondo and Owen Coyle) in a bid to make the club qualify for the knock-outs. But the experiment failed even though much was expected from Scotland-born Coyle who helped bottom-placed Chennaiyin FC finish runner-up after taking over mid-way through the last ISL edition. In a desperate bid to materialise their dreams of topping the ISL ladder, JFC had stitched out a strong unit with players of proven track record. The likes of Lithuanian forward Nerijus Valskis, Nigerian defender Stephen Eze, English defender and captain Peter Hartley, Brazilian central mid-fielder Alex Lima and a clutch of of Indian players, including mid-fielder Amarjit Singh Kiyam, defender Jitendra Singh and experienced goalie TP Rehenesh to name a few. Yet, the bottomline said a different and disappointing story. Last season's Golden Boot winner Valskis,who followed head coach Coyle to Jamshedpur camp from Chennaiyin FC, did show some glimpses of his brilliance at the beginning of the tournament but seemed a bit out of colour in the latter half and was found wanting in converting some swifts feeds from the wings and centre. “We can take some positives from this season, but there are also areas that we need to get better at. I know where we need to improve and what we need to do,” said head coach Coyle. “We have improved a lot. When you look at the quality of the games that we have played [compared to the last season], there is no doubt that the improvement is there for everyone to see.” About the win against Bengaluru FC,Coyle said:"The important thing is to win the three points. This is a tough league to win games as every match shows. We finished the season with four wins out of [last] six. We showed our qualities with three goals. We could have added more." Members of Red Miners. the official JFC fan club, were disappointed at the club's show. "We didn't expect a sixth place finish. In fact, we were expecting a play-off spot and further," said Sheikh Imran, one of the members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
26-02-2021||Jharkhand||Gumla murders linked to black magic, 8 arrested||Eight persons were arrested on Friday for the gruesome killing of five members of a family on the intervening night of February 23 and 24 in Buruhatu Amtola in Kamdara block of tribal dominated Gumla district with police claiming that the murders were linked to black magic that was allegedly being practised by two of the victims. Those killed were identified as Nikudin Toppo (60), wife Josphina Toppo (55), their son Vincent (35), daughter-in-law Shivani (30) and the elderly couple’s grandson Balwina. Vincent, Shivani and Balwina were found hacked to death in one room while Nikudin was found dead on the veranda of their kutcha house. Josphina lay dead on the bed inside another room. Gumla SP H.P.Janardhan said, “This incident is linked with a witch-hunt as we found during our investigations that the villagers believed that the elderly couple (Nikudin and Josphina) of the family was into black magic. Villagers blamed the family for several deaths in the recent months.” The SP said the police took up the investigations as a challenge ever since the bodies were recovered on Wednesday. The police formed a 10-member special investigation team (SIT) under Basia SDPO Deepak Kumar, which cracked the case within two days of the incident. "During the probe, we had learnt that on February 23, villagers had convened a meeting at a local football ground to discuss ways to eliminate the family. On the same night, eight persons including a few women, who had attended the meeting, got drunk and decided to kill the elderly couple. They barged into their house with traditional weapons and killed them. Later on, they chose to kill three others of the family—a minor boy and his young parents—fearing that they would tell police,” Sp Janardhan said. The SP added that all those arrested had confessed to the crime during interrogation. Police, he added, had also recovered the blood stained weapons that were used in the crime. Those arrested have been identified as Sunil Topno (30), Soma Topno (25), Salim Topno (25), Firangi Topno (45), Philip Topno (55), Amrit Topno (30), Sawan Topno (34) and Daniel Topno (40).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
26-02-2021||Jharkhand||ED attaches assets worth over Rs 2 crore of Maoist operative in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday said it has attached assets worth over Rs 2 crore of a Jharkhand-based Maoist operative as part of a money laundering probe against him and others. The frozen assets are in the form of vehicles and are held in the name of Bindeshwar Ganjhu alias Bindu Ganjhu and his firm Maa Gange Coal Trading Pvt. Ltd. The central probe agency said its criminal case against Ganjhu and others, under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), is linked to the extremists collecting funds through extortion of contractors, coal traders, coal transporters in the Magadh-Amrapali coal block area of Jharkhand. The state police and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) are also probing the accused and have filed multiple charge sheets against them. Bindeshwar Ganjhu, the ED said in a statement, "used to collect levy from transporters and delivery order holders in Magadh-Amrapali coal block area in connivance with other extremists of Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC) in Chatra district of Jharkhand." "Ganjhu, being a member of the outlawed organisation TPC, was closely associated with top leaders and acquired proceeds of crime in his name as well as his firm which were projected and claimed as untainted properties," it claimed. The total value of assets attached under the latest order is Rs 2.03 crore while immovable and movable properties worth Rs 2.89 crore belonging to Ganjhu and another person Pradeep Ram and their two firms were earlier attached in this case, it said. The total attachment of assets in this case now stands at Rs 4.92 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
26-02-2021||Jharkhand||Over 3 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated in Jharkhand ||The total number of beneficiaries who were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand crossed the 3 lakh mark on Thursday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As many as 3839 people – healthcare workers and frontline workers – were administered the first dose of the vaccine on Thursday, while 1168 beneficiaries got the second dose, a reported released by the NHM stated. Jharkhand, however, managed to vaccinate only 26 per cent of those registered for the first dose of the vaccine on Thursday. The second dose was administered to around 41 per cent of the registered beneficiaries – only healthcare workers. Ranchi performed the best among the 24 districts in the state on Thursday by inoculating 83 per cent of the beneficiaries registered for the first dose here. As many as 645 people were administered the jab here. East Singhbhum managed to vaccinate only 3 per cent of the registered beneficiaries, and was the worst performer on Thursday. East Singhbhum also performed poorly in vaccinating the people registered for the second dose as it achieved only 9 per cent of its target. Godda and Lohardaga achieved 100 per cent target in administering the second dose, while Ranchi achieved 75 per cent of target for second dose by vaccinating 150 people – the highest among Jharkhand districts. As per government records, the state has achieved 77 per cent of its vaccination target so far by administering the first dose of the Covishield vaccine to 300137 of 392079 registered beneficiaries. As many as 19566 people have been administered the second dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand, helping the state achieve 81 per cent of its target for the second dose. As per the NHM report, no fresh Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) cases were reported on Thursday. So far, the state has reported 274 AEFI cases and 170 of them occured in Ranchi. As many as 76 people, including 47 from Ranchi alone were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Thursday, stated a bulletin released by the NHM. The state reported only 40 Covid recoveries on the day and the number of active cases jumped to 467, the bulletin further stated. As many as 119795 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. As per government data, it would take 2174 days for the number of cases to double in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
