27-02-2021||Calcutta||Tiger carcass in Sunderbans creek||The carcass of an adult tigress was found floating on the waters of a narrow creek in Khanakali, between Pirkhali 4 and Pirkhali 5 range, in the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve on Friday, a forest department official said. The carcass was spotted by a patrol team on a mechanised boat. “We have sent the body for post mortem to ascertain the cause of the death. It is an adult tigress and was found floating on the waters of a creek,” said Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
27-02-2021||Calcutta||First philatelic club for all ages opens||The country’s first circle-level philatelic club, to be run by the West Bengal circle of the department of posts, was inaugurated at the General Post Office on Friday. “We started school philatelic clubs across the country last year before Covid to spread the hobby among students.  This would be the first for philatelists across age groups,” said secretary, department of posts, P.K. Bisoi after inaugurating the club. “Our idea is to create a meeting ground which can be used for training and exchange of ideas. The members will include nominated representatives of government institutions like libraries, museums and universities other than young philatelists and winners of our philatelic contests. We will encourage members to suggest subjects for commemorative stamps which we will forward to Delhi,” said Niraj Kumar, postmaster general, Calcutta. The department plans to hold workshops and talks by eminent philatelists. Membership will cost Rs 500 per month. A philatelic museum was also opened. “While we have a postal museum next door which chronicles the history of the postal system, this will be a temple of philately,” said Kumar. The museum houses a library of books on stamps that club members can use. The central exhibits showcase how stamps relate to our lives. Thus. a baluchari sari hangs next to a stamp on baluchari. Next to a stamp on Lalan Fakir hangs an actual ektara while a sarod, a violin and a shehnai are exhibited with stamps on Ustad Bismillah Khan, Ustad Allauddin Khan and V. Lakshminarayana. A touchscreen kiosk has information on select stamps. A trumpet is heard if one touches a 1951 stamp on elephants. Similarly a Hemanta Mukherjee stamp issued in 2016 is linked to his song Runner, on the predecessor of postmen.  Touching a screen with Netaji stamps plays the Indian National Army marching song Kadam Kadam Badhaye Ja. Debasish Sarkar, a postal employee, has contributed pastel drawings of some of India’s earliest stamps that look as life-like as photographs. A gold-plated replica in silver of a stamp from India’s earliest series, Jai Hind, dating back to 1947, was released on the occasion. “We plan to make smaller and affordable versions available soon,” Kumar said. A two-day exhibition on Netaji and the freedom movement is under way at the GPO Rotunda, showcasing the collection of Raunak Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
27-02-2021||Calcutta||Elephant strays into Midnapore from Salboni forests||An elephant strayed into Midnapore town from the forests of Salboni on Thursday evening, triggering panic among residents for over four hours before it was tranquilised and taken back to another jungle by foresters. The elephant, which forest officials described as a male sub-adult, was first spotted on the Midnapore College ground around 8.30pm. “The elephant strayed into the town from the Bhadutala forest in the Salboni range (around 12km from the town). It seems to be a loner, not part of any herd,” said Sandeep Berwal, the divisional forest officer of Midnapore. Within a short time, a large crowd gathered around the elephant, which moved towards the Midnapore Collegiate School. The crowd started swelling and followed the jumbo as it headed from the school towards the Midnapore Medical College and Hospital compound. A large police team led by the additional superintendent of Midnapore reached the spot soon, followed by a team of foresters. The cops were partially successful in keeping the crowd at bay. They kept making announcements, asking people to let the elephant move freely. The forest team, which reached the spot on an improvised mini-truck fitted with hooter sirens and a variety of flashlights, carried tranquilliser guns and an assortment of slings, nets and iron shackles. The team initially tried to drive the elephant towards the Chandra forest range. “But the elephant was traumatised in the presence of so many people. It was not aggressive but seemed scared and confused. So, we decided to tranquilise it,” said A.P. Singh, the chief conservator of forests (western circle). The elephant took refuge in an abandoned grassland behind the hospital, said local forest officials. It was darted well beyond midnight. Industrial rubber belts attached to the arms of the crane finally lifted the animal around 1.30am. A sub-adult elephant weighs around 2.5 tonnes (2,500kg). The crane placed the elephant on a truck that ferried it to the Sukhakhali forests in the Chandra range. It was well past 2am, when the elephant was released in the forest. A team of guards kept a close watch on the jumbo. “Around 8am on Friday, the elephant was seen moving freely in the forest,” the local forest official said. Jumbos tagged Two more elephants in the forests of north Bengal have been tagged with radio collars. On February 22, an elephant from a herd in Gorumara was tagged and on Wednesday, another elephant from a different herd in Jaldapara was tagged, a forest official said. The objective is to understand the movement patterns of elephant herds and preempt  their raids on human settlements, thereby reducing human-animal conflicts, said a forest official in north Bengal. Both tagged elephants are females in “leadership role” in their herds, said the official. “The collars have been provided by a German institution, GIZ, which is collaborating with us in the project,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
27-02-2021||Calcutta||Green activists urge parties to focus on environment ahead of Assembly election campaign||Political parties should spell out in their manifestos how they will tackle the worsening air pollution, improve the waste management system that is in a shambles and protect the fragile ecology of the Sunderbans, environment activist Subhas Datta said on Friday. The campaign season ahead of the Assembly elections will test the parties’ resolve to protect the environment as the meeting and roadshows could turn into platforms to adhere to -- or violate -- the noise norms. The parties can also make a statement by staying away from plastic, Datta told a news conference soon after the Assembly poll dates were announced. Environmental issues rarely figure on the campaign list of any political party in the state and also elsewhere in India. Leaders rarely raise an issue concerning the environment from their election rallies. Environment activists want the parties to shed their apathy about the environment and clearly spell out their plans on crucial environmental matters. “All political parties are saying how they will alleviate farmers’ problems or how they will keep a check on oil prices. But no one is saying what their plans are about improving the air that we breathe or how they will protect the Sunderbans,” Datta said. The activist listed several issues that hold the key to the future of Calcutta and Bengal. “The parties should say how they plan to phase out commercial vehicles older than 15 years, as directed by Calcutta High Court. They should say what their plans are regarding the introduction of cleaner fuel like CNG for public buses. Have the parties ever thought why there is so much dust on the roads?” he said. Seven cities in Bengal – Calcutta, Howrah, Barrackpore, Durgapur, Asansol, Raniganj and Haldia – have been classified as non-attainment cities by the Central Pollution Control Board because they do not meet the permissible air quality standards. Parthib Basu, a professor of zoology at Calcutta University, said these were life and death questions and the electors as well as those seeking votes should be concerned about them. “The solid waste management rules were framed in 2016 and they mandate separation of biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste. Even after so many years, the system has been introduced in only a few places in Calcutta. In smaller cities and towns, the situation is worse,” he said. Basu was not present in Friday’s new conference. The waste separation will enable some of the items to be recycled and reduce the volume of waste. The waste dumping ground in Dhapa has already exceeded its capacity and the situation will only worsen if more waste is dumped on the site. Datta questioned why political parties were silent on the vulnerability of people in the Sunderbans. Large-scale destruction of mangroves, which act as natural barriers to storms, has made the villages in the Sunderbans vulnerable to cyclones. “Saline water from the sea is flowing further upstream and destroying acres of agricultural fields, completely ruining the income source of villagers,” said Basu. “These people are then forced to migrate to the cities in search of livelihood. Besides, if the sea level rises and saline water enters the Hooghly, it will have multiple negative consequences. There is a need for clear climate change mitigation and adaptation policies and actions.” The intent of the parties will become clear during the campaigning, said the activists. “They should adhere to noise norms and not use plastic in campaign rallies and meetings,” Datta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
27-02-2021||Calcutta||HS council allows schools to advance practicals schedule||The state higher secondary council has allowed schools “relaxation” in starting the HS practical exams, giving them the freedom to advance the schedule if there is a possibility that the premises will be taken over because of the Assembly elections, officials said. The earlier order had asked the schools to conduct the in-person practical exams from March 10 to 31. An official of the council said that as security forces were expected to enter the schools well before the start of the polls, the institutions have been allowed to modify the schedule depending on the situation. A notice issued by Mahua Das, the president of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, on Wednesday said: “Now in respect of queries received from the schools, the council has decided to allow a relaxation in the starting date of the practical examination in those institutions, which will be used by the election commission of India for ensuing Vidhan Sabha election…. “In such cases the head of the institution may decide about conducting the examination on some earlier date as per their convenient schedule….” The security forces use school buildings to set up base before starting patrol in a designated segment. “Once the force takes control of the premises, the entry of the teachers, school officials and students will be disallowed. Practical examinations will have to be conducted before the force takes over a school,” a council official said. The election commission announced on Friday that the polls would be held in Bengal in eight phases — from March 27 to April 29. An official of the school education department said the central forces were expected to enter the school buildings of a specified zone at least a week before the polls. “Each school has to find out on which day the particular area will go to the polls and plan accordingly in consultation with the council,” the official said. In Bengal, schools had reopened on February 12 for Classes IX to XII. All campuses had shut down in March last year as a precaution against Covid-19. One of the objectives behind lifting the closure was to allow Plus-II students in the science stream to get some hands-on training before writing the practicals. “If the exam dates are brought forward, the students will be denied the minimum preparation time,” said Saugata Basu, the secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association. Council president Das could not be reached for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
27-02-2021||Calcutta||Three off roster at Alipore zoo for toucan theft ||Two guards and one supervisor at the Alipore zoo have been taken off the roster for “negligence of duty" following the alleged theft of three exotic birds from an enclosure, officials said on Friday. The three men were in “close proximity (within 40m)” of the enclosure, the iron mesh of which was cut open before the birds were “stolen” late on Thursday, said an official of the zoo. “Our internal probe has prima facie found that the three men were negligent in their duty,” zoo director Asis Samanta said. Two of the missing birds were toco toucans and one was a keel-billed toucan. The men, deployed by an agency hired by the zoo, are being questioned by the police. The detective department has taken over the case. “The persons involved in the theft are well versed in handling wildlife. A toucan is not a very small bird. Even after stealing, the birds have to be fed and treated properly. They cannot afford a sick or dead bird,” said a forest department official. The missing birds were rescued near the Bangladesh border in August and December 2020, while they were allegedly being smuggled in. Both hauls were made by the BSF but no arrests were made. On both occasions, the men carrying the birds fled. “The men carrying the birds are usually couriers. But they can be grilled for information such as who placed orders for the birds. In the absence of arrests, our job to trace the real culprits becomes doubly difficult,” said another official of the forest department. Trade in exotic birds is legal but people try to smuggle them in to evade taxes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
27-02-2021||Calcutta||Tech skills to count in teachers’ appraisals||Several schools in the city will take into account teachers' technological skills during their appraisals this year. In a couple of schools, the format of the appraisal forms have changed and heads of institutions said teachers' adaptability to technology will be given more weightage because classes were held online. Earlier, technology was used to supplement in-person classes but it was not as integral as it has become now, the heads said. Schools have also realised that this system of learning is here to stay and are taking technological skills into account when making new recruitments. “How teachers have used and navigated technology will become an essential part of the appraisal this year. It includes making use of learning apps or customising them to make the classes interactive,” said Anjana Saha,a the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. In the last one year when digital learning became the norm, teachers had to not only take classes online but also conduct exams and invigilate them online. All of these will be taken into account across schools now. "There was a training for teachers on how to proctor exams online and weightage will have to be given to technology because it is part of the system now," said Basant Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls' High School. Schools have had to change the learning process as well as the examination pattern. "We will also see how effectively teachers designed question papers online because it is time-based, competency-based and module-based where the format is different," said Saha. In some schools, the appraisal has started and in at least one school it is done quarterly. Earlier, the blackboard was an important feature in a classroom. Some schools had smart boards but not everything was taught using them. “We don’t see ourselves going back to the system of teaching that was there before. Teachers are expected to switch to different platforms, do screen sharing, make presentations and also show experiments online,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Adapting to change is the key now. “Teachers will have to be flexible and accept this transition,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. Schools envisage a change in the system and the need to adapt to that change. “In a post Covid world both the technological knowhow of the teacher and the taught will be important. If we do not make changes to emerging situations we will not be equipping the children,” said Raja McGee, principal of Calcutta Boys' School. A teacher's ability to keep students engaged in a virtual class will also be considered and whether he or she was able to navigate technology and effectively maintain discipline in an online class. In the initial months, teachers were using phones to take classes and schools asked them to switch to tabs or desktops to avoid interruptions of messages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
27-02-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine worry over facilities, personnel||Many private hospitals in Calcutta are worried that if they are not allowed enough time to ramp up infrastructure and deploy personnel, the demand for Covid-19 vaccination could overwhelm them once doses are available for the general public. Officials of private hospitals are calling up the state health department, seeking clarity on the plan for the next phase. But till Friday, not much detail was available. The Centre has announced that Covid vaccines will be offered from March 1 to all people above 60 and those above 45 with chronic health disorders. Many private hospitals said they were willing to vaccinate people above 60 and those above 45 with comorbidities if they were allowed to do so with the existing infrastructure and personnel. It will be difficult to open more vaccination sites and deploy additional personnel because most hospitals are full with patients. On Friday, the Union health ministry held a meeting with the state governments about vaccination of general public but there was no clear guideline about how many people should be vaccinated at a health-care unit each day, said an official of Bengal's health department. The Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-Win), a digital platform for real-time monitoring of vaccine delivery and distribution, will be upgraded on Saturday and Sunday so the general people can register themselves for the vaccination, the ministry told state officials. “The health ministry officials told us to ensure that the Phase II vaccination (for the general public) starts as early as possible. But they did not give any detailed guideline about how many people can be vaccinated at one hospital per day or how to register offline. There was no information about pricing of vaccines, too,” an official of the state health department said. “Many private hospitals are inquiring about these issues so that they can make plans about the infrastructure and personnel deployment. But because there is no clear guideline from the Centre yet, we are unable to tell them anything." The first phase of Covid-19 vaccination had started on January 16 with health-care workers. Later, frontline workers were included in the first phase. Officials of private hospitals said they had started identifying sites for Phase II vaccination but were unable to decide whether to take part in this phase because of lack of clarity. “We are awaiting directives from the state government on the methodology of registration and logistics for vaccination. We can accommodate the recipients at our existing site... by opening a second vaccination room. However, arranging a new site with a separate set of manpower will be a major challenge in a busy hospital," said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health. All private hospitals in Bengal were supposed to start administering Covaxin from Friday. But it could not be done because of problems on the digital platform, said officials. “However, even if the technical problem is resolved, it would not be easy for us to start administering Covaxin because the state government wants a different site," said Venkatesh. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, the flagship unit of the group in eastern India, a vaccination site has been set up opposite the emergency ward. "We can have a separate room for administering Covaxin, but we can't have additional sites," said Venkatesh. Other hospitals, too, said human resources would be an issue. Now seven to eight people, including doctors and nurses, are deployed at the vaccination site of each hospital. Deploying more people will be difficult because of the sheer number of patients at each hospital. “We are vaccinating about 300 people at each of our hospitals every day. In the next phase, if it increases to around 600, we can manage. But if it's more than that, we will not be able to vaccinate so many people,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
27-02-2021||Business||Telcos will hold their fire till 5G auction: Goldman Sachs analysts||The spectrum auction that will kick off on March 1 will be muted, analysts at Goldman Sachs have said in a report citing Vodafone Idea’s weak balance sheet and a possibility that telcos will hold their fire till the 5G auction. In the upcoming round, the government is not offering 5G in the 3300-3600 Mhz band. It is putting on the block 2309 Mhz of spectrum in seven bands —700 Mhz, 800 Mhz, 900 Mhz, 1800 Mhz, 2100 Mhz, 2300 Mhz and 2500 Mhz. The brokerage expects no bids in the high-priced 700 Mhz band. “Of the seven bands being put up for auction, we expect bidding to stay restricted to 3-4 bands, mostly to meet renewal demand, and to selectively add some coverage spectrum. “About a third of the spectrum being auctioned is in the 700 MHz band, which was unsold during the 2016 auctions, and we expect a similar outcome in 2021 despite a 43 per cent price drop; Operators are unlikely to diversify into a new band that would require investment in equipment, when other bands are available at lower prices,” it said. It forecast that there will be limited incremental impact of the upcoming auction on the balance sheet of telcos. Goldman Sachs expects an upfront payment of Rs 6,100 crore and Rs 5,100 crore from Airtel and Jio, respectively. However, Vodafone Idea’s net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio will restrict its ability to participate. Ahead of the auction, Bharti Airtel had raised $ 1.25 billion through issuance of debt instruments. Vodafone India is also planning to raise funds through a mix of equity and debt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
27-02-2021||Business||Output of 8 core industries grows 0.1 per cent in January||The output of eight core infrastructure sectors grew marginally by 0.1 per cent in January, backed by higher production of fertiliser, steel and electricity even as five other sectors contracted. The core sector had expanded by 2.2 per cent in January 2020, according to the provisional data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Friday. “The anaemic core sector growth is a concern as it has a weight of nearly 40 per cent on the IIP and reflects physical production that has now declined 8.8 per cent for the year. Therefore, while the monetary value added number has been positive the same does not hold here,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings. Aditi Nayar, principal economist of Icra said: “Based on the available data for the core sector, merchandise exports and auto output, we project the growth in IIP to remain subdued at 0.5-1.5 per cent in January 2021.” Coal output contracted 1.8 per cent, crude oil 4.6 per cent, natural gas 2 per cent, refinery products 2.6 per cent and cement 5.9 in January. However, the output of fertiliser, steel and electricity in January grew 2.7 per cent, 2.6 per cent and 5.1 per cent, respectively. Fiscal deficit Fiscal deficit for the 10 months ended January stood at Rs 12.34 lakh crore or 66.8 per cent of the revised budgeted target for the whole fiscal. The government has pegged the fiscal deficit for the current year at Rs 18.48 lakh crore, or 9.5 per cent of GDP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
27-02-2021||Business||IATA projects aviation industry to lose about $75-95 billion in 2021||The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has estimated that the aviation industry would continue to experience a contraction and the cash burn in 2021 would balloon to about $75-95 billion from the previously anticipated $48 billion because of the Covid-19 pandemic that has hit travel demand amid restrictions in several countries. “With governments having tightening border restrictions, 2021 is shaping up to be a much tougher year than previously expected. Our best-case scenario sees airlines burning through $75 billion in cash this year. And it could be as bad as $95 billion,” Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s director-general and CEO, said in a release. More emergency relief from governments will be needed. A functioning airline industry can eventually energise the economic recovery from Covid-19, he added. “But that won’t happen if there are massive failures before the crisis ends. If governments are unable to open their borders, we will need them to open their wallets with financial relief to keep airlines viable.” “It is clear that the first half of 2021 will be worse than earlier anticipated. This is because governments have tightened travel restrictions in response to new Covid-19 variants. Forward bookings for summer (July-August) are currently 78 per cent below levels in February 2019 (comparisons to 2020 are distorted owing to Covid-19 impacts),” IATA said in a statement. “With airlines now expected to burn cash throughout 2021 it is vital that governments and the industry are fully prepared to restart the moment governments agree that it is safe to re-open borders,” it added. IATA expects airlines globally to lose more than $38.7 billion in 2021 because of the muted travel appetite and various curbs during the pandemic. Airlines operating in the Asia-Pacific (Apac) region, including India, are expected to report combined losses of $7.5 billion in 2020 because of the adverse impact of the pandemic on travel demand. IATA expects airlines to improve their performance in the second half of 2021 but passenger traffic may rebound to 2019-levels only by 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
27-02-2021||Business||RailTel Corporation of India gets listed on the NSE||RailTel Corporation of India on Friday got listed on the NSE with a premium of 16 per cent against its issue price of Rs 94 apiece. Despite the selloff in the broader market, the stock made a debut at Rs 109, a gain of 15.95 per cent compared with the issue price on the NSE. On the BSE, shares of the company got listed at Rs 104.60, a rise of 11.27 per cent. The company’s market valuation stood at Rs 3,846.45 crore. The initial public offer was subscribed over 42 times. The qualified institutional buyer (QIBs) category was subscribed 65.14 times, non-institutional investors 73.25 times and retail individual investors 16.78 times. The mini-ratna PSU is one of the largest neutral telecom infrastructure providers in the country owning an optic fiber network on exclusive right of way along railway track. The company provides broadband telecom and multimedia networks across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
27-02-2021||Business||Sensex plummets 1940 points; biggest single-day fall in 10 months||A global selloff driven by panic in the overseas bond markets on Friday ripped apart the renewed vigour in domestic equities as the Sensex plummeted around 1940 points to record its biggest single-day fall in almost 10 months, eroding investor wealth by over Rs 5.37 lakh crore. The sea of red in stock prices came as US treasury bond yields breached 1.50 per cent on rising inflation fears. This has led to apprehensions that fund flows to emerging markets will be adversely affected as central banks could gradually withdraw their accommodative stance. Other developments such as the US carrying out air strikes against Iran-based militia groups in Syria also spooked investors. This came at a time investors were hesitant to build fresh positions ahead of the third-quarter GDP data release. For the domestic markets, Friday’s crash comes when there was optimism of stock prices looking at their next leg of rally with the government set to undertake various reform measures and the economy in a revival mode. However, there are others who point out that the times will be volatile as valuations are expensive and there are headwinds such as the rising number of Covid-19 cases in some parts of the country that could dent economic activities as some form of restrictions could be imposed by the authorities. In Friday’s trading, the Sensex opened down at 50256.71 and continued to be under pressure as it hit a day’s low of 48890.48 — a fall of 2148.83 points. It later ended 1939.32 points, or 3.80 per cent, lower at 49099.99 — its worst one-day fall since May 4 last year. The broader NSE Nifty plunged 568.20 points, or 3.76 per cent, to close at 14529.15 —– its biggest single-day drop since March 23 last year. “The domestic markets gave in to a riot of selloff... a very rare thing in an otherwise booming market. US inflation is expected to rise in the coming months, and therefore, the US yields too. Rising inflationary expectations and the rising yields have a potential to adversely affect the equity sentiment and the equity markets’’, said Joseph Thomas, head of research, Emkay Wealth Management. Provisional data from the bourses showed foreign portfolio investors sold a massive Rs 8,300 crore of stocks on Friday. The rupee also posted its biggest single-day fall in nearly 19 months, tumbling 104 paise to close at 73.47 against the dollar. According to Siddhartha Khemka, head-retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, the markets may continue with its consolidation given the weak global cues. “Investors would closely track bond yields, geopolitical tensions and inflation data for further market direction and would monitor developments around new US stimulus announcement. Even high valuations do not provide much comfort and thus correction was long overdue. Investors should take this opportunity to buy on dips while traders should be cautious with stock-specific action and book profits in regular intervals,’’ he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
27-02-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India firm on 4% inflation targeting||The Reserve Bank on Friday lobbied hard once again for persisting with the existing inflation targeting formula that underpins monetary policy making in the country, setting the stage for a showdown with the finance ministry when the entire mechanism comes up for review next month. At present, the inflation target has been fixed at 4 per cent as the median rate with a tolerance band of 2 per cent on either side. The RBI wants this formula to stay for the next five years. The central bank released a 210-page Report on Currency and Finance — resurrecting a publication after a gap of almost eight years — which focuses on the theme of the flexible inflation targeting (FIT) framework that was enacted in 2016 and served as the scaffold for the country’s monetary policy architecture. The five-year tenure for the FIT formula runs out at the end of next month. At the same time, the report argued for greater transparency in the communication of the monetary policy committee’s deliberations and even suggested that the authorities may “consider providing a more explicit forward guidance on the interest rate path at a future date” as the projection process strengthens over time. The report argued that the inflation targeting mechanism has worked well for the most part with inflation hovering within the 2-6 per cent range until the Covid pandemic botched up that record. Transmission of the policy rate to the stack of lending rates in the financial system, especially the weighted average call rate (WACR), had also been better during the FIT regime. “The WACR should continue as the operating target of monetary policy,” the report said while noting that there had been a pronounced downward bias vis-a-vis the policy rate ever since the RBI switched over to the inflation targeting mechanism. The report also suggested that the definition of a “failure” to meet the inflation target — which mandates the MPC to adopt remedial measures and submit a report to Parliament explaining why it could not meet that objective — needed to be relaxed. At present, a failure is defined as an inability to hold the inflation rate between 2 and 6 per cent — the tolerance bands — for three consecutive quarters. The report says that this should be extended to four quarters. None of these suggestions is likely to resonate with the government. Chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian hinted in a recent interview that the government was keen to take a hard look at the formula itself, with the likelihood that the retail inflation rate based on the Consumer Price Index may not be the sole metric that will be used in future. The CPI has weighted heavily in favour of food prices which makes a lopsided inference about the trajectory of inflation in the country. The RBI report has argued that the existing inflation targeting methodology is justified on the ground that the trend inflation from October 2016 to March 2020 fell from a little over 9 per cent to 3.8-4.3 per cent, which validates the formula. The RBI report said growth was unambiguously impaired when inflation crossed 6 per cent which made a strong case for retaining the upper tolerance limit. Bringing inflation below 2 per cent will only disincentivise producers, the report added and suggested that it should be retained as well. The report said there was  a need for greater flexibility for the monetary policy to see through sharp movements in food prices brought about by transient factors while at the same time be cognizant of relative price shocks that have a bearing on core inflation. “A definition of failure that balances these two objectives would help prevent volatility in output growth brought about by policy responses to frequent food price spikes,”  the report said. Besides, the report recommended staggered terms for members in the six-member MPC to moderate political influence rather than the fixed term at present. It also recommended a “shut period”, where members do not speak publicly, starting three days prior to a policy announcement and extended to seven days after the announcement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
27-02-2021||Business||Indian economy projected to contract by 8 per cent||The Indian economy is projected to contract by 8 per cent this fiscal — a lot worse than the minus 7.7 per cent that the National Statistical Office (NSO) had forecast in its first advance estimate of national income released on January 7. Real GDP growth in 2019-20 was 4 per cent. Nominal GDP — which is measured at current prices and, therefore, factors in the effects of inflation — will contract by 3.8 per cent against the earlier forecast of minus 4.2 per cent. The Narendra Modi government, which is battling mounting criticism for its inability to deal with the runaway increase in petrol, diesel and LPG prices and resolve the mess over farm sector reforms, will, however, want to highlight the 0.4 per cent increase in real GDP growth in the third quarter (October-December). It tried to build a narrative around this recovery — a green shoot suggesting a return to the growth path after two successive quarters when the economy shrank. Analysts in a Reuters poll held ahead of the NSO’s release of the second advance estimates had projected Q3 growth a tad higher at 0.5 per cent. The real bad news is that per capita income in real terms (based on 2011-12 prices) during a Covid-battered year is projected to plunge by 9.1 per cent to Rs 85,929 from Rs 94,566 in 2019-20 — which piles misery on the people at a time when unemployment has crested to its highest levels since the Modi government came to power in 2014. Analysts said the economy faced considerable risks in terms of a spike in Covid cases with the fresh rise impacting several states raising the withering prospect of fresh localised lockdowns. A surge in crude oil prices and volatility in the financial markets amplify concerns about the economy. “India’s advance estimate of FY21 real GDP growth has been surprisingly revised down to a negative 8 per cent from minus 7.7 per cent,” said Sreejith Balasubramanian, economist-fund management at IDFC Asset Management Company. “Nominal GDP is estimated to be slightly better. The worry is that growth in both private and government consumption expenditure will be far more sluggish though investment growth is projected to be slightly better. This also implies that the financial, real estate and professional services segment, and public administration, defence and other services are expected to show tepid growth. But manufacturing recovery could be better.” The government’s statisticians reworked the numbers for the first and the second quarters. The result: the economy contracted in the first quarter by 24.4 per cent against the earlier forecast of minus 23.9 per cent. Contraction in the second quarter was revised to minus 7.3 per cent from a negative 7.5 per cent earlier. In the December quarter, the economy limped back into positive territory by recording growth of 0.4 per cent, signalling the end to the technical recession wrought by the contraction in the first two quarters. In stark contrast, China’s economy grew by 6.5 per cent in October-December 2020, faster than the 4.9 per cent growth in July-September 2020. On Thursday, the American Bureau of Economic Analysis said real GDP in the US economy in the fourth quarter of 2020 (October-December) grew at an annualised rate of 4.1 per cent against a 33.4 per cent growth in the third quarter. These numbers would suggest that the recovery in India is lagging the larger economies of the world. The finance ministry seized on the third quarter growth of 0.4 per cent to suggest that this was a “reflection of a further strengthening of V-shaped recovery that began in the second quarter”. Not everyone was convinced by the government’s assertion of a broad-based recovery. Said Sakshi Gupta, senior economist at HDFC Bank: “The Q3 GDP was slightly lower than expectations even though the economy did move into the green. Going ahead, we are likely to see a continuation of a K-shaped recovery with some sectors growing faster than the others. We expect growth to print at 1.5 per cent in the fourth quarter (January-March) and minus 7.5 per cent for this fiscal. We also expect GDP for FY22 at 11.5 per cent. We expect the economy to reach pre-pandemic output levels by the end of the calendar year 2021.” The agriculture sector remained the big bright spot with the NSO projecting a 3 per cent growth this year against 4.3 per cent in 2019-20. In the first advance estimate in January, the NSO had estimated farm sector growth slightly higher at 3.4 per cent. According to the second advance estimates, the manufacturing sector is estimated to contract by 8.4 per cent during FY21, while electricity and other utilities will likely grow at 1.8 per cent. In the services sector, the trade, hotels and transport segment is projected to contract by 18 per cent. The NSO estimates that output in the mining and quarrying sector will contract by 9.2 per cent. In the third quarter ended December 31, the farm sector recorded a growth of 3.9 per cent while the manufacturing sector output grew by 1.6 per cent. The construction sector advanced by 6.2 per cent while electricity, gas, water supply and other utility services clocked a 7.3 per cent growth. “The measures taken by the government to contain spread of the Covid-19 pandemic have had an impact on the economic activities as well as on the data collection mechanisms. Estimates are, therefore, likely to undergo sharp revisions in due course.… Users should take this into consideration when interpreting the figures,” the government said in an attempt to downplay the dismal data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
27-02-2021||India||Steps to block web content in place since 2009, says Centre||The Information and Broadcasting Ministry on Saturday clarified that the provision in the new digital media guidelines to block internet content in a case of emergency nature has been around as a rule since 2009 and was not recently introduced. Certain misgivings are being raised regarding Rule 16 under Part III of the guidelines which mention that in a case of emergency nature, interim blocking directions may be issued by the Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, a ministry statement said. "It is hereby clarified that this is not a new provision. For the past eleven years, since 2009, this provision has been exercised by the Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and IT under the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009," it said. Under the rules issued on February 25, this provision has only been replaced with Secretary, Ministry of I&B because Part III of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 would be administered by the I&B Ministry, the statement said. "It is reiterated -- no change in provision has been made nor any new provision has been added on blocking of content under Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021," the I&B ministry said. The government on Thursday had said a 'code of ethics' and three-tier grievance redressal mechanism would be applicable for news publishers, over-the-top (OTT) platforms and digital media. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 were announced at a joint press conference here by I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad earlier this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
27-02-2021||India||Private hospitals can charge up to Rs 250 for single dose of Covid vaccine||Private hospitals can charge up to Rs 250 per dose of Covid-19 vaccine, official sources said on Saturday as India prepares to vaccinate people aged above 60 years and those over 45 with comorbidities from March 1. The Covid-19 vaccine will be given free of cost at government hospitals, while people will need to pay for it at private facilities. "Rs 250 will be the ceiling -- Rs 150 cost of vaccine plus Rs 100 service charge. This arrangement will remain effective till further orders," a source said. According to sources, states and union territories have been informed about it. The Union Health Ministry on Friday had said beneficiaries would be able to self-register in advance by downloading the Co-WIN 2.0 portal and through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu, which will show the government and private hospitals serving as Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVCs) with date and time of the available schedules. The beneficiary would be able to choose the CVC of his/her choice and book an appointment for vaccination, the ministry said. There will be a facility of on-site registration so that eligible beneficiaries can walk into identified vaccination centres, get themselves registered and inoculated. "Eligible beneficiaries would be able to register themselves on the Co-WIN platform from March 1 itself," R S Sharma, Chairman of Empowered Group on Covid-19 Vaccine Administration had said. The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched on January 16. This is now to be exponentially expanded to the age-groups -- all citizens above 60 years and those within the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with specific comorbidities -- from March 1. During a meeting held on Friday, representatives of states and UTs were explained the basic features of version 2.0 of the digital platform Co-WIN, which is a population-scale software with capacity of processing several thousands of entries. It was pointed out that all CVCs must be health facilities which are government health facilities such as sub health centres (SHCs), primary health centres (PHCs), community health centres (CHCs), Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centres, Sub-Division Hospitals, District Hospitals and Medical College Hospitals or private hospitals empanelled under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS), Ayushman Bharat- Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (AB-PM JAY) and similar State Health Insurance Schemes. States and UTs were asked to ensure that the private health facilities have adequate space for the vaccination process, as detailed in the comprehensive SOPs issued by the ministry, basic cold chain equipments, their own team of vaccinators and staff, and adequate facility for management of any adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) cases for using them as CVCs. All beneficiaries, regardless of the mode of access will have to carry any one of the following photo ID documents -- Aadhaar Card, Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC), Photo ID card specified at the time of registration in case of online registration (if not Aadhaar or EPIC), certificate of comorbidity for citizens in age group of 45 years to 59 years (signed by a registered medical practitioner), and employment certificate/Official Identity Card for healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs). States and UTs on Friday explained the simplified process of registration, which shall be through three routes -- advance self-registration, on-site registration and facilitated cohort registration. Under the first route, beneficiaries will be able to self register in advance by downloading the Co-WIN 2.0 portal and through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu. "This will show the government and private hospitals serving as CVCs with date and time of the available schedules. The beneficiary would be able to choose the CVC of his/her choice and book an appointment for vaccination. "The facility of on-site registration allows those who cannot self register in advance to walk into the identified CVCs and get themselves registered on-site and then vaccinated," the ministry said. Under the facilitated cohort registration mechanism, the state and UT government will take proactive lead, the ministry said in the statement. Specific date(s) for Covid-19 vaccination will be decided where target groups of potential beneficiaries will be vaccinated. State and health authorities will ensure that the target groups are actively mobilised and brought to the vaccination centres. ASHAs, ANMs, Panchayati Raj representatives and Women's Self Help Groups (SHGs) will be utilised for mobilising the target groups. Vaccination will be free of charge at the government vaccination centres. The beneficiary will have to show a photo ID document for proof of age (preferably Aadhaar card or EPIC card) and certificate of co-morbidity (if required). Those taking the Covid vaccine at any designated/empanelled private health facility will have to pay a pre-fixed charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
27-02-2021||India||Real-life Rancho builds solar heated tents for Army personnel||Innovator and educationist Sonam Wangchuk, the real life Phunsukh Wangdu of Bollywood blockbuster 3 Idiots, has developed an eco-friendly solar heated tent that Army personnel can use in extremely cold places like Siachen and Galwan valley in the Ladakh region. Wangchuk, who has many environmentally friendly innovations to his name, said the solar heated military tent, besides saving on use of fossil fuel and its ill-effects on the environment, increases the safety of the military personnel. "This tent uses the solar energy trapped during day time to keep the soldiers' sleeping chamber warm during night. Since there is no use of fossil fuel, it saves on money and also is emission free," he said. The innovator said the temperature inside the sleeping chamber of the military tent can be increased or decreased by corresponding increase or decrease in insulation layers. "The sleeping chamber has four layers of insulation and it gave a temperature of 15 degrees Celsius at a time when outside temperature was minus 14 degrees Celsius. The number of layers can be reduced for warmer places," he added. Wangchuk said the temperature inside the tent should not be too cozy as the soldiers have to be ready to fight the enemy in the open where temperature can be as low as minus 30 degrees Celsius in places like Galwan valley. While Wangchuk extensively referred to last year's India-China standoff in Ladakh, he said he had made an earlier version of solar heated tent 15 years ago for shepherds who were engaged in rearing Pashmina goats which produce high quality Cashmere wool. Referring to the new prototype, Wangchuk said the tent is portable and can accommodate 10 soldiers. "No component of the tent weighs more than 30 kg which makes it easily portable. The tent is disassembled into 30 to 40 components," he said. Wangchuk said the weight of components can be brought down to 20 kg each by using superlight aluminium material. "That version will be more expensive than the current prototype," he said. He acknowledged the support provided by the Army in developing the solar heated tent, saying "it has been designed keeping in mind the requirements of the Army". The innovator said it took his team at Himalayan Institute of Alternatives Ladakh (HIAL) one month to make the prototype of the solar heated tent. The tent has been designed keeping in mind the places like Siachen glacier and Black Top Hill, the 55-year-old innovator said. Wangchuk on Friday visited Zojila Top to test a "crazy idea" of making a low cost ice tunnel for keeping the approach road to the Zojila tunnel open. "It will save 500 tonnes of carbon dioxide and crores annually," he said while asking his one million subscribers on YouTube channel to "stay tuned for the video".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
27-02-2021||India||Don't lower your guard, Centre tells Covid spike states ||The Centre on Saturday advised states and UTs reporting an increase in coronavirus cases to enforce COVID-appropriate behaviour by dealing firmly with violations and ensure effective surveillance in case of potential super spreading events so as not to squander last year's gains. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba chaired a high-level review meeting with chief secretaries of states and UTs of Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Telangana and Jammu and Kashmir. These states and UTs have been reporting a high COVID-19 active caseload or an increasing trend in new cases in the last week. "They were advised not to lower their guard, enforce COVID appropriate behaviour and deal firmly with violations. It was strongly underlined that they need to follow effective surveillance strategies in respect of potential super spreading events," the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. The need for effective testing, comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation of positive cases and quick quarantine of close contacts were also strongly emphasised. During the review meeting, states were advised to undertake vaccination on priority in districts reporting higher cases and monitor mutant strain and clustering of cases for early hotspot identification and control, the statement. They have also been asked to improve the overall testing in districts reporting a reduction in testing, and increase RT- PCR tests in districts having high antigen testing. The states and UT were asked to refocus on surveillance and stringent containment in selected districts reporting reduced tests/high positivity and increased cases. They have also been asked to focus on clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths and promote COVID-appropriate behaviour to ensure effective citizen communication to not let complacency set in, especially in light of vaccination drive entering the next phase, and enforcing stringent social distancing measures. Six states Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat- have shown a surge in new cases in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 8,333. It is followed by Kerala with 3,671 while Punjab reported 622 new cases in the last 24 hours. In the last two weeks, Maharashtra has shown the highest rise in active cases from 34,449 on February 14 to 68,810 currently, the ministry said. A detailed presentation was made on the current status of COVID-19 in these states with a focus on districts reporting an increasing number of new cases or positivity. This was followed by a comprehensive review with all the states and UTs. The chief secretaries briefed about the current situation in the states and their preparedness to tackle the recent spike of COVID cases. They informed about the enforcement of COVID appropriate behaviour by levying heavy fines and challans, reviewing the surveillance and containment activities closely with the district collectors, and other steps being taken in line with the guidelines provided by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare(MoHFW) and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The Cabinet Secretary reiterated that states need to maintain a continued rigorous vigil in terms of containing the spread and not squander away the gains of the collective hard work of the last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||LoC pact to have no impact on counter-terrorism operations, says Army||The Army's northern commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi on Saturday said the agreement between India and Pakistan to strictly adhere to the ceasefire pact along the Line of Control (LoC) would have no bearing on the counter-terrorism operations in Jammu and Kashmir. He said the northern command, which looks after the security of the twin union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, remained on the highest alert and made possible what was believed impossible by the bravery, grit and determination of its personnel in the face of challenging situations along the border. "Recently, the Director General of Military Operations (DGMOs) of India and Pakistan have announced an agreement to uphold a ceasefire along the LoC from February 24 and 25 midnight. I want to assure that this ceasefire will have no bearing on the counter-terrorist operations and we will maintain our alertness," Lt Gen Joshi said at the northern command investiture ceremony here. During the ceremony, the Army commander presented two Bar to Sena medals (gallantry) and 50 Sena medals (gallantry) to the brave soldiers. He also presented three Sena medals (distinguished) and six Vishisht Seva medals for selfless service to the nation. Lt Gen Joshi also awarded unit appreciation to 26 units for their overall outstanding performance in the command theatre. "The northern command has always stood like a shield against the attempts by our neighbouring countries to spread disturbance and it will continue to remain so in the future. Whenever anyone raises an evil eye on our country, Indian Army has replied strongly," Lt Gen Joshi said. Without naming China and Pakistan, he said Indian Army has maintained its domination on its borders with the neighbouring countries and helped in maintaining peace in the hinterland. Referring to the eastern Ladakh standoff with the Chinese army, he said Indian Army stood up to the challenge on the snow-capped mountains of the Line of Actual Control during the challenging situation in 2020 and maintained the highest alert. "Our action is a glaring example of our training, bravery and pledge (to safeguard the borders) and it will be written in history with golden words. The northern command made possible what seemed impossible. The success of the operation (in Ladakh) is the glaring example of the bravery of Indian Army, he said. He said 2020 was historic in many ways for the Army which demonstrated its mettle in eastern Ladakh by its "grit, determination, self-confidence, bravery and steadfastness". He said there has been a tremendous improvement in the basic deployment and preparedness and the efforts in this direction will continue. The measures we have put in to strengthen our defences, the same efforts were made to maintain peace, he said. In Kashmir, he said, the overall security situation saw a great improvement in the previous year as there has been a considerable reduction in terrorist-initiated incidents, stone-pelting activities and protests as a result of tireless efforts of the security forces and the people of Jammu and Kashmir. He said the Army also played a key role in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. "Under 'Seva Paramo Dharma', Army doctors, nursing staff, ambulance and medical corps staff without caring for their lives worked round-the-clock and are continuously doing so," he said. He congratulated those who were decorated for their bravery and conveyed his heartfelt gratitude to the brave men who made the supreme sacrifice on the borders, including at Galwan Valley, and in the battle against internal security challenges. Lt Col Joshi urged all ranks, ex-servicemen, civilians and their families to rededicate themselves to the cause of the nation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||BJP, AIADMK begin talks for seat sharing in Tamil Nadu||The ruling AIADMK and BJP commenced the talks for sharing seats for the April 6 assembly election in the state. Both the parties are likely to arrive at a consensus soon. A delegation from the BJP which included Union Ministers Kishan Reddy, Gen V K Singh, BJP national general secretary in-charge of Tamil Nadu C T Ravi, state party chief L Murugan, held discussions with Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator K Palaniswami and AIADMK coordinator and Deputy CM O Panneerselvam, on Saturday. BJP state organising general secretary Kesava Vinayagan was also present during the talks. The parleys, according to a BJP senior, were cordial and the deal is likely to be clinched soon. "Our expectation is for 60 assembly constituencies, which we have identified as winnable seats. They (AIADMK) may have their plans. The numbers which will be agreeable to both the parties will be announced," BJP senior M Chakravarthy told PTI. The AIADMK will hold separate talks with a delegation from the PMK this evening. Actor-politician Vijaykanth-led Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) and G K Vasan's Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC) are the other allies of the AIADMK. Meanwhile, R Sarath Kumar, founder of All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi (AISMK) who had been in alliance with the AIADMK for a decade, called on Kamal Haasan, founder of Makkal Neethi Maiam party here on Saturday to discuss the possibility of forging electoral ties for the upcoming election. Speaking to reporters here, he said his party had a chunk of vote bank in Tamil Nadu. "AISMK was in the AIADMK alliance for 10 years. We waited for a call from the AIADMK, but there was no word. We have decided to move on," Sarath Kumar said and added that he would strive for a change in Tamil Nadu. He had called on Haasan as it was nice for like-minded people to meet, said Sarath Kumar who earlier this week, called on V K Sasikala, the ousted AIADMK general secretary at her residence hereafter she returned to Chennai from Karnataka. Announcing alliance with Indhiya Jananayaka Katchi (IJK), a political party floated by Lok Sabha MP Paarivendhar, who heads the SRM group of institutions, Sarath Kumar said he has joined hands with IJK to contest the elections "with good people."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||Toll in Uttarakhand disaster rises to 72||One more body was recovered from the banks of the Alaknanda at Marwadi near Joshimath taking the toll in the recent avalanche in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district to 72. The 72nd body was recovered late on Friday evening, Chamoli's Disaster Management Officer N K Joshi said on Saturday. Meanwhile, rescue operations in the avalanche hit-areas continued for the 21st day on Saturday, he said. So far 72 bodies and 30 human body parts have been recovered from different places in the avalanche-hit areas out of which 41 bodies have been identified, he said adding 132 persons are still missing. Meanwhile, the NTPC whose Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project was one of the worst-hit by the February 7 disaster, has deposited a sum of Rs 3.52 crore in the chief judicial magistrate's court to be paid as compensation to 25 affected families as per a list issued by the state government, a company spokesperson said. The rest of the families will also be paid compensation after the state government issues death certificates of their missing kin, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||Rahul attacks Modi over Sino-India standoff||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday launched a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Sino-India border standoff, charging him with being 'scared' of the eastern neighbour. Before the stand-off at eastern Ladakh, where the disengagement process has been completed with the withdrawal of troops, weapons and other military hardware from the North and South banks of Pangong lake areas, the Chinese "tested the idea in Dokhlam (in 2017)," he said. "Essentially the Chinese occupied certain strategic areas in our country. They first tested the idea in Dokhlam. They tested the idea to see how would India react and they noticed India did not react. And then they carried out the idea again in Ladakh and also I believe in Arunachal Pradesh," he said. Launching his three-day tour of Tamil Nadu ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls, the Congress leader, while interacting with advocates here, reiterated his "hum do hamare do" jibe at the ruling dispensation at the Centre. Speaking in detail over the border standoff, Gandhi said Modi's first reaction to the Chinese incursions was "that nobody has come into India." "That indicated to the Chinese that the Prime Minister of India is scared of them. That is the message he indicated to the Chinese, that he is scared of them and the Chinese understood it. And since then the Chinese have negotiated on that principle," he said. "They know that the Prime Minister of India cannot stand up to them. Mark my words, our land in Depsang, which is the most important land, is not going to come back to under this government. The Prime Minister will not get that land back. He will pretend everything is sorted out, but India is going to lose that territory," he charged. Giving such a message to the Chinese was "very dangerous to the future because the Chinese are not going to stop with Ladakh," he alleged. He said the government under the Congress "always dealt with the Chinese without any hesitation." "The Chinese understood very well that India cannot be pushed around. Even in 2013 when the Chinese entered into India, we took action that forced them, forced them to compromise...we went and occupied other spaces," he said. "They have now understood the Prime Minister doesn't have the courage...the Chinese know the Prime Minister is going to compromise," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||Review meeting with 8 states and UTs witnessing spike in Covid cases on cards||The cabinet secretary will chair a high-level review meeting on Saturday with eight states and union territories exhibiting a surge in COVID-19 cases, the Union Health Ministry said. The states showing a surge are Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir and West Bengal. India's total COVID-19 active caseload is 1,59,590 which is 1.44 per cent of the total infections. Six states -- Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat -- have shown a surge in new cases in a span of 24 hours, the ministry underlined. Maharashtra continued to report the highest daily new cases at 8,333. It was followed by Kerala that reported 3,671 new cases and Punjab with 622 new cases. The ministry said 85.75 per cent of 16,488 new cases registered in a span of 24 hours are from six states and UTs. "Eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases," the ministry said. "In the last two weeks, Kerala has shown the maximum decline in the number of active cases, from 63,847 on February 14 to 51,679 today, while Maharashtra has shown the highest rise in active cases in the same period, from 34,449 on February 14 to 68,810 currently," the ministry added. The cabinet secretary will chair a high-level review meeting on Saturday with Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, MP, Gujarat, Punjab, J&K and WB which are exhibiting a surge in cases, it said. A total of 1,42,42,547 vaccine doses have been administered through 2,92,312 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 66,68,974 healthcare workers (HCWs) who were administered the first dose, 24,53,878 HCWs who were given the second dose and 51,19,695 frontline workers (FLWs) who took the first dose. The second dose of COVID-19 vaccination started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose. The vaccination of the FLWs started on February 2. As on Day 42 of the vaccination drive (February 27), a total of 7,64,904 vaccine doses were given. Out of these, 3,49,020 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 13,397 sessions for first dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 4,20,884 HCWs received the second dose of the vaccine. Eight states account for 62.75 per cent of the cumulative second dose vaccinations in India. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 12.64 per cent (3,10,058) of the total second dose vaccinations in India, the ministry said. Nine states and UTs have administered the first vaccine dose to less than 60 per cent of the registered healthcare workers. These are Arunachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Telangana, Ladakh, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Punjab and Puducherry. Twelve states and UTs have reported vaccination coverage of more than 65 per cent frontline workers. These are Ladakh, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Lakshadweep, Rajasthan, Kerala and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The ministry said 12 states and UTs have reported vaccination coverage of less than 40 per cent of the frontline workers. These are Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Meghalaya, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab, Nagaland, Goa and Mizoram. A total of 1,07,63,451 people have recovered so far, with 12,771 patients having discharged in a span of 24 hours. "India's COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.17 per cent is among the highest in the world," the ministry underscored. It said 84.79 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6 states and UTs. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,936 newly recovered cases. As many as 4,142 people recovered in Kerala in a span of 24 hours followed by 642 in Karnataka. Besides, 113 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states and UTs account for 82.3 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties at 48. It was followed by Punjab with 15 daily deaths and Kerala reported 14 deaths in a span of 24 hours. Seventeen states and UTs have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours, the ministry highlighted. These are Gujarat, Odisha, Chandigarh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Manipur, Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Ladakh, Sikkim, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Andman and Nicobar Islands, Tripura, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||Modi urges toy manufacturers to use more eco-friendly material||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asked the toy manufacturers to use less plastic and more eco-friendly material, in addition, to focus on innovation. Inaugurating the first India Toy Fair 2021, Modi said, "We have to become Aatmanirbhar in the toy sector and also cater to the global market". He regretted that India's share in the USD 100 billion global toy market is very less, and about 85 per cent of the toys sold in the country are imported. "We need to promote hand-made in India," he said. The Prime Minister also interacted with traditional toymakers from Chennapatnam, Varanasi and Jaipur and exhorted them to innovate and make traditional toys more relevant keeping in view the changing taste of children. He asked the toy manufacturers to make eco-friendly, attractive and innovative toys and use more recyclable material. The Prime Minister said the government has prepared a National Toy Action Plan by involving 15 ministries with a view to make the domestic toy industry competitive. The initiative, he added, is aimed at making India Aatmanirbhar in the toy sector and also increasing the presence of domestic toys in the global market. The Indian toy industry has tradition, technology, concepts and competence, Modi said, stressing that "we can give to the world eco-friendly toys".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 earth observation satellite set to take-off||Countdown for the launch of PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 mission commenced on Saturday from Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh. PSLV-C51 rocket, which is the 53rd mission of PSLV (Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle), will launch Amazonia-1 of Brazil as primary satellite and 18 co-passenger satellites from Sriharikota, about 100 kms from Chennai, Bengaluru- headquartered Indian Space Research Organisation said in a statement. The launch is tentatively scheduled at 1024hours on February 28, subject to weather conditions. The countdown began at 0854 hours. PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 is the first dedicated commercial mission of NewSpace India Limited (NSIL), ISRO's commercial arm. NSIL is undertaking this mission under a commercial arrangement with Seattle, US-based satellite rideshare and mission management provider, Spaceflight Inc. Amazonia-1 is the optical earth observation satellite of National Institute for Space Research (INPE). "This satellite would further strengthen the existing structure by providing remote sensing data to users for monitoring deforestation in the Amazon region and analysis of diversified agriculture across the Brazilian territory", the statement said. The 18 co-passenger satellites are -- four from Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (three UNITYsats from consortium of three Indian academic institutes and one Satish Dhawan Sat from Space Kidz India) and 14 from NSIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases above 15,000 for third consecutive day||India registered a single-day spike of over 16,000 COVID-19 cases for the third day in a row on Saturday, pushing the infection tally to 1,10,79,979, while the recoveries surged to 1,07,63,451, according to Union Health Ministry data. A total of 16,488 novel coronavirus cases were reported in a day, while the death toll rose to 1,56,938 with 113 new fatalities, showed the data updated at 8 am on Saturday. The active case count has further increased to 1,59,590, which comprises 1.44 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. The number of recoveries reached 1,07,63,451, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.14 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. A total of 16,577 new COVID-19 cases were reported in India on Friday, while 16,738 fresh infections were registered in the country on Thursday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. The 113 new fatalities include 48 from Maharashtra , 15 from Punjab and 14 from Kerala. The death toll from the pandemic stands at 52,041 in Maharashtra, 12,488 in Tamil Nadu, 12,320 in Karnataka, 10,906 in Delhi, 10,263 in West Bengal, 8,725 in Uttar Pradesh and 7,169 in Andhra Pradesh. For the first time, a coronavirus-linked death has been reported in Lakshadweep. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths were caused due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi's day out, fishing expedition in Kerala ||Sebin Cyriac is one of Kerala’s most popular fishing vloggers, is an expert swimmer and diver himself but would think twice before jumping into mid sea. Early morning on Wednesday, he met a certified divemaster and one-time scuba diving instructor who thought nothing about plunging into the sea in his khakis and T-shirt several kilometres from the shore and take to the water like a fish. Except that the man in question is Rahul Gandhi. “I am a swimmer and can dive up to about 10 metres. But even I am scared of diving in such deep waters. He made it appear routine and didn’t create any fuss. He just handed over his mobile phone to a fisherman who was seated next to him, removed his mask, got up and leapt into the cold waters around 6.30am,” Cyriac told The Telegraph on Friday. It was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for the popular fishing vlogger when he got a call from Delhi to accompany the Congress leader on a fishing expedition off the Kerala coast. Many surprises were lurking in the blue waters of the Arabian Sea for Cyriac, his two colleagues and the 25 fishermen on board the mother ship and two assisting vessels. Cyriac, 29, said he did not expect the expedition to be so smooth in spite of the fact that his assignment was to guide a political VVIP. “He made all of us, including the fishermen, feel comfortable and allowed us to do our work. One of the most remarkable things was the way he listened to everyone and asked pertinent questions to know more about fishing and its challenges,” Cyriac said. His latest, and perhaps the most important vlog of his career, “Deep sea fishing with Rahul Gandhi”, was uploaded on YouTube on Thursday evening and had garnered over 1 million views by Friday afternoon. Cyriac said he believed Rahul’s office picked him due to the popularity of his vlog — Fishing Freaks — which has 1.6 million subscribers on YouTube. Cyriac, who took to professional vlogging more than two years ago, was accompanied by his two colleagues to handle five cameras including a drone that captured every moment of the three-hour expedition that started at the Thangassery fishing harbour in Kollam at 5am on Wednesday. “None of the fishermen or the boat owners had been told who was coming on board. And when they got to see Rahul Gandhi I could see the excitement on their faces,” recalled Cyriac, who also acted as the interpreter between the crew and the Congress MP from Wayanad. For those unflustered by the TV cacophony and smear campaign against Rahul, the video offered a peek into what made the politician with an unflinching resolve and steely calm that enables him to speak up without fear. Rahul first boarded one of the two assisting vessels and later switched to the mother boat carrying the giant fishing net all ready to be cast once the sonar picks a shoal. But what shocked and surprised even the seasoned fishermen was when Rahul dived into the sea several kilometres from the shore. “We had never expected him to dive into the sea. But after the net was cast, one fisherman had dived for a routine exercise to guide the shoal into the net,” Cyriac said. On learning why a fisherman had to dive after casting the net, Rahul asked if he could follow him. “It all happened in a jiffy and only a few of us sitting close to him could hear the conversation due to the loud noise of the outboard engines. So when he got up and jumped into the deep waters, the rest of the fisherman got shocked.” They had apparently not heard when Rahul told Cyriac that he was a certified divemaster who used to dive 38 metres deep and once taught scuba diving. “So I told them it was okay since he is an excellent swimmer,” Cyriac said. The 23-minute-42-second video shows a smiling Rahul holding the hand of a fisherman and jumping into the sea. Voices can be heard in the background saying “Oh my God”. Some from the boat called out to Rahul not to venture further as he swam gracefully away from the boat. The two armed bodyguards accompanying Rahul on the boat were unperturbed, perhaps because they knew he could swim well. After around 10 minutes, Rahul, floating with ease, returned to the mother boat with the other fishermen. “Since the diving part was unscheduled, he didn’t have a change of clothes. Only when a fisherman handed over his towel did he wipe his head,” Cyriac said. Once back on board it was time to haul up the net. “He (Rahul) stood up with the fishermen and hauled the whole net weighing 2.5 tonnes without even flinching. I could see a few fishermen feeling the fatigue, but not him,” Cyriac said. When he was not swimming or hauling the net, Rahul engaged in conversation with the fishermen and had breakfast comprising bread and fish curry cooked on board. This was the first time he was having fish for breakfast and he usually has only coffee in the morning, Rahul revealed. He spoke to the fishermen to understand how much they earned, whether insurance companies had any policies for them, who paid for damaged nets, how the catch was split, how a shoal is spotted before casting the nets, how much the fishermen earned, whether GST had affected them and the mechanics of fishing boats. Rahul said he had come for a first-hand experience as he had heard about the difficult life of fishermen. Cyriac rubbished trolls from the CPM and the BJP that called the expedition a paid publicity stunt. “Let me make it very clear. It was not a paid assignment. I accepted it since it was a great opportunity for me. I refused umpteen offers from advertisers who saw the video since this is more than just making some money by selling advertisement space,” he said. On allegations raised by a CPM organ about the crew carrying fish from the shore, Cyriac said there was nothing unusual about it. “I have been on fishing expeditions many times and I have seen fishermen carrying fish from the shore before they set out. They immediately start cooking fish curry and by the time the boat reaches the fishing spot (45 minutes to an hour away) the breakfast is ready,” he said. “Since they embark on the trip before dawn they would have had only tea. The breakfast is always cooked on board and had either before or soon after casting the net. That’s exactly what happened on that day as well.” “Very often fishermen return to the shore with hardly anything. So on that day they could get just one squid,” Cyriac said, alluding to the catch. Addressing fishermen later that day, Rahul had recounted the experience and said they could catch only one squid after all the hard work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||US union rallies behind Indian farmers ||The Washington-based National Farmers Union on Thursday expressed solidarity with the protesting farmers in India,  stating that “if our experience here in the United States is any indication, they are right to be concerned” about the three farm laws. Identifying with the cause that is agitating farmers in India, the National Farmers Union said in a statement: “We have learned the hard way that fair prices and farmer sovereignty are the bedrock of flourishing rural communities and an equitable food system — in the United States and everywhere else.” “As National Farmers Union works to secure these basic rights for American farmers, we stand in solidarity with Indian farmers as they do the same,” the statement said. According to the NFU, the issues facing the farming community here are all too familiar to farmers in the US. “Following a wave of similar deregulatory actions in the 1970s and 1980s, large agribusinesses quickly amassed control of the American food chain while farmers and consumers were stripped of much of their power and protections.” The NFU board of directors said: “Our fellow farmers in India are fighting against measures that would shift authority over the agricultural industry towards corporations as well as weaken policies that sustain farmers and their communities. If our experience here in the United States is any indication, they are right to be concerned.” Policymakers, the NFU noted, have weakened price support for American farmers over the past several decades, resulting in a never-ending cycle of overproduction and low prices that has pushed tens of thousands of small- and mid-sized farms out of business. “Meanwhile, lax anti-trust enforcement and deregulation have enabled the near total corporatisation of the food system, with dire consequences for farmers and consumers. We all have suffered fewer choices, less innovation, unfair prices, manipulative business practices, and greater vulnerability to disruption.” The support from the US-based farmers’ collective comes at a time the protesting farmers have been claiming their apprehension of corporate takeover of their land through the new laws — particularly the contract farming law — stands vindicated by the fact that Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and his wife Melinda are the largest private farmland owners in the US. Between the two of them, the couple have bought and now own a total of 268,984 acres across the length and breadth of the US, bulk of it farmland (242,000 acres), according to The Land Report magazine — an American niche quarterly on land-related issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
27-02-2021||India||Farmers protest: UNHCHR condemns crackdown on activists, scribes   ||The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has said the charges of sedition slapped on journalists and activists in connection with the farmers’ protests and the attempts to curb freedom of expression on social media in India are “disturbing departures from essential human rights principles”. Michelle Bachelet brought up the matter on Friday while updating the 46th session of the Human Rights Council (HRC) on rights issues in more than 50 countries. In two paragraphs on India, she flagged the farmers’ movement and the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. Her intervention comes a few days after external affairs minister S. Jaishankar, in his speech at the ongoing HRC session, stressed the need to respect the principles of non-interference in internal affairs and national sovereignty. “Continued protests by hundreds of thousands of farmers highlight the importance of ensuring laws and policies are based on meaningful consultations with those concerned,” Bachelet said, in an oblique reference to the criticism that the three farm laws were enacted without proper discussion. “Charges of sedition against journalists and activists for reporting or commenting on the protests, and attempts to curb freedom of expression on social media, are disturbing departures from essential human rights principles,” she continued. Bachelet expressed hope that talks between the government and the farmer leaders would yield a solution. “I trust that ongoing dialogue efforts by both sides will lead to an equitable solution to this crisis that respects the rights of all,” she said. On Kashmir, Bachelet said restrictions on communications and clampdown on civil society activists remained a concern. “Despite recent restoration of 4G access for mobile phones, the communications blockade has seriously hampered civic participation, as well as business, livelihoods, education, and access to health care and medical information. Raids against human rights defenders in October and November exemplify the continued restrictions on civil society, and resulting impact on the rights of the people of Kashmir to impart and receive information, and to engage in free, open debate on government policies affecting them,” she noted. Last week, special rapporteurs of the HRC had voiced concern that the constitutional changes made in Jammu and Kashmir could undermine minorities’ rights. This had drawn a sharp response from the government, which termed the conclusions as “inaccurate assumptions” and “deliberately timed” to coincide with the visit of foreign envoys to the Union Territory. The external affairs ministry has rebutted the reported contention of UN rapporteurs that Christian Michel, accused in the VVIP chopper case, had been extradited from the UAE in a “de facto swap” for India’s capture and return of Sheikha Latifa, the daughter of Dubai’s ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum, after she attempted to flee her homeland. According to the AFP report, the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention has called for the British middleman’s immediate release, arguing that he was being detained arbitrarily. Reacting to the report, the ministry said in a statement: “We regret that the conclusions drawn by the Working Group are based on limited information, biased allegations from an unidentified source and on an inaccurate understanding of India’s criminal justice system. “The extradition was done entirely in accordance with the provisions of the Extradition Treaty signed between two sovereign States. The arrest and subsequent custody were done as per the due process of law and cannot be considered arbitrary on any grounds.” Further, according to India, at no time was Michel denied his rights to legal counsel or a fair hearing. “The fact that he has been able to approach courts on multiple occasions including the higher judiciary is itself proof of this. There have also been no restrictions on consular access by the authorities. He has been treated at par as other detainees and provided all facilities by the prison authorities as per rules,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
27-02-2021||India||Three routes to register for Covid vaccine||Eligible people can seek Covid-19 vaccination through online pre-registration, walk-in spot registration or state-organised bulk inoculation, the Union health ministry said on Friday, outlining three routes to open during the campaign’s phase starting on March 1. The three routes are intended to simplify the registration process as the vaccination campaign expands to inoculate everyone aged 60 years or older and those 45 years or older with chronic health disorders. Until now, vaccines were available only to healthcare and frontline workers. Potential beneficiaries can self-register in advance by downloading the Co-Win 2.0 app that will list all government and private hospitals offering the vaccine with the available date and time schedules. The beneficiaries can choose the vaccination centre and book appointments. Those unable to self-register in advance could walk into identified vaccination centres and get themselves registered on site and get vaccinated. All beneficiaries would need to carry Aadhaar cards or voter photo identity cards, or other photo identity cards approved for the registration. People between the ages of 45 and 59 years eligible for the vaccine because of comorbidities would need to carry a certificate from a registered medical practitioner specifying their health disorder. The health ministry, in a meeting with state officials on Friday, said states could also organise “facilitated cohort registration” under which local healthcare workers or auxiliary nurse midwives, women’s self-help groups or panchayati raj officials could mobilise groups of people for vaccinations. The Centre had said earlier this week that the campaign would be conducted through 10,000 government hospitals and nearly 20,000 private hospitals. The vaccines would be free of cost in government hospitals, but those who opt for private facilities would need to pay a pre-fixed charge. The health ministry is yet to announce the cost of the vaccines in private hospitals. The government has also not specified yet whether beneficiaries would have the option to choose between the two vaccines currently used in the campaign — Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, and Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine. The health ministry said private hospitals empanelled to provide services under the central government health scheme or the national health insurance scheme called the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana or state schemes could offer vaccines. Government vaccination centres would include medical college hospitals, district hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres and health-and-wellness centres. But each vaccination centre would have to maintain refrigeration equipment for the cold chain required by vaccines, a team of vaccinators and associated staff, and adequate facilities to manage any adverse events following immunisation. The campaign has vaccinated 6.6 million healthcare workers with first doses, 2.2 million healthcare workers with second doses, and nearly 5 million frontline workers with first doses. Healthcare and frontline workers left out could continue to receive vaccines in the coming phase.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
27-02-2021||India||Ire over illegal sand mining in Odisha||The Odisha government on Friday faced the Opposition wrath over its failure to formulate a policy to curb illegal sand mining in the state. The state is losing nearly Rs 14,000 crore per annum because of illegal sand mining, which is rampant across the state, the Opposition members alleged in the Assembly. They said that though a draft policy was prepared in 2018 to curb the illegal sand mining no steps were taken to turn it into a law. Members of both the Congress and the BJP alleged that as the state does not have a clear policy on curbing the illegal sand mining, the mafias are indulging in a massive racket and sending thousands of trucks of sand to neighbouring states. There was rampant lifting of sand from different riverbeds crisscrossing the states. “Every thing is going under the nose of the local officials but no steps are being taken to check it. The State is losing Rs 14,000 crore revenue per annum due to illegal sand mining.” said senior Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati. The Congress MLA said: “It’s a matter of great concern that that local officials are imposing a hefty fine on poor villagers for lifting sand and stones for construction of their housed but no action is being taken against mafia indulging in such illegal business and transporting the sand to neighbouring state.” Opposition chief whip and senior BJP MLA Mohan Charan Majhi said: “Though the draft policy was formulated in 2018, no law has been made to this effect. The mafias are taking benefit of the laxity of the law.” The state government landed in trouble when Speaker Surya Narayan Patro himself leapt on his feet and said sand was also being transported from his constituency to neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. He also raised the question as to why there has been delay in formulating a policy to curb it. “The state is earning Rs 1,500 crore as revenue from sand lifting but it is still losing nearly Rs 5,000 crore owing to illegal trade,” said Patro. As the issue snowballed into a major controversy, revenue minister Sudam Marandi assured the Assembly that the draft policy on sand would be brought soon. “We are into discussions with various departments to formulate a new sand policy. It will be implemented soon,” said Marandi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
27-02-2021||India||Congress dissenters join Ghulam Nabi Azad on Jammu trip||Several Congress leaders have joined the veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad in Jammu for an event in what could be the first public manifestation of a revolt brewing within the party after the collapse of a reconciliation process with dissenters known as the “Group of 23”. There is more to the Jammu gathering than demonstration of solidarity with Azad whose Rajya Sabha term ended this month. Although the contours of the future course of action have not taken shape yet, this is definitely a pressure tactic to make Rahul Gandhi understand that any decision to sideline the dissenters will not be tolerated. But for a substantial course correction by Sonia Gandhi and Rahul, a split in the Congress cannot be ruled out at this stage. Those who reached Jammu on Friday to be with Azad on his tour of his home state are former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma, former Union ministers Kapil Sibal and Manish Tewari, former Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Raj Babbar, and head of the party’s legal and human rights cell Vivek Tankha. The reason they cited for their presence in Jammu is an invite from an NGO — the Gandhi Global Family Foundation — for a programme on Saturday. Asked if this was like delivering a warning to the leadership after conveying their sentiments through a letter to Congress chief Sonia on the drift in the party, a senior leader told The Telegraph: “Warning for what? We are in the Congress and all our efforts are aimed at strengthening the Congress. We are not going to retire from politics only because some leaders want so.” Another leader said: “Azad was ill-treated. The agreement worked out with Sonia Gandhi in December was violated. We don’t hide our sense of hurt.” “Decisions cannot be taken based on pique and personal likes and dislikes. The party belongs to all of us, we have nurtured it with our blood and toil since Indira Gandhi’s days,” one  of the G-23 leaders had told this newspaper a few days ago. While Azad had not informed the Jammu and Kashmir unit of the Congress about his tour, local office-bearers too had not been invited to the programme by the Gandhian institute. It was only after the central leadership intervened late on Thursday night that a reception for Azad at the party office in Jammu was organised on Friday. Azad was requested to visit the office to avoid sending a wrong message and the local office-bearers were asked to receive him at the airport. Jammu and Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmed Mir himself organised the reception at the party office and described Azad as the best ambassador of the Union Territory in India. Azad too asked every Congress worker to strengthen the party in these difficult times. He stressed that the Congress worked to unite the society while the BJP divided people on religious lines. But that conciliatory gesture failed to alter the script as the dissenting leaders reached Jammu by the evening flight for Saturday’s programme. This was neither appreciated by central leaders nor Jammu and Kashmir functionaries even as the party tried to downplay the development. Barely two days ago, two leaders from the G-23, Sharma and Sibal, had subtly disapproved of Rahul’s statement about the different kinds of politics in the south and the north. Some other issues being flagged by a section within the party include the emergence of a coterie around Rahul and the opaque decision-making processes. One leader said: “Why was Randeep Surjewala sent for seat-sharing negotiations with the DMK in Tamil Nadu after the disastrous experience in the Bihar elections ? Who is taking the decisions?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
27-02-2021||India||Data breach investigation in Indian Army||The Indian Army has ordered a court of inquiry into an alleged case of data breach at the Udhampur-based Northern Command in Jammu and Kashmir after a soldier was found to have passed on tactical and operational military data to Pakistan’s ISI, sources in the army headquarters have said. The breach, a senior army official said, came to light early this month amid heightened tensions along the Line of Control with Pakistan and the ongoing border standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh since May last year. “It’s an extremely serious issue as the alleged data breach involves top military secrets including specifics of vital installation, army deployment, patrolling routes and military maps along the LoC and the LAC in the Ladakh sector,” the official said. Considering the sensitivity of the matter, he said, the top army brass had immediately ordered a court of inquiry to ascertain the extent of the breach. The army spokesperson in Delhi declined to comment. The Udhampur-based Northern Command is in charge of security on both the China and Pakistan borders in the Ladakh sector. The breach came to light following a tip-off from India’s external spy agency Research & Analysis Wing (RAW).The sources said several officers were under the scanner for the failure to detect the breach. As per records available with the Union home ministry, 13 serving and retired defence personnel had been arrested for allegedly spying for the ISI or being part of its espionage racket over the past six years. In February 2018 Delhi police had arrested a senior Indian Air Force officer for allegedly sharing classified information to a woman. Group Captain Arun Marwah, 51, was booked under the Official Secrets Act after the probe revealed that he was honey-trapped online by the ISI through two Facebook accounts and WhatsApp and allegedly shared classified information. In a similar case, Ranjith, another IAF official, was arrested by Delhi police in December 2015 on charges of sharing secret documents with operatives of the ISI. He had come in touch with a woman on Facebook while recovering from an illness in a military hospital, and had passed on classified information to her. Investigations had revealed that he had shared sensitive details of a base from where drones and airborne early warning and control systems were operated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
27-02-2021||India||India and China to set up new hotline||India and China have agreed to set up a new hotline at the ministerial level for “timely exchange of views’’, but continued to differ on the centrality of the border situation to the bilateral relationship with New Delhi insisting that it cannot be business as usual without peace and tranquillity and Beijing maintaining that it should not eclipse ties. “Border disputes are an objective reality and need to be attached adequate attention and taken seriously. However, they are not the whole story of China-India relations, and should be placed in a proper position in the bilateral relationship,’’ Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi told Indian counterpart S. Jaishankar in a 75-minute phone call on Thursday. Stating that the boundary question may take time to resolve, Jaishankar iterated that disturbance of peace and tranquillity, including by violence will inevitably have a damaging impact on the relationship. According to the Indian readout of the conversation, Jaishankar underscored that it was necessary to disengage at all friction points in order to contemplate de-escalation of forces in this sector. “That alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquillity and provide conditions for progress of our bilateral relationship.’’ Further, external affairs ministry quoted him as stating that both sides had always agreed that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas was an essential basis for development of bilateral relations. “A prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of either side. It was, therefore, necessary that the two sides should work towards early resolution of remaining issues.’’ The lengthy conversation took place a week after the completion of the disengagement process on the north and south banks of the Pangong Tso, following which the senior commanders met to work towards the same at other friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. Jaishankar is said to have emphasised the need for both sides to now quickly resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh. And, once disengagement is completed at all friction points, then the two sides could also look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area and work towards restoration of peace and tranquillity. On the disengagement at Pangong Tso, Wang is quoted as saying that it has significantly defused the situation on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
27-02-2021||India||Nodeep gets bail, report reveals bruises||Trade unionist Nodeep Kaur, in jail since January 12 for a demonstration for labour rights in Haryana’s Kundli, was released on bail on Friday night. A medical report submitted in Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday revealed that Kaur, who had alleged police assault in custody, had suffered multiple injuries. According to the medical examination report placed before the high court on Friday, Kaur had “purplish bruises of around 10x7cm present over LT (left) thigh, lateral aspect, bruises of around 5X6cm over RT (right) buttock”. The court had on February 24 directed the Haryana government to place on record Kaur’s medical report. The medical examination was conducted at Sonipat Civil Hospital on January 25 on the orders of a local court. In her bail plea, the 23-year-old activist had claimed to have been severely beaten up at a police station after she was arrested. Haryana police had denied the charge as “baseless”. The medical report of a co-accused, Shiv Kumar, had on Thursday revealed two fractures on his hand and foot and broken nail beds on his toe caused by a “blunt object”. Kaur was arrested on January 12 while agitating against erratic wage payment at the Kundli industrial cluster in Haryana’s Sonipat. The police had claimed that the trade unionist had gheraoed the industrial unit and demanded money from a company. They had also claimed that a team of cops was attacked with sticks, resulting in injuries to seven policemen. Kaur has said she was falsely implicated in the case because she had succeeded in generating massive support for the ongoing farmers’ movement against the Centre's three new farm laws at Delhi’s borders. The only condition, besides the bail bond, imposed by Justice Avneesh Jhingan of Punjab and Haryana High Court was that Kaur “shall maintain a restrain while being on bail to ensure that no law-and-order issue arises due to her actions”. The bail order says: “It would be a subject matter of trial as to whether the line for peaceful protest was crossed in the alleged incident or not.” “Considering the material placed on record before this court, the issue with regard to invoking of Section 307 (attempt to murder), 332, 353 (both relate to assaulting a public servant to prevent the discharge of duty) and 379-B (snatching after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint) IPC would be a debatable issue and to be considered during the trial,” it adds. The bail order further says: “Albeit the matter is under investigation, that itself would not be sufficient ground to deny personal liberty to the petitioner.” One of Kaur’s lawyers, Harinder Bains, told reporters the order does not prevent her from joining any peaceful protest, including the farmers’ movement, as long as she does not violate the law. Kaur, from Punjab’s Muktsar, was freed later in the evening from Karnal jail. Kumar is behind bars in his home district of Sonipat in Haryana. They both face two other FIRs, accusing them of attempting to extort money from factory owners, for which Kaur had earlier got bail. Both are from landless Dalit families. Kaur’s case had received international attention after American activist Meena Harris, who is the niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris, had tweeted about her. Meena tweeted on Friday: “Nodeep Kaur and Disha Ravi, young female activists jailed for supporting the farmer protests in India, were granted bail. I want to believe it’s in part because so many people spoke out against the government’s silencing dissent. Please stay loud — this fight is far from over.” The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella outfit leading the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s borders, welcomed Nodeep’s release. “She fought for Kisan Mazdoor unity and lent strength to the movements. It is known that along with Nodeep, her colleague Shiv Kumar had also been arrested by the police. The recently released medical report of Shiv Kumar proves custodial torture that he had to undergo and SKM condemns this strongly. We demand his immediate unconditional release.” Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Left-Congress alliance to launch poll campaign with Brigade rally ||The Left-Congress-ISF alliance will kick-off its campaign for the upcoming Assembly elections in Bengal with a mega rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta on Sunday. The CPI(M)-led Left Front and the Congress have already sealed a seat-sharing agreement, while the talks between the Left and Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui's ISF have also concluded with both agreeing on 30 seats for the newly- floated outfit. The negotiations between Congress and the Indian Secular Front (ISF) are at present underway, and both sides are hopeful that the differences over a few seats would be resolved, sources said. "The mega rally at Brigade will mark the beginning of our campaign for the Assembly elections. We want to provide an alternative to the anti-people and communal politics of the TMC and the BJP," senior Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya said. "A section of the press, and the TMC and the BJP are trying to project it as a two-cornered contest, but it will be a three-way fight in Bengal," he added. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury, ISF's Siddiqui will be the main speakers at the rally. Chattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel will also be present, besides state leaders of the Congress and the Left parties. The state Congress and the Left wanted Rahul Gandhi or Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to address the rally, which would have given a major boost to the alliance's campaign, but both refrained from it, considering the compulsions of the Kerala elections where the Congress-led UDF is in a direct contest against the LDF, sources said. The CPI(M) has gone all out to campaign for the rally -- branded as 'People's Brigade', launching innovative ways, from on social media to the streets. The party's youth activists have been hosting flash mobs over the past few weeks at several locations across Calcutta, including shopping malls, busy traffic intersections and crowded localities. A parody of the hit Bengali number 'Tumpa Sona' on social media, asking people to attend the Brigade rally has also created a wave. "At the Brigade rally, we will speak about alternative policies. We are fighting against both the TMC and the BJP, which are communal forces," senior CPI(M) leader Md Salim said. The Left-Congress, the vote share of which has been on a decline in Bengal with the rise of the BJP, received a shot in the arm with Siddiqui joining the alliance ahead of the Bengal polls, which is being seen mostly as a bipolar contest between the Trinamul Congress and BJP. Siddiqui, a pirzada at one of the holiest shrines among Bengali Muslims -- Furfura Sharif in Hooghly, launched the ISF last month. He created a flutter by meeting AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi ahead of the elections but ditched him for the Left-Congress. Bengal has 30 per cent Muslim population -- a deciding factor in around 100-110 seats. In case of a close contest, the Left-Congress-ISF alliance will become a deciding factor. In 2016, the Congress and Left Front had fought together and bagged 77 seats in the 294-member Assembly. The alliance broke after the CPI(M)-led Left Front walked away. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the proposed Congress-Left alliance fell apart after the parties could not agree on seat sharing. After the dismal performance of the two sides in the Lok Sabha polls, the Left-Congress decided to stitch an alliance to fight the 2021 Assembly polls. The details of the alliance's seat-sharing will be announced once the ISF-Congress talks conclude, sources said. Elections for the Bengal Assembly will be held in eight phases, up from seven last time, beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
27-02-2021||West Bengal||CBI interrogates Calcutta businessman in coal pilferage case||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Saturday interrogated a Calcutta-based businessman in connection with its probe into the multi-crore coal pilferage scam, an official said. Randhir Kumar Barnwal was quizzed by the CBI officers a day after the central agency raided his office premises and residence here. The CBI had served a notice to him to appear before its Nizam Palace office here on Saturday for its investigation into the case, the official said. Incidentally, the central agency and the Enforcement Directorate had on Friday conducted search operations at various places in West Bengal in connection with the scam. Both the agencies are concurrently probing the illegal coal mining case. The CBI is looking after the criminal aspect of it and the ED is delving into the money laundering angle of the scam. A CBI team had examined Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira on Tuesday in connection with the coal pilferage case. Earlier, searches were conducted at the residences and offices of people who are "considered close to Anup Majhi alias Lala" -- the main accused in the coal scam, the CBI official said. Majhi has been absconding since the agency had initiated searches in connection with the case in November last year. A lookout notice has been issued to Majhi to ascertain his whereabouts, as his interrogation was vital for the probe, the CBI had said earlier. The central agency had, on November 28 last year, conducted raids at 45 places, including 25 in West Bengal, in connection with its investigation into the case. Majhi is believed to be involved in the illegal coal mining in the Asansol-Raniganj belt of Eastern Coalfields Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Businessman hacked to death||An elderly businessman was hacked to death by unidentified assailants while he was parking his two-wheeler on the premises of his residence at Gaighata in North 24-Parganas on Thursday night. Bidhan Sarkar, 63, who owned a furniture shop and faced charges of alleged involvement in cattle smuggling racket, was attacked with sharp-edged weapons by the unidentified goons as he was parking his motorbike after opening the gate of his house in Gaighata’s Kahaknia area around 10.30pm on Thursday, police and family sources said. “We heard the sound of his motorcycle and was waiting for him to enter the home. As he took unusually long to enter his home and a dog started to bark, I stepped outside with a torch and found my father lying in a pool of blood and gasping for life,” said his son Raja Sarkar. “His throat was bizarrely hacked. There were other deep injuries on his head, shoulder and legs. I cried out watching him in such a state. Neighbours rushed in and took my father to Chandpara Hospital but he died on the way,” Raja said. Though neither the police nor his kin could so far conclusively ascertain the motive behind the murder, a family said: “We are clueless what led to the murder but heard about some old business rivalries.” Raja has lodged a complaint of murder and the police have detained one person for his suspected involvement in the incident. “Prima facie it appears that the businessman was killed to settle an old enmity as he was earlier associated with a number of criminal activities like drug trafficking, cattle smuggling and was a close associate of a notorious criminal based in Sutia area,” an investigating officer of Gaighata police station said. Police sources said that Sarkar was a kingpin of a smuggling racket and had been arrested a few years ago. “We are looking into all the possible angles behind the murder,” a police officer said. In a second tragedy to the family, Sarkar’s sister-in-law Tanu Biswas, 34, was found hanging in her rented house in Gaighata’s Kahaknia  on Friday. Family sources said Tanu was dependent on Sarkar as she was separated from her husband and committed the suicide unable to bear the pain of the murder of the businessman. A police officer said the suicide was being investigated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Binay camp hauls up BJP over ‘lies’||The Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha lashed out at the BJP for failing to fulfil the promises made to the Gorkhas with the model code of conduct kicking in following the announcement of Bengal’s poll dates on Friday evening. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto the BJP had promised tribal status to 11 hill communities and a permanent political solution for the region. Nearly two years later, neither has come about, despite the expectation in the hills that the BJP-led Centre would have at least granted tribal status. Once the model code is enforced, no new announcement can be made in a poll-bound state. “They (the BJP) have lied, they are again lying and they will lie to the people of Darjeeling in future,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman of the Tamang camp of the Morcha moments after the Election Commission of Indian (ECI) announced the dates of Bengal’s eight-phase elections, starting from March 27. At noon, when news filtered that the Election Commission would hold a news conference to announce polls dates at 4.30pm in Delhi, Pokhrel issued a statement: “Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, home minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have four-and-a-half hours to fulfil the demands.” The Tamang camp said “BJP allies from the hills” should immediately sever ties with BJP. “All the hill parties who are with the BJP must sever ties. This time the hill people will thoroughly reject the BJP,” said Pokhrel. The BJP has been winning the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat since 2009. In 2019, the party also won the Darjeeling Assembly bypoll. An observer said that now that poll dates had been announced, the BJP would have a lot of explaining to do. “It will be facing the polls without anything concrete to show. It is definitely in a spot of bother,” the observer added. However, over the past few days, Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista has been saying publicly that it would be unwise to link the two issues promised by the BJP with the election. “Our issue is different, the election is different,” Bista had said in Darjeeling on Sunday. Bista is also stating that he is here till 2024, which many believe is an indirect way of saying that the issues would be addressed before the next Lok Sabha polls. A BJP supporter added that one should not jump the gun and that a committee to examine the tribal status was formed in 2016 after the code was enforced for the Assembly polls then. However, in 2016, the Centre had juggled with words to say that a committee to look into the demands of Gorkha community in Sikkim and elsewhere in the country was being formed. The Centre had not used the word Bengal. Sikkim was outside the model code purview as it was not poll-bound then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal active Covid cases fall to 3,343 ||Bengal on Friday logged 223 Covid-19 recoveries, 216 new infections and three deaths, none from the city. Active cases, which were 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 3,343 on February 26, improving by over 91 per cent in four months —  an unbroken 123 days. Bengal’s recovery rate is now 97.63 per cent. The national rate is 97.13 now Central paramilitary personnel deployed in North Dinajpur ahead of Bengal elections on Friday wore masks other than the “Joy Bangla” ones that had created political ripples on Thursday. “Joy Bangla” is a popular slogan used by Trinamul leaders, including party supremo Mamata Banerjee. Masks emblazoned with the message, given by district police from their stocks to central paramilitary forces, had raised the hackles of the BJP. Trinamul is using the paramilitary forces for its poll campaign, the saffron camp had said. Though Trinamul had said that the BJP’s objection to the mask was a “non-issue”, and that anyone who loves the state can wear the mask, paramilitary personnel wore different masks on Friday’s route march in Raiganj subdivision. Many paramilitary personnel were seen wearing blue surgical masks or masks in other colours. A few had covered their faces with the bandana they wear with their uniform. “It is good that the central paramilitary forces changed the masks. We voiced our protests on Thursday as the administration had given them masks with the state ruling party’s slogan,” said Biswajit Lahiri, the BJP district president. He alleged that it was Trinamul’s strategy to provide such masks to the paramilitary forces through the district police. “It was cheap politics that did not work out,” Lahiri added. A Trinamul leader wondered whether the BJP did not have any real issue to talk about. An officer of Hemtabad police station, North Dinajpur, said central paramilitary personnel did not ask for any mask from the police. “It seems they arranged masks for themselves,” he said.Reporting by Kousik Sen||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Wife dead, murder finger at husband||A 30-year-old homemaker of a villager in Englishbazar police station was found dead on Friday morning, her family members alleging her husband killed her for giving birth to three daughters. Police have detained deceased Sabina Bibi’s husband Rashul Sheikh for interrogation. Sources said Sabina was found dead on her bed at Shobhanagar village some 15km  from Malda town. There were bloodstains and injury marks on her torso, villagers said. Mazlis Sheikh, a relative of the victim, said Sabina and Rashul were married 14 years ago. “In due course, she gave birth to two daughters. This angered her husband who started torturing her. The situation turned worse after the couple had their third daughter six months ago. Three months back, Rashul even married another woman, making his relationship with Sabina even more bitter,” he said. “We suspect he killed her for giving birth to three daughters,” the relative added. Police have sent the body for post-mortem. “We have registered a case and are waiting for post-mortem reports.  Our officers are trying to get information from the husband,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Malda Zilla Parishad chief receives showcause notice||The head of Trinamul-run Malda Zilla Parishad received a showcause notice from the district election department for not turning up for pre-election training that he had been asked to take up in his capacity as a government schoolteacher. Zilla parishad head Gour Chandra Mondal, included in the list of poll personnel in Malda district as a primary schoolteacher, along with hundreds of other teachers, did not go for the poll training because of his political identity. Election department authorities, unaware that Mondal was a zilla parishad head, served him a showcause. The bureaucratic lapse threw up embarrassing questions. “Five years back, when Mondal was elected as sahakari sabhadhipati, he took lien and has not been in active service (as a teacher) since. He continued to be in lien when he became the sabhadhipati in 2018. Those in the education department overlooked this and forwarded his name for poll duty. Those in the election department did not cross-check why he absented himself from the training and served him a showcause,” said a source. On Friday, Mondal’s name was struck off the poll personnel’s list. The showcause may be withdrawn, sources have hinted. Mondal, when contacted, said it was a mistake (on the administration’s part) but he did not want to drag the issue. “The administration is taking remedies,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Our borders are safe, says Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday referred to the Indian Air Force’s strike at militant launch pads at Balakot in Pakistan and the army’s stand-off with China in Ladakh as he sought to whip up sentiments ahead of the Assembly polls. The BJP leader was in South Dinajpur to speak at a public meeting as part of the party’s Parivartan Yatra. “Two years ago, it was on the same day that our forces had carried out the Balakot air strike. We have proved that we continue to fight extremist forces. On the India-China border, our army had given an apt reply last year and let me assure you that our borders are safe. We are taking all appropriate steps in this regard,” Singh said in Balurghat. The Balakot air strike had been carried out on February 2019. The defence minister referring to the air strike and the standoff in the Galwan Valley of Ladakh is an indication that the BJP plans to stoke voters’ sentiments, particularly in areas close to the international borders. The South Dinajpur district shares border with Bangladesh. Singh also underscored that the BJP was determined to stop trans-border smuggling, human trafficking and infiltration and emphasised that the central government would fortify the India-Bangladesh border by raising additional outposts of the security forces and fencing more areas on the frontier. “On a number of occasions, people living near the international border flagged a number of problems which they faced in their areas. The problems include anti-social activities as well as highhandedness of security forces. It seems Rajnath wanted to consolidate the support of those living near the border,” said an observer. At the meeting, the defence minister was critical of the Trinamul Congress government also. “Ma, Mati, Manush……… none is safe here these days. To expedite development in any state, maintenance of law and order is an important perquisite and it is absent from Bengal. We want to make it clear that if the BJP is voted to power, there will be no bombs,” he said. Singh also accused Trinamul of prioritising politics over people. “There are some people who are into politics only to form government and lack proper plans and vision. Such attitude leads to political violence and corruption,” the BJP leader said. The saffron brigade has been focussing on north Bengal, the region from where it could win seven of eight Lok Sabha seats. As the Assembly polls are drawing near, many prominent leaders of the party, including Union home minister Amit Shah and party chief J.P. Nadda, have started visiting the region. That the BJP is desperate to retain its support base — it was ahead in 38 of 54 Assembly segments in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls while Trinamul led only in 12 segments — was evident from the defence minister’s speech. “You have voted for us in Balurghat and altogether, people of Bengal have given us 18 of 42 Parliament seats in 2019. This mandate has marked the commencement of a new political chapter,” said Singh. He also referred to the “Khela Hobe” (there will be a game) — a catchphrase coined by Trinamul. “Some people are saying ‘Khela Hobe.’ I want to say, ‘Khela Hobe, Nischoi hobe’ (yes, definitely there will be a game) for development and peace,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Dhaka train prods tourism demands ||The first international passenger train service to start between New Jalpaiguri (NJP) and Dhaka next month has prompted stakeholders of the tourism industry to raise a series of demands, which include infrastructure upgrade for the NJP station and an office in Siliguri for visas. The demands follow a joint announcement by railway officials of Indian and Bangladesh. On Wednesday, they announced that from March 26, a bi-weekly passenger train service will start between NJP and Dhaka. “NJP is one of the important railway stations of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) and it will soon be a part of history as the first international train service from the region will commence from here next month. That is why we want appropriate infrastructure for people who avail the train service. There is every possibility that along with residents of Bangladesh, tourists from other countries will also use the service to reach north Bengal,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network (HHTDN). On Friday, a delegation of HHTDN met senior officials of NFR and submitted a memorandum seeking improvement in infrastructure. Sanyal said that as the train service would start from here and facilities for immigration would be opened up in NJP, it was necessary that a visa office came up in Siliguri. “As of now, to get a visa for Bangladesh, one has to visit Calcutta. A new visa office in Siliguri will increase the number of passengers and be convenient for residents of north Bengal and those in neighbouring Sikkim and parts of Bihar. We will raise the issue with the Union external affairs ministry and have also urged railway officials to take it up with the Centre,” he added. Stakeholders have also flagged the issue of Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), a prime attraction for tourists. On March 26 last year, the toy train services of DHR was suspended owing to the Covid 19 pandemic and lockdown. A few months ago, the railways resumed joy rides between Darjeeling and Ghoom but regular services between the hills and plains continue to remain suspended. “The railways should resume the regular service as well as it draws a number of tourists,” said a tour operator in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Two held over blast that hit minister at Nimtita railway station||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of Bengal police arrested two persons for their alleged role in the blast at Nimtita railway station on February 17 night, which had left minister of state for labour Jakir Hossain and 26 others seriously injured. Abu Samad, 44, a part-time farmer, was arrested from his home in Suti. Sahidul Islam alias Chemical Sahidul, a Suti native residing in Jharkhand’s Sibganj, was picked up from his home in the early hours of Friday. This is the first arrest made by the CID, which is probing the case, along with the Special Task Force (STF) and the Counter Insurgency Force (CIF). Senior CID officers claimed that they had found evidence — circumstantial and CCTV grab seconds before the blast — to suggest that the two were present around the railway station in the Murshidabad district when the blast took place around 10pm. Jakir was about to board the Calcutta-bound Teesta-Torsa Express when the explosion occurred. The officers said the arrested duo were actively engaged in cattle smuggling till a few months back. The family members of both Sahidul and Abu said they had been falsely implicated and they were nowhere close to the railway station when the blast had taken place. The CID had during its probe recovered around three kilos of gunpowder in a packed bag from Aurangabad, 3km from the blast site. Aurnagabad is in the Suti block. Anuj Sharma who is heading the three-agency probe had visited Nimtita and examined the blast site. The investigators had concluded that the explosive material that was used for the blast was of high intensity to the extent that fingers had come off some of the victims. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had visited Jakir and other injured persons after they had been admitted to the trauma centre of the SSKM Medical College and Hospital in Calcutta. The BJP and other Opposition parties had sought an NIA probe into the explosion. Sources in the police said Sahidul was being brought to Suti on a transit remand from Sibganj in Jharkhand. Abu was produced in the Lalbagh subdivisional court and remanded in 12 days of police custody. “We will want to question both and find out their activities. There are some more persons involved in the case and we want to reach them after questioning the two,” said a senior CID officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||EC pulls up district authorities for being 'underprepared' for state polls||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has pulled up many district authorities, including from Calcutta and South 24-Parganas, for being “underprepared” for Bengal state polls scheduled to begin from March 27. The reprimand came during a videoconference between deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain and district authorities on Thursday. “Jain has pulled up officials primarily for three reasons. First, non-completion of vulnerability mapping. Second, lack of interest in visiting temporary structures where polling booths will be set up this year. Third, a large number of licensed firearms were not deposited in the government's armoury with exemptions given by authorities without showing valid reasons. Jain has given seven days to plug the loopholes,” a senior government official present in the videoconference said. Jain expressed his displeasure as most of the district authorities during the meeting apparently failed to produce a list of vulnerable areas. “This (the list) is important because based on vulnerability mapping by the police, central forces are deployed (in those areas) for confidence-building measures. The ECI deployed 125 companies of central forces even before poll dates were declared. As vulnerability mapping was not done properly, the forces could not be used properly,” said a source. Jain reportedly expressed surprise after a few districts could not properly explain primary parameters based on which vulnerable areas are identified, sources said. A source said that vulnerable areas were identified primarily based on past history of inducement or violent incidents. “Moreover, he was not satisfied with some districts that have shown very few vulnerable areas such as South 24-Parganas,” said a source. The deputy election commissioner also pulled up authorities responsible for holding polls in Bengal after he found most temporary structures where polling booths would be set up were not surveyed by the police or civil administration. “The state will have nearly 3,000 temporary polling stations as the ECI issued a guideline that all booths have to be set up on the ground floor. A visit to these structures is important to assess security requirements,” said an official. The third issue that Jain pointed out was that authorities in some districts were liberal in allowing licensed firearm holders to keep arms. “Jain found that in some districts about 25 per cent firearms holders were allowed to keep their guns (exempting them from rule). For example, about 1,300 firearms holders of 4,000-odd owners were exempted from the rule in Calcutta. He pointed out that no valid reason was shown as to why so many owners were allowed to keep their guns,” said an official. The meeting, sources said, clearly suggests that the ECI was keeping close watch on each development in Bengal ahead of polls. A senior state government official said that in view of the current charged political atmosphere, the ECI was facing a challenge in holding a peaceful election in Bengal but “it seems it won’t leave any stone unturned to hold free, fair and incident-free polls”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||30-seat deal with Left: ISF cleric Abbas Siddiqui ||Indian Secular Front chief and Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui on Friday said his party would field candidates in 30 Assembly constituencies in alliance with the Left Front, while seat-sharing talks with the Congress were still on. “We had demanded 70-80 seats. The Left has given us 30 seats. We are trying to get four or five additional seats. The problem with the Congress will be resolved if they give us around 25 seats,” Siddiqui said and added that the ISF had written to Congress multiple times, the latest being on Thursday. Reacting to Siddiqui’s claim, CPM politburo member Mohd Salim said: “He has quoted a number, but we haven’t because it is a multiple-side approach. We are talking to several other parties and organisations. What they have said is right. We have confirmed a few seats and the rest are in course of discussion. The ISF has been asked to speak to the Congress.” Sources in the ISF said while Left parties, especially the CPM, had been exceedingly flexible in leaving seats for the party, the state Congress under its chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was unwilling to meet Siddiqui’s demands. “The ISF has claimed important seats in Malda, Murshidabad, South Dinajpur and Birbhum. The Congress is strong in these districts and hence, the party is unwilling to give the seats away to the ISF,” a Congress leader said. However, Siddiqui hoped the Congress would finally accept the demands of the party to build a strong alliance. Siddiqui also said three ISF representatives would be present at the rally called by the Left and the Congress at the Brigade Parade grounds in Calcutta on February 28. “We had wanted to hold a meeting at Brigade for a long time. But then we are going (to fight polls) together with Left parties and even they want us to be together to create a grand alliance and tsunami of people. This made me think and my party’s leaders said it would be good for all of us to come together on one platform.” “This is why I thought it is important for us to go (to Brigade) on the 28th. Hence, I invite all supporters of the ISF to come to Brigade,” he added. Siddiqui, however, didn’t clarify whether he would be present at the rally. He said it was being discussed if he should speak at the rally on behalf of the ISF. “Every party will be represented by three leaders and one speaker. People want me to speak, but it will be decided by our party,” Siddiqui said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Varsity officials ‘shut in’ teachers for 6 hours||Over a dozen teachers of Visva-Bharati’s English department were allegedly “confined” in the central office by the varsity administration for six hours on Friday in an unprecedented incident on campus. Teachers alleged varsity officials “forcibly” sought the copy of a mass petition that some faculty members had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the President Ram Nath Kovind that was critical about the way the central university was being run. The teachers, who were allegedly confined from noon to 6pm, were released when two faculty members of the Visva-Bharati’s physics department filed a complaint at Santiniketan police station, accusing vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty of detaining faculty members. The two physics teachers sought the help of the police for the rescue of their “confined” colleagues, they added. “The vice-chancellor wanted to grab the copy of the petition with the intention to identify the teachers who had signed it and punish them,” said one of the teachers who had signed the petition. A faculty member alleged that the vice-chancellor and his associates had confined the teachers illegally to get the petition anyhow, but the teachers refused to hand it over. One of the teachers, who lodged a complaint with the police on behalf of his “confined” colleagues, said: “They had been confined illegally and we were forced to seek police help (to set them free). After we went to the police, our colleagues were released.” A police officer at Santiniketan police station said that they received the complaint from Visva-Bharati  teachers and were probing the charges. A varsity official said many teachers and staff were annoyed with the present VC for many reasons, including the “arbitrary” suspension of teachers and students and gag on dissenters, and had decided to send a memorandum to the Prime Minister and the President on how Chakrabarty was allegedly ruining the legacy of the free-thinking institution founded by Rabindranath Tagore. Refuting the charges, a varsity official said the VC on Thursday visited the English department and found a teacher absent, and so he had summoned teachers to his office on Friday. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not reply to a text message from this correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||EC deputes veteran Ajay Nayak as special observer in Bengal||The Election Commission has appointed former Bihar chief electoral officer Ajay Nayak as a special observer and Vivek Dube and M.K. Das as two special police observers for the Bengal Assembly polls. The appointment of the three retired officers announced by chief election commissioner Sunil Arora in New Delhi on Friday gives a clear hint that the poll panel is laying special emphasis on ensuring free and fair polls in the state. Nayak is not new to Bengal as he was brought in as a special observer for the state soon after the first phase of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Dube, a 1981-batch retired IPS officer of Andhra Pradesh cadre, had also been appointed as a special officer in the 2019 general election. “Ajay Nayak was one of the best CEOs in the country. He worked as a special observer in Bengal in the past… Vivek Dube also worked as a special police observer in Bengal in 2019 Lok Sabha polls,” Arora told a news conference in Delhi on Friday. Sources in the state administration said appointing retired bureaucrats as special observers in a state where they had conducted polls in the past bore hints that the EC had taken the views of Opposition parties in Bengal seriously. “It is important for a special observer to get to know the ground realities of a particular state to hold polls properly. Both Nayak and Dube know the ground reality in Bengal as they had conducted the last Lok Sabha polls here. It is a rare incident when the EC deputed two special observers in the same state again. The EC is clearly interested in using their experience this time,” said a source. Another official said deputing M.K. Das (a 1977-batch retired IPS officer) as the second special observer was also significant as he had worked as a special police observer in Tripura in the past. “Characters and problems of both Bengal and Tripura are almost similar as the two states are highly politicised,” said a bureaucrat. Former director general of income tax (investigation) in Chennai B. Murli Kumar—whose seizure of unaccounted cash found on the premises of a DMK functionary led to the rescinding of the parliamentary election in Vellore in 2019 — has been appointed as special expenditure observer for Bengal. Immediately after the EC news conference, chief minister Mamata Banerjee held a news conference at her home and questioned the appointment of the three officers, especially Dube, as observers. “This officer, Vivek Dube, was here before, in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls... We all know what drama he did,” said Mamata Congress state president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also objected to the posting of Dube as a special police observer for Bengal. “I had complained to the EC regarding his prior postings (as observer during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls) in the state because observers like him do not listen to us and cause us disappointment and worry.” “We do not understand why he has been posted here again. We understand he might be the EC’s choice, but he has not heeded our complaints or demands in the past. So, we will keep raising our grievances with the EC if he repeats such actions.... He rejected our every request and so we had several complaints.” Sources said that appointments of the two special police observers meant that the EC felt that the law and order of the state was not satisfactory. “Generally, police observers take note of law and order in the state during the elections and submit reports to the EC on a regular basis. The primary inputs are received from police observers posted in the districts. Based on the reports of special police observers, deployment of central forces is planned,” said an official. As the issue of deployment of central forces remained a controversial issue in Bengal, the EC apparently does not want to take a chance and that is why the second special police observer was deployed, sources said. A senior bureaucrat said the EC felt that Nayak and Dube had worked well in 2019 Lok Sabha polls despite the fact that Trinamul had raised several questions on the alleged excesses of central forces. “Significantly, the BJP had no major complaints over the 2019 Lok Sabha poll process,” said the bureaucrat. The way the poll schedule was announced, sources said, also gave a hint that the EC was laying utmost importance on deployment of central forces at booths. “A number of districts — even small districts like Bankura — would go to the polls in two phases, which is a departure from earlier practice. This will make the movement of central forces smooth,” said a source. A bureaucrat said movement of central forces from one district to another was a critical exercise. “Now, the forces would move from one part of a district to another. And even, the forces can move to the neighbouring district for the next phase. This is a much easier exercise from bringing central forces from one district to a faraway district,” the bureaucrat explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections to stretch from March 27 to April 29||The Election Commission of India has notified the longest-ever Assembly polls in Bengal, stretching in eight phases from March 27 to April 29 and the result coming up on May 2. The unprecedented duration of the polling process prompted chief minister Mamata Banerjee to wonder aloud whether the schedule had been drafted “according to the convenience of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah”. Mamata also pointed out that the combined firepower of the Centre and its organisations is being marshalled against the last remaining woman chief minister in the country. Another feature that stood out in the schedule was the poll panel’s departure from the usual north-to-south sequence of polling. Besides, voting in some districts has been split over three phases. Mamata suspects this was done to polarise the voters in her strongholds. A long-drawn process does help parties without tall local leaders and those that depend on national figures for campaigning. More days of polling means these national leaders can campaign more in the state, focusing on each region phase by phase. The current schedule offers as many as 23 days during which elections will be held only in Bengal. However, Mamata, undoubtedly the biggest star campaigner for her party, can also similarly make the most of the long schedule. Bengal had seen seven-phase polling for the general election in the past but not eight phases. Calcutta and its immediate neighbourhood will go to polls on April 22 (areas like Salt Lake) April 26 (areas in south Calcutta) and April 29 (areas in north Calcutta). Chief election commissioner Sunil Arora, who demits office in April, announced the schedule in New Delhi on Friday. The commission attributed the long schedule to factors such as a nearly 32 per cent rise in the number of booths — from around 77,000 to over 1.01 lakh — because of the Covid-19 safety protocol, besides the electioneering challenges in the state. Not long after the commission’s news conference ended in Delhi, Mamata told journalists in Calcutta: “Eight phases? Why… to make it easy for whom? We expect the ECI (Election Commission of India) to be a little rational…. The ECI is such an important body, if they don’t give justice to the state and its people, then where will people go?” “Whatever I came to know from the BJP party’s sources, whatever the BJP had decided, as per the BJP’s requisition…. Have these phases been decided according to Narendra Modi and Amit Shah? So that they do not face difficulties in going to the constituencies of their choice. After finishing off with Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala… play a 23-day game here?” asked the Trinamul Congress chief. The elections in the other four states will be over by April 6 while they will continue in Bengal until April 29. “We don’t mind. Even in this game, we will decimate them. The game will be over in eight phases. We will hand you a drubbing, because we are from the grassroots,” she added. Mamata suggested she believed that the schedule would certainly benefit the BJP as it would chalk out an elaborate campaign for Bengal, spearheaded by Modi, Shah and party chief J.P. Nadda with their rallies likely to be scheduled just before and during the phases of polling. The Trinamul chief hinted at an attempt at misogyny. “Just one woman chief minister left in the country. The entire central government and all its organisations… such planning?” she asked. Mamata urged women, who are not only half of the electorate but also a crucial base of her support, to give a befitting reply. A Trinamul insider said: “She has already created a narrative that suggests the poll panel is dancing to the BJP’s tune and the entire might of the central government has been deployed to attack her. She would go across Bengal and hammer home this point.” The BJP welcomed the election schedule. The Congress and the Left in Bengal were non-committal, confining themselves to expressing the hope that the commission would do its job of ensuring free, fair and peaceful polls. Mamata criticised the division of voting phases in the districts. “Tell me why half or one-third of districts are going to polls (in a particular phase)? What did you do… splitting districts as part I, part II, part III. Are these BA exams or what?” she asked. “For instance, South 24-Parganas, simply because we are strong there, three-phase polling. Bujhun obostha (Understand the situation)!” she added. She went on to tie the splitting of the districts by the commission to the polarisation tactics of the saffron camp. “You are splitting districts, you are splitting mothers and sisters, dishonouring them… splitting siblings, splitting communities, splitting Bengalis, splitting the nation…. But remember, Bengal’s own daughter Mamata Banerjee is telling you, I know Bengal thoroughly, with over 40 years in politics…. Every conspiracy of yours, we will shatter,” she said. Mamata repeatedly underscored her respect for the commission and all constitutional bodies, urging Nirvachan Sadan to think of Bengal as its own state. “Please consider Bengal as your own state. Don’t consider it through the eyes of the BJP. Whatever their party decided, I have seen their lists from their party office, that same list we are seeing today. I am really sorry, I am shocked,” she said. “We know all the drama, all the games…. The BJP has the power of agencies, of the Centre…. If you allow their misuse for the state election, there will be a big, big blunder.” A proposal to offer the Electronically Transferrable Postal Ballot System to overseas voters will not be implemented in these polls. The external affairs ministry has suggested further consultations with stakeholders before a decision is taken on extending this facility, currently offered only to members of the armed forces and any other person covered under the Army Act. As in the Bihar polls last year, regular postal ballot facilities will be offered to the disabled, voters aged above 80, voters employed in essential services and those who are in Covid quarantine. Election staff have been recognised as frontline workers by the Union health ministry to make them eligible for vaccine shots at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
27-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP ready to hurl into Bengal battle, eye on farm protest||The BJP is revving up for a no-holds-barred battle to win Bengal, hoping that victory in the state would shatter the Opposition’s morale and help the party neutralise the farmers’ movement, insiders said. Many in the party believe that triumph in Bengal, an ideologically crucial state for the BJP, will be as important as the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya and the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The BJP has already unleashed a campaign blitzkrieg and is set to scale it up to an unprecedented level now that the poll dates have been announced. “Party leaders from top to bottom, drawn from across states, have been asked to hurl themselves into Bengal,” a BJP general secretary said. “We are determined to win,” he added. BJP leaders are happy polling will be held in eight phases spread over a month as that will allow them to virtually carpet-bomb the state with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rallies. The BJP is not projecting a chief ministerial face and Modi would be used as the principal vote-catcher. The party has always used electoral victories to blunt the Opposition’s attack on issues and BJP leaders are sure success in Bengal would stun their rivals into silence. “Recall how the hue and cry over the Rafale (fighter jet) deal fizzled out after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls,” another BJP leader said. The farmers’ protest has emerged as a big political challenge for the government and the BJP fears it could harm their future electoral prospects, particularly in north India, if it continues. “Thankfully, the farmers’ protest has hardly had any impact in Bengal,” a BJP leader said. On the contrary, the denial of the cash dole under the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme to the state’s farmers was working in the party’s favour, the leader said. Although five states are slated for polls, Bengal holds a special ideological significance, being the home state of Syama Prasad Mookerjee, one of the founders of the Jana Sangh, the predecessor of the BJP. The BJP had never been a significant force in the state but it stunned everyone when it bagged 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Exhilarated by the performance, the party now wants to conquer the state. “Victory in Bengal will be no less than the construction of a Ram temple or the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir,” a BJP leader said, recalling Mookerjee’s struggle against the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The BJP’s internal surveys have shown that though the party was still behind the ruling Trinamul Congress, the gap was thin, BJP sources said. “We are sure that our mighty election machinery will bridge the gap and we will surge ahead by the time the votes are cast,” a general secretary micromanaging the ground campaign said. The general secretary said Union home minister Amit Shah was masterminding the Bengal poll strategy. “These days Amitbhai is totally focussed on Bengal. He tells us that we have to win Bengal,” he said. BJP managers said that apart from dealing a blow to the Opposition’s campaign against the farm laws, a win in Bengal would also prepare the ground for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
27-02-2021||Opinion||Iron fist in velvet gloves: Digital media code||The architects of New India have at their disposal formidable powers of transformation that would make Houdini nervous. Worryingly, the agenda behind these changes is often cleverly couched in benign or even affirmative rhetoric that can obfuscate the real intentions. Thus, attempts to instil transparency, ironically, have intensified concerns about opacity in the public domain. The softest of touch from this government, its critics allege, can end up delivering the hardest of blows. The jury is still out on whether the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 — the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre’s first attempt to regulate the vast and, allegedly, shadowy turf occupied by social and digital media players, big and small, and Over The Top platforms — belongs to the featherweight or the heavyweight category. This is because the declared intent of the regime has been matched by equally convincing reservations regarding some of the provisions in these rules. The objectives appear perfectly acceptable on paper. The draft, among other goals, seeks to establish a grievance redressal mechanism to resolve conflicts in a timely manner; OTT platforms have been directed to create categories to classify content; a degree of uniformity has also been brought in terms of the guidelines to put print, electronic and online news media on an even keel. There cannot be an argument against regulation for the amorphous digital universe. But that does not mean that misgivings about the reach and the ethics of such oversight mechanisms ought to be brushed aside. The Rules strip Twitter and Facebook of the ‘safe harbour’ clause — a principle endorsed by legal precedent — that reduced the liability of these firms on the content posted on their platforms, rendering them vulnerable to institutional intimidation; the traceability clause, which now demands that social media intermediaries identify the first originator of information, may not only impair privacy but also lead to other kinds of encroachments at a time when content critical of the powers that be are routinely held up as instances that adversely affect the sovereignty of the nation; the oversight tool employed in the case of online news, it is feared, could consolidate bureaucratic meddling and, effectively, censorship. There is a case to argue that the code is an embodiment of a global momentum towards taming social and digital media units: Germany, Russia, Singapore have, in recent times, evinced similar motives. Given the greyish outcome of some of these policies, it is of paramount importance to make the deliberations participatory. The lack of legislative discussion or collaboration makes India’s newly-minted regulations stick out like the proverbial sore thumb. This only goes to reveal a strange parallel between social media and the ‘leash’ that is now in place to bind it. The former, conceived as a technology to revolutionize communication and lives, has now been reduced to a handy tool for the toxic troll. India’s ethical code for social media could turn out to be a problematic — unethical — paradigm shift unless it achieves the right balance between surveillance and oversight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
27-02-2021||Opinion||Portraits of the present: Devon Rodriguez's Subway Series||During the pandemic, using the subway and other forms of public transport has taken on a different meaning. People are generally apprehensive as they try to socially distance themselves from others on their commute. The subway system is the lifeline of New York City. An artist’s work recently brought both him and his subway art into the spotlight. As part of his Subway Series started in 2010, Devon Rodriguez has been drawing pictures of strangers sitting on the subway. About six months ago his popularity skyrocketed and his Instagram followers went from around 30,000 to almost two million. He soon started a TikTok account showing himself creating his art and how he completed his first coronavirus drawing. It quickly garnered millions of views. Rodriguez said he primarily relies on the 6 train for his drawing, illustrating about one per week. Recently most of his subjects have been drawn with masks on their faces. Even though trains are emptier now, his artwork captures the current situation and the journey over the past months as Covid-19 ravaged NYC. The New York governor, Andrew Cuomo, mentioned Rodriguez’s artwork during one of his daily Covid-19 updates. Rodriguez also sells his subway drawings on his website. As of now, the NYC subway is about 70 per cent less occupied compared to last February, right before the pandemic sanctions began. The master’s works A worldwide exhibition displaying the artwork of Vincent van Gogh has been gaining popularity; it stopped by in Chicago on Feb 11. It was originally slated to end after a month, but on account of high ticket sales and success it has been extended till September. The exhibition made its debut last summer in Toronto and is meant to be an immersive ‘experience’. It takes 400 van Gogh paintings and then projects them onto the walls and corners of the interior of the 500-cubic feet venue. The walls, columns and floors become the canvas for the artwork. In addition, the paintings are brought to life through animation, such that “sunflowers are blowing in the wind, stars are twinkling and clouds are moving by,” as said by Corey Ross, the exhibition producer, to Time Out. The gallery is following Covid-19 safety protocols for the audience. In fact, it uses the overhead projectors to create ‘viewing circles’ on the ground to remind people that they must stick to those areas in order to socially distance inside the building. The latter has 35-feet-high walls and plenty of space to accommodate both the projected paintings and also the accompanying lights and music. The whole visit is an hour-long walk-through, with hand sanitizer stations along the way. The exhibition will also go to Los Angeles in May and to NYC in June. Tickets will go on pre-sale next month and are expected to sell out fast. Learn about the past Black History Month is wrapping up, but it is important to keep the conversation going beyond February. To celebrate black history, a new self-guided walking tour just launched in Brooklyn and Manhattan that takes you through 11 historic sites. Some of the stops include the African Burial Ground National Monument downtown as well as the neighbourhood of Weeksville in Crown Heights that was established by freed black Americans in 1838 and discusses the 1863 NYC riots and the dark side of New York’s history. The film and audio tour is called ‘Fighting Dark’ and can be streamed for free online as well. Another way to educate people on black history is through food. Two restaurant owners in Chicago and Detroit are offering special takeout boxes with illustrations and texts describing significant historic moments and social justice lessons. The restaurants are selling their food in shoe boxes owing to their historical significance. During the segregation era, black women were not allowed to eat in the dining cars of trains and thus packed their meals in shoe boxes. There are two information boxes. The ‘Jim Crow’ box highlights historical black figures such as the baseball pitcher, Satchel Paige, the aviator, Bessie Coleman, and the Nasa engineer, Katherine Johnson. The ‘End Racism’ box depicts recent events such as the tragic death of Breonna Taylor. Spotify also launched a guest-curated list of podcasts and playlists to highlight black culture and excellence. The hub, ‘Black History is Now’, consolidates all the content and can be found on the app. Ice age An unprecedented winter storm has ravaged most of Texas, destroying a power grid and leaving millions without electricity and water supply. People have been burning their personal belongings to stay warm and melting ice from outside to get water. Alongside donations to homeless shelters and food banks, local joints are also stretching themselves to help their fellow Texans. Domino’s Pizza in San Antonio was the only pizza place that stayed open to help out those in need. An image went viral showing its exhausted workers who sold all the food in four hours and garnered several thousand comments, with people noting the burden imposed on fast food workers. At the H-E-B grocery store in Leander, Texas, people were rushing to stock up on food and supplies to prepare for the winter storm. The store was crowded, and the power suddenly went out. Instead of making the customers pay, the H-E-B staff just let everyone leave with their groceries and supplies. Their generosity quickly went viral. The Texas senator, Ted Cruz, an avid Donald Trump supporter, came under fire after being caught catching a flight to Cancun, Mexico in the midst of the devastating storm. He had a booking at the Ritz Carlton to stay with his family. After the backlash, he was seen booking a flight back immediately. Footnote New Yorkers are familiar with the voice on the subway warning passengers to “stand clear of the closing door”. Now, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is bringing in 25 new voices, including those of Jerry Seinfeld, Whoopi Goldberg, Debi Mazar and Fran Lebowitx. The MTA said it provided a general script but encouraged the celebrities to improvise. To hear their voices, you have to ride the subway or the bus; just keep your mask on!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
27-02-2021||Opinion||Colossal figure||There was once a king named Narendra. He ruled over a large kingdom, home to (among other things) the holiest shrine of the Hindu faith. Because of his lineage and as the patron of this great temple he was regarded by his subjects as divinity personified. However, despite the hallowed place accorded to him by virtue of his hereditary position, the king was dissatisfied. He wished to decisively set himself apart from the men who had occupied this particular throne before him, and who might occupy the throne after him. So our vain king built for himself and his subjects a brand new capital altogether. He called it Narendranagar. The story I have told above is neither mythical nor ancient. It is true, and the events I have narrated occurred merely a century ago. This king was Narendra Shah of Tehri Garhwal state, whose family controlled the Badrinath temple. The construction of the new capital named after himself was completed in 1919. As a boy growing up in the Garhwal foothills, I often visited Narendranagar myself. Memories of the place, and the story of its origins, came back to me when I heard that a major cricket stadium in Ahmedabad had been named for Narendra Modi. The full details of how this name was chosen will probably never be disclosed to the public. A British newspaper has run a story with the headline, “Narendra Modi renames cricket stadium after himself”. It seems more likely that the idea originally came from a Gujarati politician with a strong familial interest in Indian cricket administration, who may have sought both to flatter his boss and silence criticisms of his progeny. Either way, for a serving prime minister of a so-called democracy to allow, encourage or initiate this renaming was a staggering act of vanity, matched only (as the Twitterati was quick to point out) by Adolf Hitler, who allowed, encouraged, or initiated the naming of a football stadium after himself in Stuttgart in the 1930s.  Further digging by a writer in The Wire revealed that Hitler’s fellow dictators, Benito Mussolini, Saddam Hussein and Kim Il-sung, also had stadia named after themselves when in power. All politicians have a high opinion of themselves. The profession demands it. However, in a republic, politicians must learn the importance of democratic procedure, and never allow themselves to become bigger than the office they hold. While a king may equate himself with his kingdom, a democratically elected prime minister (or president) should never think of himself or herself as synonymous with the country. Alas, this lesson has not always been heeded by leaders of the world’s oldest republics. Equating himself with France came naturally to President Charles de Gaulle. The American historian, Arthur Schlesinger Jr, coined the term, ‘imperial presidency’, to characterize those leaders of his own country who ruled more like monarchs and less like democratic politicians mindful of checks and balances. There have been three imperious prime ministers in the history of our own republic. These are Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Narendra Modi. All have towered above their colleagues in party and government. Both Nehru and Indira were awarded the country’s highest honour, the Bharat Ratna, while still in office. Could this be what Modi does next? It was intriguing, as well as a little surprising, that it was President Ram Nath Kovind who was the chief guest at the ceremony when the Sardar Patel Cricket Stadium was renamed after Narendra Modi. Could this be the prelude to Kovind awarding Modi the Bharat Ratna in 2022 or 2023? I think this unlikely, for two reasons. First, Modi has sought systematically to distance himself from his predecessors, and he will do so in this regard as well. Second, he has larger ambitions for himself. Nehru and Indira allowed or encouraged the awarding of a republican honour to themselves. Modi, however, will do something much more spectacular. He will, through an expensive exercise in monumental architecture, reshape India’s capital itself. Readers will recall that, in June 2014, shortly after he was sworn in as prime minister, Narendra Modi said in the Lok Sabha that his aim was to undo twelve hundred years of slavery (bara sau saal ki ghulami). At the time, a young writer told me that this statement, and the speech as a whole, was deeply revealing of Modi’s political and personal ambitions. Hindus, thought Modi, had for too long been subservient to or ruled by foreigners. He had now arrived to give them back their self-respect and their dignity. By framing the issue as he had, said my friend, Modi was suggesting that he was the first Hindu ruler to successfully unite the country. For all their bravery, for all the folklore about them, Shivaji and Prithviraj had succeeded only in having a small sliver of the subcontinent under their control. In territorial or political terms, they had not been remotely as successful as (the Buddhist) Ashoka or the (Muslim) Mughals or the (Christian) British. Prime Minister Modi would finally redeem the Hindus by accomplishing what Shivaji and Prithviraj had failed to do. To announce their significance, to proclaim their superiority and assert their sovereignty, kings often construct new capitals for themselves. When Narendra Shah built a new capital in Garhwal he was following in the footsteps of many kings in India and abroad. Indeed, a few years before he decided to build Narendranagar, the emperor to whom Narendra Shah himself owed allegiance, King George V of England, announced that British India deserved a new capital. The old seat of government, Calcutta, would not do anymore. The centre of imperial power in the subcontinent would henceforth shift north. On land acquired from villages to the south of the old city of Delhi, the British imperialists constructed a grand new city befitting their own elevated sense of self. Around three centuries before the British Empire decided to shift its capital, the Mughal Empire did likewise. Shah Jahan, the fifth ruler of a dynasty begun by Babar, chose to move his kingdom’s capital from Agra to Delhi. He supervised the construction of a series of gorgeous buildings, many of which still stand. Once everything was in place, and he was satisfied with what he saw, he named the city after himself. It was to be called Shahjahanabad. In The King and the People, his brilliant new history of 17th and 18th-century Delhi, Abhishek Kaicker writes that, of all the Mughal emperors, Shah Jahan was “the most voluble of all in enunciating the discourse of sovereignty in architecture”. Shah Jahan took especial “pains to ensure that his figure appeared before his subjects as an otherworldly, angelic being: when the emperor appeared below the gilded arched roof of his palace windows, the light of the morning sun enveloped his figure in the same sort of golden shimmering halo which enveloped his image in portraits”. Like Shah Jahan, Narendra Modi pays an extraordinary amount of attention to his dress and personal visage. His clothes, his posture, the background against which photographs are taken are all meticulously attuned to the occasion at hand. And he is luckier than Shah Jahan in the technology at his command. A medieval emperor had to appear in person to make a dramatic impact; whereas a postmodern autocrat can use radio, television, newspapers, websites, WhatsApp, Instagram and so on to present the image he desires to every Indian alive. Narendra Modi’s behaviour as prime minister has been imperious, as manifest in his treatment of political colleagues and political rivals, in how he presents himself in public, in his disregard for debate in Parliament, and in his refusal (whether born of contempt or cowardice) to hold even a single press conference. Like the emperors of yore, his publications are all one-way, Mann ki Baat being a 21st-century equivalent of the Mughal firman. Like them again, he seeks to perpetuate himself through an architectural reshaping of the very centre of political power. A mere cricket stadium in Ahmedabad or even a Bharat Ratna certainly will not do. It is ironic that, for all his denunciations of British and Mughal rule, Narendra Modi seeks to make his most permanent legacy a crass imitation of what the British and the Mughals did for Delhi. It may be his hope that, three or four hundred years later, future subjects of the Hindutva rashtra will look with pride at his buildings but with derision at what previous emperors had built before him. That hope is unlikely to be realized. For, from what one knows of the chosen architect and his past constructions, it is unlikely that this new exercise in imperial hubris shall yield a single building remotely as beautiful as the Lal Qila or the Jama Masjid, the North or the South Blocks. A final thought. The scheme to reshape New Delhi is currently called the ‘Central Vista Project’. Once the new complex of monumental buildings has come up, however, surely that colonial appellation must give way to an atmanirbhar replacement. ‘Narendranagar’ has already been taken, by a vain king of that name who ruled over a hill kingdom a century ago. Perhaps ‘Narendra Mahanagar’ then? Or even ‘Modiabad’? ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
27-02-2021||Jharkhand||Gumla youth loses limb in IED blast||A villager lost a leg in an IED blast in Jharkhand’s Gumla district on Saturday afternoon, when he had gone to the nearby forests to graze his goats when he accidentally stepped upon the improvised device planted inside the jungle, police said. Gumla SP, H.P.Janardhan said that the injured has been identified as Mahendra Mahto(27), and has been sent to Ranchi via helicopter in the evening for better treatment. Mahto hails from Marwa village of Gumla. Police learnt about the incident hours after the incident when he was brought to local Sadar hospital by his family for preliminary treatment. “He was spotted unconscious and badly hurt in the forest when one of his family members had gone looking for him. They then brought him to the sadar hospital in an auto, 20 kilometres away, when police came to know about the incident. He lost his left leg,” said a police officer. Terming the incident as unfortunate, Janardhan said that villagers are being targeted by rebels. “We will ensure proper treatment of the victim. Initially, we gave his family Rs 20,000 for treatment as immediate financial assistance. For better treatment, we sent him to Ranchi via air,” he said. The incident comes three days after a CRPF jawan sustained serious injuries in an IED blast during counter insurgency operation in the district. He is currently undergoing treatment in Ranchi. On February 15, a Jharkhand police officer, Duleshwar Paras, got killed in a similar blast during anti-Maoist operation in the neighbouring Lohardaga district. His body was laid to rest in the presence of his family members, villagers and police and civil officers at his native village Katimba under Albert Ekka( Jari) police station in Gumla on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
27-02-2021||Jharkhand|| Adityapur residents join hands to save green lung ||Concerned over the imminent encroachment of an open space at Dindli Housing Board Colony in Adityapur, local residents with support of local NGO Jan Kalyan Morcha have demanded  a common sports utility centre at the vacant space. Functionaries of the NGO on Saturday held a meeting with the local residents after carrying out a survey of the open space, which runs the risk of getting encroached. The NGO functionary, who had carried along the blueprint of the Dindli Housing Colony, verified the area left as open space as per the blueprint of the housing colony. "The Dindli housing colony has an open space measuring 210 ft by 320 ft on the eastern side. As land grabbers are set to encroach the vacant land and the housing board had in its plan earmarked the said land as open space, we have decided to write to the housing board authority to convert into an open sports facility," Om Prakash Presidentof the Morcha told The Telegraph Online. Prakash, who is also a senior advocate, said that there is no alternative place for the children of the housing colony to play and the land in question is facing risk of being encroached by influential people. He said as the Adityapur Municipal Corporation comes under the state urban development department, the organisation will  write to them as well as the civic body. There are about a dozen housing board colonies in Adityapur. However, in all the colonies other than the one in Dindli housing, open spaces have been encroached. Land grabbers had till the recent past tried to encroach the land either by setting up cattle sheds or by dumping sand and other building materials, but the local residents drove such elements away, often risking their lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
27-02-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel sets terms for land for proposed cricket stadiums||Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), which has agreed in principle to allot 20 acres of land to Jharkhand State Cricket Association for construction of an international cricket stadium in the Balidih area, put forth a set of three conditions during a meeting with a team of JSCA officials on Saturday. At the meeting with JSCA officials, BSL director in-charge Amarendu Prakash asked for adequate advertising rights for parent company Steel Authority of India (SAIL) inside and outside the stadium, seats for SAIL officials and invitees in VVIP boxes and representation of SAIL in the stadium’s management committee. JSCA president Nafees Akhtar, who was present at the meeting, said, “This was our first meeting with the BSL director in-charge on the international cricket stadium project. It was very positive. BSL has asked for a few things, which we will get back on soon after discussions with our members”. Director in-charge Prakash said the proposal for transfer of land to JSCA was on track. “We made positive progress. The detailed terms and conditions will be finalised soon for seeking clearance from the SAIL board,” he said and went on to compliment JSCA members for attending Saturday’s meeting. Apart from JSCA president Akhtar, JSCA vice-president Ajay Nath Shahdev, secretary Sanjay Sahay, joint secretary Rajiv Badan, former secretary Rajesh Verma and former secretary Devashish Chakraborty were part of the visiting team. The JSCA officials also visited the proposed site of the stadium near Visthapit College, Balidih, a first for many in the team. The JSCA team, along with Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan, also met deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh and discussed the project estimated to cost Rs 250 crore. In the first week of February, the Union steel ministry had cleared the proposal for allotting BSL land to JSCA for a proposed cricket stadium. MLA Narayan said, “It was in 2016 that JSCA begin searching for land which has now reached the final stages. Establishment of a cricket stadium of international standards will boost the development of the area beyond compare”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
27-02-2021||Jharkhand||Business down to near-zero, Dhanbad traders stare at uncertainty  ||Coal town traders are crestfallen as market sales have dipped to near-zero levels with shopkeepers complaining they haven’t seen customers in days. Worst hit are garment traders, footwear sellers and sellers of consumer durables who attribute the sullen mood to a host of factors, including poor cash flow, inflation, an unprecedented hike in diesel and petrol prices and a sense of deep insecurity over lack of jobs. “Business has dipped to less than 25 per cent in the last three months,” said Dinesh Modi, who owns Maa Kali Sari Centre of Hirapur. “While we were sitting idle during the first three months of the lockdown, our shops were shut. Now we are still sitting idle, but our shops are open and there is zero income,” he explained. “Customers who used to buy sarees for Rs 1,000 are now settling for purchases to the tune of Rs 300 even during festivals,” Modi added, explaining that “this recession” was more taxing because now they had to deal with overhead expenses like electricity charges and generator costs without any income. Amit Sahu, who runs an electronics shop at Jharia, said markets saw a momentary revival last year from November 25 to December 15 due to the marriage season. “But now we are back to square one. Sales are negligible in our shop. Other than groceries and vegetables, nothing is moving,” he said. Rajesh Gupta, former president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce, tried to explain the scenario. “Being in the service class, Dhanbad used to be immune to slowdowns. But now, the prolonged slowdown has begun to affect markets… also, many people have lost their private sector jobs. Others are fearing job losses in the near future and are, therefore, not spending money. They are saving for exigencies,” he said. As for government employees, Gupta claimed, dearness allowances had been slashed and PSUs like Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) were paying salaries late. “The hike in petrol and diesel prices is affecting the transport sector, leading to inflation,” he added. B.N. Singh, President of Industries and Commerce Association representing over 80 hard coke factory owners of Dhanbad, said small scale industries which used to provide employment to a large number of people, were also suffering. “All sops announced earlier are only on paper. Consequently, everyone is affected,” he said. Rajiv Sharma, general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, complained about GST and other taxes that traders were subjected to. “There is a lack of cash flow in the market and notices to traders about GST delays are not helping either,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
27-02-2021||Jharkhand||Road accidents killed three times more people than Covid-19 in 2020||Road accidents caused almost three times more deaths in Jharkhand than Covid-19 in 2020 despite several months of lockdown that led to a significant fall in volume of traffic, data compiled by the Road Safety Authority and the National Health Mission (NHM) reveals. As per the latest report of the authority, as many as 3,044 people died in road accidents in Jharkhand from January 2020 to December 2020. As per figures compiled by the NHM, Covid-19 claimed as many as 1,025 lives – around one-third the number of road accident fatalities – in the state until December 31. In 2020, as many as 4,377 road accidents occurred in Jharkhand, according to data with the Road Safety Authority. While 3,044 people died in these accidents, as many as 3,303 people sustained injuries. At least 39 per cent of the accidents involved two wheelers, 18 per cent involved four wheelers and 16 per cent involved heavy vehicles. As per the data, at least 92 per cent of the accidents occurred due to speeding, 2 per cent occurred due to drunk driving, 4 per cent due to driving on the wrong side while 1 per cent accidents occurred due to traffic signal violations. While Covid-19 caused the highest deaths in East Singhbhum, Khunti reported the highest number of road accident fatalities in 2020, as per government data. Ranchi was the second worst-affected in terms of fatalities caused in road accidents and also the second worst-hit in terms of Covid casualties. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand on Saturday was 0.90 per cent against the national average of 1.40 per cent. The state has reported 62 more Covid fatalities in 2021, taking the total count of Covid deaths in Jharkhand to 1,087, as per NHM data. The Hemant Soren-led government has taken several initiatives to put a check on road accidents and save lives of people who sustain injuries in such mishaps. Last month, the state Cabinet launched a Good Samaritan Policy that aims to reward life savers in cases of road accidents and allows them to take accident survivors to hospital without having to disclose their own identity to the hospital authorities or police. “We are consistently working on our policies to curb road accidents and deaths on roads. New policies are also being framed to support kin of accident victims,” said state disaster management minister Banna Gupta, who is also the health minister. The state government is also planning to set up trauma centres in all 24 districts. Currently, there is only one level-1 trauma centre at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, one level-3 trauma centre each in Hazaribagh, Garhwa and East Singhbhum. And three more level-3 trauma centres are being constructed at Ghatshila, Koderma and Lohardaga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
27-02-2021||Jharkhand||Elephants kill two villagers in Hazaribagh||A herd of wild elephants, which killed two in Hazaribagh last week, has left two more persons dead at Barkangango village in Barkatha block of the district. A team of the forest department on Saturday recovered the body of a woman, identified as Fulwa, after she went missing in an attack by the herd. In the wee hours of Saturday, villagers found the body of Balram Paswan(30), who was also trampled to death, while they went out to search for the woman. However, they could not find Fulwa and informed the police about the incident after bringing Balram to the village. According to them, Fulwa and one other woman were in their fields when the herd suddenly reached there from Charki Tongri forest on Friday night. The other person had a miraculous escape, but Fulwa was caught by the elephant. This prompted the villagers to launch a search. The forest department, thereafter, initiated a search operation for Fulwa in the afternoon and recovered her body. Forest range officer Gorakh Ram said a team of 15 experts is now chasing away the herd into the forest area. He urged the villagers not to enter the forest as it angers the elephants. The herd, according to the residents, comprises 22 elephants, including four calves and has been destroying crops and houses since the last five days. Barkatha MLA Amit Kumar Yadav termed the incident unfortunate and said he was with the grief-stricken families. “I will ensure that their families get compensation and other government benefits on time,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
27-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand minister mocks Centre over fuel price hike 'logic'||Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon has described as "illogical" Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s reasoning that the steep rise in fuel prices was linked to increase in demand and predicted a reverse trend in the hikes for next two months ahead of crucial Aassembly elections in four states and a Union territory, including Bengal and Kerala. On Friday, Pradhan told journalists in Varanasi that the surge in fuel prices was due to increase in demand during the winter after last year’s lockdown period. Reacting to it on Saturday, Oraon asked the Union minister whether fuel prices were seasonal. “The petroleum minister’s logic is completely illogical and without facts. The reality is that despite the steep fall in crude oil prices, the government has failed to regulate pricing in the country because of its faulty policies and to fill the coffers of its corporate friends. Fuel isn’t a seasonal commodity,” he said. Speaking to reporters outside Raj Bhavan during a sit-in organised by the Congress, Oraon added that BJP was using fuel as a weapon for its political agenda. “The Union minister said, the prices will certainly ease a bit soon because Assembly elections have been announced in four states and one Uunion territory. I foresee a price slash for about two months now till the time elections are on. Thereafter, the BJP-led government at the Centre will again take the aam-aadmi for a ride with serial hikes,” he said. In many cities, prices of petrol and diesel have surged to Rs 100 a litre, prompting several Opposition parties to launch a stir. In Jharkhand too, the Congress, which is a part of the ruling coalition government, is holding agitations across the state. After taking out torch rallies on Friday, the grand old party held demonstrations in districts on Saturday. JMM, the leader of the alliance government in the state, has also announced plans to hit the streets from Sunday. Party spokesperson Vinod Pandey said a two-day protest campaign would be held across the state with torch rallies, marches and sit-ins against the Union government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
27-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dhoni visits Dewri temple before IPL||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
