28-02-2021||Calcutta||Meme shared by Union minister Babul Supriyo attracts backlash||Millennium: The third. Century: 21st. Year: 2021. Date: February 27. Day: Saturday. In this day and age, sample the idea of a meme: “Beti paraya dhan hoti hai… (A daughter is someone else’s wealth…).” A Union minister and BJP leader shared the meme on Facebook and Twitter on Saturday morning. The full meme went like this: an image shows Mamata Banerjee with a mic and the words “I am the daughter of Bengal” written in Hindi. Below the chief minister’s picture is an image of Union home minister Amit Shah with folded hands and the words “Beti paraya dhan hoti hai, iss bar vida kar denge (A daughter is someone else’s wealth, this time we will send her off)”. “Bangla nijer meyekei chay (Bengal wants its own daughter and no one else)” is the new slogan of the Trinamul Congress. The sharer of the meme —Union minister of state for environment, forest and climate change Babul Supriyo — took it down from both social media handles as a backlash erupted. He reposted the meme at 5.35pm. On Facebook, he wrote: “I acknowledge, should not have been shared from my account… That’s it! Period. Nothing more. Nothing less either.” Later, Supriyo told The Telegraph: “This meme was neither created by me nor does it carry my statement. I’ve two daughters. Hence, I wouldn’t need to learn the definition of misogyny from any other party.” He posted this message on Twitter too. BJP parliamentarian Locket Chatterjee found the post “an insult to women”. “This is against Bengali culture. Women are always treated as daughters in our society. Insulting them in such a manner is unwelcome,” Chatterjee said. The meme raises — if not answers — several questions. Needless to say, the meme betrays a mindset that had been faithfully reproduced in many films. The BJP itself has faced persistent charges that it is a manuvadi party. Against such a backdrop, it is inexplicable why a Union minister did not think twice before sharing such a meme without a comment condemning it. At a time the BJP is attacking Rahul Gandhi for his statement on the voters in southern India, the Union minister has shared a meme that uses Hindi but indirectly mentions the slogan of the ruling party in Bengal. Was the minister trying to suggest that only those who speak Hindi will get whatever message the meme was trying to convey? If so, it is an insult to the Hindi-speaking citizens of this country. If the Union minister thought the meme was innocuous, why did he not translate it into Bengali? Did he fear a voter backlash in Bengal? The meme used the image of the home minister of the country. It is not a small matter: the image is a loud and clear claim that such a regressive thought has the endorsement of the Union home minister although there is nothing yet to suggest that Shah is even aware of such a meme or that his colleague is sharing it. Shah does follow Supriyo on Twitter. BJP’s Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh had previously said Mamata would have to get back to cooking once she lost the 2021 polls. “This kind of attack is being meted out at the only women chief minister of the nation. The BJP is merely a tool in the hands of the RSS that always wanted to control women,” said minister and Trinamul spokesperson Shashi Panja said. She added that Supriyo’s jibe at Mamata exposed the hollowness of the Centre’s Beti Bachao Beti Padhao programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
28-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Register through CoWin 2 app to get vaccinated||People who want to get vaccinated against Covid-19 in a private hospital will have to register through the CoWin 2 app, as walk-in registration facility would not be allowed immediately, a senior health department official said on Saturday. Most of the private hospitals do not have cold storage facilities to keep vials of the Covid-19 vaccines, he said. The vaccines should not be wasted and the state health department wants to supply the exact number of vials required to vaccinate registered persons. State-run hospitals, however, will offer the option of walk-in registration as well as prior registration through the CoWin 2 app. “We are allowing the walk-in registration facility in only state-run hospitals. All major state run hospitals have cold storage facilities where they can keep extra vials that they can immediately use if there are many potential recipients. But many private hospitals do not have the cold storage facility. So, we have to supply them only that many vials that they require,” said Narayan Swaroop Nigam, the secretary of the state government’s health department. If only pre-registered persons are allowed to take the vaccine in private hospitals, then the number of vials needed in a day will be known beforehand, said another official. Another reason for keeping walk-in registrations open only at state-run hospitals was that the poorer section of the society goes to state-run hospitals and most of them could feel uncomfortable in using the CoWin2 app, said a health department official. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, Nigam and other senior state government officials held a webinar with officials of private hospitals on Saturday, where the hospitals officials were told that vaccination of people above 60 years and those between 45 and 59 will begin from Monday. In private hospitals, vaccination could begin only from Tuesday, said officials of the hospitals. The private hospitals will have to deposit the money for the vials in a bank account designated by the government before receiving them. But the price of the vials was not mentioned during Saturday’s webinar. Nigam said the age on January 1, 2022 would be considered. Someone who is 59 now and will turn 60 by next January 1 will become eligible to receive the vaccine, he added. At least one private hospital in the city said they had decided to open a help desk for those not comfortable with the app. “We have decided to keep facilitators who will register those people who are not tech-savvy...,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. People between 45 and 59 with comorbidities must get a certificate from a registered medical practitioner in a prescribed format. Officials of the state health department said they would try to publicise the format soon. “We will come up with FAQs (frequently asked questions) so everyone gets a clear idea of how to go about with the process,” said an official. The FAQs will be uploaded on websites of the state government. The state government has set a target of setting up nearly 10,000 vaccination centres to cover around two crore recipients in these categories. Additional reporting by Kinsuk Basu||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
28-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid scare: 2 weeks on, on-campus turnout in schools dips||A fortnight into resumption of schools, in-person attendance in classes has dwindled. Several schools that had reported attendance between 70 and 90 per cent in the first few days of resumption, said it had fallen to between 20 and 60 per cent now. Schools across Bengal, which had shut down in March last year as a precaution against Covid, reopened for students of Classes IX to XII on February 12 following a nod from the state government. Many parents are not keen to send their children to school and many students, too, prefer the online mode. Some parents said it was almost the end of the academic session and there was no need to send the children to school. The spike in Covid cases in some states has also made them apprehensive. Parents feel it might break the “rhythm of classes” because children have adjusted to the online mode and teachers are often conducting one-on-one doubt clearing sessions virtually. At St James’ Schools, in the initial few days about 90 per cent of the students who were called to campus turned up but gradually that started fluctuating and went down to 50 to 60 per cent. At Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, only 20 per cent of the students who had consented to attending classes are going to campus. At The BSS School, Class X initially had 85 per cent attendance but that has now gone down to 60 per cent. At Indus Valley World School, for Classes IX, XI and XII, an average of 50 per cent showed up for doubt clearing sessions. The Newtown School had planned to have both online and offline classes for IX and XI but aborted the plan of on-campus classes because the response from parents was very feeble. Parents are not willing to send children to school except for practical classes or if there is no other option. They are not keen to send the students only for revision or doubt clearing sessions. Several schools have had to cancel plans to conduct on-campus exams after parents protested. In many homes, students now have their own space where they are not disturbed. “Initially we would peep in every once in a while. But now, when she is at her desk we know she is not to be disturbed,” said a mother whose daughter is in Class XII humanities. Class XII science students are an exception. “On days that Class XII students have practicals they are on the campus but on other days when it is doubt clearing sessions, the number of students is very small,” said Meena Kak, director, Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. With the option of online classes available, students feel they are not missing out if they do not go to school. The initial excitement dwindled in a few days. “There is a scare of infection among parents and if there is a provision of attending classes from home, they are comfortable doing so. But lessons can be more interactive in a classroom,” said Sunita Sen, the principal of The BSS School. Teachers also feel the absence of extra-curricular activities has made school less attractive. Student life with Covid protocols has become more “restricted”. “We are very strict with them and do not allow them to go play on the field or to the canteen or allow long breaks. In a way it is more constricted,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. Classes have fewer students and if their friends don’t turn up, others lose interest too, Ireland said. Some school heads felt the online lessons will have to be integrated into the school system. “Some of the curriculum will have to be taught online.... the turnaround time for doubt clearing is less online,” said Sunil Agarwal, the founder-director of The Newtown School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
28-02-2021||Calcutta||Jesuit priest Linus Gomes dies at 99||Jesuit priest Linus Nirmal Gomes passed away early on Saturday in the city. He was 99. Most Reverend Linus Nirmal Gomes spent his last seven years at St Xavier’s College Jesuit community as the senior most clergy. He was the first bishop of Baruipur Catholic Diocese, when this new diocese was created, bifurcating from the Calcutta Archidiocese in 1977. The funeral mass of Most Reverend Bishop Linus Nirmal Gomes, SJ, will be held on Monday at 8.30am for common people at St Teresa’s Church, Moulali and at 11am at the Cathedral of Baruipur. The Mass for the priests will be held at 3pm on Monday at the Cathedral of Baruipur. Before becoming bishop, he was parish priest at St Teresa Parish Taltala, Calcutta. Later, as Bishop Emeritus, he was sent to Dhaka in Bangladesh to serve the Jesuit Mission from 1997 to 2014. Most Reverend Linus Nirmal Gomes was born in a village near Dhaka on September 7, 1921. He joined St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, in 1942 and stayed in the college hostel. He joined the Society of Jesus in 1942. Along with other Jesuit priests, he established the first Bengali medium school of the Catholic order, St Peter’s High School at Taltala, Calcutta, and became the first headmaster.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
28-02-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College opens wellness centre for students and staff||St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) has used money it had received under a central scheme to set up a “wellness centre” for students and staff. The 1200sq ft  facility houses a gym and a yoga centre. Programmes on mental health will also be held, said an official of the college. The new centre, which has come up near the library, was inaugurated on Saturday by Father Dominic Savio, principal of the college. Father Savio spent some time on an indoor cycle after the inauguration. The students and staff of the institution will get to use the facility for free, said an official of the college. “The campus is still closed for students. But when it opens, the centre should be popular among them,” he said. The college is open for students from 6am to 8pm, in three shifts. “The timings of then facility will be worked out in accordance with the three shifts once the college reopens,” the official said. The centre has been funded by the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA), a central scheme for wholistic upgrade of higher education. “The year 2020 has proved the importance of good health, a strong mind and the need for a stable workout. The new wellness centre plans to keep a health record of staff and students to check the current health solidity, offer health screenings and general care to all,” he said. The centre will also provide counselling to students regarding stress management and how to maintain a good balance between academics and lifestyle. “Our new wellness centre is not only a fitness studio with state-of-the-art equipment, but I look at it as the reflection of the holistic education approach which synergises with the Xaverian values and ideology,” said Father Savio. “Very soon we are going to introduce a weekly interactive session on stress management, depression management, meditation and motivation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
28-02-2021||Calcutta||Mercury breaches 35 degrees in February||February is not yet over and the mercury has already breached 35 degrees. The maximum temperature on Friday and Saturday was 35 and 35.1 degrees respectively. The Met office in Alipore issued an alert on Saturday, warning of a rise in day temperature across south Bengal in the coming days. “Due to continuous prevalence of dry weather, clear sky and direct insulation, day temperature is likely to be above normal by 4-6 degrees during the next 3-4 days over the districts of south Bengal,” said the alert. “The entire south Bengal, including Calcutta, is under the grip of unusually scorching days,” said a Met official. “The rise in day temperature has been abnormal. There is not a speck of a cloud in the sky,” he added. The clouds make the weather more humid and, in the absence of heavy rain, the discomfort level goes up, said a Met official. “But the clouds also act as a shield,” he added. The weather in Calcutta this time last year stood in sharp contrast with the weather this time (see chart).  A cyclonic circulation over Uttar Pradesh and Bihar had led to overcast conditions in the city in the last week of February. On February 25, 2020, the maximum temperature was 22.6 degrees, nine notches below normal. The city had received light rain on that day. In comparison, the maximum temperature on February 25 this year was 34.5 degrees, four notches above normal. The contrast is as stark between the start and end of this month as well. On February 1, the mercury plunged to 11.4 degrees, making it the second coldest day this winter and the coldest February day in a decade. Both the minimum and maximum temperature had been much lower than usual in the first week of February. But the impact of then low day temperature was more pronounced. February-end maximum temperature in Calcutta and deviation (in degrees) 2020 February 25: 22.6 (-8.8) February 26: 27.5 (-4) February 27: 29.1 (-2.3) 2021 February 25: 34.5 (3) February 26: 35 (4) February 27: 35.1||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
28-02-2021||Calcutta||‘Vivek Yatra’ starts from February 28||A visit to Swami Vivekananda’s ancestral house in north Calcutta on a tram followed by a trip to Belur Math on a launch and back — this is how you can spend your Sunday, starting February 28. “Vivek Yatra” will start at the Esplanade tram depot at 11am and end at the Millennium Park jetty around 7pm, where the launch ferrying tourists will finally park. The trip, being organised by the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) under the transport department, will last around eight hours and cost Rs 200 per person, including entry to a 3D show at a museum at the ancestral home of Swami Vivekananda on Vivekananda Road. The AC tram will leave from Esplanade at 11am for the Vivekananda address where the sightseers  will get off and walk into the house, which is now known as “Swami Vivekananda’s Ancestral House and Cultural Centre”. Swami Jnanalokananda, secretary of the centre, said: “We will eagerly be waiting to welcome visitors to this institution from Vivek Yatra, which would be of great help to both domestic and international tourists.” After the visit, there will be a break for lunch, which is not covered in the ticket, said a senior official of the WBTC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
28-02-2021||Business||Due date for filing 2019-20 annual GST returns extended till March 31||The government on Sunday extended the due date for furnishing the annual goods and services tax returns (GST) for the financial year 2019-20 by a month. The new deadline is March 31 instead of February 31. This is the second extension given by the government. The deadline was earlier extended from December 31, 2020, to February 28. In view of the difficulties expressed by the taxpayers in meeting this time limit, Government has decided to further extend the due date for furnishing of GSTR-9 and GSTR-9C for the financial year 2019-20 to March 31, 2021 with the approval of Election Commission of India, the Finance Ministry said in a statement. GSTR 9 is an annual return to be filed yearly by taxpayers registered under the Goods and Services Tax (GST). It consists of details regarding the outward and inward supplies made or received under different tax heads. GSTR-9C is a statement of reconciliation between GSTR-9 and the audited annual financial statement. Speaking about the extension, AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said, even though it is a relatively small extension of 31 days but is sufficient for the tax professionals to complete the requisite filings. EY Tax Partner Abhishek Jain said most industry players were struggling to meet this statutory deadline and had represented to the government for an extension. Furnishing of the annual return is mandatory only for taxpayers with aggregate annual turnover above Rs 2 crore while reconciliation statement is to be furnished only by the registered persons having aggregate turnover above Rs 5 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
28-02-2021||Business||Bajaj chides China policy||Bajaj auto managing director Rajiv Bajaj on Saturday said he would like to source supplies from wherever it is available at competitive prices, including China. He was speaking at a session on ‘Building Reliable Supply Chain’ at the second day of the three-day virtual Asia Economic Dialogue 2021, jointly convened by the ministry of external affairs and Pune International Centre. Bajaj said that in terms of ease of doing business, operating something in one of the Asean countries is certainly easier than “what we encounter here in India”. “We like to believe that we are a global company, and therefore, from a cultural and an operational point of view, this demands completeness or inclusiveness not just of employee gender, but also of having dealers, distributors and equally suppliers from all over the world. “And that is why I believe that we must continue to trade with China. Because if we conduct our business at the exclusion of such a large country, such a large market, we will find ourselves incomplete over time, and we will be poorer for the loss of that experience,” Bajaj said. Stating that in supply chain, commitment is important, he said that a sense of mutuality and reciprocity is indispensable to building the kind of very intricate supply chain that the auto industry needs to deliver the final product to customers. Bajaj said, “I say this in the context of what happened in around June or July, when our government for whatever reasons, suddenly came down hard on imports, especially from China.” “Now, to my mind, doing something like that is to cut your nose to spite your face. Because overnight, how can one source components that are not made in the domestic market, that you need to deliver products to customers?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
28-02-2021||Business||Eco-friendly toys key to global play||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asked toy manufacturers to use less plastic and more eco-friendly and recyclable materials which would help the country increase its share in the global toy market. Inaugurating the first India Toy Fair, Modi said, “We have to become Aatmanirbhar in the toy sector and also cater to the global market.” Observing that India’s share in the $100-billion global toy market is very small, and 85 per cent of the toys in the country are sourced from abroad, Modi said there was a need to change this situation. India has barely 0.5 per cent market share in the global toy manufacturing sector, while China has 80 per cent. Analysts said one of the reasons why manufacturing of toys in India has not picked up pace is the lack of component makers for toys. Therefore, there is an urgent need to scale up the auxiliary industry in toy manufacturing, said the analysts. “In the field of toys, India has tradition and technology, concepts and competence. We can take the world back towards eco-friendly toys. Through our software engineers, computer games can bring the stories of India to the world,” he said. “Electronic toys & games and Battery operated toys have a huge market in India (almost 50 % market share) that is currently dominated by Chinese toys, hence it is suggested that the Indian toys manufacturers should focus on the development of Electronic toys & games and battery operated toys that could be sold at cheaper costs in India,” a recent study on the toy industry said. While referring to the traditional toy industry, the Prime Minister underlined the need for promoting Handmade in India. If there is a demand for Made in India today, then the demand for Handmade in India is also increasing equally, he said, adding "today people do not only buy toys as a product, but also want to connect with the experience associated with that toy. So, we have to promote Handmade in India as well". The Prime Minister appealed to the manufacturers to make toys that are better for both ecology and psychology, using less plastic and more of such things that can be recycled. Referring to the initiatives of the government, Modi said the country has now graded the toy industry in 24 major sectors. The National Toy Action Plan has also been prepared, he said, adding, "it has included 15 ministries and departments to make these industries competitive, the country to become self-reliant in toys, and India's toys also go into the world. Throughout this campaign, state governments have been made an equal partner in developing the toy clusters". He said along with this, efforts are made to strengthen the possibilities of toy tourism. Toyathon-2021 was also organised to promote Indian sports-based toys and more than 7,000 ideas were brainstormed. The Prime Minister also used the occasion to interact with traditional toymakers from Chennapatnam, Varanasi and Jaipur and impress upon them the need to innovate and make toys more relevant keeping in view the changing taste of children. More than 1,000 exhibitors participated in the Toy Fair 2021, which will continue till March 2. The first toy fair is not just a business or economic event, he said, adding that it seeks to strengthen the country's age-old culture of sports and cheer. This toy fair is one such platform where one can discuss toy design, innovation, technology, marketing and packaging and also share their experiences, he said, adding the world has done research on toys from the era of Indus Valley civilisation, Mohenjo-Daro and Harappa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
28-02-2021||Business||Jaguar to take a £1.5bn write-off under “Reimagine” strategy||Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), the Tata Motors arm, will take a write-off of £1.5 billion in the March quarter as a one-time restructuring exercise under the “Reimagine” strategy. This was disclosed by Adrian Mardell, the chief financial officer of JLR, to analysts on Friday. In a presentation, he said that this includes an exceptional one-time non-cash write down of £1 billion for “higher previous spending and certain planned products that will not be completed” and £0.5 billion towards cash restructuring costs. JLR had reported a 6.5 per cent decline in revenues for the third quarter ended December 2020 at £5.98 billion compared with £6.40 billion in the same period of the previous year. However, on a sequential basis, it showed an improvement from £4.35 billion in the second quarter. During the third quarter, its profit before tax stood at £439 million. The company now expects its performance to improve further with revenues seen to rise to £30 billion by 2025-26 because of the various initiatives taken. This will be accompanied by improved profits and rising margins and strong cash generation from 2022-23 that will lead to the net debt decreasing from this year. Mardell said in the presentation that the Reimagine strategy will enable JLR to achieve its financial potential and that the company expects to be cash flow positive by 2022-23. JLR will be net cash positive from 2024-25. The expectation is also that its earnings before interest and tax (Ebit) margins will rise to 7 per cent by 2023-24 and at least 10 per cent by 2025-26. He added that because of the company’ efforts so far, it has been able to bring down the breakeven in wholesales to around 400,000 units from 600,000 units in 2018-19. Earlier this month, JLR CEO Thierry Bollore had said that the Reimagine strategy centred around the electrification of both Land Rover and Jaguar brands on separate architecture with two clear and unique personalities. He had disclosed that its annual commitments of £2.5 billion will include investments in electrification technologies and the development of connected services to enhance the journey and experiences of customers. On the performance of the India business of Tata Motors, group CFO P.B. Balaji said that there has been a sequential recovery in revenues amid a bounce-back in margins even as its cost saving plans are on track.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
28-02-2021||Business||Advice for WTO to waive intellectual property obligations||India on Saturday said if members of the WTO fail to deliver on a proposal on waiving certain intellectual property obligations to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, it would impact global growth and livelihood. In October 2020, India and South Africa had submitted a proposal suggesting a waiver for all WTO (World Trade Organisation) members on the implementation, application and enforcement of certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, or TRIPS, came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. “If we fail in the next one or two quarters or not delivering on that, we are coming in the way of global growth and livelihood,” Indian Ambassador and permanent representative to the WTO, Brajendra Navnit, said at the Asia Economic Dialogue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
28-02-2021||India||PM, Shah direct officials to cooperate in Delkar’s death probe: Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday mentioned that he would be requesting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to direct the authorities in Dadra and Nagar Haveli to cooperate with Mumbai police in the probe in Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar’s death. Delkar, seven-term MP from the Union Territory, was found dead in a south Mumbai hotel room on February 22. A suicide note in Gujarati was also found at the spot. “I will request the PM and Shah to direct authorities there to cooperate with Mumbai police when they visit Dadra for investigation in Delkar’s death case,” Thackeray told reporters here in the evening. While addressing a press conference on the eve of the 10-day budget session of the state legislature, Thackeray said the Independent MP had left a suicide note of 13 to 14 pages. “The note includes names of some people. Why is nobody speaking about it,” Thackeray said, in a veiled reference to the BJP. The chief minister declined to comment on the nature of the probe to be undertaken by the police. “The probe hasn’t started yet. But I will request the Prime Minister and Home Minister to instruct the authorities in the Union Territory to cooperate with the Mumbai police when they reach there for investigation,” he said. Earlier in the day, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut asked why the people who raised a hue and cry in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death were silent over Delkar’s “mysterious” death. In his weekly column ‘Rokhthok’ in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Raut said an actor’s suicide and demolition of illegal construction by an actress created sensationalism. How could there be silence over the MP’s death, the Rajya Sabha member wondered. Delkar, who has houses in Delhi and Gujarat, must have thought that the Mumbai police will act on his suicide note and arrest the guilty, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
28-02-2021||India||Army cancels recruitment exam after paper leaked||The Army has cancelled an examination for pan-India recruitment of general duty personnel after a paper was found to have been leaked, officials said on Sunday. They said at least three persons have been arrested in Pune so far in this connection. "The Indian Army has zero tolerance towards corrupt practices in the recruitment process for selection of suitable candidates," an official said. Based on a proactive joint operation with local police at Pune, a case of possible leakage of question paper for the Common Entrance Examination for Recruitment of Soldiers (General Duty) was reported last night, the official added. While further investigation is still underway, it was decided to cancel the examination to ensure continuous transparency in the recruitment process, he added. The soldiers (general duty) are the backbone of the army and consist mainly of fighting troops apart from other trades. They are enrolled into Arms or Services. In Arms, they could join the Infantry, Artillery, Armoured Corps, Engineers or the Army Air Defence (AAD) as fighting troops, drivers, operators, gunners and many other general duties. In Services, they could be enrolled into the Army Service Corps (ASC), Army Ordnance Corps (AOC), Army Medical Corps (AMC) on General Duties, operators and drivers. The Indian Army recruitment offices conduct exams for enrolment of jawans, while Officers are recruited through the Combined Defence Services (CDS) exam conducted by the Union Public Service Commission and the Staff Selection Commission (SSC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
28-02-2021||India||PM Modi laments not making much effort to learn world's oldest language Tamil||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said he regrets not being able to learn the world's oldest language Tamil during his long political innings as a chief minister and prime minister. He stated this during his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' radio address. The prime minister said sometimes even a very small and simple question rankles the mind. "A few days ago Aparna Reddy ji of Hyderabad asked me one such question. She said 'You have been PM for so many years and were CM for so many years. Do you ever feel that something is missing?' Modi said. Noting that the question seemed simple but was difficult, he said, "I pondered this over and told myself that one of my shortcomings was that I could not make much effort to learn Tamil, the oldest language in the world; I could not make myself learn Tamil!" The prime minister praised the Tamil language and its rich literature. "It is such a beautiful language, which is popular all over the world. Many people have told me a lot about the quality of Tamil literature and the depth of the poems written in it," he said. Modi highlighted that India is a land of many languages, which symbolise its culture and pride.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
28-02-2021||India||Jaish-ul-Hind claims responsibility of placing explosives-laden car near Ambani house||An organisation named Jaish-ul-Hind has claimed the responsibility of placing an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambanis house in south Mumbai, police said on Sunday. A senior police official said that all possible angles were being investigated in this connection. The outfit claimed the responsibility by posting a message on social messaging app Telegram, which went viral on social media and came to the notice of Mumbai police, the official said. A Scorpio with gelatin sticks was found parked on Carmichael Road near Antilia, the multi-storey residence of Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries, on Thursday evening. The registration number on the vehicle's number plate was the same as that of an SUV in Ambani's security detail, police had said. The vehicle with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai had been stolen last week, and a letter found inside said this was only a "glimpse" of things to come, police had said on Friday. "The owner of the vehicle (Scorpio), Hiren Mansukh, visited the police commissioner's office in south Mumbai this afternoon after he saw visuals of the SUV found near Ambani's house, which was similar to his vehicle," the police official said. Mansukh, a resident of neighbouring Thane, told reporters that he had parked the SUV near Airoli Mulund Bridge on February 17 after its steering got jammed while he was on his way to attend a family function. "The next day, when I went to get my car, it could not be found....following which I lodged a complaint at Vikhroli police station," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
28-02-2021||India||Azad praises Modi’s pride in his roots of being a tea seller||Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Sunday said he likes leaders like Prime Minister Narendra Modi who are proud of their roots and noted that Modi speaks frankly about his past as a tea-seller. Addressing a function by Gujjar Desh Charitable Trust here, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said a person should not try to hide his background from the world. I, myself, had come from a village and I am proud of being a villager. I admire a lot of things about leaders like our prime minister who also says that he was from a village. He used to sell tea. "I might have political differences with Modi but he is also frank about his past of being a chaiwala (tea-seller), Azad said. The remarks come a day after Azad and other 'G-23' dissident leaders, who have been pressing for a leadership change and organisational overhaul in the Congress, gathered on one stage here and said the party is weakening. The content and tenor of the discourse made it clear that they were not happy with the state of affairs in the party even as nobody spoke against Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi directly. While Kapil Sibal said they had assembled here because Congress was weakening, Anand Sharma declared they were the true Congress. Sharma said, “We have risen from the student movement; we have not given the right to anybody to tell us whether we are Congressmen or not. We know what Congress is and we will rebuild the Congress.” Modi had recently profusely praised Azad, who was the Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha, during the Congress MP's farewell in the Upper House. An emotional prime minister had recalled how Azad had reached out to him in 2006 after tourists from Gujarat were killed in a terrorist attack. He said the person who will replace Azad will find it tough to match his contribution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
28-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi vows to defeat BJP, dubs Modi ‘formidable enemy’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi a "formidable enemy" who 'crushed' his opponents and vowed to send him to political oblivion by following the path of love and non-violence.  During an interaction titled 'Educators Meet' at the St Xavier College here, Gandhi, touring southern Tamil Nadu for the second day as part of his second leg of campaign for the April 6 assembly polls, also said he counted on the people's support to defeat the BJP.  When a participant wanted to know if Gandhi felt it was possible to nudge the Modi government to implement his 'good ideas' rather than waiting to assume power which seemed 'Utopian', he said it could be done with the 'powerful' and 'valuable' support of the people.  It was important to dream big, though some of it may not come true, he said in an obvious reference to snatching the reins of power from the BJP at the Centre.  Continuing, he said, "yes we are fighting a formidable enemy (Modi). We are fighting an enemy that is dominating the money in this country. We are fighting an enemy that is crushing its opponents. But we have done this before. We have defeated a much bigger enemy (British) than this new enemy that has come."  Recalling the country's independence movement, he said the Britishers were much more powerful than Modi would ever be.  "Who is Narendra Modi in comparison to the British empire? Nobody. People of this country sent the British empire back and in the same way we will send Narendra Modi back to Nagpur (RSS headquarters in Maharashtra)," he said.  Apparently, he meant that Modi would go into political oblivion after defeat by the Congress with people's support.  Gandhi said this would be achieved without any hatred, anger or violence towards PM Modi or his party even if they may 'abuse' or unleash 'violence' against them.  Congress is an ally of the DMK in Tamil Nadu and BJP is a partner of the ruling AIADMK.  The Congress leader, replying to another participant, alleged the BJP-led Centre claimed to "represent Hinduism" in several ideas they espoused, but in reality it had nothing to do with that faith.  Hinduism does not preach insulting, killing or beating up people, Gandhi asserted, alleging "but they do it."  The essence of all religions was love but the Central government's 'whole game' is to 'steal' money of ordinary people, including farmers through initiatives like farm laws, and give it away to the biggest businesses in the country, he alleged.  To another question, he said he did not like the Centre's New Education Policy, 2020 either.  When a professor alleged the NEP was agenda driven, Gandhi said any policy on education should be an outcome of deliberations with learners and teachers.  "Unfortunately this was not done," he claimed adding it concentrated too much power in the hands of the Centre and it was set to damage the education system.  Though NEP had a positive aspect of flexibility, it was however, a "weapon to communalise, to push a particular ideology into the Indian system and that is why I do not like it."  He batted for more scholarship so that more and more poor students got education and underscored women empowerment.  Be it education, agriculture or healthcare, these were being seen as a "financial commodity," and he was against it.  Rich or poor, man or woman, it is a duty of the nation to give education and healthcare to all its people, he said.  To a demand on bringing back education to the state list of the Constitution from the concurrent category, he said, "I don't know, we will look into it."  Centralising everything was a bad idea and decentralisation and facilitating access to education from all corners of the country were fundamental, he said.  In 1976, the then Congress government led by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi shifted education, which was previously a state subject, to the concurrent list allowing Centre to legislate on the matter besides the states.  He visited the Nellaiappar temple here and interacted with people at several places including a tea shop. After his interaction with small traders and farmers, Gandhi said he was able to understand "how a badly designed Goods and Services Tax has hurt our lemon farmers," and the difficulties faced by women who work in the beedi industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
28-02-2021||India||Maha minister Sanjay Rathod quits from state cabinet after ‘dirty politics’ over woman’s death||Maharashtra minister Sanjay Rathod, facing flak from the opposition BJP after being linked to a woman's death, on Sunday resigned from the state cabinet. Rathod made the announcement after submitting his resignation to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is also the president of his Shiv Sena party. "There has been a lot of dirty politics over the issue of the woman's death," Rathod told reporters, adding he has quit the ministry so that the truth can come out. Rathod, who holds the forest portfolio, was facing allegations of complicity in the death of Puja Chavan (23), a resident of Beed district, who was found dead in Pune on February 8, apparently after falling off from the building in which she lived. Talking to reporters after meeting the chief minister at his official residence Varsha, Rathod said he had resigned to facilitate a free and fair probe. "Attempts were made to tarnish my image and destroy my reputation I had built after 30 years of social work. I was saying that let the probe happen before taking any decision. But the opposition threatened to disrupt the budget session," Rathod said. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said the resignation of the minister wasn't enough and demanded that an FIR should be filed against him. The BJP has accused Rathod of having links with the woman after his purported photographs, audio and video clips with her went viral on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
28-02-2021||India||Brigade Rally: Left-Cong-ISF's third alternative calls for 'Janhit Sarkar'||After a decade of losing power, the Left Front, in alliance with the Congress and the newly formed Indian Secular Front (ISF) on Sunday projected itself as a "third alternative force" in the emerging TMC versus BJP political binary in West Bengal, but chinks were evident in the nascent alliance. The Left-Congress-ISF alliance kicked off its campaign for the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal with a mega rally at the Brigade Parade Ground in Kolkata. At the rally, leaders of the CPI(M)-headed Left Front called for "knocking out the communal TMC and BJP, and stressed the need for a third alternative to provide a "Janhit Sarkar" (people's welfare government) to ensure employment generation and usher in industrial development in the state. State Congress president Adhir Chowdhury said that the grand alliance of the Left-Congress and other secular forces won't let the West Bengal assembly elections to be a two- cornered contest and would defeat both the ruling Trinamool Congress and the opposition BJP. However, a discordant note was sounded by ISF chief Abbas Siddiqui who, unhappy with the progress of seat-sharing talks with the Congress, issued a veiled threat to the party. Siddiqui vowed to defeat the TMC and the BJP and ensure that the Mamata Banerjee-led party becomes a "zero" after the assembly elections, but in a word of caution for the Congress, with which the party's talks are in choppy waters, said that the ISF is here to become a partner and get its rightful claims. The TMC and the BJP slammed the Left and the Congress accusing them of surrendering before a "communal force" like the ISF. Accusing the ruling TMC and the opposition BJP of dividing people on communal lines to serve their political interests, West Bengal CPI(M) secretary Surya Kanta Mishra said that the state needs a government that would work for its development and would not be a "copycat" of the TMC and the BJP. "Both the TMC and the BJP are two sides of the same coin. They plan to divide people on communal lines and rule. We have seen how TMC leaders are joining the BJP lock, stock and barrel. Except for the chief minister and some other leaders, the rest have switched over to the BJP. Both the TMC and the BJP now stand unmasked. We, the Left along with the Congress, would provide an alternative to people," Mishra said. He said that the state needs a government that can take up industrialisation and generate employment for youths both in government and the private sectors. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that the Trinamool Congress has to be defeated first to stop the communal bandwagon of the RSS-BJP and claimed that the TMC might rejoin the NDA to form the government in West Bengal in case of a hung assembly. "Many people ask me what we would do in case of a hung assembly. I tell them to direct their question to the TMC as they are in the best position to answer it. "The TMC has been part of the NDA (for several years) since 1998. It was part of the NDA government (at the Centre). In case of a hung assembly, I am confident that the TMC would join hands with the BJP to form the state's government," he said. Terming the ongoing political tussle between the TMC and the BJP as a "mock fight", Yechury alleged that the saffron party is using money from the PM CARES fund, set up to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, to "buy" leaders during the time of elections. "Our call is we want a Janhit Sarkar in Bengal for its overall development and protection of the rights of the masses," he said. CPI(M) politburo member Mohammed Salim said that the grand alliance would give a "knock out" punch to the communal TMC and the BJP. "We are fighting for changing the situation in Bengal, and some people are busy changing sides. Those who looted public money in chit fund scams are now switching parties. If we are voted to power, we will auction properties of corrupt leaders to return the looted money," he said. The Left Front ruled the state for 34 years since 1977 and its government was ousted by the TMC in 2011. Addressing the rally, state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury asserted that the massive gathering proved that the election will not be a two-cornered contest. "Morning is the harbinger of the day, and this meeting proves that both the TMC and the BJP will be defeated in the coming election. The goal of the grand alliance is to ensure the victory of secularism and democracy and to defeat communal and repressive politics in Bengal," he said. "In Delhi, the BJP talks of getting rid of the opposition. In Bengal, the TMC talks of opposition free elections. The BJP and the TMC want that other than the two, there should not exist any other political force in Bengal and no other party should come between them, he said. ISF president Siddiqui asserted that people of West Bengal would teach Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee "a lesson for her arrogance" and ensure that her party becomes politically insignificant after elections. The ISF was floated by Siddiqui, an influential Muslim cleric of Hooghly district's Furfura Sharif last month. "We don't want appeasement. We want our rightful claims, just like any other citizen of this country. We too have equal rights," Siddiqui said. The BJP often accuses the TMC of appeasing Muslims for vote bank politics. Expressing his gratitude for the West Bengal Left Front chairman Biman Bose for accommodating his fledgeling party in the grand alliance by sharing 30 seats, Siddiqui said that ISF activists and supporters will fight until the last to ensure the Left Front's victory and its allies in various parts of the state. However, he said, "I didn't speak about the Congress. I am here (in politics) to be a partner, not for any kind of appeasement. I am here to get my rightful claims." The ruling TMC and the opposition BJP slammed the Left's brigade rally and accused them of surrendering before a "communal force" like ISF. The TMC claimed that the Left has surrendered before a communal force like the ISF. "It is now proved that both the Left and the BJP are communal forces. The TMC is the only secular party," senior TMC leader Firhad Hakim said. Alleging that the Brigade rally was sponsored by the TMC, BJP leaders said that both the Left and the Congress would fail to make their presence felt in the elections. The Election Commission of India had on Friday announced an eight-phase poll in West Bengal, which will commence on March 27 and conclude on April 29. Counting will be held on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Covid: India's total active cases reach 1,64,511, six states show surge in cases||India's total number of active COVID-19 cases has reached 1,64,511, which comprises 1.48 per cent of the country's total infections, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday highlighting six states that have shown a surge in new cases in a span of 24 hours. It said 86.37 per cent of the new cases are from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. A total of 16,752 new COVID-19 cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 8,623, followed by Kerala with 3,792 cases while Punjab reported 593 fresh COVID-19 cases. Eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new cases, the ministry said. "The Centre has been engaging with states and union territories exhibiting higher active number of cases and those reporting a spike in the daily new COVID-19 cases," the ministry stated. The cabinet secretary chaired a high-level review meeting on Saturday with states and union territories exhibiting a surge in cases, including Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir and West Bengal. The cabinet secretary reiterated that states need to maintain a continued rigorous vigil in terms of containing the spread and not squander away the gains of the collective hardwork of last year. They were advised not to lower their guard, enforce COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and deal firmly with violations. It was strongly underlined that they need to follow effective surveillance strategies in respect of potential super spreading events, the ministry said. Need for effective testing, comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation of positive cases and quick quarantine of close contacts were also strongly emphasised. The Centre has also deputed high-level multi-disciplinary teams to Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Jammu and Kashmir to ascertain the reasons for the surge and coordinate with the state health departments in COVID-19 control and containment measures. On the front of COVID vaccination, a total of 1,43,01,266 doses have been administered through 2,92,312 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 66,69,985 healthcare workers (first dose), 24,56,191 healthcare workers (second dose) and 51,75,090 frontline workers (first dose). India is all set to start the second phase of COVID-19 vaccination on March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. To ramp-up the COVID-19 vaccination capacity, around 10,000 private hospitals under the Ayushman Bharat-PMJAY and over 600 private hospitals under the central government health scheme will be utilised. Other private hospitals empanelled under state governments health insurance scheme can also participate as COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs). A total of 1.07 crore (1,07,75,169) people have recovered so far with 11,718 patients having recuperated in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said 84.19 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in six states. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,650 newly-recovered cases. A total of 3,648 people recovered in Maharashtra in a span of 24 hours, followed by 491 in Tamil Nadu. Besides, 113 deaths due to COVID-19 were reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states account for 84.96 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum of 51 casualties. Kerala follows with 18 daily deaths and Punjab reported 11 deaths in a span of 24 hours. Nineteen states and union territories have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Goa, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Assam, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Sikkim, Ladakh, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Tripura, Nagaland, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Narayansamy gave ‘cut money’ to the Gandhi family from Central funds, alleges Shah||Lambasting the erstwhile Congress government in Puducherry, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday alleged V Narayansamy, who headed it, gave "cut money" to the "Gandhi family" from Rs 15,000 crore Central funds. Addressing an election rally of BJP in Karaikal, an enclave of the union territory, Shah claimed the Congress government, which collapsed earlier this month after losing majority, indulge in "petty politics” over Central schemes meant for Puducherry. He charged the former chief minister with focussing more on serving the "Gandhi family" in Delhi and giving "cut money". Hitting out at Narayanasamy for blaming the BJP for the fall of his government, Shah said many senior leaders were leaving the Congress "because it is collapsing across the country due to dynasty politics." Shah also ridiculed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for saying there was no 'dedicated' fisheries ministry, and pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had set it up two years ago. He took a swipe at the Wayanad MP saying "you were on vacation (then)." "Rahul Gandhi said here a few days ago... Why has the Modi government not created a separate department for fishermen? Narendra Modi-ji has already worked to form a separate ministry for fishermen. Rahul bhaiya (brother)... you were on leave, so you are not aware,” NDTV quoted Shah as saying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Modi calls for water conversation, clean water campaign in monthly address||Underlining the importance of collective responsibility towards water conservation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called for a 100-day campaign to clean up all water bodies and prepare them for rain water harvesting before the monsoon season starts. In his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast, Modi said water has been crucial for the development of humankind for centuries. "We have to understand our collective responsibility towards water conservation," he said. The prime minister also said that when people feel proud of indigenous products then Aatmanirbhar Bharat does not just remain an economic programme but becomes a national spirit. Noting that monsoon will begin in many parts of the country by around May-June, the prime minister asked can there be a 100-day public campaign to clean up all nearby water bodies and prepare those for rain water conservation. In this regard, the Union Jal Shakti Ministry is also launching the "Catch the rain" campaign and its main theme is "catch the rain, where it falls, when it falls", he said. "This is the best time to think about water conservation in the summer months ahead," Modi said. He also said there is a need to make science more popular across the country and asserted that science cannot be limited to physics-chemistry and labs. Modi called for expanding science with a mantra of 'lab to land'. During the broadcast, the prime minister also rued not being able to make enough efforts to learn the world's oldest language, Tamil. "In the run up to Mann Ki Baat, I was asked if there was something I missed out on during these long years as chief minister and prime minister. I feel -- it is a regret of sorts that I could not make enough efforts to learn the world's oldest language Tamil. Tamil literature is beautiful," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Supreme Court will no longer use WhatsApp groups to share video conference links||The Supreme Court will no longer use WhatsApp groups to share video conference links for court hearings, the apex court registry said on Saturday. In a circular, the registry said that instead of WhatsApp, the links for virtual court hearings in the apex court will be shared on registered email ids and registered mobile numbers of the concerned advocates-on-record and party-in-person. The step was taken in the wake of the newly notified Information Technology (Guidelines for intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (IT Rules, 2021). It is notified for the information of the Advocates-on-Record /Party-in-Persons that the creation of groups in WhatsApp for sharing of VC links for hearing of their matters is restricted/barred due to new guidelines or regulations issued by government of India pertaining to social media Apps and OTT platforms, it said. It said the VC links shall be shared "w.e.f. March 1, 2021 through registered email ids as well as by SMS on registered mobile numbers of the Ld. Advocates-on-Record / Party-in-Persons . The government on Thursday announced sweeping regulations for social media firms like Facebook and Twitter as well as OTT players. The guidelines also make it mandatory for platforms such as Twitter and WhatsApp to identify the originator of a message that authorities consider to be anti-national and against the security and sovereignty of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||PSLV C-51 carrying Amazonia-1, 18 other satellites takes off||India's Polar rocket on Sunday successfully launched Amazonia-1 of Brazil and 18 other satellites from the spaceport here, in the first mission of the year for space agency ISRO. The Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle PSLV-C51 lifted off at around 10.24 am from the first launch pad of the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SHAR) and first injected into orbit primary payload Amazonia-1 about 17 minutes later. After a gap of over one-and-half hours, the co-passenger satellites, including one from Chennai- based Space Kidz India (SKI), which is engraved with a picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, were launched subsequently one after another in the space of ten minutes in a textbook launch. SKI's Satish Dhawan Satellite (SD-SAT) also carried Bhagavad Gita in a Secured Digital card format. According to SKI, the picture of Modi has been engraved on the top panel of the spacecraft to show solidarity and gratitude for his Atma Nirbhar initiative and space sector privatisation. A beaming Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) Chairman K Sivan announced the mission was successful and all 19 satellites were launched in precise orbits. "Today is a very great day for the entire ISRO team and the PSLV-C51 is a special mission for India. Let me congratulate and compliment the team ISRO for achieving the precise injection of AMAZONIA-1 and 18 other satellites," he said. PSLV-C51 is the first dedicated commercial mission of NewSpace India Limited (NSIL), ISRO's commercial arm, and the launch was watched among others by Brazilian government officials at the mission control centre here, over 100 kms from Chennai. The 18 co-passenger satellites placed in the orbit are -- four from ISRO's Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (three UNITY Sats from consortium of three Indian academic institutes and the SD-SAT from SKI) and 14 from NSIL. The 637-kg Amazonia-1 which became the first Brazilian satellite to be launched from India is an optical earth observation satellite of National Institute for Space Research (INPE). It is intended for providing remote sensing data to users for monitoring deforestation in the Amazon region and analysis of diversified agriculture across the Brazilian territory. Earlier, at the end of the 25.5 hour countdown, the four-stage 44.4 metre tall PSLV, a workhorse launch vehicle of ISRO in its 53rd mission, soared into clear sky and every stage performed as programmed, ISRO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Nearly 17,000 fresh Covid cases in one day, highest in a month||India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 1,10,96,731 on Sunday with 16,752 new infections, the highest in the last 30 days, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll mounted to 1,57,051 with 113 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The country had recorded 18,855 new infections on January 29. The active caseload further increased to 1,64,511. It constitutes 1.48 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,75,169, which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.10 per cent. The case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 21,62,31,106 samples had been tested until February 27 with 7,95,723 being tested on Saturday. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths were caused due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Subramanian Swamy: Modi must demand that his name be removed||BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to get his name removed from the Ahmedabad cricket stadium. “PTs, is there any leader of a nation allowing a stadium to be named after himself?” Swamy, 81, asked in a tweet addressed to “Patriotic Tweeples”. Swamy himself answered:  “My research shows only two: Saddam Hussein and Gaddafi. That is ill omen.” “Did Nehru, Mao or Idi Amin? Modi must demand that his name be removed and Sardar Patel’s name restored,” he added. On Friday,  Swamy had said that many from Gujarat “have informed me of their agony over the removal of Sardar Patel’s name from the stadium”. Swamy had offered a way out too. “My suggestion is that the Gujarat government cuts its losses and say… Modi was not consulted in the name change. Therefore, it is withdrawn.” Swamy is a member of the BJP’s national executive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Indian media regain voice, but it’s against Nodeep||⚫Policemen dragged me by the hair. ⚫ They drove me to a desolate place and slapped me around. ⚫ Two policemen sat on top of me and told me to sign papers. When a trade unionist freed a day earlier after 44 days in custody narrates her experience at a news conference, what do some intrepid reporters ask? “So you admit to vasooli (extortion)?” trade union activist Nodeep Kaur was asked by a journalist on Saturday.  Kaur, 23, was explaining how the union had helped some workers at an industrial unit get back wages. Kaur was addressing the news conference at Delhi’s Singhu border where she had been invited to speak by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha that is leading the movement against the three farm laws. As she spoke of her arrest and alleged police torture, Kaur was repeatedly interrupted by some journalists who said police must have had reason to act. The discharge of “fearless journalism” came at a time the systematic, State-sponsored harassment of Indian journalists has drawn international attention. The “tough” questions were dusted, loaded and fired at a time the Prime Minister has not fielded a single question at any media conference in the country where his government enjoys unparalleled media servility. The activist who is a member of the Majdoor Adhikar Sanghatan trade union was arrested while agitating against erratic wages at the industrial unit at Kundli, not far from Singhu, and charged with attempt to murder. Narrating the sequence of events, she said: “The police did a lathicharge, when they began to hit women and drag me by my hair, there were no women constables… Workers also hit back, I don’t deny that, but I was not involved in that. They hit back to save me from being dragged away by my hair. “Four policemen pushed me to the ground and dragged me by my hair. When they saw people around, they took me into a vehicle and took me to a desolate place behind the industrial area. The doors of the vehicle were opened and uniformed as well as those in plainclothes slapped me around a lot and pulled my hair.” Kaur said she was further tortured at Kundli police station before being driven to the district headquarters Sonipat. “I was brought on an unmetalled road to Sonipat. Two policemen sat on top of me and told me to sign (some papers). I had no option but to sign. They had many blank papers I was asked to sign on… One of them caught my hair, gave a pen in my hand and said, ‘Sign kar!’. I was hit badly, I couldn’t walk. When I was taken to a hospital, no medical check-up was done.” The report of a medical examination done a fortnight after her arrest and submitted in Punjab and Haryana High Court lists injuries to her thigh and buttock. A Sonipat court had ordered the examination. Sonipat police have denied allegations of torture and said seven of their personnel were injured by Kaur and other trade union workers. “At the civil hospital, she underwent not just a general medical examination but also a special medical examination by a lady doctor for sexual assault where she herself gave a written statement to the female doctor that she doesn’t want to be medically examined as she had not been assaulted,” the police said earlier this month. “Immediately after the medical examination, she was presented before the Chief Judicial Magistrate within a few hours of arrest to seek judicial remand,” the police had added. Kaur denied seeing a doctor or a magistrate that night. “We were merely demanding the payment of wages from before the lockdown. Have you ever seen people doing a dharna for extortion?” she asked, pleading her case at the news conference. Extortion is one of the charges brought against Kaur and fellow activist Shiv Kumar, who is still in jail and whose medical report has listed fractures and broken toenail beds. Kumar has also alleged police torture. Kumar and Kaur claim that he was not present at the protest on January 12. “When labourers came back after the lockdown, the company refused to recognise them or pay their back wages,” Kaur said. When she mentioned that private guards of companies had opened fire during a protest by workers last year, Kaur was asked whether the weapons were licensed or not and faced tangential remarks suggesting the workers had brought the police action upon themselves. But she held her ground that peaceful protests are a democratic right. “Can workers who own nothing besides their own bodies afford to go hire lawyers in a labour court?.. We have been able to secure payment of back wages of 300 workers, so far, of up to Rs 5 lakh,” she said. This inspired the journalist’s question: “So you admit to vasooli?” The word in Hindi translates to either recovery or extortion. Kaur’s arrest had drawn international attention after American activist Meena Harris, niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris, tweeted earlier this month against it and highlighted the allegation of custodial torture of the Dalit activist who was also part of the farmers’ movement. Kaur says she was arrested because she had been able to mobilise support for the protest at Singhu. “There are many who were arrested for January 26 and they are still not out. We demand that they be released too. Shiv Kumar should also be released. We will keep fighting until the farmers’ movement continues, until laws against workers (the new labour codes that restricts on collective bargaining) are repealed… I will stay right here on Singhu border and continue to struggle for peasants and workers,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||FIR on journalist for report on rape case in Karnataka||A journalist has been booked in Chitradurga in Karnataka for writing about the brother of a prominent Lingayat seer who is accused in a rape case. G. Mahantesh, based in Bangalore, had on February 6 published a story in his Kannada news portal about a woman who had on January 16 filed a police complaint accusing M.G. Doreswamy of allegedly raping her in 2019. Doreswamy is the brother of Swami Shivamurthy Sharanu, seer of Muruga Mutt in Chitradurga, and CEO of Sri Jagadguru Murugarajendra Vidhyapeetha that runs a chain of schools and professional colleges. “I had written the story by quoting the FIR filed by the woman and the court order rejecting his bail application. There was nothing defamatory in the report,” the reporter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Dissenters raise ‘true Congress’ banner in Jammu||The Congress dissenters who held their first public rally in Jammu on Saturday are prepared for a long haul, planning an ambitious outreach programme over the coming months in different parts of the country. While these leaders under the guidance of veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad, known as G-23, have so far portrayed themselves as true Congress soldiers working to strengthen the party, history is replete with examples of internal tussles beginning with similar objectives and arguments. There is no denying the fact that this is a strong pressure group wrestling for space and say within the party and their dislike for Rahul Gandhi’s leadership is barely concealed. Though only five leaders were present at Saturday’s  rally, Azad himself clarified that he discouraged several others who wanted to come. “There would have been unnecessary speculation about what is happening in Jammu and hence I asked them to come for other meetings,” he said, describing their endeavour as a new “struggle based on Mahatma Gandhi’s philosophy”. The content and tenor of the discourse made it clear that they were not happy with the state of affairs in the party even as nobody spoke against Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi directly. While Kapil Sibal said they had assembled here because Congress was weakening, Anand Sharma declared they were the true Congress. Sharma said, “We have risen from student movement; we have not given the right to anybody to tell us whether we are Congressmen or not. We know what is Congress and we will rebuild the Congress.” This parallel stream, when Rahul Gandhi was leading the party’s campaign in election-bound Tamil Nadu, may climax in a split in the party if no compromise is struck within the next two months. That the initiative doesn’t fizzle out as a flash-in-the-pan effect is ensured by this group which is planning to contact leaders of regional parties across the country, sending out a clear message against the presumption that Rahul was still the supreme leader of the Congress. One leader of the G-23 told The Telegraph after the rally, “This is the start of the process of Congress revival. We stand united and we have to do it together. We are not excluding anyone. And we have to realise that this battle, originating in Jammu, is against Nagpur, not 10, Janpath.” Every leader speaking at the rally took care to speak against the BJP and stress the value system espoused by Gandhi. Raj Babbar went to the extent of saying, “People call us G-23. We are Gandhi-23.” Manish Tewari also said, “The foundational values of Indian republic are being challenged. We have to protect India from these forces.” Azad too said, “Only the Congress can take everybody together — people of all castes, all religions, all regions.” Interestingly, all these leaders wore saffron headgear, probably sending out a message against bellicose secular fundamentalism that avoids majoritarian symbols. While the decision of Sonia-Rahul not to retain Azad in the Rajya Sabha and instead nominate K.C. Venugopal from Rajasthan has doubtless been a bone of contention, Azad threw hints of his displeasure too. He said, “I have retired from Parliament, not from politics. And this is not the first time I have retired from Parliament. Hum idhar se doobate hain, udhar se niklte hain (I sink somewhere, spring up at another place). There is no need to get disheartened.” The rebellion is real and the top leadership will commit a grave mistake by ignoring it. This group, which is basically unhappy with Rahul’s style of leadership and choice of people, would still prefer to remain in the Congress if a sense of accommodation is displayed. “If Rahul Gandhi wants to tell us only Randeep Surjewala, K.C. Venugopal and Rajiv Satav are Congress and we are enemies, we can’t digest this. It is up to him to decide whether he wants to destroy the Congress in the process of rebuilding it,” one leader who sympathises with this group explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
28-02-2021||India||Centre asks eight states to improve testing rates, intensify surveillance and conduct priority vaccination drives||The Centre on Saturday asked eight states, including Bengal, to improve testing rates, intensify surveillance and conduct priority vaccination drives in districts with large numbers of Covid-19 cases amid a steady rise in daily counts in multiple states. Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba through a videoconference asked officials from Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bengal, Telangana and Jammu and Kashmir to look for unusual clustering of cases or hotspots and consider priority vaccinations in districts with large caseloads, The Union health ministry said these states have reported either high active Covid cases or daily new cases over the past week. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Gujarat have shown a surge in new cases over the past 24 hours, the ministry said. In Maharashtra, the number of active cases — patients under clinical treatment or observation — has doubled over the past two weeks, from 34,440 on February 14 to 68,810 on Saturday, the sharpest rise among states. Active case counts have also increased in Punjab (from around 2,300 to 4,200), Madhya Pradesh (1,800 to 2,500), Gujarat (1,700 to 2,100) and Haryana (845 to 1,100) over the past two weeks. The rise in daily counts and active cases has stirred fears about a second wave that experts say could be averted through stringent efforts to contain what could be clusters or localised outbreaks through rigorous testing, isolation of cases, and quarantining of the contacts of cases. Gauba also asked the state officials to maintain rigorous vigil, enforce masks and physical distancing and deal firmly with violations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
28-02-2021||India||Private hospitals can serve Covid vaccine at Rs 250 per dose||Private hospitals serving as Covid-19 vaccination centres may charge Rs 250 per dose, the Union health ministry said on Saturday, announcing the prefixed cost and eligibility criteria for the campaign’s next phase starting on March 1. The campaign that expands vaccination to people older than 60 years and those between 45 and 59 years with chronic health disorders will offer the vaccines free in government facilities. The ministry also released a list of 20 chronic health conditions defining the eligibility of those between 45 and 59 years. The list includes cardiovascular diseases with hypertension or diabetes, severe respiratory disease, advanced cirrhosis, end-stage kidney disease, among other disorders. The Centre has told the states that private hospitals can charge up to Rs 250 per dose of a vaccine. The ministry did not specify how the cost would be split between the cost of the vaccine and the cost a hospital could charge for the vaccination service, but a hospital industry representative told The Telegraph that hospitals would get Rs 100 per dose. The campaign is currently using two vaccines — Covishield, the Astra-Zeneca vaccine produced in India by the Serum Institute, and Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. The government has not yet specified how the two vaccines might be distributed across hospitals and whether recipients would have an option to choose between the two vaccines. The government is procuring Covishield at Rs 200 per dose and Covaxin at Rs 295 per dose and industry analysts had expected the cost in the private market would be higher than the government’s procurement costs. The list of comorbidities for people between 45 and 59 years for vaccine eligibility includes; ⚫ Heart failure with hospital admission over the past year ⚫ Post-cardiac transplant/left ventricular assist device ⚫ Significant left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVEF less than 40 per cent) ⚫ Moderate or severe valvular heart disease ⚫ Congenital heart disease with severe pulmonary arterial hypertension ⚫ Coronary artery disease with past history of bypass, stents, heart attacks, and hypertension/diabetes on treatment ⚫ Angina and hypertension ⚫ CT/MRI documented stroke and hypertension/diabetes on treatment ⚫ Pulmonary arterial hypertension and hypertension/diabetes on treatment ⚫ Diabetes (>10 years or with complications) and hypertension on treatment ⚫ Kidney/liver/hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipient/on wait-list ⚫ End-stage kidney disease on haemodialysis/CAPD ⚫ Current prolonged use of oral corticosteroids/immunosuppressant medications ⚫ Decompensated (advanced) liver cirrhosis ⚫ Severe respiratory disease with hospitalization in last two years/FEVI <50 per cent ⚫ Lymphoma/leukemia/myeloma ⚫ Diagnosis of any solid cancer on or after July 2020 or currently on any cancer therapy ⚫ Sickle cell disease/bone marrow failure/aplastic anemia/thalassemia major ⚫ Primary immunodeficiency diseases/HIV infection ⚫ Persons with disabilities due to intellectual disabilities/muscular dystrophy, acid attack with involvement of respiratory system, persons with disabilities having high support needs/multiple disabilities, including deaf-blindness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
28-02-2021||India||Ajit Singh, Rakesh Tikait share farm protest stage ||A mahapanchayat against the three farm laws in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district saw several leaders not usually seen together drop their differences and share the same platform. The gathering was hosted by the Desh khap, the second largest of 32 khaps across Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, on the birth anniversary of Raja Salakshanpal Tomar. Besides Desh khap’s leaders, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait and Rashtriya Lok Dal president Ajit Singh addressed over one lakh peasants. The khaps, the BKU and the RLD have been separately organising rallies across Uttar Pradesh against the three farm laws. Despite the common goal to make the Narendra Modi government repeal the controversial laws, they were avoiding being seen on the same platform. Gajendra Chaudhary, convener of the programme, said: “Salakshanpal was a king of 10th-11th century who protected every caste and community in Delhi and adjoining areas. That’s why we decided to organise his birth anniversary on a bigger scale this year and bring the majority of the anti-farm laws forces together. They agreed immediately.” They organised a hawan from 8.30am to 10.30am in the presence of the head of Desh khap Chaudhary Surendra Singh and Rakesh Tikait before the mahapanchayat started. “We are all present at the dharna sites on the Delhi border for around the last 100 days. This togetherness is the need of the hour in our rallies too. We will try to organise more such joint rallies in the coming days in which all 32 khaps would participate”, said Surendra Singh. The Tomar dynasty had ruled over Delhi and adjoining areas sometimes between the 8th century and 11th century. Salakshanpal (979-1005 CE) was one of the kings of the dynasty. “Salakshanpal fought many battles and won. His son Deshpal Tomar was chaudhary (head) of Desh khap, which belongs to Tomar Gotra. Later on, the Tomars gradually shifted from Delhi via Rohtak (Haryana) and settled in Baraut area of Baghpat,” Singh added. The Rajputs and Gujjars, who constitute a major part of the population of western Uttar Pradesh, consider Tomar kings as their ancestors. “The farmers have no option other than death if their demand to repeal the farm laws is not met,” said Rakesh Tikait. “The Centre will destroy farmers and farming if we allow them to go ahead with the three farm laws. This is why we are consolidating ourselves to fight a battle till the farmers win,” said Ajit Singh. However, Dharmendra Malik, a senior BKU leader, said this should not be seen as a joint rally. “It was essentially organised for a hawan on the birth anniversary of a Tomar king. Those who reached there were invited by Desh khap and they were guests there. It was not a political platform. But we have no plan to hold joint mahapanchayats as such,” he claimed. “It happens that all these groups come together on certain occasions. They all had assembled in Sisauli village in 2008 when the then chief minister Mayawati had wanted the police to arrest Mahendra Singh Tikait (founder of the BKU),” Malik added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
28-02-2021||India||Kerala minister alleges racial profiling by probe agency||A Kerala minister has alleged that officials of a central investigating agency had racially profiled a man while interrogating him over a case linked to the distribution of food kits sponsored by the UAE consulate general during Ramzan last year. State minister of higher education and minority welfare K.T. Jaleel on Saturday said the officials had questioned the Muslim youth from Malappuram who supplied cloth bags to pack the Ramzan kits on why he was so close to the family of his Hindu friend. Two central agencies had investigated the minister for alleged violation of Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) for accepting the Ramzan food kits and copies of Quran sponsored by the Consulate General of UAE in Thiruvananthapuram in 2020. The minister had all along maintained that he had not directly received anything and had only helped the UAE consul-general organise and distribute the material to the needy during the month of Ramzan. “I had asked my gunman (a Hindu) to see if anyone could supply cloth bags to pack the Ramzan kits. He contacted his younger brother’s friend (a Muslim) who agreed to supply them,” Jaleel told The Telegraph. Jaleel had helped the consulate source the dry rations for the Ramzan kits from state-run Kerala State Co-operative Consumers Federation Ltd (Consumerfed) that supplies affordable consumer essentials to the people. But the bags had to be outsourced as the consulate, which engages in such charity in many countries, wanted the Ramzan kits to be packed in cloth bags with the UAE insignia. “One evening, around three months ago, the officers of one agency that I won’t name went to his house as if they were going to nab some big criminal. They then took him away and started asking all kinds of questions. But what hurt him the most was when they asked him why he was so closely connected to the Hindu family (of the gunman),” Jaleel said, adding the officers were Malayalis and not from any other state. “They kept asking him why were the two families (one Hindu and the other Muslim) visiting each other’s homes,” said the minister, who is an Independent lawmaker backed by the Left Democratic Front. “This young man who is hardly 25 years old came to me and wept and said for the first time someone made him aware of his religion for all the wrong reasons. It came as a shock to me since people in Kerala, especially in Malappuram, are known for our syncretic culture that respects one another,” the minister said. “I then informed the chief minister (Pinarayi Vijayan) about this and he too was really shocked.” The alleged FCRA violation, still under investigation, was raised by the Opposition soon after one of the biggest gold-smuggling attempts was busted at the Thiruvananthapuram airport in July last year. Customs officials had found 30kg of gold ingots valued at Rs 14.82 crore when they opened a diplomatic parcel from Dubai addressed to the attache of the UAE consulate in the Kerala capital. A furore followed with the Opposition accusing the LDF government of colluding with the smugglers. It was then that the issue of Ramzan kit emerged and was probed by the customs department and Enforcement Directorate. Jaleel attributed the racial profiling of the man to the saffronisation of investigating agencies. “They (the Centre) had posted officials with clear Sangh parivar leanings to handle this case. Otherwise the religion of any man wouldn’t have been raised, that too in Kerala,” Jaleel said. He noted how the customs had transferred its Kerala joint commissioner Aneesh B. Rajan to Nagpur. One of the officers who started investigating the gold smuggling case, Rajan was accused of being a Left sympathiser for telling the media no one had called the airport customs to get the diplomatic baggage released.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
28-02-2021||India||Concern over digital media super-blocker rule||A rule in the new digital media code that grants emergency powers to the Union information and broadcasting secretary  to block online content without having to hear out the platforms has triggered widespread concern. The rule — known as Rule 16 under Part III of The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 -– is expected to give the government control over content on social media, digital news portals and over-the-top (OTT) platforms. The rules have also triggered fears that they will help the government arrogate to itself the role of an adjudicator on defamation. The Union information and broadcasting ministry on Saturday sought to allay the fears by saying that the provision has always been there in the law books. Referring to the misgivings, the ministry said this provision was a copy-paste of what had been exercised by the ministry of electronics and information technology for the past 11 years under the information technology (procedure and safeguards for blocking for access of information by public) Rules, 2009. “Since Part III of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 would be administered by the ministry of information and broadcasting, the reference to secretary MeITY has been replaced by secretary, ministry of information and broadcasting. There is no new provision which has been made,” the ministry said. In the new code, Rule 16 can be invoked when “no delay is acceptable”. According to Section 69A of the IT Act, the instances when such emergency powers can be invoked are when the sovereignty and integrity of India or the defence of India or  the security of the state or friendly relations with foreign states or public order is at stake. They can be invoked for preventing incitement of the commission of a cognisable offence. However, according to the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) — a digital liberties organisation that seeks to ensure that technology respects fundamental rights — digital news media and OTT platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime and Disney-Hotstar were not previously regulated under the provisions of the IT Act. On November 10, 2020, the Centre  issued a notification under the business allocation rules to bring such platforms under the ambit of the information and broadcasting ministry. The Foundation maintains that the November notification only confers administrative clarity on which ministry gets to administer the sector. “It does not create the power to exercise it. For this, a clear parliamentary enactment is necessary. However, instead of going to Parliament, the Intermediary Rules framed under the IT Act seek to expand the scope of regulation under the purview of the IT Act to include digital news media and OTT platforms. This amounts to the executive amending parliamentary legislation and is not permissible under the Constitution,” the Foundation said. Digipub News India Foundation, an association of digital publications of news and current affairs, too red-flagged the emergency provision. The association stated that in some places, the rules appeared to go against the fundamental principle of news and its role in a democracy. “We draw your attention to the well-settled jurisprudence on news media. A publication relating to current affairs represents not only the author or publisher’s fundamental right to expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution but also the citizen’s right to be informed and to have access to differing viewpoints. For the executive to have the absolute power to regulate the content of news portals or publications would be to strike not only at the constitutional scheme but at democracy itself.” It countered the government’s claim of creating a level playing field for all forms of media,  pointing out that both print and the electronic media have been fairly insulated from executive interference. According to the Digipub Foundation, it is unfair and overarching to subject the digital medium to executive control in the manner provided for by the rules. Digipub has also flagged the bypassing of the legal process in the case of defamation complaints. “In the rules as drafted, expression may invite adverse consequential action, such as in the case of defamation. Such action should only happen after adjudication by open courts of law, on legal principles. This entire legal process is bypassed by the rules, in as much as, upon a complaint of defamation, a body consisting of bureaucrats and controlled by the central government may decide the merits and block access to the content of any current affairs publication.” Recognising that freedom of expression is subject to reasonable restrictions, Digipub said: “These restrictions must be demonstrably and strictly necessary to the interests enumerated in Article 19(2), and must also be reasonable, fair and just. To empower a body of government servants to do so could inhibit the news media from doing its job.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
28-02-2021||India||Rahul: Allow voting machines to be checked||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday argued that the capture of key institutions by the RSS-BJP had destroyed democracy in India and expressed serious concern at the Election Commission’s failure to address doubts about the manipulation of Electronic Voting Machines. Responding to a question about EVMs during an interaction with lawyers at Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu, Rahul said: “Fundamentally, I am not convinced that EVMs are 100 per cent secure. I think there are problems with EVMs. The world over, EVMs have shown to have problems. A number of developed countries refused to use them because they are seen to be open to manipulation.” “One of my biggest issues with the EVM is that the Election Commission doesn’t give political parties access to the machines for examination. We ask for random checks by neutral observers, the commission says ‘No’. I would be comfortable with the EVM if it was open to checking, if it was transparent. The first step the EC can take is to say we will allow checking of machines if so many political parties are having doubts.” The former Congress president has voiced doubts about voting machines in the past as well. Responding to another question whether Congress MLAs could be purchased using money and coercion by central agencies because the party did not pick good candidates, Rahul said: “Choosing the right candidate is only one component of the problem. Our government was bought in Madhya Pradesh. I know the amount of money thrown at MLAs. Massive amounts of money. You have seen in Arunachal, the attempt made in Rajasthan. The force of power and money is so strong, so heavy, even the right kind of MLAs will not be able to sustain.” Referring to the larger challenge that Indian democracy was grappling with, Rahul said: “A nation is a balance between its institutions. If that balance is disturbed, the nation is disturbed. Legislatures, judiciary, media, bureaucracy… they hold the nation in place. What we have seen over the past few years is  a systematic attack on these institutions. Democracy doesn’t die with a bang. It dies slowly. Sad to tell you that democracy is dead in India. It doesn’t exist anymore.” He continued: “It is dead because one organisation — the RSS — has combined with huge finances to penetrate into these institutions and disturb the balance. That has happened. Misuse of the sedition law, killing and threatening of people are symptoms of the bigger problem. The problem is concentration of capital has combined with the RSS to destroy multiple balances at different levels. As a political person, I require institutional support. I require a media that is objective. I require a judiciary that is aggressive. I require a Parliament where we can speak.” Alleging that RSS had managed full penetration of the judiciary, media, bureaucracy and other institutions, the Congress leader said: “There is only one way it is going to be resolved. That is mass action, when citizens realise that the country is not being run by their mandate, the country is run by force, undemocratically. You can see the beginnings of mass movement. The stirrings are there; farmers are sitting on Delhi’s borders.” Referring to the huge resources that the RSS-BJP command, he added: “When we have one party fighting with thousands of crores and you have other parties not allowed to raise finances. Financiers who want to support other parties… they come to us and say we understand what you stand for and want to support. But if we give you one rupee, our businesses will be destroyed. So on one side, there is capture of institutions and monopoly on finances, monopoly on media and finances and on the other side parties are not allowed to compete. Their mandate is taken away. I never imagined before 2014 that we will not have any institutional support.” Asked if anti-defection laws should be strengthened given the largescale purchase of MLAs in several states, he said: “We can make laws stronger but for that you need Parliament. We don’t have that. We can have good ideas but we need institutional structure to implement those ideas. The situation is like when India was fighting the British. We can’t rely on institutions.” Arguing that anybody who speaks against the BJP is pushed around, he said: “I am lucky. I am lucky because there is nothing they have on me. Because I had the good sense through my whole political career to be an honest man.  That is why they can’t touch me. There is nothing they can do to me. Because no ED, CBI is going to affect me. They know this man is not corrupt and we have no leverage on him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
28-02-2021||West Bengal||Buddhadeb to miss Brigade rally due to poor health||Former Bengal chief minister and CPI(M) veteran Buddhadeb Bhattacharya will not be attending the party's mega rally at the Brigade Parade Ground on Sunday owing to ill health, sources said. The Left-Congress-ISF alliance will kick-off its campaign for the upcoming Assembly elections in Bengal at the Brigade Parade Ground, an iconic political platform in the city with a capacity to accomodate lakhs of people. Bhattacharya, 76, expressed anguish at not being able to attend the public meeting. "My comrades are fighting on the ground, and I have to stay back at home as per the advice of doctors. It is unthinkable that such a massive rally is being held at the Brigade Parade Ground, and I cannot attend it. I wish the rally a grand success," he said in a statement. According to party sources, Bhattacharya is likely to send a written message for the rally. During the last such event at the same venue in 2019, Bhattacharya stayed for a brief period but could not address the gathering due to poor health. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury and ISF's Abbas Siddiqui will be the main speakers at Sunday's rally. Chattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav will also be present, besides state leaders of the Congress and the Left parties. The RJD is a part of the Left-Congress alliance in Bengal. For the first time, once-bitter rivals Congress and the Left Front would be holding a joint rally in Kolkata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
28-02-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee: Midnapore voting split ‘to help one person’||Diamond Harbour MP and Trinamul youth wing chief Abhishek Banerjee who launched his party’s poll campaign from Ghatal in West Midnapore on Saturday, accused the Election Commission of splitting polling dates in the two Midnapores to benefit “one person”, indicating his bête noire Suvendu Adhikari. “In the two Midnapores, polling has been split in two phases for the benefit of one person,” said Abhishek, hinting that Suvendu would be able to marshal his forces better across the span of days. However, Abhishek added that Trinamul would win all 31 Assembly seats in the twin districts even if voting was held in 31 phases. “We will win all 16 seats in East Midnapore and 15 in West Midnapore. We will win 250 seats in the state,” Abhishek said to loud cheers from the 50,000-odd crowd. Devoting over five minutes of his 15-minute speech to Suvendu without naming him, the Trinamul MP urged the people to teach the “traitor” a lesson by defeating the BJP in Ghatal and elsewhere. “They (BJP) may have central forces and bohiragawto (outsiders) behind them, but we have Kanyasree and Yuvasree (chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s pet projects),” he said, urging the crowd to cheer for Trinamul’s “Bengal’s daughter” slogan for Mamata. “I will never lose my spine, unlike some...Midnapore is not their fiefdom, it is of the people. Those trying to sell it to Delhi will disappear from the scene following (their loss in) this election,” he said. A 4.5km march followed,  which he called his “most important political roadshow”. Trinamul is popular in the twin districts but during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP edged past Trinamul in eight Assembly seats in West Midnapore and two in East.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
28-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP, Left allege violation of model code of conduct||he distribution of bicycles by the state under its Sabuj Sathi scheme among students in North Dinajpur on Saturday made the BJP and Left allege violation of the model code of conduct. As the EC announced Bengal poll dates on Friday, the code has kicked in. On Saturday, around 220 students of Milanmoyee Girls’ High School in Kaliaganj town got the bicycles. “Block officials were supposed to give them on Friday but they possibly got busy,” a teacher said. Biswajit Lahiri, BJP district head, said Trinamul violated the code. The CPM filed a complaint with the block administration. Trinamul said officials gave the cycles on Saturday and only they can answer why.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
28-02-2021||West Bengal||Longview Tea Estate disburses wages to around 250-odd workers||The “workers committee” of the 500-hectare Longview Tea Estate on Saturday disbursed wages to around 250-odd workers, indicating that workers are taking control of the garden from the management. “We disbursed around Rs 1.4 lakhs to 250-odd workers at the rate of Rs 202 per day,” said Mani Raj Dhumjen, coordinator of both the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay camp) trade union and workers’ committee. Workers at Longview, the largest tea estate in the Darjeeling tea industry, had stopped reporting for duty from December 23 as the management had failed to clear dues. Last Wednesday, Anit Thapa, general secretary of the Morcha (Binay camp) and also the chairman of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) asked workers to run the garden and said the party was now pursuing the concept of “hamro ghar, afnai bhar (our house, our onus).” Trade leaders of the Binay camp said workers were now running the garden independently while the management said they had not shut the garden and hence workers were under the management. Workers’ cooperative unions have been formed in “closed gardens” but this is a first for a garden that the management claims was “not closed.” Amar Pal Singh Dahiya, garden manager, said workers were paid by the committee and called this a “dangerous precedent”. “We have written to all authorities concerned on this, including unions,” he added. Planters of Darjeeling tea industry said this was “a double-edged sword.” “While this will act as deterrent against those owners who close gardens during non-plucking period and then open during production, leaders running the show for political gains will do more harm to the industry in the long run,” a planter said. Another planter said that running a garden on this model was not sustainable. “Issues like trademark, licensing, marketing are important for long-term sustainability.” Rival party GNLF alleged that the development at Longview was an outcome of one-upmanship between the two factions of Morcha led by Bimal Gurung and Anit Thapa camp. Leaders of the Anit Thapa camp disagreed. “The workers were facing huge economic hardship. The day we decided to run the garden on our own, the management cleared Rs 15 lakhs in workers dues. Why couldn’t the management pay the dues earlier? A number of earlier meetings on clearing workers due had earlier failed,” said Mani Raj. Asked whether the workers model would now be firmly established in Longview, Mani Raj said that everything would depend on the management’s moves. PMO on auction hub The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has instructed two officials one each from the central and the state government to take necessary initiatives for reopening the North Bengal Tea Auction Centre in Jalpaiguri. The centre that was opened here back in 2005 is closed since 2015 due to poor inflow of tea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
28-02-2021||West Bengal||EC shifts police officer with fair record||The Election Commission of India has replaced additional director-general (law and order) Jawed Shamim with director-general of fire and emergency services Jag Mohan within 24 hours of announcing the Assembly poll schedule in Bengal. Mohan, a 1991 batch  IPS officer, will now coordinate with the Election Commission on behalf of the state for deploying forces in the forthcoming Assembly polls and monitoring logistic arrangements for the central forces to be sent to the state. Shamim, a 1995 batch IPS officer, will  be posted as the DG of fire and emergency services. He had taken over as ADG (law and order) only on February 8. “On Saturday morning, the ECI had sought names for the post of ADG (law and order) and in the evening, the ECI issued the order to bring in Jag Mohan to the post to replace Shamim,” said a senior government official. Shamim, known as an upright officer, had earned accolades from the Opposition for strictly handling law and order across Salt Lake and its adjoining areas during the fifth phase of the 2016 Assembly polls. He was then the commissioner of the Bidhannagar police commissionerate. “No political party has ever had anything to complain about Shamim because of his deft handling of situations,” said an IPS officer senior to Shamim. Shamim was brought in to the post of ADG (Law and Order) on February 8 by the state government, replacing Gyanwant Singh and  keeping the forthcoming elections in mind. Not only Shamim, a series of IPS and IAS officers, including the police commissioner of Calcutta, were transferred by the state government before the polls were announced. The changes, sources said, were made by the state government in order to make the ECI think twice before removing officers once the model code of conduct is put in place. Usually, the poll panel shifts key officers who have spent considerable time in a particular post. The state government had posted non-controversial officers in important positions and removed officers against whom the Opposition parties, particularly the BJP, had complaints, said an official. The official added that if the poll panel removed an officer ahead of the polls, it would hurt the morale of the state’s bureaucracy. “This is the reason Soumen Mitra, a 1988 batch IPS officer, was made the city police chief, Shamim was made the ADG (law and order) and Supratim Sarkar, a 1997 batch IPS officer, was made the police commissioner of Bidhannagar,” said a senior bureaucrat. No reason has been stated till Saturday evening for the transfer of Shamim. Suvendu Adhikari, who had switched to the BJP from Trinamul, had demanded at a rally in Hooghly the removal of all top Nabanna officials and alleged that they often interfered in the election process. The BJP leadership has complained against Mitra, Calcutta’s new police commissioner, for not offering them a hearing. Mitra had earned critical appreciation for holding a violence-free poll in 2016 in Calcutta as the then chief of the city police force. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the poll panel had transferred 70-odd officers, including the then city police chief, and a number of district magistrates and superintendents of police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
28-02-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati authorities refute charges of confining teachers for six hours||Visva-Bharati authorities on Saturday refuted the charges of confining teachers for six hours on Friday to try and “forcibly grab” a copy of a mass petition to the Prime Minister and the President on the varsity’s state of affairs, and said it was a series of meetings to discuss teacher absenteeism and other issues. A varsity news release, along with identical undertakings by 10 English teachers, claimed on Saturday that VC Bidyut Chakrabarty had called the meeting on Friday. It claimed that teachers of the English department were initially reluctant to admit they were absent on campus during the VC’s visit on Wednesday but later did so. The news release was shared by the varsity’s public relations officer Anirban Sircar to a media group on WhatsApp. “In order to discuss the issue of absenteeism, the Vice Chancellor called a meeting on the day he visited the department… initially they (English teachers) were reluctant to admit (on Friday) that they were absent; after sometime, they admitted verbally and finally they agreed to write that they were absent on that day…,” the news release stated. Later, Sircar in another WhatsApp message to the media said it did not take long to discuss the issue of absenteeism but there were many other meetings that lasted six to seven hours on Friday. He did not specify if all teachers of the English department were part of those meetings, or whether Chakrabarty was. A teacher of the English department said they were forced to sign the undertaking when a colleague fell ill during the confinement. “The varsity did not clarify in the news release why teachers were not present on campus on Wednesday. There was a pre-scheduled virtual meeting of the board of studies where interviews of 14 PhD scholars were held with experts from various universities. We signed the undertaking as we did not know how long the confinement would last,” a teacher said. “...The format (of undertakings) is the same but handwritings differ. Is it possible for senior teachers to write identical undertakings if they’re not dictated?” asked a professor. On Friday, two physics teachers had filed a police complaint accusing the varsity of illegally confining colleagues. They received showcause notices on Saturday. Their head of the department Manas Maity was removed from his post. Insiders said authorities suspected Maity was involved with the drive to send a mass petition to Narendra Modi and Ram Nath Kovind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
28-02-2021||West Bengal||NHAI opens bypass hour before Election Commission of India announces election dates||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) opened a 10km road that will bypass Islampur — the second most important town in North Dinajpur district — along NH27 on Friday, an hour before the Election Commission of India announced election dates for Bengal and four other states. Both Trinamul and BJP leaders have claimed credit for the bypass that connects Aliganj with Iluabari, localities on both ends of Islampur. BJP leaders said their government finished the project and is carrying out four-laning work of NH 27, the principal highway that connects northeast with rest of the country. Trinamul leaders, on their part, said Mamata Banerjee’s intervention in clearing land hurdles helped the bypass become a reality. “The project was pending for over 15 years and the bypass is because of her (Mamata),” said Kanaialal Agarwal, North Dinajpur district Trinamul president. “The bypass was supposed to be inaugurated on Saturday. However, as there were indications that poll dates would be announced on Friday evening and the model code of conduct would immediately come into force, the road was opened for traffic on Friday afternoon,” said an NHAI source. In North Dinajpur, the bypass was a longstanding demand of residents so that congestion in Islampur town, that has grown on both sides of the highway, would ease. Till now, the entire traffic to Siliguri and beyond would move through the town, choking the roads and causing accidents. The plan to build the bypass, a part of the east-west corridor project — a four-lane NH27 that would connect Porbandar of Gujarat with Silchar of Assam — was drawn way back in 2003. But the project suffered for over 15 years over land acquisition snags. In 2016, Mamata took the initiative to clear land hurdles. State tourism minister Gautam Deb was instructed to sit with land-losers and resolve their issues, including that of compensation. Finally in 2017, work on the bypass commenced on the outskirts of Islampur. Residents and transporters are elated. Plabon Pramanik, Uttar Dinajpur Bus & Minibus Owners’ Association, said his buses would take 90 minutes to cross Islampur town. “Now with the bypass, trucks and other vehicles which do not need to enter the town will use this alternative,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
28-02-2021||West Bengal||To Brigade, with a lesson learnt during lockdown||Somnath Majumdar, 22, from Nadia’s Santipur and a staunch BJP supporter till the pandemic hit the country last March, will be in the Brigade Parade Grounds on Sunday to demand a “bikolpo (alternative)” in the form of the fledgling Left-Congress-ISF alliance. As he puts it, last year’s pandemic-induced lockdown changed the life of a waiter in a Pune bar. “I had to come back to Bengal as I lost my job.… And as I lived in penury for months and local BJP leaders turned their faces away when I sought their help, I realised that poor people like me can rely only on the Left,” said the youth who had actively campaigned for the BJP before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “I am a Left supporter now as I got help only from the CPM during the lockdown.… I am telling people to join Sunday’s rally because we need an alternative (in Bengal),” he added. A day ahead of Sunday’s meeting at the Brigade Parade Grounds, to start at 1pm, Left leaders were banking on people like Somnath who had been helped by the Left’s outreach activities during months of lockdown. “Reports from the districts suggest that we alone will bring around 7.5 lakh people. The Congress and the ISF will also bring people,” said Left Front chairman Biman Bose, confident of a a million-plus turnout in the show-of-strength rally. The last time the Left organised a show in Brigade was before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the one before that was in 2015-end, when the CPM’s organisational plennum was held in Calcutta. “Organising a programme in Brigade has become very difficult these days, but we had to try and put up a show as it is a matter of survival for us,” said a senior CPM leader. Given the depleted organisational strength of the Left, which bagged little over 7 per cent vote in the last Lok Sabha polls, and the realities of the pandemic-hit economy, getting 10 lakh people — estimates done by Calcutta Police suggest a turnout of around 4 lakh people is enough to fill the Brigade — would be easier said than done for the Left, Congress and ISF alliance. However, the organisers of Sunday’s show are hopeful of a packed Brigade. “A large section of the poor were helped by the 650-odd community kitchens we set up across the state. These kitchens provided free food during the entire lockdown. Along with these kitchens, 29 canteens were set up where food was sold at a nominal cost. All these will hopefully pay off,” said a CPM state committee member. There is little doubt that the turnout figure will be watched very closely. This is the first time that the Left will hold a Brigade along with the Congress and a fledgling force, the ISF. Opposition leaders like Bihar’s leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel are likely to speak in the rally too. “I can’t tell you if it will be historic or not, but Sunday’s show will indeed be unique because this is going to be the first time that Left and Congress leaders will be sharing a political dais at the Brigade...Then, there will be leaders of the ISF,” said a CPM insider. Leaders from the Left and the Congress have shared the dais at the Brigade before back in 1955 when Nikolai Bulganin and Nikita Khrushchev arrived in India on November for the first official visit of Soviet leaders after 1947. “Over two million people were there and leaders like Jawaharlal Nehru and Jyoti Basu shared the dais... But that was an apolitical programme,” added a CPM old-timer. Many political pundits have already written off the poll prospects of the fledgling alliance and called the Bengal polls a Trinamul-BJP contest. “The success of Sunday’s rally will determine if we can effect a turnaround,” said a CPM leader. Buddhadeb message Former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee released a message clarifying his health would not permit him to attend the Brigade rally. He also expressed his pain at missing such a big event at the Brigade. “The psychological pain to miss out on a big meeting like this is inexplicable. My comrades are fighting in the streets and I’m obeying my doctors because of my medical conditions....A meeting is on at Maidan and I’m stuck in my house is something I could have never imagined. I wish the meeting a success,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
28-02-2021||North East||RJD to contest in Assam ||Senior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday said his party will be contesting the Assam Assembly elections not only to stop the BJP from getting a second term but also to expand the party’s footprints. The Election Commission on Friday announced a three-phase polls for Assam to be held on March 27 (47 seats spanning 12 districts), April 1 (39 seats in 13 districts) and April 6 (40 in 12 districts). Counting will take place on May 2. Tejashwi, whose spirited campaign saw the Opposition’s Grand Alliance give a tough fight to the ruling JD(U)-BJP alliance in last year’s Bihar state polls, reached Guwahati on Friday evening. After visiting the Bhupen Hazarika memorial soon after landing, he met state Congress chief Ripun Bora. On Saturday, he met AIUDF leader Badruddin Ajmal and Ajit Bhuyan of the Anchalik Gana Morcha. The leader of the Opposition in the Bihar Assembly said the RJD wants to contest the Assembly elections “because” Assam was an important state, the “gateway” to the northeast, and it was “our” duty to raise the issues of the state and stand by it. Another objective to jump into the poll fray was to expand its footprints across India. “RJD was national party... and now we want to expand our organisation. As a political party we have to expand. To expand we have to participate in polls. We have spoken to Congress, which is our natural ally. We are also talking to the AIUDF and other smaller parties,” Tejashwi said. He is banking on the huge population of Hindi-speaking population from Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha and Chhattisgarh who are influential in “eleven” of the 126 Assembly seats in the state. However, he made it clear that contesting will depend on various factors such as winnability. “We will not do anything that will spoil the prospects of like-minded parties like the Congress and the AIUDF. Winnability will be an important factor while contesting,” he said. The RJD has no “visible base” in the state since they are still in the process of building a party structure after launching the Assam unit in 2017. The RJD has 22 district units in the state but they are “not” full-fledged units, party insiders said. If the RJD contests, the upcoming polls will be their first in the state. The “five per cent” Hindi-speaking population in the state Tejashwi was “banking” on has been mostly backing the BJP since 2014 while a small section is with the Congress and regional forces. Articulating the “challenge” posed to the Constitution, democracy and institutions under the rule of the “RSS-BJP”, Yadav said that the ruling dispensation would not talk about pressing issues. “They are only concerned about staying in power. They will talk about Hindu-Muslim,Mandir-Masjid instead of issues such as such as the economy, unemployment, migration, job creation or MSP to farmers. There is a BJP-JD(U) government in Bihar. “They have destroyed Bihar. Our ideology is secularism. In Assam, we need to stop these communal forces from coming to power. People should be alert against the BJP. Not only Assam, we will also be going to Bengal, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and Kerala and tell the truth to people. Rest is on the masses. Janta is malik,” Tejashwi said. The Congress and five others parties have already stitched a six-party grand alliance comprising AIUDF, CPI, CPI(M), CPI(ML) and Anchalik Gana Morcha to  take on the BJP-AGP-UPPL alliance. The BPF, which has not yet formally left the BJP-led alliance, is weighing its options but is most likely to go with anti-BJP forces. The chief electoral office here on Saturday said altogether there are 23186362 voters in the state of which male voters number 11742661, doubtful voters 108596, third gender 442, overseas electors 11 and service voters 62134. The Bodoland People’s Front on Saturday night tweeted its decision to join the Congress-led grand alliance in Assam. The BPF was an ally of the BJP  but their ties nosedived after the latter allied with the UPPL to end the BPF’s 17-year reign of the BTC last year. A tweet by BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary, shared by senior Congress leaders,  said “... We shall no longer maintain friendship or alliance with BJP.” The BPF has three ministers in the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-21
28-02-2021||North East||Congress contests Shah peace claim||The Opposition Congress has latched on to the Assam government’s decision to declare the entire state as disturbed for six months to dismiss Union home minister Amit Shah’s claim that peace has been established in the state. Shah had on Thursday asserted at a well-attended rally in Nagaon district in poll-bound Assam that the state was once known for agitation and violence. “But to enhance the prestige of Assam, Modi ji did whatever was possible... he never looked back. Sabse bada kaam kiya, Assam ke andar shanti ashtaphit karne ka kiya (one of the important things he did was to establish peace in Assam)...” Senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Pradyut Bordoloi on Friday countered Shah’s assertion by asking why Assam was then declared disturbed for another six months. Assam governor Jagdish Mukhi had on Wednesday declared the entire state as disturbed under the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 up to six months beyond February 27 without citing any reason. The act, which provides security forces with immense powers for conducting operations or arresting someone as and when required to maintain order in a disturbed area, is continuing in the state since 1990 and it was last extended on August 28. “Yesterday Amit Shah dangoriya had claimed that the BJP had made Assam bullet-free, violence free. Whatever we (Congress) did for conflict-resolution was simply wiped away. If they have actually made Assam bullet-free, violence-free, why did the Assam government then declare the state as disturbed under the AFSPA for six months. We want this answer from Assam chief minister!,” Bordoloi said, while describing BJP leaders as faakibaaz (liars). Assam PCC chief Ripun Bora through a tweet too contested Shah’s claim of ushering in peace. “It was the @INCAssam that brought Assam out of conflict and militancy. It was @AmitShah's CAA that pushed Assam back into conflict, curfews, and violence. Without peace there can be no progress. Assam wants Congress back.” The contentious CAA, which provides for citizenship to non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan to those who have entered India till December 2014,  has been widely protested in Assam. Most in Assam see the CAA as a threat to Assamese culture and identity. Bordoloi also took a dig at Shah’s claim of making Assam flood-free if the BJP is elected for another five years. Assam will be having a three-phased polls on March 27, April 1 and April 6. “I want to remind Amit Shah and our chief minister about a promise made by Prime Minister to tackle flood and erosion on August 1, 2017. He had promised Rs 100 crore to study the problem, Rs 400 to tackle erosion and Rs 250 crore for flood relief. You will be surprised to know that this amount has not been released by the Centre, nothing has come of these announcements. It is another jumla. If PM’s announcements are not implemented, then how can one believe Shah?” Ajit Kumar Bhuyan, Rajya Sabha MP from the state, too hit out at Shah in a tweet , “In 2016, BJP promised dredging of Brahmaputra to prevent floods, but I was informed in Parliament by concerned minister that there’s no such plan. Yesterday, Amit Shah made a silly promise of digging up reservoirs to stock excess water from Brahmaputra. There’s limit to bluffing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-21
28-02-2021||Opinion||Big bully: control over news and its dissemination are at stake||Sir — Facebook had barred Australians from finding or sharing news on its platform, in response to a proposal by the Australian government that required social media networks to pay news organizations for content. The move had apparently brought down the online readership of Australian news sites. This battle is an important one; equitable control over news and its dissemination are at stake. The tech giant tried to bully the government and news organizations into giving in. The public must support the latter by buying more printed papers and reading news independently.  S. Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — Poor Spiderman, Thomas Stanley Holland, drew flak for a tweet by the author, Thomas Holland, on the subject of renaming the Sardar Patel Stadium in Ahmedabad after Narendra Modi. As usual there were calls to boycott Spiderman — this seems to be the weapon of choice for trolls when it comes to foreign offenders. But one has to admit that the original tweet by the author — Holland expressed ‘admiration’ for Modi’s modesty — makes sense in a weird way. After all, none of the great sons of Gujarat, M.K. Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel or Morarji Desai, would have felt comfortable at the stadium in the company of Ambani and Adani — the Motera stadium has pavilions named after their respective companies. India has come a long way since the days of the freedom struggle; it is now the time of the ‘wealth creators’ aka crony capitalists.  Haridasan Rajan, Kozhikode, Kerala Sir — The article, “The trickster” (Feb 26), by Samantak Das is very pertinent. An erudite Das cleverly weaves his memory of reading Tutu-Bhutu years ago with his experiences later in life. Those who have missed out on reading the book as kids should rectify this as adults. The wonderfully educative, colourfully illustrated books by Dhiren Bal — once known as the Walt Disney of Bengal — are an indelible part of my childhood too. In fact, like Das, Tutu-Bhutu is the first book I recall reading. My father had brought this book for me just as I did for my daughter. Such books taught us at an early age to coexist peacefully, regardless of ethnicity, religion, political beliefs, social status and so on. These books helped us develop a good character at an early age, before these lessons were imparted by parents and teachers. Having entered into the secondary education system in the city in the early Seventies after coming from a beautiful rural village in Bengal, the psychological trauma of city life haunted me for quite some time. I dearly wished to go back to that wonderful village and spend time with Tutu-Bhutu, Hansukhoka, Bhulu, Chao-mao and others. Bal and his creative achievements have entertained us as much as another great talent, Narayan Debnath, did. Bal was honoured by the government for creating Tutu-Bhutu — he got the Bhubaneshwari Medal, the Moumachi Award, and also an award from Sishu Sahitya Parishad. During his time at Anandabazar Patrika, he created other immortal favourites such as “Theke Habul Shekhe” and “Chenga Benga”. Somnath Mukherjee, Calcutta Sir — It was wonderful to read the interesting article, “Bengal’s magpies” (Feb 25), by Uddalak Mukherjee. It reminded me of a novel written by the renowned Bengali author, Narayan Gangopadhyay, titled Ponchanoner Haati, which I had read years back at my school library. There was a character of a thief by the name of Potai in that novel. I still clearly remember the misadventures of Potai chor. He stole from one house after another while the police struggled to get their hands on him. In fact, it is surprising how clear my memory of the story is even so many years after reading the book. Surely this is because of the magic that Gangopadhyay, one of the finest writers in Bengali literature, wove on the page.  Sourish Misra, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
28-02-2021||Opinion||The Unbearable Loneliness of Being||Odd it might be, the sound of it --- a loneliness minister, such as the one Japan has announced following the spike in the country's suicide rate through the pandemic. But more odd is the fact that it should sound so --- a tad amusing. As if finance and home and education and food and roadways and waterways and environment are all deserving of dedicated ministries and not loneliness. More disturbing than odd is the revelation that in 2020, 20,919 people in Japan took their own lives --- 750 more than 2019. The new appointee, Tetsushi Sakamoto, said something about hoping to “promote activities that prevent loneliness and social isolation and protect the ties between people”. It has been reported that in Japan half a million people live the life of a social recluse, they don’t leave their house for years. There is a term for them — hikikomoris. Lawmakers in the world’s third-largest economy are in discussions to formulate a clear definition of loneliness before they put in place effective policies, perhaps to make a clear distinction between loneliness and solitude. In the Japanese language a single word, kodoku, suggests both. A large section of experts believe that hikikomoris are the product of a technology-driven technology-dependent life. The United Kingdom also has a ministry of loneliness; it was instituted in 2018, soon after a report was published claiming that nine million of the country’s 67 million were lonely. A study from the Office for National Statistics revealed that young people between 16 and 24 are more prone to loneliness than others. The UK is currently onto its third loneliness minister. In 2016, the Prime Minister of the United Arab Emirates announced the creation of a minister of state for happiness. A new post of minister of state for tolerance was also created. Ohood Al-Roumi, who is possibly the first happiness minister in the world, has degrees in economics and public administration. She ensured that more than 50 of her chief happiness and positivity officers received appropriate training at UC Berkeley and Oxford. She said, “We have no intention as a government to impose happiness, or mandate it, or force it… We’re just doing the right thing for our people.” It takes all kinds. So there is one country in the world though that has a dedicated department for propaganda and agitation. It is the responsibility of this department to portray prosperous and peaceful neighbours as poverty stricken, dangerous; they rah rah about racial purity and racial pride; national emergencies are played down; the film industry is under its control; and songs are composed only to be dedicated to the political boss. North Korea, of course. Why, what did you think?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
28-02-2021||Opinion||In eulogising Modi, MP chief minister Chouhan invokes Lord Ram||The Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, has been repeatedly betraying his desperation to make his loyalty to the current regime at the Centre known. He was once seen as a competitor to Narendra Modi, who was then the CM of the neighbouring state of Gujarat. If Modi was a popular three-term CM, so was Chouhan, or Mamaji, as he is popularly known. Chouhan would not dare to recall the memory of those days; now, he is time and again heard eulogizing Modi. The governor’s customary address on the opening day of the budget session in the Madhya Pradesh assembly had 10 references to the PM. When the leader of the Opposition, Kamal Nath, pointed it out, Chouhan hit back. Taking Modi’s name was a matter of pride, he said. “If Narendra Modi is Lord Ram then Amit Shah is Lord Hanuman,” Chouhan had remarked last month to emphasize how no power can stop the implementation of the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act. He has come up with many more statements like these; in the Bharatiya Janata Party corridors in Delhi, Chouhan’s transformation is a matter of hushed discussion. However, what has led many in the party to pity him is his new-found eagerness to imitate the Uttar Pradesh CM, Yogi Adityanath. While his government has already followed up on UP’s contentious anti-conversion bill on interfaith marriages, the otherwise amiable Chouhan has also started sounding shrill and polarizing like Adityanath. The royal scion of Tripura, Pradyot Kishore Manikya Debbarma, who quit as the Tripura Congress chief in 2019, created quite a political flutter recently by announcing the merger of his social organization, the Indigenous People’s Regional Alliance, with two tribal parties, the Tipraland State Party and Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura-Tipraha, to form the state’s largest tribal political party — the Tipraha Indigenous People’s Regional Alliance. That is not all. He also announced that the TIPRA was joining hands with the Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura, an ally of the BJP-led state government, to realize the goal of a ‘Greater Tipraland’, a separate state for the tribal population living in and outside the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council. A few days ago, they even held a massive solidarity rally, with the IPFT skipping a meeting of the ruling alliance convened by the BJP. These developments assume significance because these have taken place in the run-up to the TTAADC polls in May, and are sure to give the BJP a headache that could continue beyond the polls and also put the BJP-IPFT alliance under a lot of strain. All because of the ‘royal strike’ carried out by Debbarma. National parties have taken to the “Pawri horai hai” meme that originated in Pakistan. It is based on a clip of the Instagram influencer, Dananeer Mobeen, saying, “Yeh humaari car hai, aur yeh hum hai, aur yeh humaari pawri (party) horai hai (This is our car, this is us, and we are having a party)”. Last Sunday, the Trinamul Congress tweeted a photo of a BJP meeting with only one person in the audience, and said, “Yeh @BJP4Bengal hai. Yeh unki jansabha hai. Aur yahaan inki pawri ho rahi hai! (This is the @BJP4Bengal, this is their public meeting. And they’re having a party here!)” On Thursday, the general secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) took a dig at the refurbished Motera Stadium, where Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s name has been replaced with that of the PM and the ends are named ‘Reliance’ and ‘Adani’. He tweeted, “Yeh Narendra Modi Stadium hai, yeh iske do Ends hain... aur yeh cronies ki pawri ho rahi hai. (This is Narendra Modi Stadium, these are its two ends... and this is a party of cronies).” The Kerala state BJP president, K Surendran perhaps didn’t realize he had just shot off at the mouth when he said that his party needed to win just 35 or 40 of the 140 assembly seats in the poll-bound state. When asked why that was sufficient, he quipped that the Congress and the CPI(M) MLAs were there to make up the remaining seats for a simple majority. Little did he realize that he had just spilled the larger plan of his party that has, so far, managed to win just one assembly seat in a state that has continuously rejected it. While his party is certainly waiting to lure lawmakers from the Opposition, like it did in other states, Surendran perhaps didn’t gauge that both the CPI(M) and the Congress would use his slip as an election issue. While the whole country is worried about the rising cases of Covid-19, the actions of legislators in Bihar, including the CM, Nitish Kumar, the deputy CMs, Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, and all other ministers, belie their claims of concern. Social distancing is a rarity among them; no arrangements for it have been made as has been done for Parliament. Many of them do not even wear masks. Even the Opposition MLAs jostle with each other in the well of the state assembly to demonstrate before the Speaker. And yet, they all discuss the pandemic and express their worry. They also call for people to wear masks. The temperatures of the MLAs, MLCs, officials and other people entering the assembly premises are not taken. Hand sanitization is not mandatory. Free disposable masks and hand sanitizer on a small desk have few takers. A kiosk to conduct rapid antigen tests is just wishful thinking. Asked about not following pandemic protocols, a senior Janata Dal (United) leader said: “I am not against them. If everybody follows them, I will also do so.” He also took time to preach how Bihar has among the highest recovery rates in the country and among the lowest death rates as far as the virus is concerned. A Montblanc pen — it could cost anything between Rs 30,000 and Rs 90,000 — was dropped by an MLA in the Bihar assembly, and is yet to be claimed, despite an announcement by the Speaker. The National Democratic Alliance and the Grand Alliance both say someone from the other side owns the pen. But all agree that the claimant could get on the radar of the income tax department, the enforcement directorate and other Central agencies. Perhaps the pen will lie unused for eternity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
28-02-2021||Opinion||Isolate the problem||The French philosopher, Jean-Paul Sartre, was wrong. Hell is not other people, but the lack thereof. Social isolation and the resultant loneliness are more lethal than smoking 15 cigarettes a day or obesity, according to research published by Brigham Young University. Some researchers even say that loneliness increases heart disease, dementia and death rates. The pandemic has turned a bad situation worse, with some studies showing as much as a 90 per cent rise in loneliness globally. Public health experts in many countries have been debating how to address the “loneliness epidemic” that confronts and corrodes modern life. Japan, where suicide rates shot up precariously during the pandemic, has now appointed a Loneliness Minister, following in the footsteps of the United Kingdom, which in 2018 became the first country to create a similar cabinet position. This is a welcome move: a ministry of loneliness should accord gravity to a mental health concern. But the British experience also shows that ministering loneliness can be a rather lonely occupation with tokenism triumphing over meaningful policy — the unwillingness to implement the suggestions offered by Britain’s loneliness ministry since its inception is indicative of a deeper, troubling institutional and public apathy. In order to fully comprehend the depth of the crisis, the question that needs to be asked is why do so many people feel isolated at a time when human company, apparently, is a mouse-click away? The emergence of technology promising to connect the world and end social isolation has — ironically — achieved the opposite result, shutting people into the private, soulless, yet all-consuming cocoons powered by handheld devices. A second reason for the uptick in social isolation, research suggests, can be attributed to the broader social churning. The Jo Cox Commission on Loneliness found that the social conditions that allow loneliness to proliferate — the decline of the State’s commitment to the collective and the fraying of ties within community and family — aggravate deviance, violence as well as ennui. Cox, the British parliamentarian after whom the Commission was founded, was killed by an assailant who exhibited all the signs of loneliness-induced mental health ailments. Such transgressions can no longer be ignored. Research by the University of California found that lonely males are prone to hostility and adversarial views. This perhaps explains the flurry of measures undertaken by governments around the world to confront the social malaise of loneliness. These include programmes that encourage conversation, friendship, and empathy: the founding of community allotments where the lonely might gather, knock-on-door initiatives with volunteers reaching out to those who believe they have been forsaken, exchange programmes between schools and colleges and old-age homes. India, where chronic loneliness is rising not only among the aged but also the youth, must study these templates of intervention to design effective, compassionate models that are likely to be efficient under Indian conditions. Otherwise, the country, in spite of its populousness, would have to confront a different version of Sartre’s Hell.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
28-02-2021||Opinion||New normal days||Newspapers report that from next week on, people over sixty will be eligible for vaccination as will those over forty-five with conditions that make them vulnerable to Covid-19. Setting aside, for a moment, questions about the efficacy of the vaccines available, vaccination holds out the prospect of a return to normalcy. It might take a year or more to vaccinate a population as large as ours, but it’ll happen. When it does, will we return to the world as it was or will some of our routines and behaviours have changed permanently? The Western press is full of reports about the death of the office, for example. There is talk of urban flight, the measurable decline in the populations of great cities like London and New York, and the accelerated extinction of downtown areas as people get used to shopping online. A piece in The Wall Street Journal argued that the gathering places that made expensive cities like New York attractive — theatres, museums, libraries, restaurants and bars — have lost their patrons and might go under before they regain them. There is talk of converting office buildings into condominiums as companies build upon their pandemic experience of working from home and cut costs by leasing less workspace. This could have a knock-on effect as the cafes, street vendors and shops that exist to serve office workers during their lunch breaks or their journeys home lose their customers. The economic life of a great city, organized over decades around commuter routines, might have to be re-ordered and there is no guarantee that the transition won’t create swathes of urban desolation. It’s hard to know how much of this is speculative doomsaying and how much will actually come to pass. Speaking from the very particular experience of a salaried academic about to retire, some changes seem more likely than others. Shopping for consumer durables has shifted, irreversibly, online. There’s an electronics megastore in my neighbourhood, part of a big-brand chain, that’s scheduled for extinction if my shopping habits are a sign. From buying from it, I had shifted to using it as a convenient exhibition space where I could check things out before ordering them online. During the pandemic, thanks to my learnt fear of indoor spaces, I cut out the intermediate step — physically inspecting the object of desire — and went directly to buying it online. And once consumers my age unlearn a lifetime’s need to touch something before buying it, renting expensive retail space to sell razors or refrigerators makes no economic sense. Shops that sell things that you want to try on for size like clothes or shoes or spectacles or jewellery will multiply. Even before the pandemic, my neighbouring market had become a phalanx of monstrous jewellery shops; now they have competition from deluxe opticians. I’ve learnt that for Delhi’s affluent elite, spectacles are a form of jewellery. The difference between an optician’s shop and a jeweller’s shop in Delhi is that only one of them has a man with an obsolete shotgun standing guard. There is a commercial on television peddling an app that allows people to try on spectacle frames virtually, so it is possible that these peddlers of grotesquely overpriced plastic might go bust. But conspicuous consumption is best done in public spaces so once the pandemic ends, I suspect Delhi’s rich will go back to buying Hermes frames for wads of cash at BonTon. The retail trade will adapt to the patterns of consumption forced on us by the pandemic but the institution most threatened by lessons drawn from the pandemic is the public university in India. I have been lecturing online for just over two semesters now and virtual teaching works... after a fashion. The questions about it that were raised when online teaching began have been mostly answered. Most of my students ‘attend’ my lectures using their phones, so the earlier objection that not owning a computer would limit attendance doesn’t have the same force. Some students can’t attend either because cellular connectivity is poor where they live or, as in the case of Kashmir, because it’s throttled by the State. Generally, though, a large majority of students regularly log on. The absence of a library is not so acutely felt because lecturers can use university subscriptions to online repositories like JSTOR to download readings, which can be emailed to their students. Beyond legal downloads, there are pirate libraries like Libgen that are an invaluable archive of accessible published work. University libraries aren’t just book repositories; they are also places to read and reflect and whisper in. But in a functional way, you could argue that technology has made it possible to deliver lectures, conduct tutorials and organize examinations online. I’m currently correcting handwritten examination papers downloaded from a university server. So if you were a University Grants Commission official who thought online university teaching was a good idea but didn’t know if the existing infrastructure would support it or whether students and teachers would adapt to it, the pandemic has just conducted a gigantic stress test/dress rehearsal and it has, sort of, worked. Nobody likes it; my students recently boycotted classes for a couple of days because they want a return to in-person teaching and most teachers I know find daily remote teaching frictionless and alienating. Colleges are meant to be collegial; fellowship and camaraderie are hard to achieve in the absence of shared physical spaces. But for the sarkari bean counters who have been slashing the budget for public universities for years now, the online experience, forced on universities by the pandemic, isn’t just an interregnum; it is a precedent. The main object of all governments in the recent past has been cutting investment in higher education by saving on teacher recruitment and physical infrastructure. Virtual teaching driven by Massive Open Online Courses has been the fantasy solution to undesirable university expenditure for some time now. The online experiment forced on us by Covid makes this fantasy seem plausible. In my gloomier moments, I see a future where the public university is merged with remote learning programmes to create a hybrid where the physical infrastructure of the university is confined to its administrators while the actual business of teaching and learning happens in an anonymous online wasteland underwritten by Google Meet. We must hope this never comes to pass but given the hostility of the Indian State towards free thinking public universities, this is likely to be the direction of travel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
28-02-2021||Opinion||Gol wol kar ke||Time to get inspired. We have to march ahead, goose and gander like, chests puffed to aspirations of 56, chins held so high they obstruct vision; it would be nice to have a beard hanging thereby, if not a full-flowing bushel, just a wisp, a wisp would do, a scattered battalion of hair on an outing, that would do just fine. It will not do to get left behind, because what is behind is being turned ruthlessly to ruins, all of those remnants of the era of NothingHappened, that’s being obliterated with gusto. It is being blown and pounded, scorned and screamed at in a great cacophony of destruction which is the intended preface to new construction: NayaYug, the yug unheard of, the yug now in invention, the yug beyond all yugs, beyond Satyug, Treta, Dwapar, Kaliyug... beyond all of them. But we haven’t got there yet, so it might be we are currently in Kaliyug. And we all know what happens in Kaliyug, in this Kalikaal, that’s what they also call it. The final dismantling of the HolyVow, or so goes one of the myriad metaphors of how we interpret our yugs. We are folks with many ways. We are folks who see things and read things and interpret things many ways. We often quarrel and squabble over this is right and that is wrong but we let those different ways be because the variety and the multiplicity is what we are descended from. Not one God. Many more than many. And for each, many stories and many ways of hearing and retelling. That is how we became talkative. That is how we have so many stories. That is why we became so rich. So there is this metaphor of the yugs and the status of the HolyVow in each of them and the diminishment happened, yug after yug, as the HolyVow became diminished, little by little, limb by limb. On all fours in the first yug. Three left in the second. Two-legged in the third. And finally there were none. Undone. So it is you hear the command issued to diggers and earthmovers, chomping about with their dinosaur jaws at the remnants of NothingHappened, making such a boisterous-clamorous-decadecibel feast of it. So it is you see the colour-coded soldiers scurrying about their given tasks of exterminating what remains of the Order of NothingHappened — black-robed, white-collared, blue-collared, khaki, ogee apparatchik going about their dictated tasks, hectoring, imploring, imposing, levying, raiding, arraigning, stymying, choking, charging, invoking, pronouncing, punishing. Doing all that requires to be done to pestle the accoutrements of NothingHappened to powdery rubble, so when the all the din and the tumult of it settles and the haze of what needed to be razed lifts, we shall most certainly see what it is that is in the works and which will inspire in such dazzlements that inspiration will need another name. Time to get inspired. Let’s see what we’ve got. Something that will move a whole nation as whole nations and more have been moved in the past. Onward, in stunning unison of posture and purpose. Toward that one objective, the solution to end all problems, the final solution. The sheer inspiration the sound of finality can invoke. You can probably feel the tremor of it in your bones already. And in the bubbling of your blood. The sky and its mutating hues. The seasons twirling in their unbolted dressing rooms. The sway of winds and their whispered necking in the trees. Fallen leaves and wings of birds. Rivers, forever flowing. Mountains, forever growing. Valleys and gorges, silent and gurgling. The oceans, their depths and surges. The deserts and their nugget gifts of oases. We are upon the season of Daffodils someone wrote, and so inspiringly, that folks began to see daffodils where there are only other flowers of yellow hue. Such a waste of effort. Let’s see what else we have. To move the nation, set it marching towards NavaYug. We now have a guru and a goal Beware though he may lead us to a hole; His philosophy was a beggarly rehash Of the one with the toothbrush tash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
28-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jeevan Kandulna, a wanted Maoist who evaded police for decades, surrenders ||CPI (Maoist) zonal commander Jeevan Kandulna, who carried a reward of Rs10 lakh on his head and faces charges in 77 cases of major crimes, surrendered to Ranchi police on Sunday after almost a week-long negotiations with representatives of law enforcement agencies. Kandulna, as per details shared by police, was accused in cases of murder, loot, rape, levy collection and involvement in Maoist activities lodged with various police stations across Jharkhand. Police said more than 4,000 operations were conducted to nab Kandulna in the past 20 years, but he always managed to escape. Kandulna, originally a resident of Rania block of Khunti district, about 35 km south of Ranchi, was active in the Saranda jungles of West Singhbhum – the largest Sal forest of South East Asia. Police sources said that security forces were following his location and activities for over a year and mounting pressure on him to surrender. Last week, a highly placed source in the police department had said that Kandulna was in talks with the police in captivity at an isolated place in the state capital and might surrender anytime soon. But many Maoist leaders, the official clarified, did not keep their promise of surrendering after talks with police. Police did not issue any official statement regarding his surrender while he was in talks with the government. After surrendering before the police in Ranchi on Sunday, Kandulna urged fellow rebels to shun the gun and join the mainstream. “I was impressed with the new surrender policy. I appeal all my fellow rebels to take advantage of the surrender policy and start afresh,” he said. Ranchi Senior SP S.K. Jha said that many rebels were still living in the far-flung jungles.  “Many youths join Maoist groups after getting influenced by their ideologies. But eventually, right wins over wrong,” said Jha. “All the provisions of the surrender policy for Left-Wing Extremists will be followed in his (Kandulna’s) rehabilitation in the mainstream, and we are expecting that more rebels will surrender after this,” he added. Sources said that Kandulna had joined the outlawed CPI (Maoist) to avenge the killing of his sister by a splinter outfit years ago. As per records with the Ministry of Home Affairs, at least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand are Left Wing Extremism-affected. Besides the main CPI (Maoist), there are around 17 splinter outfits active in the tribal state. The government has been working on framing better surrender policies in order to ensure more surrenders by insurgents. In 2017, Jharkhand’s one of the most infamous Maoist leaders, Kundan Pahan, a zonal commander, had surrendered and was given a warm welcome by police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
28-02-2021||Jharkhand||Twin fire mishaps in and around steel city||With the advent of summer, two fire mishaps took place in and around the steel city on Sunday. One of the fire mishaps took place at a forest stretch in Kandra in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district about 15 km away from here on Sunday morning, while the other one took place at a potato and onion shop near Sankata Singh Petrol Pump on Jugsalai Station Road under Bagbera thana area at the wee hours of Sunday. The owner of the potato shop Rajendra Prasad Gupta closed his shop at 10.30 pm on Saturday but when he came to open it at 8.30 am on Sunday, he found the shop and the vegetables charred to carbon. “It was the third time within a span of six months that my shop caught fire during the night. I have no power connection at the shop. I don't know whether the fire breaks out accidentally or someone sets the shop on fire,” wondered Gupta while talking to the correspondent. Bagbera thana OC Rajendra Prasad Singh said the police had spotted the fire at the potato shop at around 1 am on Sunday. “We had pressed a fire tender having informed the Jharkhand Fire Brigade but by the time the fire tender came, the shop was gutted,” the OC said while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said they are trying to find out the reason behind the mishap. The other fire mishap took place at a forest stretch close to Anand Marg Middle School in Kandra. The fire broke out at around 11 am at the forest and started to spread rapidly, attracting the passerby's notice. Soon Kandra police were informed, leading the police to make two fire tenders to reach the spot. “The fire had spread to a vast stretch, but timely action prevented the spread further,” said Rajan Kumar, OC, Kandra thana while talking to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
28-02-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccine: over 450 private hospitals to offer jabs in Jharkhand ||More than 450 private hospitals have been empanelled to inoculate senior citizens and middle-aged residents with comorbid conditions against Covid-19 from Monday in Jharkhand, officials from the state health department said on Sunday, adding that in the initial stage, private hospitals only in big cities like Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Bokaro will be running the vaccination programme. “The price of one jab of the vaccine will vary from Rs156 to Rs 250 at private healthcare facilities. A hospital willing to provide the vaccine with minimal service charge can provide it to the citizens for Rs 156 itself, but the ones seeking higher service charge cannot charge more than Rs250,” a director rank official said. As per data shared by a health department official, at least 71 private hospitals and clinics have been empanelled to administer the Covishield vaccine to citizens in Ranchi. Since the vaccination requires two jabs in a gap of 28 days, the maximum amount a private facility can charge from any person for the immunization is Rs 500. Rani Hospital, Guru Nanak Hospital and Research Centre, Raj Hospital, Anjuman Islamia Hospital, Nagarmal Modi Seva Sadan, Devkamal Hospital, Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital, Alam Hospital and Kashyap Memorial Eye Hospital are among the 71 hospitals in the state capital empanelled to administer the vaccine. Yogesh Gambhir, the president of Association of Healthcare Providers (AHPI), Jharkhand, said that residents could either register through the Co-Win App for immunization or simply visit the hospital and register themselves. “People who find it difficult to operate smart phones can directly come to the hospital and register. The registration process will begin tomorrow (Monday) morning,” said Gambhir, who is also the proprietor of Raj Hospital in Ranchi, which is empanelled for the vaccination programme. The health department provided training to healthcare workers in private hospitals on Saturday and Sunday for the second phase of the vaccination programme. Vaccination at government hospitals remained suspended for these two days, officials from the National Health Mission (NHM) said. In the first phase of the immunization programme, Jharkhand administered the Covishield vaccine to more than 3 lakh healthcare workers and frontline workers since its nationwide launch  on January 16. The state has so far achieved 78 per cent of its target in administering the first dose of the vaccine. The second dose of the vaccine has been administered to over 23,000 healthcare workers so far, which is 73 per cent of the registered beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
28-02-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Sadar Hospital bags LaQshya certification||Bokaro Sadar Hospital is among the two proud recipients of “State Certification for LaQshya”, the other being Khunti’s Sadar Hospital. Niti Ayog has praised these two healthcare centres for complying with the National Quality Assurance Programme to provide better maternal care to expecting mothers. The Ministry of Health & Family Welfare has launched ‘LaQshya’ to improve the quality of care in labour rooms and maternity operation theatres in government medical college hospitals, district hospitals, sub-district hospitals and other high case-load health facilities. “Sadar Hospital of Bokaro and Khunti, have bagged the prestigious LaQshya certification,” said Rajesh Singh, DC, Bokaro here on Sunday. The LaQshya programme aims to improve the quality maternal care is provided to women during delivery and immediate postpartum. The main objective of this initiative is to reduce the maternal and newborn mortality rate. Civil surgeon, Dr A K Pathak said the certification was given on the basis of the Labour Room and Maternity OT of the hospitals. “From 2019, we have been struggling to get the LaQshya certification as it helps the hospital bag Rs 50 lakh as fund from the government for development of the hospital infrastructure and providing incentives to the medical staff and doctors working in the Labour Room. We are happy to have achieved the target,” said Dr Pathak. Rajesh Mishra, Technical Consultant of LaQshya said there the labour room and maternity OT at Sadar Hospital have undergone a mammoth of a transformation in the past two years. Even the patients coming for treatment are more confident about the quality of treatment provided to them. Till 2019, barely 100 deliveries took place in a month at the Sadar Hospital, nowadays over 300 deliveries are taking place during the same time period. This number will soon touch the 500 benchmark. DC congratulated the entire team including civil surgeon and deputy superintendent Dr Renu Bharti of Sadar Hospital for the success. “It is a matter of pride for Sadar Hospital to receive National Quality Assurance Certification. The 30-bed Labour Ward of Sadar Hospital is the best,” said the DC. Elated with the accolade, Dr Bharti said that the doctors are performing well. Of about 300 deliveries done every month, only 80-90 patients underwent caesareans while the rest proceeded to have a normal delivery. The labour room and maternity OT of Sadar Hospital is well equipped with three delivery tables and two OT tables. The evaluation team had visited Sadar Hospital in the month of December. The evaluation was done at two levels, first was the state-level assessment. Once the healthcare centre qualified that round, it was assessed at the national level, by the team formed by MOHFW and NHSRC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
28-02-2021||Jharkhand||Villagers put up stone plaque near airport to claim land ||Over two dozen tribals installed a stone plaque at a plot of land near Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi on Sunday stating that the land belongs to the gram sabha and panchayati raj laws should be enforced there as per the Provisions of the Panchayats (Extension of the Scheduled Areas Act), 1996. The land, sources said, was handed over to spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravi Shankar’s organisation, The Art of Living, by the former Raghubar Das-led government in Jharkhand. While some media reports claimed the members of the gram sabha performed Pathalgadi, an ancient tribal custom of erecting stone slabs in memory of ancestors, police clarified the tribals were only demanding their rights as per provisions of the law. “What they did today (Sunday) was not Pathalgadi. They were demanding the right of gram sabha over the land under PESA,” said Ranchi SP Saurav, who goes by one name. Pathalgadi, sources said, was a similar practice, but it was slightly different from what the gram sabha members did on Sunday near the largest airport in Jharkhand. In Pathalgadi, a tribal custom of installing stone plaques at the village borders, the activists claim that the land is beyond the executive powers of the state and that rules framed by tribal bodies must prevail there. The Pathalgadi movement resurfaced this month in the state with some tribal groups attempting to erect stone plaques near the Jharkhand High Court and also handing over a memorandum to Governor Droupadi Murmu seeking her nod to perform the custom near the Vidhan Sabha as well. The tribal protesters claimed that 13 Jharkhand districts fell in Scheduled Areas and should be therefore beyond the executive powers of the government. As per the 2011 Census, tribals form at least 26.2 per cent of the state’s population of 3.29 crore. While the 32 tribe groups in Jharkhand were spread across the state, their strength was particularly high in the 13 districts which the Pathalgadi supporters cite. These 13 districts are Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Lohardaga, West Singhbhum, Gumla, Latehar, Saraikela Kharsawan, Sahebganj, Dumka, Pakur, Jamtara, Khunti and Simdega. On Sunday, the gram sabha members alleged that the former government handed over their land to Art of Living and their objections were unheeded. They added that they wanted to install the stone plaque on the land during the BJP rule, but were denied entry in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
28-02-2021||Jharkhand||Worker buried alive due to unsafe practices at construction site ||A 30-year-old man was killed on the spot as he was busy in his work at a building construction site at the densely-populated Baroda ghat in Bagbera on Sunday morning. The victim was identified as Mohammed Sonu, a resident of Islam Nagar in Jugsalai. He was the only bread-earner of the family. According to sources, Sonu was working at a building construction site along with two others. They were working inside a deep pit when suddenly a loose chunk of building materials fell on them, causing Sonu to sustain fatal injuries. The injured was rescued and rushed to the Sadar Hospital in Khasmahal where the doctors on emergency duty declared him dead. Having got the information regarding a fatal mishap, a police party led by OC Bagbera thana, Rajesh Kumar Singh rushed to the spot and inspected the construction site. “From the inspection we found that the mishap, which claimed the life of a 30-year-old man, caused due to lack of coordination between the workers and also because of inadequate safety measures,” said Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. Singh said three workers including Sonu, were digging a pit for the foundation of the building at around 9 am. He said then suddenly some other workers started to pour building materials into the pit. He said while two workers managed to save themselves, Sonu was partially buried in the building materials and was fatally injured. "Had there been the necessary coordination, then some other workers would not have ventured into the pit, resulting him to die on being buried alive with the building materials,” said the OC. The police said they have recovered the body and sent it to the MGM medical college mortuary for post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
28-02-2021||Jharkhand||Rally for prompt release of pension in Jharkhand ||More than 300 pension beneficiaries, including elderly, widows and disabled took part in a rally to protest delay in payment of pension at the Manika block of Latehar district in Jharkhand. Belgian born economist Jean Dreze participated in the rally which was organised under the aegis of Gram Swaraj Majdoor Sangh, Manika. “Non-payment of pension on time is very unfortunate. This is in violation of the Supreme Court, which stipulates that pension should be paid by seventh of every month. Action should be taken against those persons responsible for violation of this rules,” said Dreze. The members also expressed anxiety over poor pension. “The old, disabled and widowed women are worried about the poor amount of pension (Rs 1000) has not gone to their account since the last five months. “It is time that the Hemant Soren government which had made a promise in its manifesto to increase the pension amount to Rs 2500 fulfil it for the elderly, widowed, disabled and primitive tribal groups,” said Pachhati Singh of Gram Swaraj Majdoor Sangh. The members submitted a memorandum to the chief minister through the block development officer of Manika reminding to fulfil the promise of increasing pension. The memorandum also demanded that all pending application for pension should be approved, concerned BDO should be fined for non-payment of pension within 15 days and for non-receipt of pension application, execution of old and disabled pensions at the block level as it is difficult for them to visit the district headquarters and issue of helpline number for pension related grievances and fixing the annual income criteria for pension in line with the growing inflation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
