24-06-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda sisters sell fruits to support father, but one wishes to join police, other armed forces||At 12:45 pm, when the sun is over your head and mercury has touched 42 degrees Celsius and the city is boiling under the scorching heat, you will find a 16-year-old girl arranging watermelons on the roadside while bargaining with a customer.The girl, Roshini, along with her 13-year-old sister, Nitu, attend customers while doing their homework using their father's mobile phone.At any hour of the day, you will spot these girls either studying or tending customers—who pull over at the roadside to purchase watermelons or muskmelons from them.Burning the midnight oil, these two sisters—from a poverty-stricken family—not just support their father to earn enough for two meals, but also attend online classes to pursue their academics.Roshini, when engrossed in doing her assignments, finds it distracting when all of a sudden a customer comes to make a purchase, but the thought of helping her father fills her with pride.In conversation with The Tribune, Roshini said: "After COVID hit us badly, we exhausted whatever minuscule savings we had left with. My father has a chronic backache, and he cannot sit for long duration and needs rest. Since our schools were closed, we decided to support our father in his fruit selling business and continue our studies as well."Roshni, who is a 10th class student, wakes up at 3 in the morning after freshening-up, heads straight to the fruit mandi. She accompanies her father to choose the best quality of fruits and then places a stall near the Rose Garden. They try and sell fruits to early birds and people who come for morning walks.After two hours, they move to Bibi Wala road and sell fruits till 8 in the evening.During the interview with this correspondent, a car pulls over, and an elderly man rolls down his window and asks the price of 2 kg watermelon.The younger sister, Nitu—who is sunburnt—wipes the sweat off from her forehead, and starts weighing the watermelons.The customer asks if the watermelons were sweet, to which, Nitu confidently, takes out a knife and cuts a piece of the fruit. Then,she offers the customer a slice and says, "find out for yourself"My father has raised us like boys, giving us full freedom to do and take a decision on our own. Unlike what I saw in Ganganagar, Rajasthan in my native village, where girls are considered as someone who needs to be protected and a married woman are subject to wear ghunghat (veil) both inside their house and in public places. He always tells us to do something to make us proud," added Roshni.When asked about their dreams, Roshini revealed that she wants to join the police force while the Nitu wants to severe in the armed forces.The girl's father—Om Parkash—was a driver earlier, but after developing health conditions, he switched to selling helmets on the roadside.Therefore, for the last five years, he sells watermelons in summers and helmets in winters.Their mother is a housewife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-sisters-sell-fruits-to-support-father-but-one-wishes-to-join-police-other-armed-forces-103840
24-06-2020||Bathinda||Akalis protest ‘sale of land’||The cash-strapped Punjab Government has started facing heat over its decision to redevelop the land of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) in Bathinda. In the first phase, 280 acres will be developed under 80:20 profit-sharing basis between the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited and the Punjab Urban Development Authority.SAD activists led by former MLA Sarup Chand Singla today burnt an effigy of the state government at Kanhaiya Chowk. The protesters raised slogans against the government and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal. Singla lashed out at the minister for “running away” from his poll promise of restarting the thermal plant. He said the GNDTP had always been the lifeline of Bathinda and added that a biogas or a solar plant should be set up at the site. Singla said numerous industries could come up on the stretch, but the government was eyeing the land just for revenue generation.Union Minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal said, “After promising to revive the thermal plant during the 2017 Assembly elections, the Congress first shut down the power plant and now, on the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak, it has decided to auction the land.”MLA Chand Singla, former Mayor Balwant Rai Nath and 32 party workers were booked under various sections of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act for allegedly violating the lockdown norms. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/akalis-protest-sale-of-land-103405
24-06-2020||---||No move to sell Bathinda thermal plant land: FM||Chandigarh, June 23One of the largest industrial parks in Punjab is to be developed on 1,320 acres of land of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant in Bathinda. The plant was shut in 2017 because of environmental, economic and administrative issues.Denying that the state government was planning to sell the land, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said as per the redevelopment proposal, the 280-acre residential area, earlier occupied by the power department employees, would now be allotted to the civil and police officers. A new city centre or plaza would be established in the Civil Lines area, where civil and police officers were presently given accommodation, he said, adding that as part of the plan, 164 acres, where the lakes of the thermal plant were located, were to be used for the storage of canal water for the water supply system. Talking to the media here today, Manpreet said the thermal plant, which was established in 1974, was the oldest in the state, and it had outlived its life of 25 years. “According to Central Electricity Agency guidelines, all non-viable thermal plants that have exceeded the 25-year lifespan are to be closed. The thermal plant was running at a plant load factor of only 7.23 per cent, which made it unviable. Also, the annual running cost of merely maintaining the thermal plant was over Rs 110 crore,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/no-move-to-sell-bathinda-thermal-plant-land-fm-103407
24-06-2020||Bathinda||U-turn on  patient stirs controversy||A serious lapse on the part of Health Department has come to fore after they declared a Covid positive person negative. A day later, the Health Department officials reached the workplace of the person at gaushala to hospitalise him again.Sri Gaushala Sirki Bazaar general secretary Sadhu Ram Kusla said Sunil returned to work after his report, which came out on June 22, said he was Covid negative.DC B Srinivasan said: “With a pile of Covid test reports lying with the department, some misunderstanding had ensued. However, the matter came to the notice of the officials, and Sunil Kumar was called back.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/u-turn-on-patient-stirs-controversy-103417
