25-06-2020||Bathinda||Political storm over ‘auction’ of Bathinda thermal plant land||The state government’s decision to redevelop the land of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant has evoked strong reactions. With all major political parties opposing the alleged auction of the land, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal is claiming that the government is not selling the land, but setting up an industrial park there.Police foil AAP’s march to fm office in BathindaThe police on Wednesday used force to stop Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders from holding a protest march towards Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s office against the government’s decision to auction the land of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant. Huge barricades were put up at Fire Brigade Chowk. The march was led by AAP legislator Baljinder Kaur along with Budh Ram, Meet Hayer, Manjit Singh Bilaspur, former MP Sadhu Singh and other party leaders. The SDM, Bathinda, reached the spot and received a memorandum from the leaders.Farm unions, too, have expressed resentment over the move. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) has announced to launch a statewide protest.The foundation stone of the power plant, the first in Punjab, was laid in 1969, when the nation was observing the 500th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. Its four units were built in five years between 1974 and 1979, at a cost of Rs 115 crore. Later, Rs 694 crore was spent on the renovation and modernisation of two units during 2012-14, when the capacity of the plant was raised from 440 MW to 460 MW.The plant was shut down in 2018 as per the modalities worked out by a sub-committee set up on August 24, 2017, for the closure of state-owned thermal plants in view of the Central Electricity Agency (CEA) guidelines to retire non-viable plants that had exceeded 25-year lifespan.Subsequently, another Cabinet sub-committee was set up on May18 to work out the modalities for redevelopingthe plant land.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said: “The state government should not act like a property dealer. It is strange that the government is dismantling the thermal plant on the 550th birth anniversary year of Guru Nanak. The government should find alternative ways like conversion into a biomass plant.”AAP MLA and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said: “We are against the auction of the land because a huge sum was spent on its renovation and its life was extended till 2031. Why did the government spend so much if it wanted to dismantle the plant?”Manpreet said: “Both SAD and AAP are spreading a false propaganda. The land is being utilised to set up the largest industrial park in Punjab. It will create numerous jobs for the youth. Not a single employee of the thermal plant — 1,057 regular, 131 outsourced, 665 contractual – has been dismissed despite the closure of the plant. They are still employees of the government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/political-storm-over-auction-of-bathinda-thermal-plant-land-103916
