30-06-2020||Bathinda||Sisters sell fruit on roadside to support ailing father||It is 12.45 pm and the mercury has already touched 42°C. Roshni (16), while arranging watermelons on a roadside vend, bargains with a customer and her sister, 13-year-old Nitu, is busy doing her online assignments over the phone.If you ever happen to pay a visit to this fruit vend at any hour of the day, you will spot these girls either studying or attending to customers.Dreaming bigBurning the midnight oil, Roshni (16) and Nitu (13) are not only supporting their father to earn enough for two square meals a day in these tough times, but also taking online classes with utmost sincerity. Roshni says she wants to join the police force, while Nitu wants to serve the armed forcesBurning the midnight oil, the sisters from a poverty-stricken family are not only supporting their father to earn enough for two square meals a day in these tough times, but also taking online classes with the utmost sincerity.While engrossed in assignments, Roshni often finds it distracting when all of sudden a customer comes at the stall. But then the thought of helping her father fills her with pride.Talking to The Tribune, Roshni said, “The Covid outbreak has hit us hard. We exhausted all our savings in the lockdown. My father has chronic backache and he cannot sit for long and need rest. Since our schools are shut amid the pandemic outbreak, we decided to support our father in his fruit-selling business and continue our studies as well.”Roshni, a Class X student, wakes up at 3 am. After getting ready, she along with her father heads straight to the mandi to get fruits. Later, they put a stall near the Rose Garden area to sell the fruits to early birds who come there for morning walk. After two hours, they move to the Bibi Wala road and sell fruits till 8 pm.“My father has raised us like sons, though in my native village at Ganganagar in Rajasthan, girls are considered as someone who need to be protected and married woman are supposed to wear “ghunghat” all the time,” said Roshni.Their father Om Parkash was a driver earlier. However, owing to certain health conditions, he started selling helmets on the roadside. Now for the past five years, he has been selling seasonal fruits in the summer while in winter he again switch to the sale of helmets. Their mother is a housewife.Asked about their aim, Roshni says she wants to join the police force while Nitu wants to serve in the armed forces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/sisters-sell-fruit-on-roadside-to-support-ailing-father-106292
30-06-2020||Bathinda||Price hike fuels protest in Bathinda and Amritsar||Arun Wadhawan, president, DCC, Bathinda, said it was a peaceful demonstration with minimum workers in attendance to avoid large gathering. “Fuel prices have seen an unprecedented increase recently, which should be rolled back,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/price-hike-fuels-protest-in-bathinda-and-amritsar-106332
30-06-2020||Bathinda||Farmers briefed on steps to tackle locusts in Bathinda||The Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, Bathinda, today launched an awareness campaign for farmers to tell them about ways to control suspected locust attack.GIVEN SPRAY PUMPSFarmers have been given 1,442 gun spray pumps32 spray machines were made available with the Horticulture Department50 boom sprays have been provided to UPL LtdDeputy Commissioner B Srinivasan flagged off the vehicle from the district headquarters to brief farmers on the measures to be adopted in case of any attack of locusts on crops in the district. He directed the officials to coordinate with different departments within the stipulated time in case of any emergency.Chief Agriculture Officer Bahadur Singh Sidhu said special arrangements had been made by the department to ensure that swarming locusts did not attack the crop. He said farmers had been provided 1,442 gun spray pumps, while 32 spray machines were available with the Horticulture Department and 50 boom sprays with the UPL Ltd. The Local Government Department had nine fire brigade vehicles and four aeroblasts.Sidhu said nine fire brigades, 35 search lights, 1,500 flood lights and water tankers had been arranged by the department at different locations in the district. As many as 44 teams had been formed for the task. He said there had been frequent locusts infestation in some villages of Fazilka district, Rajasthan and Haryana from January.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farmers-briefed-on-steps-to-tackle-locusts-in-bathinda-106337
30-06-2020||Bathinda||AAP protests farm ordinances in Bathinda||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers today staged a protest against the “anti-farmer ordinances” issued by the Union Government, and burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal at fire brigade chowk here.District AAP president (urban) Amrit Lal Aggarwal said: “To save the ministerial post of his spouse Harsimrat Badal, Sukhbir Singh Badal has supported the anti-farmer ordinances during the all-party meeting.”In the all-party meeting, the parties agreed to meet the Prime Minister to talk about the farm ordinances, barring Sukhbir Badal, who clearly opposed the idea. His decision made it clear that along with BJP, SAD is also “anti-Punjab”. Irked over his decision, the party leaders today burnt the effigies of PM Narendra Modi and SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, said Aggarwal.The AAP asked the Akalis to clarify their stand on farm-related issues. Also, the party leaders questioned the Union Government as to what prompted it to bring in the “anti-farmer ordinances” at a time when the country was struggling amid the Covid crisis.The AAP party workers termed the three farm ordinances introduced by the Modi government as a fatal step towards abolishing the minimum support price (MSP) of crops and the existing marketing structure of Punjab, adding that farmers, labourers and all other sections of society dependent on agriculture would suffer at the hands of private companies if the ordinances were passed.Abohar: Members of the Aam Aadmi Party here organised a protest to condemn the Central Government for issuing three farm-related ordinances to amend the Agricultural Marketing Act.Protesters burnt an effigy of SAD chief Sukhbir Badal at the sub-divisional administrative complex.Local leaders Charanjit Singh Sran, Pankaj Narula and Mohinder Singh Kachura targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi for allegedly trying to thwart the agricultural economy in Punjab by bringing in the ordinances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/aap-protests-farm-ordinances-in-bathinda-106344
