01-12-2020||Calcutta||Awareness and accolades||St Stephen’s School, Birati St Stephen’s School, Birati, is teaching its students how to grow their own food, that is, vegetables, fruits, herbs and the like, thereby giving them the opportunity to earn their own school fees as a step towards making the kids more self-reliant. Grow Your Food is the name of the programme that aims to teach children how to grow organic and variety of vegetables at home with minimal cost. To give a proper shape to this initiative, a family pack food tower was designed which facilitates growing of about 1,000 plants in five feet by five feet area. All sorts of vegetable, including creepers and herbs, can be grown on the space, producing around 50kg of vegetables. Students are being introduced to organic soilless farming and microbes as well. The fact that the pandemic made it difficult for some households to pay the tuition fees of their wards was taken into consideration by the school and, thus, an initiative called Earn Your Fees was launched, along with the Grow Your Food programme. The school has given students the seeds that they have to grow into plants and then hand them over to the school authorities. The school pays children for the plants that they have grown. These plants are then sold to the common public at a minimal price. “I am happy that the children have sportingly taken part in this initiative. They will not only learn to grow their own food, but also develop a knack for gardening — a positive step towards protecting nature. We are even planning to make this Grow Your Food initiative compulsory for the kids from the next session,” said principal Subrata Chatterjee. Birla High School junior section, Moira Street The junior section of Birla High School organised a virtual annual prize distribution ceremony to mark the achievements of the students in academics and co-curricular activities for the academic session of 2019-2020. The virtual ceremony was conducted on two separate days for the lower and upper primary classes. The awards for sustainable excellence, highest achievement and subject prizes for English, maths and vernacular languages were given out at the webinar. Students with full attendance for one, two and three consecutive years were also awarded prizes. The best house and the best club awards went to Tagore House and the Quest Club, respectively. "It was important to acknowledge the hard work that our students put in. We didn't want their hard work and effort to go unnoticed. The annual day is something that is looked forward to by students, teachers and parents. We want to keep things as close to normal for our students in such trying times. They have been the worst affected in the pandemic. The online prize distribution ceremony was well appreciated by all," said Farida Singh, the headmistress. Asian International School The need for peace, better health policies and a greener world were discussed at a Model United Nations recently held virtually for students of Asian International School. The event aimed at honing the leadership skills of students and giving them the knowledge about the role of United Nations and its various agencies. It had children enacting as T.S. Trimurthi (India’s representative to the UN), Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (director-general of World Health Organisation), Henrietta H. Fore (executive director of Unicef), Audrey Azoulay (director of Unesco) and many other eminent heads as they debated issues of economic and political interest. In the end, the students learnt how to negotiate and collaborate on resolutions made on the model UN platform. “This is an academic activity that will help students learn about diplomacy, international relations, and the United Nations. It is meant to engage students and allow them to develop deeper understanding of the current world issues,” said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar. Meena Kak, the chief guest and director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, iterated similar sentiments. “Education is a process of learning, unlearning and re-learning that has made teachers reach out students even in this global pandemic. They are constantly learning, along with their students in this virtual world,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
01-12-2020||Calcutta||AMRI to shut Sector V Covid satellite unit||The AMRI Hospitals will shut down its satellite facility for Covid-19 patients in Sector V as very few patients are taking admission there and running the unit was proving to be economically unviable, an official of the hospital said. The state government had on June 15 said private hospitals could set up “satellite facilities” for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients or those with mild symptoms, to free up beds reserved for such cases. Rupak Barua, the Group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, said on Monday very few rooms in their satellite unit at Monotel, a four-star facility in Sector V, had been occupied since the beginning of November. “We set up the satellite facility in July. Between July and October, the occupancy was very good. But after Durga Puja, and especially during November, the occupancy has been very poor. We are shutting down the facility,” said Barua. He said less than 10 patients are there now. The hospital had booked 20 rooms in the hotel and had to pay for all the rooms irrespective of whether patients were staying there or not. “When it was set up, people with mild symptoms were willing to get admitted to hospital. They were sent to the satellite facility. Nowadays, people are preferring to stay at home if they have mild symptoms. So the occupancy at the satellite facility has been very poor over the past few days,” Barua said. Only five to seven rooms were remaining occupied recently, he added. In the early days of the pandemic, with the number of Covid-19 cases increasing every day, most hospitals were struggling to admit patients. People who tested positive but had mild or no symptoms were being advised home isolation. But many such patients feared their families would be ostracised if they stayed at home. Quite a few stayed with their elderly parents and in-laws. The concept of satellite facilities was mooted to accommodate such patients. “People who get admitted to the satellite facility are examined by a doctor every day. Nurses, stationed at the hotel round the clock, monitor the patients’ health. Oxygen support is available, too. The stay at the satellite facility costs Rs 7,000 a day,” said an official of AMRI Hospitals. Barua said Covid-19 patients were sent to the satellite facility only after a thorough check-up. If doctors found that the patients needed hospitalisation, the patients and their family were told about the doctor’s observations. The Bidhannagar commissionerate on Monday launched a drive where traffic policemen stopped bicycles and pasted retro reflective tapes on their rear mudguards and carriers in Sector V. The number of bicycles in Sector V and New Town has doubled since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. Many office-goers are using bicycles to avoid public transport. “Most bicycles don’t have rear warning lights.... The stickers will light up when the headlights of a vehicle fall on them,” said a senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Cossipore Ramakrishna Math to be closed for Kalpataru Utsav from January 1 to 3||The Ramakrishna Math at Cossipore (Udyanbati) will remain closed to devotees from January 1 to 3 for Kalpataru Utsav because of the Covid pandemic, monks at the Math said. “This is the first time since the Utsav had begun in 1946 that the Math would remain closed to devotees and visitors... The special puja of Sri Ramakrishna and the homa would be streamed live on the Math’s website, www.rkmcudyanbati.org, and the DD Bangla TV channel,” said Swami Pareshatmaananda, a senior monk at the Math. “We will be forced to keep the gates closed on the three days from January 1 because of the pandemic. We hope our devotees and followers will realise our concern.” Sri Ramakrishna had lived in the north Calcutta house in the last few months of his life with his disciples. He had breathed his last there in 1886. Monks of the order believe that on Kalpataru Day — January 1, 1886 — Sri Ramakrishna had revealed himself to be an avatar (God incarnate). One of his disciples, Ramachandra Dutta, had said that on this day Sri Ramakrishna had become Kalpataru - the mythical wish-fulfilling tree. Every year on January 1, lakhs of devotees queue up outside the Math from early morning to offer their pranam to Sri Ramakrishna in the room where he had breathed his last.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Low-hanging wire kills elephant in Nischinta forest ||An adult tusker died of electrocution inside the Nischinta forest near Kalaikunda, under the Kharagpur forest division in West Midnapore, on Monday morning. A forest department official said the elephant was moving alone through the forest when it came in contact with a low-hanging high-tension wire of around 11,000 volts. It touched the wire while crossing an area that has open land interspersed with trees. “The preliminary post-mortem report confirms that the elephant died of electrocution,” the official said. “Villagers and a forest patrol team spotted the elephant lying inside the forest on Monday morning.” After confirming that the elephant had died, forest officials called in a hydraulic crane and a truck to remove the carcass. “We have ruled out foul play because the elephant was not touched or harmed in any way. There are no farm areas in the vicinity,” said the official. The divisional forest officer of Kharagpur, Sivanand Ram, said the elephant was aged around 20 and was not part of a herd. Sagnik Sengupta of NGO Sage, which works for animals, said it was not uncommon for high-tension wires in forested areas to sag, causing them to come closer to the ground. “The suspension of the wires changes over time. They pose a risk to passing wild animals when they sag and come closer to the ground. As elephants are large animals, the chances of them getting in touch with these wires are the highest,” said Sengupta. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said it was “extremely unfortunate” that the elephant died of electrocution. The forest department, he said, is going to set up a task force to ensure that animals don't come in contact with power lines. Such a task force functions in the forests of north Bengal. “We have spoken with officials from the power department and they have promised us all help,” said Yadav. “The task force will keep an eye on high-tension power lines passing over animal corridors and also electricity lines and fences set up by villagers to prevent animals from entering their fields.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Death rate up among patients without comorbidity||The percentage of people with comorbidities in the share of Covid-19 deaths in the state has fallen while that of people without comorbidities has risen, according to data published by the Bengal health department. While 13.5 per cent of the Covid-19 victims in Bengal till July 31 had no comorbid conditions, it went up to 16.3 per cent till November 29. The percentage of victims with comorbidities was 86.5 till July 31 and 83.7 till November 29. The Telegraph analysed the figures on the last day of all months from August to October, and the second last day of November. On August 31, 13.2 per cent of all Covid-19 victims in Bengal did not have any comorbid condition. It rose to 14.9 per cent on September 30, 15.9 per cent on October 30 and 16.3 per cent on November 29. Doctors treating Covid-19 patients in Calcutta’s hospitals linked the rise in the percentage of deaths among Covid patients without comorbidities to late arrival in hospital, stemming from a false sense of security that they will not develop any complications. Doctors also said such patients often turn up at hospitals after their condition turns critical. The rise in the share of deaths among patients without any comorbidity points to the fact that everyone is at risk from the coronavirus and no one should drop guard in the fight against it. Chandramouli Bhattacharya, an infectious disease specialist and part of the team of doctors treating Covid-19 patients at Peerless Hospital, said he had come across many patients who had no medical condition but they still got severely infected by the coronavirus. “They came to hospital very late and by then, their condition had turned critical. In the early days of the pandemic, patients who did not require hospitalisation requested for admission. But now, because the fear of the disease has diminished, people are staying at home risking complications,” Bhattacharya said. As many as 90 per cent of the patients are turning up at hospital in a critical condition, he said. Many of them do not have any comorbidity. Bhattacharya said many doctors advise patients in home isolation to take steroids and be on oxygen support after a drop in the oxygen saturation level. “Only oxygen support is not enough in such conditions. There are other parameters that need to be monitored, which is not possible without the presence of a medical team round the clock or outside a hospital set-up,” said Bhattacharya. A Kasba resident in his 40s spent six days at home despite having symptoms of Covid-19. He got himself admitted to hospital on the seventh day, as the symptoms still persisted. “I had turned critical during my admission. I had to spend 14 days at hospital to recuperate,” he said. Ajoy Krishna Sarkar, a pulmonologist who has been treating Covid-19 patients since the beginning of the outbreak in the city, said he had noticed the rise in mortality among people without comorbidities. “I know of two patients, aged 35 and 51, who passed away over the past two weeks. Neither had any comorbidity,” he said. “A lot of people with mild symptoms are not even undergoing tests. With time their condition worsens. They are arriving in hospitals very late. Some people have a false sense of security that since they do not have any comorbidity, they will get well naturally. This is not happening in all cases,” he said. Doctors also said everyone, including the young and those without any comorbidities, should pull up their socks. “The data should alert young people or those without any comorbidity. Many people are taking things very lightly. Do not drop guard and keep taking all necessary precautions because the pandemic is still not over,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a doctor at the Beleghata ID Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Guru Nanak prudent celebrations in city||The 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak was celebrated in gurdwaras and across homes in Calcutta, breaking from the practice of having a large gathering on the Maidan as a precaution against Covid-19. Members of all gurdwaras used to come together and celebrate the day on the Maidan. “We decided to celebrate the day in all gurdwaras, instead of having everyone assemble in one place,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the general secretary of the Behala gurdwara. “People lit diyas at their homes to mark the occasion.” The gurdwaras conducted kirtan, reciting hymns, and katha, telling stories from the lives of the Sikh gurus. Langar, where people sit on the floor and eat, continued through the day at the gurdwaras. A langar meal typically consists of dal, roti, rice, vegetables curry, salad, kheer, halwa and curd. At the Behala gurdwara, celebrations were held since Saturday to ensure that people did not crowd on a single day. Ajit Singh, the vice-president of Gurudwara Bara Sikh Sangat at Burrabazar, said the procession organised on a Sunday a week before Guru Nanak’s birthday was scaled down this year because of the pandemic. “This time a limited number of people joined the rally. They stayed in cars…. One of the cars had the Guru Granth Sahib (the sacred text of the Sikhs) and it was taken from the Burrabazar gurdwara to the Bagmari gurdwara,” Singh said. The Guru Granth Sahib is considered the living guru of the Sikhs. The IHA Foundation, a charitable organisation, held a langar on wheels to feed the poor and the underprivileged. “Because of the pandemic, many poor people could not come to the langar. So we took the langar to their doors,” said Ahluwalia, who is chairman of the foundation. The IHA Foundation also donated 551 blankets to street dwellers, 551 sets of clothes to underprivileged children and provided a month’s ration to 551 families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Union education ministry sanctions funds for IIEST hostel||The Union education ministry has sanctioned Rs 129 crore for the IIEST to build a 10-storey hostel, addressing a long-standing grievance of the Shibpur tech school that has been missing out on many bright students because it cannot provide accommodation to them. IIEST officials said 1,000 students would be accommodated in the 10-storey hostel. The institute will sign an MoU with the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the implementing agency for the project. “The Centre has sanctioned Rs 129 crore for the project. We will soon start discussions with the CPWD. We hope that once the hostel is ready, the institute will not miss out on bright students for want of hostels,’’ IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabrti told Metro. The hostel is expected to be ready in two years. It will come up where remnants of a barracks, built during World War II, stand on the campus. Chakrabarti had on November 18 appealed to the education ministry, through its representatives on the IIEST’s board of governors, for immediate sanction of funds to build hostels on the Shibpur campus. The board had in September expressed concern over the delay in the construction of hostels. The intake capacity of the institute for the BTech, MTech and PhD courses together stands at 4,000. The absence of adequate number of hostels and the rising number of students have forced the institute to accommodate a number of students at staff quarters. Another official said new hostels were required now more than ever because once the campus reopened from the Covid-induced shutdown, more than one student could not be put up in each room. “We guess the physical distancing protocol will remain in force for quite some time. The accommodation may drop to 30 per cent from the existing 50 per cent. One additional hostel will help us deal with the situation,’’ said the official. The Centre has yet to sanction any funds for an academic complex, which will have lecture rooms and labs. “Once on-campus classes resume, we have to ensure that not too many students gather in one classroom or in one lab. So we need more classrooms and labs. But the ministry is silent on the academic complex,’’ the official said. He said the proposal to build an academic complex at a cost of Rs 135 crore had been pending with the Centre since 2018. Director Chakrabarti said: “We hope the ministry will act on this project as well.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Undergrad entry portal to reopen for a week from Dec 1st||The higher education department has asked universities to reopen their undergraduate admission portals for a week from December 1 because “a good number of seats are lying vacant in different general degree colleges and unitary universities’’. An advisory on the admission portals was issued to the universities on Monday because first-year seats have remained vacant after the admission season ended in October. The order says: “Colleges/universities where the seats are lying vacant, may reopen the UG admission portal for another 7 days for receiving the fresh application, where necessary, and complete the admission process by December 15’’. This is the second extension of the admission season. The higher education department had earlier deferred the last date of completing admissions in undergraduate colleges from September 25 to October 30. Education minister Partha Chatterjee had then said as many as 25 per cent of the seats had remained vacant in some of the colleges. The situation is particularly bad in the science streams with the counseling for admission to the NITs (through the JEE-Main) and the medical colleges (through the NEET) happening late because of the Covid pandemic. “The JEE-Main and the NEET were held in September. Many students who had taken admission in colleges left after securing admission in NITs and medical colleges,’’ said an education department official. A vice-chancellor of a university in Calcutta said one of the reasons for seats remaining vacant was that a good number of students from districts refused to enrol on city colleges because of multiple factors amid the pandemic. “These students are not sure whether it would be advisable to shift to Calcutta for on-campus classes, considering that the pandemic is still raging. They are worried over where they would end up if they contract Covid away from near and dear ones. Many of them are preferring to enrol on a college closer home,” the VC said. Another VC said students from districts were wary of coming to Calcutta because there was no guarantee when hostels, closed in March because of the pandemic, would reopen. “Even if in-person classes resume, we are against reopening hostels because it would be very difficult to monitor whether the students are adhering to the safety protocols,’’ said the VC. An official of Jadavpur University said they had held several rounds of admissions for BSc courses this year, something that was inconceivable earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Class XII student falls to death||A Class XII student of Don Bosco Park Circus was found dead in a pool of blood on the ground floor of the Urbana housing complex, near Ruby hospital, on Monday morning, police said. He is believed to have jumped off the washroom window of their flat on the 24th floor around 10am. The boy’s father, a chartered accountant, and elder brother, who is an engineering student, were in the flat when he apparently went to the washroom. The police said the family had told them that the boy, a student of commerce, was anxious about his board exams, due in a few months. He had secured around 96 per cent marks in his Class X board exams. “He was part of the school football team. He was good in studies and had scored close to 80 per cent in the Class XI final exams,” the principal of the school said. Witnesses have told the police that the boy had landed on a bicycle kept on a pathway on the ground floor before hitting the floor. “A preliminary post-mortem report suggests he died of severe head injury. He had also suffered multiple fractures,” said an officer of Anandapur police station. “We have started a case of unnatural death. We have not received any complaints from the family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||South Point sends outstanding fees reminder to parents||South Point school has sent a notice to parents who have outstanding fees reminding them that Calcutta High Court has allowed schools to disallow students from attending classes because of non-payment of fees. The school has said in the notice that it hopes that it “is not constrained to take such a step due to non payment” of fees. The notice has been sent to the parents of around 400 students of classes Nursery to XII. An official of the school said most of the parents had defaulted for more than two months, between April and September. Some of the parents had defaulted in the last academic year, too. The defaulters owe between Rs 5,000 and Rs 25,000 to the school. “The Hon’ble High Court in its order has also given liberty to schools to disable classes of such students whose fee for the period up to November 2020 remains unpaid on November 30, 2020. We hope the School is not constrained to take such a step due to non-payment in respect of any child,” the notice from the principal says. “We have to exercise utmost care and caution before discontinuing any child. We would like to give as much opportunity to parents to clear the dues in the interest of the child as possible,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of the school. “Sending them reminders is also a part of the process and to ensure that parents have not missed out on the notice. We are a private school that depends on fees for sustenance.” In normal circumstances, the school strikes the name of a student off the rolls if the fee remains unpaid for two or more months. But this year the school has not taken any such action “because of the pandemic”, an official said. The notice has been sent individually to parents via the school app. “We write to remind you that as per our records, part of the school fee in respect of your ward remains outstanding…. The Hon'ble Calcutta High Court, in its pronouncement dated October 13, 2020, had directed inter-alia that all dues are to be cleared by parents by November 30, 2020,” the notice says. It also mentions that in compliance with the order, the school had issued a detailed circular on October 31 via the school app and the website regarding the revised fee schedule and the mode of payment. “In the same circular, we had requested parents with outstanding dues for the period up to September 2020 to contact the school office to be advised about the amount that needs to be paid by them to the school, after providing for the waivers as directed by the Hon’ble Court,” the notice says. In most schools, the tuition fee is spent on paying salaries to the teachers and other staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||PSU official, professor… those who can afford, exploit fee waiver||A senior official at a public sector undertaking has opted for a 20 per cent waiver of the tuition fee for his child, who studies in a private school. A teacher at a government college did the same. Among the 4,000-odd students in three schools run by a group, the parents of only three have been paying the full fees. One of the three parents told the school where his child studies that his payment was a contribution to those who are finding it difficult to pay. Officials of several schools said many parents who could afford to pay the full fees were paying only 80 per cent of the amount. Calcutta High Court had on October 13 ordered private schools, including those run by the Church, to waive 20 per cent of tuition fees of students between April and one month after the schools resume on-campus classes. Schools have also been stumped by the kind of emails they have been receiving from parents who do not want to pay the full amount. A parent who works in a senior position, and is not paying the full fees, wrote to the school that “during the lockdown he had helped many of his relatives financially,” a school official said. Since schools have to make adjustments with what parents have already paid, one school head said the pinch would be felt most in the fourth quarter. “There are parents who have paid up to the third quarter. Now, if they want to avail themselves of the waiver, the school will have to make adjustments in the fourth quarter. In addition are parents who have not paid,” said Sunil Agarwal, the founder director of The Newtown School. In the three schools run by the Vidyamandir Society — Birla High School, Sushila Birla Girls’ School and Birla High School Mukundapur — the parents of only three children have paid the entire fees. The three schools together have around 4,000 students on their rolls. “There are some parents who can afford (to pay the full fees), but people will pay whatever they are asked to and not more,” said Brigadier (retd.) V.N. Chaturvedi, the secretary general of Vidyamandir Society, which runs the three schools. “We are a non-profit charitable society and one school is running for 79 years and another for 26 years. We don’t have an immeasurable surplus. We are sustaining up to the point it is possible for us to sustain.” The three schools on Monday extended the deadline for payment from November 30 to December 31. “For those parents who may not yet have made the payment as per the Order, we wish to inform you that in the interests of students and also for your convenience, we are voluntarily extending limited flexibility for the month of December 2020. It is sincerely expected and requested that all dues will be cleared within our self extended time frame upto 31st December 2020,” reads a notice issued by the three schools on Monday. The principal of a school in south Calcutta said they were running on “reserves”. “But how long can we run on reserves? We have been digging into the school reserves since July. We have to pay salaries to 240-odd employees, including teachers, and also have to spend on the maintenance of the school,” the principal said. Several school heads said among those sought waivers were officials of nationalised banks, teachers at government institutions and established businessmen. Many of them have not suffered any financial loss because of the pandemic. The high court had said in the October 13 order: “Parents and guardians of students are requested not to avail of the reduction in school fees if their financial situation does not merit the reduction. However, if any set of guardians or parents obtains the benefit, no question in such regard can be asked.” A school head said many parents also see it as an advantage and schools have no right to question them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Honeybees land on aircraft before passengers board||Honeybees descended on two Vistara aircraft on Sunday afternoon and Monday morning at the Calcutta airport, causing delays. Water cannons had to be used to drive away the swarms, officials said. On both occasions, the bees were detected before passengers had boarded the flights, said Vistara officials. Both flights — around 150 passengers had booked seats on each — were operated with Airbus A320Neo aircraft. On Sunday, Vistara staff detected the bees moments before passengers were to board the flight that was to leave for Delhi at 5pm. “We detected the large swarm of bees on the front right side of the aircraft just before boarding was to start. The aircraft had been parked in a remote bay since the previous night. The Sunday afternoon flight to Delhi was its first operation of the day,” said a Vistara official. Airport officials had to call fire tenders to drive away the bees with water cannons. “Although no bee could enter the aircraft, the airline staff had to do fumigation as a safety measure,” said an airport official. This delayed the take-off by an hour. Again, on Monday morning, a swarm of bees settled on a Port Blair-bound aircraft. “This time, too, the bees were detected before passengers boarded the flight. Again, fire tenders were called and a water cannon was used to drive the bees away,” said the official. The Port Blair flight, too, was delayed by about an hour. The flights were parked in bays 25 and 26, which are away from the terminal, said an airport official. “Our operations team has sprayed insecticide in the surrounding area and also conducted searches but could not find any beehive. We suspect the swarm of bees that had settled on the Vistara flight on Sunday afternoon returned the next morning,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya. He suspects the bees had come from outside the airport premises. “There are no big trees in the operational area…. The trees are all on the city side of the terminal,” he said. An airport official said this was not the first time honeybees had disrupted flights at the Calcutta airport. “In earlier instances, aircraft attached to aerobridges had faced the problem. Beehives had been spotted on pillars of some aerobridges,” said the official. “This was the first time bees settled on aircraft in remote bays.” A few years back, a swarm of migrating bees had settled on a wing of a New York-bound Delta Airlines aircraft at the Pittsburgh airport, causing a 47-minute delay. A professional beekeeper was brought to gather the swarm settled on the Bombardier CRJ-700.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Business||Sensex surges 506 points to new closing high||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 506 points to close at a fresh lifetime high on Tuesday, backed by gains in IT and financial stocks amid persistent foreign capital inflows. A strengthening rupee and positive leads from other Asian markets too influenced market sentiment, traders said. The 30-share BSE index ended 505.72 points or 1.15 per cent higher at 44,655.44. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 140.10 points or 1.08 per cent to close at 13,109.05. Sun Pharma was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 5 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Tech Mahindra, ONGC, Bharti Airtel, Infosys, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Nestle India, Titan, Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank and NTPC were among the laggards. Sector-wise, BSE realty, telecom and tech indices rose up to 3.49 per cent. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital markets as they purchased shares worth Rs 7,712.98 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. The rupee strengthened 37 paise to close at 73.68 against the US dollar. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with significant gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading mixed in early deals. India's economy recovered faster than expected in the September quarter as a pick-up in manufacturing helped GDP clock a lower contraction of 7.5 per cent, official data showed on Friday. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, was trading 0.10 per cent lower at USD 47.83 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
01-12-2020||Business||Deepak Kochhar denied bail in money laundering case||A Mumbai court on Tuesday rejected a bail plea of businessman and the husband of former ICICI Bank CEO, Deepak Kochhar, in a money laundering case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had arrested him in September in the alleged ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Special PMLA judge P P Rajvaidya rejected the `regular' bail application of Deepak Kochhar, filed on merits of the case as against technical grounds. The court had dismissed his ‘default’ bail plea in November,  filed on the ground that the ED had failed to file a charge sheet in the case within the stipulated period. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had registered an FIR against the Kochhars, Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot and others, pertaining to money laundering, following which the ED arrested Deepak. The central agency slapped money laundering charges against the couple as well as their business entities for "illegal sanctioning of loans amounting to Rs 1,875 crore to the Videocon Group of companies". “From a Rs 300 crore loan sanctioned by a committee headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Ltd, Videocon Industries Ltd transferred Rs 64 crore to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd (NRPL) on September 8, 2009, only a day after the disbursement of the loan by ICICI Bank,” the ED said. “NRPL, earlier known as Nupower Renewables Ltd (NRL), is owned by Deepak Kochhar,” it informed. A "net revenue of Rs 10.65 crore was generated by NRL from these tainted funds...Therefore, proceeds of crime amounting to Rs 74.65 crore were transferred to or generated in NRPL," the ED further alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
01-12-2020||Business||GST revenue just over Rs 1 lakh crore in November||Revenue from Goods and Services Tax (GST) stood at over Rs 1.04 lakh crore in November as against Rs 1.05 lakh crore collected in the previous month, the Finance Ministry said in a statement. This is the second straight month in the current fiscal when GST revenue has topped Rs 1 lakh crore. The collection in November 2020 is 1.4 per cent higher than in November 2019 when the GST mop-up was Rs 1,03,491 crore. "In line with the recent trend of recovery in the GST revenues, the revenues for the month of November 2020 are 1.4 per cent higher than the GST revenues in the same month last year. "During the month, revenues from import of goods were 4.9 per cent higher and the revenues from the domestic transaction (including import of services) are 0.5 per cent higher than the revenues from these sources during the same month last year," the ministry said in a statement. The gross GST revenue collected in November 2020 is Rs 1,04,963 crore, of which Central GST is Rs 19,189 crore, State GST is Rs 25,540 crore, IGST is Rs 51,992 crore (including Rs 22,078 crore collected on import of goods) and Cess is Rs 8,242 crore (including Rs 809 crore collected on import of goods), the Finance Ministry said. GST revenue had topped Rs 1 lakh crore in 8 out of 12 months of 2019-20. However, in the current fiscal, the revenue has taken a hit due to the lockdown and the consequent slowdown in the economy. Revenue in April was Rs 32,172 crore, May (Rs 62,151 crore), June (Rs 90,917 crore), July (Rs 87,422 crore), August (Rs 86,449 crore), September (Rs 95,480 crore), October (Rs 1,05,155 crore) and November (Rs 1,04,963 crore).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||SC rejects Chanda Kochhar’s plea against Bombay HC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed Chanda Kochhar’s appeal against the Bombay High Court’s order that had rejected her application against her termination as the CEO and the managing director of the ICICI Bank. It said that the matter falls within the domain of a private bank and its employee. “Sorry, we are not inclined to interfere with the high court order,” said a bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said. “This falls within the realm of private banks and employees,” it added. The SC was hearing Kochhar’s plea against the high court’s March 5 direction, which had dismissed her appeal against termination as managing director and CEO of ICICI Bank, while noting that the dispute arises from a contract of personal service. It had accepted the bank’s argument saying that the plea was not maintainable as the dispute was contractual and concerns a private body. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Kochhar, said before the apex court that the HC had rejected her plea on the grounds of maintainability. “I (Kochhar) was the MD of ICICI bank but the bank recalled my earlier resignation and converted it into termination,” he said. “This was wrong as it was against the norms,” Rohtagi added. The advocate stressed that there was no prior approval before the bank changed Kochhar’s resignation to termination. “The RBI was under obligation. You cannot convert resignation into termination. There is no question of termination as there was no previous approval as per the clause,” he said. “As far as we understand, it is the RBI who can raise the issue with the bank. You were in service with a private bank. RBI has to deal with the bank saying that no approval was taken,” the bench observed. Rohtagi contended that prior approval is needed for certain loss of employees. “You show us a judgement which says that you have a role, then your writ petition will be maintainable,” the bench said. Rohtagi then referred to some past judgements. To this, the SC replied, “ RBI has given post-facto approval. You are saying there was no prior approval. You are saying that it is not the proper manner. Your whole grievance is against the private bank. There cannot be grievance with RBI.” Rohtagi said that Kochhar’s whole grievance was against the RBI, as had it not given its approval, then she would not have been terminated at all. “What about my (Kochhar's) reputation,” he argued. “You can claim damages if your reputation is tarnished and if it was wrong,” the bench observed. “Everything cannot be about damages and RBI can be asked to explain its approval as RBI has no jurisdiction to give post-facto approval,” Rohtagi said. Kochhar was terminated from the ICICI Bank months after she had voluntarily left the second largest private sector lender. The former banker had moved the Bombay High Court on November 30, 2019, challenging the "termination" of her employment by the ICICI Bank. She had contended before the high court that the bank also denied her remuneration and clawed back all the bonuses and stock options between April 2009 and March 2018, for her alleged role in granting out of turn loans to the Videocon Group which purportedly benefitted her husband Deepak Kochhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||Sensex rises over 120 point in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex climbed over 120 points in opening trade on Tuesday, as better than expected GDP data strengthened market sentiment amid unabated foreign capital inflows. The 30-share BSE index was trading 126.62 points or 0.29 per cent higher at 44,276.34. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 32.45 points or 0.25 per cent to 13,001.40. UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising about 2.5 per cent, followed by Infosys, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Auto PowerGrid, ICICI Bank and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, ONGC, M&M, Nestle India, Axis Bank and HDFC were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 110.02 points or 0.25 per cent lower at 44,149.72, and NSE Nifty slipped 18.05 points or 0.14 per cent to 12,968.95. Equity markets were closed on Monday for Guru Nanak Jayanti. India's economy recovered faster than expected in the September quarter as a pick-up in manufacturing helped GDP clock a lower contraction of 7.5 per cent, official data showed on Friday. Meanwhile, the output of eight core infrastructure sectors dropped by 2.5 per cent in October, mainly due to a decline in production of crude oil, natural gas, refinery products and steel. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 7,712.98 crore on a net basis on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges on Wall Street ended lower in overnight sessions. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark fell 1.22 per cent to USD 47.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||Growth projections hampered by contradicting sectoral data||Growth projections have been hampered by sectoral data that appear to contradict one another. Household spending is expected to rise 6.6 per cent in 2021 according to Fitch Solutions whereas credit to industry has contracted 1.7 per cent in October, according to the Reserve Bank of India. This was largely due to contraction in credit to large industries by 2.9 per cent during the month compared with  a growth of 4.2 per cent a year ago. However, credit to medium industries registered a strong growth of 16.7 per cent, up from 1.2 per cent a year ago. In consumer spending, Fitch Solutions said it expected recovery in 2021 after a projected 12.6 per cent contraction in 2020 but will be slower than most countries. “Unemployment will remain heightened, while the effectiveness of government support measures is questionable. As such, most indicators will only return to pre-Covid-19 levels over the second half  of 2021 and 2022,” Fitch Solutions said. However, in nominal terms, total household spending will only be 1.2 per cent higher than in 2019. In loans, personal loans registered lower growth of 9.3 per cent in October compared with 17.2 per cent growth in October 2019. Within this sector, vehicle loans continued to perform well, showing higher growth of 8.4 per cent against a growth of 5 per cent in October 2019. Overall, non-food credit growth decelerated to 5.6 per cent during the month compared with  a growth of 8.3 per cent in the same month of the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||Indian Hotels Company Ltd says leisure travel has emerged as a revenue driver||Hospitality major Indian Hotels Company Ltd, which runs the Taj branded luxury hotels, on Monday said that leisure travel has emerged as a revenue driver amid the Covid pandemic but resumption of business trips and international travel is key to bringing the hospitality business back on track. While announcing a partnership with the Ambuja Neotia group to expand in eastern India, IHCL managing director and chief executive officer Puneet Chhatwal said: “In some of the leisure markets such as Goa, Jaipur and Coorg, revenue has already crossed more than half of last year’s business.” “Towards the end of October the industry has shown a good pickup and if we discount the period of lockdown we are already in some markets north of 50 per cent of revenue of last year. “In some markets which are leisure driven like Goa, Jaipur and Coorg or for some of our resorts we are even 70-80 per cent of last year’s revenue in November and also how the business looks on the books for the month of December,” Chhatwal said. But business travel has taken a major hit with meetings, conferences and trade events moving to digital platforms, resulting in low occupancy in business destinations.  Moreover, factors such as restrictions on international travel and deteriorating air quality in key markets such as Delhi have been a deterrent for the industry. “If Delhi and Mumbai pick up, the industry will be back. Because of historical reasons, we have a large presence in both these cities. But that has to be supported by international travel. At some point, this will kickstart. If a few international dignitaries start coming in and if there are a few international events then business will come from that,” Chhatwal told The Telegraph. The company has signed 8 new hotels across cities and brands in the first half of the year despite the depressed demand, with more in the pipeline. "A key learning in the global hotel industry is that the best investments are anti cyclical. In a soft market, it is possible to get a good project whether alone or with a partner. And if one can engineer the project well, then it is possible to actually build a good asset for the long term which can withstand the test of time," Chhatwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||Indian Hotels Company Ltd pact with Ambuja Realty for 5 properties||Indian Hotels Company Ltd, South Asia’s largest hospitality chain, is set to become the biggest hotelier in Bengal, too. The Tata-owned company, which manages properties under Taj, Vivanta and Ginger brands, will have over 800 keys under its fold two years down the line in the state. Four more properties will be operational by 2022 — three in Calcutta and one in Darjeeling — adding another 401 rooms to its existing kitty of 426 rooms, which are split into two properties, Taj Bengal and Vivanta Calcutta (formerly Taj Gateway). Three of the four upcoming properties will be owned by Ambuja Realty Group, which is going to have five hospitality assets sporting Taj brands. An announcement to this effect was made on Monday. Apart from three in Bengal — two in Rajarhat and one inside Makaibari tea estate near Kurseong in Darjeeling district — IHCL will operate a property each in Sikkim and in Patna, Bihar, on behalf of Ambuja. Puneet Chatwal, managing director of IHCL, underlined the strategic importance of Calcutta and Bengal in the context of the East and Northeast, where the company will double its presence. Pointing out that Taj has done ‘very well’ in the last 30 years in Calcutta, Chatwal said: “It is important to have the right dots in the right spots. Having Darjeeling, Patna, Sikkim, Guwahati, Shillong serviced mainly through Calcutta is an important part of the strategy. If you have a good presence in Bengal and then servicing these cities and states, it makes life easier for distribution purposes.” While IHCL will take on the new assets under a management contract, earning a fee for operating these properties, the investment risk will be borne by Ambuja. Despite the setback suffered by the hospitality industry during the pandemic, Ambuja and IHCL hoped that business would come back over time as there would always be the urge to meet people socially. Harsh Neotia, chairman and managing director of Ambuja Realty, hoped that pre-Covid activities may return by winter of next year. Calcutta, which is primarily a MICE (meetings, incentives, conference and exhibition) and wedding destination, has suffered more than leisure spots such as Goa, Rajasthan or Coorg. Moreover, the supply of rooms are ahead of demand. Marriott and ITC are two other dominant players in Calcutta. Neotia’s Ambuja operates four boutique properties, including one at Raichak and another in Siliguri. An investment of Rs 800 crore is being made in developing five properties with IHCL. “Due to Covid-19, we have deferred some of the projects by a year or so. But even then, Rs 650 crore has already been spent,” Neotia explained. While the City Centre II property, which was being operated by Accor of France under Swissotel brand, will be refurbished and thrown open by next Puja, a convention centre at Eco Park will be ready by February. However, the 57-key low- rise resort type development in the park would not welcome guests before 2022. The Darjeeling property will open in two weeks from now. The Patna and Sikkim properties will also be ready over the next 12-18 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||Corporate ownership of banks is credit negative for governance: Moody’s||The corporate ownership of banks is credit negative for governance because of the inherent conflict of interest, rating agency Moody’s Investors Service said in a report. “High non-performing loans in the corporate segment over the past few years partly reflect weak governance at both banks and corporate houses. Given this track record, the more direct involvement of corporate houses in the banking space will increase risks to the sector,” the rating agency said. The critical comment comes after former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan and Viral Acharya, the former deputy governor, called the key proposal “a bombshell”. The rating agency said the report recommends that corporate houses be permitted to own banks only after the Banking Regulations Act is amended to deal with connected lending and exposures and after stronger supervisory mechanisms for large corporates are put in place. But it will be difficult to mitigate these risks in practice. “The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Internal Working Group (IWG) report also recommended increasing the maximum promoter-1 stake in banks to 26 per cent from 15 per cent at present. As conflict of interest risks are inherent in any large ownership stake by investors with multiple businesses, an increase in the cap is credit negative. “However, the change in the recommended allowed maximum ownership stake would make it easier to raise capital in times of market difficulty,” Moody’s said. A tighter bank-like regulatory framework for large NBFCs is also recommended. If implemented, this would incentivize conversion to banks because of reduced opportunity for regulatory arbitrage. "This is credit positive for NBFCs because, after converting to a bank, they can accept deposits, which would improve funding at the same time as complying with high statutory liquidity requirements. Funding and liquidity are the key credit weaknesses of NBFCs," the rating agency said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||CAIT urges finance minister to stop banks from offering cashbacks on online purchases||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has urged the finance minister to stop banks from offering cashbacks on online purchases in collusion with e-commerce companies as it went against the ‘Fair Practices Code’ of the Reserve Bank of India. Praveen Khandelwal, national secretary-general, CAIT, said in the letter: “In the present case, it has been noticed that several banks, including State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, Citi Bank, HDFC Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, HSBC Bank, RBL Bank and others have entered into an unholy alliance with e-commerce companies, prominently with Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart, forming a cartel and thereby granting 10 per cent cash back and other incentives in lieu of making payments using respective bank cards while purchasing goods from online portals.” The traders’ body, which is said to be supported by the ruling BJP, asked the FM to take immediate steps to stop the practice and order a thorough probe into why banks were extending discounts only on purchase from designated e-commerce portals. CAIT termed the arrangements as an “unholy nexus” and “cartelisation of banks”. It alleged that banks have partnered with multi-national companies to “destroy indigenous businesses”. It added that banks were partnering to flout policies and government rules which has caused “mass scale damage to small Indian businesses against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision for Atmanirbhar Bharat.” Khandelwal added that it has reason to believe that the banks, in collusion with e-commerce companies, are continuously conducting unfair business practices, which went against the ‘Fair Practices Code’ of banks. “Surprisingly, till date, no auditor or competent authority has ever questioned this discrepancy and neither the Reserve Bank of India has questioned such a brazen unethical irregularity of business by the banks,” the letter stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||Indian lenders to recover entire exposure to Kesoram Industries||Indian lenders will recover their entire exposure to Kesoram Industries as part of a one-time settlement plan. The cash component of the recovery would be 84-85 per cent, while the rest will be paid by issuing optionally convertible preference shares. As an additional sweetener, a minor part of the loan would be converted into equity. The proposal, as part of the RBI’s resolution plan for stressed assets, has got an in-principle approval from the Indian lenders. The board of Kesoram Industries, which formally okayed the proposal on Monday, called an extraordinary general meeting to carry out the exercise. As part of the resolution plan, Rs 2,200 crore of non convertible/optionally convertible debentures would be raised via private placement to a clutch of overseas investors. The overseas debt will be utilised to pay off domestic lenders and leave some cash on the books. The Kesoram board also approved the conversion of debt to equity of up to Rs 100 crore and issuance of zero coupon optionally convertible redeemable preference shares of up to Rs 500 crore. “The exercise will improve the tight working capital position by infusing liquidity. We are hoping to complete the process by the end of December,” wholetime director and CEO, P. Radhakrishnan, said. Kesoram, the flagship of the Basant Kumar Birla group, operates 7.25-million-tonne cement capacities in the southern market, apart from the rayon business. It has been unable to operate the plan for want of working capital. In the past, the company took a series of measures to strengthen the balance sheet but with little success. It sold off a tyre unit located in northern India to pare debt, which was later followed by hiving off the entire tyre business, a loss making venture, into a separate company. Promoters have also infused cash in the form of equity to strengthen the financial condition. With this debt-swap deal, the management hopes it would be able to operate the plants fully and generate enough cash to sustain business. The company management has earlier guided that the medium-term target would be to bring down debt to Rs 1,600 crore and then to Rs 1,300 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||Opec agrees to extend existing oil production cuts: Abdelmadjid Attar||Opec members have reached a consensus on the need to extend existing oil production cuts for three months from January and will work on convincing their allies in the wider Opec+ group to support such a move, Algeria’s minister said on Monday. Algerian energy minister Abdelmadjid Attar, holder of Opec’s rotating presidency, was speaking shortly before Opec ministers began talks on production levels. “There is consensus at the Opec level on extending the current 7.7 million barrels per day (bpd) cuts until ... the end of March,” Attar said. Opec+ had been due to ease production cuts by 2 million bpd from January. But, with demand still under pressure, Opec+ has been considering extending existing cuts into the first months of 2021, a position backed by Saudi Arabia, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||High food inflation impedes RBI to boost economy||High food inflation has made the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) “helpless” in taking measures to boost the economy that is now technically in the midst of a recession. With inflation restricting the apex bank in pursing its growth agenda, the six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) is widely expected to leave policy rates unchanged later this week. A rare indication to this effect was given last week when Mridul Saggar, RBI executive director and an MPC member, said that the room for another interest rate cut can be created only if inflation softens. Saggar said the RBI was helpless in controlling food prices, particularly under pandemic conditions. He indicated that the MPC lacked the firepower to tackle food prices though they ended up influencing the headline inflation numbers by driving up wages and costs. Retail inflation in October touched a six-year high of 7.61 per cent. It has  remained above the central bank’s medium term target (4 per cent with a band of +/-2 per cent) for seven months in a row. The major factor responsible for the spike in inflation is food prices. In October, food and beverage price inflation rose to 10.2 per cent against 9.8 per cent in the previous month, with vegetable prices rising 10.3 per cent month-on-month. Speaking at a virtual banking summit organised by Washington-based Institute of International Finance last week, Saggar, who is widely seen as a dove, said that the MPC has cut rates significantly and that more policy space can open up only after inflation eases Though members of the MPC have in the past alluded to this point, it is rare for an MPC member to voice such an opinion days ahead of a meeting. In the October meeting, Saggar had said that while inflation is above the upper tolerance band, it is not monetary in nature and that supply disruption in food, increase in taxes on fuel and liquor and a surge in gold rates have lifted prices. He had then hoped that headline inflation should start softening from October because of favourable base effects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
01-12-2020||Business||S&P Global Inc to buy IHS Markit Ltd for $44 billion||Data giant S&P Global Inc has agreed to buy IHS Markit Ltd in a deal worth $44 billion that will be 2020’s biggest merger, creating a heavyweight in the increasingly competitive market in financial information. The mega deal, which includes $4.8 billion of debt, is a sign that deal-making activity is accelerating as breakthroughs in developing Covid-19 vaccines improve the economic outlook. Deals touched a record high in the September quarter, with more than $1 trillion worth of transactions, mostly focused on coronavirus-resilient sectors such as technology and healthcare, according to Refinitiv data. Under the terms of the deal, each share of IHS Markit will be exchanged for a fixed ratio of 0.2838 shares of S&P Global stock, the two companies said in a statement. Once the deal is completed, S&P Global shareholders will own roughly 67.75 per cent of the combined company on a fully diluted basis, while IHS shareholders will own about 32.25 per cent. S&P Global is renowned for providing debt ratings to countries and companies, as well as data on capital and commodity markets worldwide. It became a standalone business in 2011 when its then parent McGraw-Hill separated S&P from its education business. IHS Markit was formed in 2016 when IHS, whose businesses range from data on automotive and technology industries to publishing Jane’s Defence Weekly, bought Markit for around $6 billion. Markit, founded by former credit trader Lance Uggla, provides a range of pricing and reference data for financial assets and derivatives. IHS has a market value of around $36.88 billion based on the stock’s last close on Friday, a Reuters calculation showed, with its share price up around 22 per cent so far this year. S&P’s market value was about $82 billion. The transaction is likely to face close scrutiny from competition watchdogs as the market for financial information becomes increasingly concentrated. The Wall Street Journal reported news of the deal earlier on Monday. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was financial adviser to S&P Global and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz served as its legal adviser. Morgan Stanley was financial adviser to IHS Markit and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP was its legal adviser. The London Stock Exchange is in the final stage of trying to win clearance for its planned $27 billion acquisition of data provider Refinitiv, which has been through a long review process by the European Union’s competition commissioner. Refinitiv was carved out of Thomson Reuters by private equity giant Blackstone in 2018, when it bought a 55 per cent stake in the business in its biggest bet since the 2008 financial crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
01-12-2020||Business||Opinions divided over economic recovery||A less than expected contraction in the economy in the second quarter at 7.5 per cent has generated expectations that the economy is on the mend but there are still many imponderables such as any possible rise in infections and fears over the adverse consequences over the severe squeeze in government consumption expenditure that have prompted analysts to be more circumspect in their outlook. While some are projecting a recovery in the fourth quarter, others reckon that the third quarter will show a negative trend: -1 per cent to -2 per cent. The fiscal spending (consumption + investments) posted its first major contraction since 2014-15 and is the worst on record; on the contrary, decline in private spending narrowed to -9.2 per cent in the second quarter from -35.4 per cent  YoY in the first quarter, Motilal Oswal said in its Ecospace report. In its November bulletin, the RBI has said October data has stirred up consumer and business confidence. “If this upturn is sustained in the ensuing two months, there is a strong likelihood that the Indian economy will break out of contraction of the six months gone by and return to positive growth in Q3 of 2020-21.” Analysts at Nomura have said contraction in the current fiscal will be 7 per cent against it earlier projection of 9 per cent to “reflect the outturn and faster normalisation”. Global ratings agency S&P on Monday retained its forecast of 9 per cent contraction in the Indian economy for the current fiscal, saying even though there are now upside risks to growth it will wait for more signs that Covid infections have stabilised or fallen. “Much would depend on the sustainability of the consumption demand seen in the month of October .  Therefore, these are still early days and the data for a few more months will  have to be watched,” Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings and Research, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
01-12-2020||India||Trudeau backs farmers, opens old wounds||India’s external affairs ministry on Tuesday slammed Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for voicing concern about security forces’ treatment of farmers protesting against the government’s new pro-market agricultural law. Trudeau’s comments threatened to sink relations between the two countries to a fresh low after the Canadian prime minister’s gaffe-ridden official visit to India two years ago. The External Affairs Ministry Spokesman Anurag Srivastava branded Trudeau’s statements “ill-informed” and added that the remarks were “unwarranted, especially when pertaining to the internal affairs of a democratic country". Trudeau told Canada’s half-million-strong Sikh community in an online message on Monday marking Guru Nanak Dev’s birthday that he would be “remiss” if he didn’t take note of “news coming out of India” about the farmers’ protest. “The situation is concerning. We’re all very worried about family and friends,” Trudeau said. “Let me remind you. Canada will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protest. We believe in the importance of dialogue and that is why we have reached out through multiple means directly to Indian authorities to highlight our concerns,” he added. Srivastava insisted Canada shouldn’t involve itself in the protests, adding: "It is also best that diplomatic conversations are not misrepresented for political purposes" as farmers continued to arrive in trucks, buses and tractors and cause traffic chaos on the border of New Delhi and Haryana. Trudeau’s comments mark a new setback in ties between Ottawa and New Delhi which has long been sensitive about what it sees as Canada’s failure to rein in radical Sikhs living in the country who are plotting the creation of an independent Khalistan. The sit-in has sparked clashes between security forces and protesters with police firing tear gas and water cannons. A three-member cabinet team began talks Tuesday afternoon with farmers representatives amid the intensifying protests against the new law aimed at streamlining India’s inefficient food supply chain. The legislation cuts out the middleman and allows farmers to sell their produce to any buyer and not just at government-regulated wholesale markets where they are guaranteed a minimum price. But farmers, especially the poor, smaller ones who make up the vast majority of growers, fear losing price supports for key staples such as wheat and rice. The protests began with demonstrations by farmers from the grain-bowl states of Punjab and Haryana. But during the weekend farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala also staged demonstrations. Adding fuel to the Indo-Canadian diplomatic fire, Canada’s defence minister Harjit Singh Sajjan tweeted that “reports of peaceful protesters being brutalised are very troubling… healthy democracies allow peaceful protest” while Jagmeet Singh, leader of the left-wing New Democratic Party called “the violence perpetrated against farmers peacefully protesting is appalling” and said he stood “in solidarity with farmers from Punjab and across India.” The Canadian politicians’ closeness toward the country’s Sikh community is all about vote-bank politics with all three national parties -- Liberal, Conservative and New Democrats, playing the game. There are 1.2 million Indo-Canadians and the Sikh community makes up 470,000 of them. Relations between Canada and India still haven’t recovered from Trudeau’s ill-fated weeklong visit to the subcontinent when he and his family outfitted themselves in elaborate Indian garb more suited for a Bollywood wedding than a state visit. The Trudeau family’s attire attracted some good-natured ridicule both in Canada and in India with critics saying it was an example of political correctness in overdrive. But the mood turned sour when it turned out a Canadian Sikh separatist Jaspal Atwal, convicted of the attempted murder of Punjab cabinet minister Malkiat Singh Sidhu on a visit to Vancouver in 1986, had been on the guest list for official events on Trudeau’s Indian trip. The affair initially was passed off as an invitation list blooper. But then Trudeau’s office ratcheted up the matter, telling reporters that Indian agents had conspired to get Atwal invited to humiliate Canada over its perceived softness on Sikh separatists. That theory, dismissed as preposterous by the Canadian media and by the Indian government, cast a further shadow over what had been billed as an economic and cultural partnership-building visit by the prime minister. Canada’s perceived permissive stance toward potential pro-Khalistan troublemakers has cast a shadow over Indo-Canadian relations for decades. Separatist fervour has waned in Punjab. But Sikh separatism remains a live political issue among pro-Khalistan sympathisers in Canada where many Sikhs emigrated to in India’s turbulent 1980s. In 1985, Canadian Sikh terrorists blew a Mumbai-bound Air India plane out of the sky in 1985, killing all 329 people aboard. Sikhs, while totalling 470,000 of Canada’s 36 million population, represent the largest group among Indian-origin Canadians and are concentrated in certain constituencies. The Canadian media has asked questions from time to time about whether the government is too close to Sikh separatists and is providing a haven for pro-Khalistan fundraisers, gunrunners and extremists. Trudeau in 2017 addressed a Toronto parade for ‘Khalsa Day’, which included floats glorifying Sikh militant Bhindranwale and Khalistan flags. Last year, ahead of Canada’s federal election that Trudeau narrowly won, the federal government removed direct references to “Sikh extremism” in a terrorism threat report. Critics blasted the move as a bid by the government to cater to Canadian Sikh voters in the leadup to the polls.  The government report was reworded to mention the threat posed by “extremists who support violent means to establish an independent state within India,” a reference to the Khalistan movement. Two months ago, the McDonald Laurier Institute, a Canadian think-tank, published a report accusing Pakistan of fuelling the Khalistan movement in Canada. It said the "the Khalistan movement has been going nowhere in the Sikhs' home state” but , was “kept alive in Canada by thugs and political hustlers unbothered by the innocent lives that have been lost in its name.” Penny MacRae is a longtime writer on Canadian politics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||Delhi students join protesting farmers at Singhu border||Protesting farmers found support in Delhi students, who put up posters at the Singhu border on Tuesday to highlight the plight of the peasants across the country, and create awareness on a wide range of issues. Ravinder Singh, a 22-year-old student of Law Faculty at Delhi University, said the students want to create awareness about several issues that the country is suffering from. "We have many issues concerning the farmers, women, students, labourers among others. We need to address them all. We are making posters in various languages like English, Hindi, Urdu and Punjabi so that the people can read and understand what we are talking about," he said. Earlier, students from several universities gathered at the Singhu border to sing songs highlighting the farmers’ issues and their condition. Rajveer Kaur, a student of Punjabi Department at Delhi University, said people were given sheets and colours to make posters in support of the farmers. "Apart from the students, many others have extended their support and shown interest in making posters. They were welcomed and given sheets and colours to make the posters," she said. Another student from the Delhi University, Sangeeta, spoke on the different sets of issues that women face and said they should also take part in the protest and lead from the front. "There are more women at Tikri border, but they are primarily doing cooking. We have made posters highlighting the same. There should be active participation of women in the protest," she said. The posters were displayed on a wire tide on a truck later in the evening. Thousands of farmers have stayed put at various border points of Delhi in protest against the Centre's new agriculture reform laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||No headway in meeting, govt asks farmers for specifics||The government has asked farmers' groups to identify specific issues related to the three new farm laws and submit them by Wednesday for consideration and discussion in the next round of talks on Thursday, an official statement said after a nearly three-hour-long meeting that remained inconclusive on Tuesday. The government also offered to set up a committee to look into issues raised by farmers protesting against new farm laws, but it was rejected by representatives of 35 farmers’ organisations who attended the meeting. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal, and Minister of State for Commerce and Industries Som Prakash on Tuesday interacted with the representatives of 35 farmers organisations, mainly from Punjab. During the meeting at Vigyan Bhawan here, the ministers explained the benefits of farm reform acts to the representatives of the farmers' Unions. Various issues related to these laws were discussed at length and talks were held in a cordial atmosphere, the agriculture ministry said in its statement. Tomar emphasised that the government was fully committed towards the welfare of farmers and agriculture development is always on the top priority.  "During the deliberations, the Union Agriculture Minister proposed to constitute an expert committee to put forth the issues of farmers so as to resolve them with mutual consent but the representative of the farmers unions suggested that all the representatives would attend a further round of discussions with the Government to resolve the matter amicably," the statement said.  During the interaction, the government suggested to the farmer representatives "to identify the specific issues related to Farm Reform Acts and share with the government on December 2 for consideration. These issues will be discussed during the fourth round of meeting to be held on December 3."  At the meeting, it was assured that the Centre is always committed to protecting the interest of farmers and is always open for discussions for farmers' welfare, the ministry said.  Enacted in September, the laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector by removing the middlemen and allowing farmers to sell anywhere in the country.  However, the protesting farmers have been worried that the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement system, while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector.  After the meeting, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said in a statement that the talks remained inconclusive and the government's proposal was not acceptable to farm unions.  It further said protests would now intensify across the country until their demands are met.  Soon after the Vigyan Bhawan meeting ended, a separate round of talks began at the Agriculture Ministry with representatives of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).  The government said the talks with BKU members took place in a cordial atmosphere and the minister listened attentively to suggestions from the farmers. Sources said farmers’ representatives were unanimous in seeking repeal of the three laws that they have been terming as being against the interest of the farm community.  After the meeting, Bharat Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) President Joginder Singh Ugrahan said it remained inconclusive and the government had called for another meeting on December 3.  "The farmer's organisations rejected the government's proposal to form a five-member committee to look into the issues related to the new farm laws," Roopsingh Sanha, member of Bharat Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), one of the largest blocks of protesting farmers, told PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||No talk of vaccinating entire population, govt says now||The Centre on Tuesday claimed that there was never any talk regarding immunising every citizen with a Covid-19 vaccine. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Balram Bhargava, addressing a question during a press conference on Tuesday, said the purpose of the vaccine would be to break the chain of transmission of the disease. "Our purpose is to break the chain of virus transmission. If we are able to vaccinate a critical mass of people and break the chain of transmission, then we may not have to vaccinate the entire population," he said. "The role of masks is also vitally important and that will continue even after the vaccination. Because we are starting with a small group of population at a time and therefore masks will be protective and continue to be used so as to help in breaking the chain of viral transmission," Bhargava added. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan clarified that there was never any talk of inoculating the whole population of the country with the Covid-19 vaccine. "I just want to make this clear that the government has never spoken about vaccinating the entire country. It's important that we discuss such scientific issues, based on factual information only and then analyse it," said Bhushan. India's COVID-19 caseload rose to 94.62 lakh with November registering over 30 per cent decline in both new deaths and cases as compared to October, while total recoveries surged to 88,89,585, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Tuesday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 94,62,809 with 31,118 new infections, while the death toll climbed to 1,37,621 after 482 more fatalities were reported, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||Yogi trying to take Bollywood to UP, alleges Congress leader||Senior Congress leader and Maharashtra PWD Minister Ashok Chavan on Tuesday alleged the BJP was scheming to take away a "slice of Bollywood" to the northern state. "When BJP was in power in Maharashtra, many industries and offices were shifted to Gujarat. Though the government changed in Maharashtra, the BJP is now readying a script to take away a slice of Bollywood in the name of the Uttar Pradesh government. "Whatever had happened in the tenure of the BJP, we won't let it happen again," Chavan tweeted. "Earlier, the importance of Maharashtra was reduced deliberately, but the then government kept quiet. BJP leaders took a lead in getting funds for the PM Cares Fund instead of getting funds for Chief Minister's Fund only to make their seniors happy," Chavan said in another tweet. Underlining that every state has a right to develop itself and help other states, Chavan stated no state has the right to snatch "share of others". "BJP leaders must not support this step of their party and not participate in this sin," he added. Ahead of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's meeting with Bollywood personalities in Mumbai, Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil on Tuesday said nobody can take the Film City and its glamour away from Mumbai. Adityanath is arriving late this evening in Mumbai and slated to meet industrialists and film personalities during the visit. As per reports, Sachin Sawant, a spokesperson for the Congress party, a part of the ruling coalition in Maharashtra, has alleged a conspiracy to shift Bollywood out of Mumbai. "Yogiji may be coming here to study the film city and facilities being provided to the industry, but nobody can take the film city and its glamour away from Mumbai," Patil told reporters. Responding to a query, the BJP leader said every state has the right to develop or provide some facilities to the film industry. "They are free to do so," he added. Adityanath had earlier unveiled an ambitious plan to set up a film city and rolled out an open offer to film fraternity to come to Uttar Pradesh. The UP government had already approved a proposal for setting up a film city in Sector 21 along the Yamuna Expressway in Gautam Buddh Nagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||No headway in talks with farmers, another meeting on Thursday||The government offered to set up a committee to look into issues raised by farmers protesting against new farm laws on Tuesday, but it was rejected by representatives of 35 farmers’ organisations during their marathon meeting with three Union ministers. The meeting remained inconclusive and the government has called for another round of discussions on Thursday, December 3, farmers’ union leaders and government officials said. Sources said farmers’ representatives were unanimous in seeking repeal of the three laws that they have been terming as being against the interest of the farm community. At the nearly three-hour-long meeting at Vigyan Bhawan here, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar was accompanied by Railways and Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, also an MP from Punjab. After the meeting, Bharat Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) President Joginder Singh Ugrahan said it remained inconclusive and the government had called for another meeting on December 3. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre's farm laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. "We are ready for a discussion to resolve their issues. Let's see," Tomar told reporters before start of the meeting. He added that the government would arrive at a solution after hearing the representatives of the farmer organisations. "The farmer's organisations rejected the government's proposal to form a five-member committee to look into the issues related to the new farm laws," Roopsingh Sanha, member of Bharat Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), one of the largest blocks of protesting farmers, told PTI. The government side was, however, firm in its stand that a high-level committee must be formed to look into the issues and wanted the farmer representatives to further consider the proposal. Sources said the ministers were of the view that it was difficult to reach a decision while interacting with such large groups and therefore they suggested meeting with a smaller group, but the farmer leaders were firm that they would meet collectively only. Union leaders said they feared the government might be trying to break their unity and the momentum of their protest. Heavy security arrangements were in place around the meeting venue. An earlier meeting on November 13 had failed to give any breakthrough and the next one was originally scheduled for December 3, but it got advanced due to the ongoing protests on Delhi borders. Peaceful sit-ins by farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, continued at the Singhu and Tikri borders with no untoward incident reported after Friday's violence, while the numbers of protestors swelled at the Ghazipur border  since Monday. Opposition parties too stepped up the pressure, asking the Centre to "respect the democratic struggle" of the farmers and repeal the laws. Earlier, one of the 32 farmer unions invited for talks backed out and demanded that representatives of all 500 organisations that were part of protests be invited. General secretary of Punjab-based farmers' outfit Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) Sarwan Singh Pandher said the government was trying to divide the protesters by not inviting all the unions. "A committee of several farmers' bodies has not been invited and moreover, the Prime Minister is not holding this meeting. Because of these reasons, KMSC is not going to attend the meeting," KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said. Pandher accused the government of trying to divide the protesting farmers by not inviting all the farmer unions. "If 32 Punjab-based farmers' bodies have been invited (for talks), a committee representing around 500 farmers' organisations is also there which should have also been invited," he said. "By not inviting all farmers' bodies, an attempt is being made to divide the farmer organisations. If we attend the meeting, it will be presumed that this agitation (against farm laws) is only taking place in Punjab which could be the conspiracy of the Centre," he claimed. Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's statement that these farm laws are in the interest of the farming community, Pandher said, "He (the PM) has already given his decision before the meeting. And now, no minister can go against the PM."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||Bilkis Bano stopped from joining farmers at Singhu border||Bilkis Bano, fondly known as Bilkis Dadi of Shaheen Bagh, was stopped by the Delhi police on Tuesday at the Singhu border where she wanted to join thousands of farmers protesting against the new central farm laws, police said. The octogenarian was the face of the months-long anti-citizenship amendment law protest at the national capital’s Shaheen Bagh area and had also featured in the Time Magazine for her act. Popularly known as Shaheen bagh Dadi, Bilkis was inclined to join the farmers in their protest, but was stopped by the police personnel soon after reaching the Singhu border. "She is a senior citizen and due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, we stopped her at the Singhu Border and requested her to return for her own safety and betterment," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma said. "To avoid any kind of any inconvenience to her, she was escorted by the police team to her home in southeast Delhi," he added. Bilkis shot into limelight last year during the months-long anti-citizenship law protest at Shaheen Bagh here and was also recognised by the American weekly Time magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of 2020 alongside Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bollywood actor Ayushman Khurrana. Braving the extreme winters of Delhi, the 82-year-old joined hundreds of women and children sitting under a tent during the protest, which began in December last year. Soon, she emerged as the face of the agitation against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the proposed National Register of Citizens. The protest at Shaheen bagh ended in March this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||BJP raising contentious issues to divert attention, alleges Digvijaya||Senior Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh said the BJP was speaking on contentious issues like religious conversions through marriage to divert people's attention from problems they are facing. His comments follow Madhya Pradesh minister Narottam Mishra's announcement last week that the state government was proposing a jail term of 10 years for anyone found guilty of using marriage to force someone to change religion. "There is no problem if laws for 'love jihad' would end unemployment, backwardness and poverty. The BJP government is trying to divert the attention of people from real issues," Singh told reporters in Damoh on Monday. In recent weeks, BJP-run states like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have revealed plans to enact laws to counter alleged attempts to convert Hindu women to Islam in the guise of marriage, which party leaders often refer to as 'love jihad'. Singh also hit out at the Centre for the new farm laws which he said were aimed at ending the mandi and MSP mechanisms and handing over the agriculture sector to "multinationals and rich people". He said the Congress would look into its defeat on a majority of the 28 MP Assembly seats that witnessed polls on November 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||Sportspersons back farmers, to return Arjuna awards||A host of former sportspersons, including Arjuna and Padma Shri awardees, in a bid to support the agitating farmers have said that they will return their awards in protest against the “force” used on the peasants on their way to Delhi during the march. Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee wrestler Kartar Singh, Arjuna awardee basketball player Sajjan Singh Cheema and Arjuna awardee hockey player Rajbir Kaur are among the players that have extended their support. They will proceed to Delhi on December 5 and place the awards in front of the Rashtrapati Bhavan, the sports stars said, while slamming the governments for using water cannons and tear gas on the protesting farmers at the borders. "We are the children of farmers and they have been holding peaceful agitation for the last several months. Not even a single incident of violence took place,” Cheema said on Tuesday. "But water cannons and teargas shells were used against them when they were going to Delhi. If turbans of our elders and brothers are tossed, then what will we do with our awards and honour? We are in support of our farmers. We do not want such awards and that is why we are returning the same," he added. Kartar Singh confirmed that several players will go to Delhi to return their awards on December 5, and join the stir with the farmers. "If farmers do not want such laws, then why was the central government imposing them," asked Singh, who has retired as Inspector General in the Punjab Police. Cheema said several former players including Kaur and Arjuna awardee (shotput) Balwinder Singh have backed them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||Nirav Modi's remand extended in UK||Nirav Modi, wanted in connection with the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, was further remanded in custody on Tuesday by a court in London hearing India's extradition request for the diamond merchant. The 49-year-old appeared on Tuesday via video link from Wandsworth Prison in south-west London, dressed in a maroon sweater and sporting a full beard, for his regular 28-day call-over hearing at Westminster Magistrates' Court, where Chief Magistrate Emma Arbuthnot extended his remand for another 28 days until December 29. It will be another short video link call-over hearing and then there is just over a week before closing submissions in the case, she told Modi, who spoke only to confirm his name and date of birth. The final hearings in the extradition case are scheduled over two days, on January 7 and 8 next year, when District Judge Samuel Goozee is scheduled to hear closing arguments from both sides before he hands down his judgment a few weeks later. At the last hearing in the case on November 3, Judge Goozee heard the arguments for and against the admissibility of certain witness statements provided by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) and ruled that the evidence to establish a prima facie case of fraud and money laundering against the fugitive diamantaire is broadly admissible. He concluded that he considered himself bound by the previous UK court rulings in the extradition case of former Kingfisher Airlines chief Vijay Mallya. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing on behalf of the Indian authorities, had stressed that the evidence, including witness statements under Section 161 of the Indian Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), meets the required threshold for the UK court to determine whether Modi has a case to answer before the Indian judicial system. The argument that this is a very specific case, distinguishable from Mallya is frankly nonsense, said CPS barrister Helen Malcolm. That Mallya has a case to answer in India in his fraud and money laundering case has cleared various levels of the UK judicial system and is currently undergoing a confidential legal issue before UK Home Secretary Priti Patel can consider signing off on his extradition. Modi's barrister, Clare Montgomery, who was also the defence counsel in Mallya's case, however, disputed that the Section 161 witness statements qualify as similar. The government of India case is not as strong as it was in Mallya, said Montgomery, as she also raised a specific issue over a witness who was said to speak no English in his testimony for the CBI but signed a statement in English for the ED. Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of "Letters of Understanding" (LOUs or loan agreements), and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or criminal intimidation to cause death added to the CBI case. The jeweller has been in prison since he was arrested on March 19, 2019, on an extradition warrant executed by Scotland Yard and his attempts at seeking bail have been repeatedly turned down. The charges against him centre around his firms Diamonds R Us, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds making fraudulent use of a credit facility offered by PNB or LoUs. The CPS, on behalf of India, has told the court during the course of two separate set of hearings in May and September that a number of PNB staff conspired with Modi to ensure the LoUs were issued to his companies without ensuring they were subject to the required credit check, without recording the issuance of the LoUs and without charging the required commission upon the transactions. Modi's defence team has sought to counter allegations of fraud by deposing witnesses to establish the volatility of the gems and jewellery trade and that the LoUs were standard practice. His severe depression has also been raised as part of the arguments against extradition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||SC unsatisfied with Gujarat's report on Covid hospital fire||The Supreme Court Tuesday expressed displeasure over Gujarat government's report regarding the recent fire in a designated COVID-19 hospital in Rajkot in which several patients had died, saying no attempts should be made to suppress the facts. "We have seen Gujarat's reply. Five people have died on the seventh floor. What kind of affidavit is this? No attempts should be made to suppress the facts," said a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan which had last week taken cognisance of Rajkot fire incident. "An inquiry committee has been constituted. The FIR was lodged but people have got bail for whatever reasons. Commissions after commissions are constituted but nothing happens," said the bench, also comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah. The bench asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to look into the report and ensure that better affidavit is filed in the apex court. Mr Mehta, you look into the affidavit and see what are they filing, the bench said. Mehta told the bench he would look into the report and talk to the state government on this. The bench has posted the matter for hearing on December 3. Mehta apprised the bench that the Centre has issued guidelines on fire safety in hospitals across the country. The Central government have issued guidelines on fire safety. I have filed the affidavit, Mehta told the bench. The Centre on Monday had asked all states to ensure proper fire safety in hospitals and nursing homes, saying utmost precautions must be taken at a time when the country is fighting the coronavirus pandemic. Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla had written a letter to the chief secretaries of all states and Union territories in the wake of recent fire incidents in two hospitals in Gujarat which killed 14 people. The home secretary had said occurrence of various fire incidents in hospitals and nursing homes in recent past and non-adherence of fire safety measures by authorities in their respective jurisdiction is a matter of concern. The apex court had on November 27 taken cognisance of fire outbreak in the ICU of a designated COVID hospital at Rajkot in Gujarat in which five patients died and had pulled up the states for not taking any concrete action to mitigate the problem despite repeated instances. The top court had termed the Rajkot fire incident as shocking and said this is a very serious thing and it reflects the situation of designated government hospitals as similar instances have taken place in other places also. It had said such an incident showed that there are no proper fire safety measures in place there to deal with such a situation. Mehta had assured the apex court that home secretary would convene a meeting on this issue preferably today or latest by tomorrow and proper directions would be given. Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel had earlier said that 26 patients at the hospital in Rajkot were rescued and shifted to other facilities, while five other patients died. The fire broke out around 12.30 am last Friday in the ICU ward located on the first floor of the four-storey Uday Shivanand Hospital in Anand Bungalow Chowk area, where around 31 patients were admitted, Patel had added. The issue cropped up before the bench which was hearing the matter in which it had taken cognisance regarding need for proper treatment of COVID-19 patients and dignified handling of dead bodies in the hospitals. The top court on November 23 had said that the COVID-19 pandemic has worsened in Delhi and gone out of control in Gujarat and had directed the Centre and all states to apprise it of the steps taken to contain the situation nationwide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Talks with farmers on, Tomar hopeful of a solution ||The government expressed confidence that a solution would be reached after discussing issues raised by protesting farmers, as a meeting got underway between union ministers and representatives of over 30 farmer organisations on Tuesday. For the meeting being held at Vigyan Bhawan here, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar was accompanied by railways and commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Parkash, also an MP from Punjab. Defence minister Rajnath Singh wasn’t present when the meeting started. "We are ready for a discussion to resolve their issues. Let's see," Tomar told reporters as he arrived for the meeting. He said the government would arrive at a solution after hearing representatives of farmer organisations. Hours before the meeting. Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Tomar and Goyal, along with BJP chief J P Nadda, had held marathon discussions over the farmers' protest against the Centre's new agriculture reform laws. Peaceful sit-ins by farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, continued at the Singhu and Tikri borders with no untoward incident reported after Friday's violence, while the numbers of protestors swelled at the Ghazipur border on Monday. Opposition parties too stepped up the pressure, asking the Centre to "respect the democratic struggle" of the farmers and repeal the laws. Earlier, one of the 32 farmer unions invited for talks backed out and demanded that representatives of all 500 organisations that were part of protests be invited. General secretary of Punjab-based farmers' outfit Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) Sarwan Singh Pandher said the government was trying to divide the protesters by not inviting all the unions. "A committee of several farmers' bodies has not been invited and moreover, the Prime Minister is not holding this meeting. Because of these reasons, KMSC is not going to attend the meeting," KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said. Pandher accused the government of trying to divide the protesting farmers by not inviting all the farmer unions. "If 32 Punjab-based farmers' bodies have been invited (for talks), a committee representing around 500 farmers' organisations is also there which should have also been invited," he said. By not inviting all farmers' bodies, an attempt is being made to divide the farmer organisations. If we attend the meeting, it will be presumed that this agitation (against farm laws) is only taking place in Punjab which could be the conspiracy of the Centre," he claimed. Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's statement that these farm laws are in the interest of the farming community, Pandher said, "He (the PM) has already given his decision before the meeting. And now, no minister can go against the PM." Thousands of farmers stayed put at various Delhi border points for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday protesting against the new agriculture laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system and corporatise farming. The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. On Monday, farmers practically told the Prime Minister off, saying they had been hearing his Mann ki Baat (monthly radio address) for over six years and it was time he heard their “mann ki baat” (words from the heart), else his party and government would pay a heavy price. In his Mann ki Baat broadcast on Sunday, Modi had lauded the new farm laws as pro-farmer while mentioning not a word about the agitation against them. Jagmohan Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), among the most respected farmer leaders in Punjab, described the Modi government as authoritarian and fascist. “Yeh aar paar ki ladai hai (This a fight to the finish),” he said while briefing the media at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana on the GT Karnal Road. Singh said what had upset the farmers most was the government’s refusal to even talk about the issue they see as non-negotiable — the repeal of the three new farm laws. He said this was not a protest by farmers from one state — Punjab — or one religion — Sikhism — as was being portrayed by the government and its supporters. “There is no question of withdrawing; we will stay put,” Singh said. Modi on Monday suggested that the farmers were suspicious of his government’s farm policies because they had been cheated by past governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Oxford vaccine immunogenic and safe, says Serum Institute||The Serum Institute of India on Tuesday quashed all allegations that a Covid-19 trial vaccine volunteer had undergone serious side effects after a dose of the same developed by AstraZeneca and the Oxford University was administered to him. It stressed that the vaccine was immunogenic and safe. "We would want to assure everyone that the vaccine won't be released for mass use unless it is proven immunogenic, and safe," said SII, the world’s largest vaccine producer, in a blog. A Chennai-based volunteer had claimed, last week, that he had suffered serious psychological and neurological effects after being administered with the vaccine shot, and sued the company along with others, demanding Rs 5 crore. "The incident with the Chennai volunteer though highly unfortunate was in no way induced by the vaccine and Serum Institute of India is sympathetic with the volunteer's medical condition," the Pune-based institute said. The SII is conducting trials of the AstraZeneca vaccine in India as a part of an agreement related to manufacturing. "Taking into consideration the complexities and existing misnomers about vaccination and immunisation; the legal notice was sent (to the volunteer) therefore to safeguard the reputation of the company which is being unfairly maligned," Serum said. The institute also said that all the required regulatory and ethical processes and guidelines were strictly followed. "The concerned authorities were informed and the principal investigator, DSMB and the Ethics Committee independently cleared and reckoned it as a non-related issue to the vaccine trial,” the institute said. "Post which, we submitted all the reports and data related to the incident to the DCGI (Drugs Controller General of India). It is only after we cleared all the required processes that we continued with the trials," it added. In response to claims made by the volunteer, SII had on Sunday stated that the allegations were "malicious and misconceived".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Customs granted a week's extension of Sivasankar's custody ||A local court on Tuesday allowed a Customs plea, seeking a seven-day extension of the custody of M Sivasankar, arrested by the central agency in connection with the gold smuggling case. Considering the plea, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences) court granted Customs his custody till December 7. In its plea, the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate on Monday claimed that key accused Swapna Suresh, during her custodial interrogation, has made revelations implicating Sivasankar in the currency smuggling case with strong links in the gold smuggling case. The agency had also submitted before the court a copy of the statement made by Suresh before the Investigating Officer under Section 108 of Customs Act on November 27. The Customs made the claim as the five-day custody of Sivasankar granted by the court ended on Monday. The court had posted for Tuesday, the application seeking an extension of custody of Sivasankar. The agency also said in its application that more investigation was required on two mobile phones used by him. It said that during the course of the custodial interrogation of Sivasankar, he had stated under Section 108 of the Customs Act, that he was using only one mobile phone, which he had declared before the investigating agencies. But their probe revealed that he was using two more mobile phones, which he did not divulge before the agencies, the Customs said. Of these two phones, one number was identified and retrieved by the investigating team on November 29 and was being analysed, the petition had said. Efforts are on to identify and recover the second mobile, the agency had said, seeking the continued custody of Sivasankar. The customs said it was necessary to locate the second device and also to corroborate/confront evidence that may be recovered from both the devices. The agency had on November 24 arrested Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Kerala Chief Minister in connection with the gold smuggling case. The Customs has said it has arrested around 15 people, including Swapna Suresh, Sarith PS and Sandeep Nair, over the seizure of 30 kg gold from a diplomatic baggage of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), the ED and the Customs are conducting separate investigations into the racket that was busted with the seizure of gold. The IAS officer was suspended after his links to Suresh, a former employee of the consulate surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Urmila Matondkar joins Shiv Sena||Bollywood actor-turned-politician Urmila Matondkar, who contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections on a Congress ticket, joined the Shiv Sena on Tuesday. Matondkar (46), who quit the Congress in September 2019 after five months in that party, joined the Shiv Sena in presence of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at his residence Matoshri in suburban Bandra. Sena sources said Matondkar's name was forwarded to Governor B S Koshyari by the Shiv Sena recently for nomination to the Legislative Council from the governor's quota. Matondkar, who lost to BJP's Gopal Shetty from North Mumbai Lok Sabha seat last year, recently took on actor Kangana Ranaut for equating Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Akhilesh accuses BJP of trying to grab farmers’ lands ||Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party  on Tuesday over the farm laws issue, saying there is a “conspiracy” to take away the lands of the farmers under the guise of the amendments. The former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh also accused the government of making false promises of doubling their lands. "We, who do agriculture, clearly understand the conspiracy of grabbing lands of farmers under the guise of farm laws by giving 'jumla' (false promise) of doubling the income. We are struggling as usual with our farmer brothers, so that the structure protecting the MSP, market and agriculture remains intact. BJP is over now,” Yadav said on Twitter. Farmers, largely from Punjab and Haryana, are agitating against the three new Central agri-marketing laws at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders of Delhi. Yadav had earlier, while expressing his support to the protesters, said if farmers were left to the market and the big players they would never benefit. The Centre has invited agitating farmer unions for talks on Tuesday. The stir by farmers appeared to intensify despite a strong defence of the legislation by the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has accused the opposition of playing tricks on farmers again through misinformation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Rajnath Singh to lead talks, farmers agree to attend  ||Farmers indicated that they would be taking part in Tuesday's talks proposed by the government amid reports that defence minister Rajnath Singh would be leading discussions in the presence of Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. "The government has invited us without preconditions and we're going for the talks. About 35 representatives will go, and we will demand the laws be repealed. We will also demand a law on MSP. If the government doesn't agree, the protests will continue," Jagjit Singh Dallewal of the Bharatiya Kisan Union said after holding a meeting among themselves, according to ndtv.com. Rajnath is understood to have met Union home minister Amit Shah and Tomar on Tuesday morning to discuss modalities of the talks during which the government would try and convince farmers about the benefits of the new farm laws. The government, however, was likely to tell the protesters that the laws would not be repealed, ndtv.com, quoting high-level sources, reported. Earlier, one of the 32 farmer unions invited for talks backed out and demanded that representatives of all 500 organisations that were part of protests be invited. General secretary of Punjab-based farmers' outfit Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) Sarwan Singh Pandher said the government was trying to divide the protesters by not inviting all the unions. "A committee of several farmers' bodies has not been invited and moreover, the Prime Minister is not holding this meeting. Because of these reasons, KMSC is not going to attend the meeting," KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said. "If 32 Punjab-based farmers' bodies have been invited (for talks), a committee representing around 500 farmers' organisations is also there which should have also been invited," he said. according to PTI. "By not inviting all farmers' bodies, an attempt is being made to divide the farmer organisations. If we attend the meeting, it will be presumed that this agitation (against farm laws) is only taking place in Punjab which could be the conspiracy of the Centre," he claimed. Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's statement that these farm laws are in the interest of the farming community, Pandher said, "He (the PM) has already given his decision before the meeting. And now, no minister can go against the PM." Thousands of farmers stayed put at various Delhi border points for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday protesting against the new agriculture laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system and corporatise farming. On Monday, farmers practically told the Prime Minister off, saying they had been hearing his Mann ki Baat (monthly radio address) for over six years and it was time he heard their “mann ki baat” (words from the heart), else his party and government would pay a heavy price. In his Mann ki Baat broadcast on Sunday, Modi had lauded the new farm laws as pro-farmer while mentioning not a word about the agitation against them. Jagmohan Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), among the most respected farmer leaders in Punjab, described the Modi government as authoritarian and fascist. “Yeh aar paar ki ladai hai (This a fight to the finish),” he said while briefing the media at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana on the GT Karnal Road. Singh said what had upset the farmers most was the government’s refusal to even talk about the issue they see as non-negotiable — the repeal of the three new farm laws. He said this was not a protest by farmers from one state — Punjab — or one religion — Sikhism — as was being portrayed by the government and its supporters. “There is no question of withdrawing; we will stay put,” Singh said. Modi on Monday suggested that the farmers were suspicious of his government’s farm policies because they had been cheated by past governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||India's Covid caseload inching towards 95 lakh mark||India's COVID-19 caseload rose to 94.62 lakh with November registering over 30 per cent decline in both new deaths and cases as compared to October, while total recoveries surged to 88,89,585, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Tuesday.  The total coronavirus cases mounted to 94,62,809 with 31,118 new infections, while the death toll climbed to 1,37,621 after 482 more fatalities were reported, the data updated at 8 am showed.  New infections due to COVID-19 started to decline steadily since the first week of October.  A total 12,78,727 cases were reported in November, a decrease from October's 18,71,498, accounting for about 13.51 per cent of the total instances of the viral infection reported in the country so far.  The past month also saw 15,510 lives lost due to the disease, which is just around 11.27 per cent of the total 1,37,621 deaths recorded so far.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 88,89,585, pushing the national recovery rate to 93.94 per cent. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent.  The active COVID-19 caseload remained below five lakh for the 21th consecutive day.  There are 4,35,603 active cases in the country which comprise 4.60 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5.  It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20.  According to the ICMR, 14,13, 49,298 samples have been tested so far with 9,69,332 samples being tested on Monday.  The 482 new fatalities include 108 from Delhi, 80 from Maharashtra, 48 from West Bengal, 27 each from Haryana and Punjab, 21 each from Chhattisgarh and Kerala and 20 each from Gujarat and Rajasthan.  Total 1,37,621 deaths reported so far in the country include 47,151 from Maharashtra followed by 11,778 from Karnataka, 11,712 from Tamil Nadu, 9,174 from Delhi, 8,424 from West Bengal, 7,761 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,992 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,807 from Punjab, 3,989 from Gujarat and 3,260 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Three officials of fire-hit Covid hospital in Gujarat arrested||Police have arrested three senior officials of a company that operated a private Covid-19 hospital in Gujarat's Rajkot district where a fire killed five patients last week, a police official said on Tuesday. The fire broke out around 12.30 am on Friday in the ICU ward of Uday Shivanand Hospital in which five Covid-19 patients were killed, while 28 others were rescued. On Sunday, the police registered an FIR against five officials of Gokul Healthcare Pvt Limited, which operated the hospital, under Indian Penal Code Section 304-A (causing death by negligence). The police arrested the company's chairman, Dr Prakash Modha, his son and executive director Dr Vishal Modha, and director Dr Tejas Karamta on Monday night after their Covid-19 test reports were received, an official from Rajkot's Malviya Nagar police station said. "They have been booked along with two others under the IPC section for causing death by negligence," he said. On Sunday, Deputy Commissioner of Police Manoharsinh Jadeja told reporters that an investigation into the incident revealed negligence on part of the hospital authorities, and hence the FIR was lodged against them under IPC Section 304-A. He said the Covid-19 hospital began functioning after getting permission on September 15. The hospital was started on three floors rented at a hospital being run by Shivanand Mission Trust. During the investigation into the incident, several norms were found to have been allegedly flouted and negligence of hospital administrators came to fore, he said. The hospital did not follow fire prevention protocols and safety measures were lacking, which caused difficulties in the rescue operation and resulted in the death of five patients, he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Delhi air quality still in 'very poor' category||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Odisha girl murder ripples reach Delhi||Politics over the alleged kidnapping and murder of five-year-old Pari from Nayargah district has intensified with a delegation of BJP leaders led by its legislative party leader Pradipta Nayak meeting the victim’s family at their village and BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra staging a demonstration in front of the Odisha Bhavan in New Delhi on Monday. The BJP delegation also visited the site where the minor girl’s skeletal remains were found. “As a senior minister Arun Sahoo has been accused of shielding the perpetrators of the crime, he should first resign. A CBI probe can only reveal the truth and not the SIT or crime branch probe,” Nayak said. Upping the ante, a group of BJP leaders led by Patra on Monday held a demonstration in New Delhi and demanded immediate sacking of Sahoo. The Nayagarh Assembly constituency falls within the Puri parliamentary Lok Sabha constituency from where Patra had contested in the last general election. The BJP also organised rallies in different parts of the state demanding Sahoo’s resignation and justice Pari’s family. Patra met the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and demanded the launch of a special probe into the incident. Urging the commission to send a fact-finding team to inquire about the crime, Patra appealed to the panel to summon the Nayagarh district collector and SP for not taking prompt action in the matter. “The parents have alleged that one Babuli Nayak, who is involved in human organ racket and is close to the minister, is involved in the crime. But police have failed to take any action against him so far,” he told reporters. On July 14, Pari was kidnapped while playing near her house in her native village in Nayagarh district. A fortnight later, her skeletal remains were found from the backyard of the house. Her parents alleged that police were not taking any action in the matter because the people involved in the crime were close to higher education minister Arun Sahoo. The Odisha government has ordered a court-monitored SIT probe into the incident. While a section of the Congress leaders have welcomed the government’s move, another section has opposed it and questioned the leadership on the issue. Senior Congress MLAs Suresh Kumar Routray and Santosh Singh Saluja’s statement that they had been asked to drop the demand for resignation of the minister after Congress legislature party leader Narasingh Misha expressed satisfaction with the announcement of SIT probe has triggered a debate. “I am not satisfied with the SIT probe ordered by the chief minister but we have been asked to keep quiet,” Routray said, hinting at a deal between senior party leaders and Sahoo. Another Congress MLA Santosh Singh Saluja told The Telegraph, “ I have reservations on the issue of SIT probe. I am not satisfied but I have to accept the order of our leader in the Assembly.” Earlier, Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra had said that the order for a SIT probe into the matter was a historic victory for the Congress. The government was forced to make the announcement following pressure from the Congress. Odisha Assembly, which witnessed pandemonium over the issue for five days, was adjourned sine die on Sunday evening, a month ahead of the scheduled closure of its winter session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Damages sought for Covid vaccine trial events||Health rights advocates on Monday asked India’s drug regulatory agency to ensure that all clinical trial volunteers in India who experience severe adverse events after receiving candidate vaccines against the coronavirus disease are compensated under National Human Rights Commission guidelines. Members of the All India Drug Action Network and the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan have also asked the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, the regulatory agency, to break its silence on its probe into a serious adverse event in a Chennai trial volunteer. The volunteer had developed a neurological illness on October 11, ten days after receiving the AstraZeneca-Oxford candidate vaccine, triggering an investigation by the local institutional ethics committee at the Sri Ramachandra Hospital, the site of the Chennai trial. Researchers familiar with the events have told The Telegraph that the institutional ethics committee’s findings were conveyed to the CDSCO, which has not released any official information about the probe. Multiple queries from this newspaper to the head of the CDSCO have remained unanswered. Aidan — a consortium of physicians and public health activists — has asked the CDSCO to explain why the clinical trial was not halted if it was still investigating “the serious adverse event”. It has also asked the CDSCO to explain the protocols in place for independent investigations into serious adverse events that might occur in volunteers. The Chennai volunteer has sent a legal notice to the CDSCO, AstraZeneca, Oxford University, and the Pune-based Serum Institute of India that conducted the trial, seeking Rs 5 crore in compensation. The Serum Institute on Sunday released a public statement accusing the volunteer of spreading malicious information with a pecuniary motive and threatening to seek Rs 100 crore in damages from the volunteer. Aidan and the JSA have termed Serum’s statement intimidatory and said it was intended to threaten the volunteer. Aidan said: “We are shocked at this blatant attempt at intimidation by the Serum Institute. The Serum Institute is trying to divert public scrutiny of its trial. The trial was recruiting healthy volunteers and a participant who received a first dose has and continues to suffer neurological problems.” The Serum Institute has said there is absolutely no correlation between the trial and the medical condition of the volunteer, adding that the volunteer is “falsely laying the blame” on the trial for his medical problems. But JSA members say the NHRC guidelines for Covid-19, released in September this year, recommend compensation for any clinical trial participant who suffers a serious adverse event. “The CDSCO is entrusted with safeguarding the rights of clinical trial participants,” said Amulya Nidhi, a member of the JSA who has since 2012 campaigned for improvements in India’s clinical trial procedures. “The CDSCO has to take responsibility for investigations into serious adverse events and compensation for participants.” In its guidelines on Covid-19, the NHRC had said: “Adequate compensation may be paid to all participants involved in trials of Covid-19 interventions who suffer serious adverse events.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Intentions as pure as Gangajal: Modi to farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday arrived in Varanasi to tell farmers camped in Delhi that his intentions were as pure as Gangajal and they were finding it hard to trust his government because they had been deceived so many times in the past. “I can feel that decades of deception have created doubts in the minds of farmers. They are not at fault. But I want to tell my farmer brother and sisters, I want to say  from the ghat of the Ganga, I am saying from the holy city of Kashi that nowadays work is done with a holy intention as pure as Gangajal and not by deceit,” Modi told a gathering at Khajuri in Varanasi, his parliamentary constituency. He said that in the coming days, it would be clear how farmers can benefit from the new farm laws that are at the centre of the agitation now. Besides addressing the public meeting, the Prime Minister unveiled a road project, worshipped at the Kashi Vishwanath temple and took a ride along the ghats on a cruise boat. Athira Murali, who has been sponsoring food for slum dwellers displaced by Modi’s visit, said: “This morning, officials visited the homeless people and took them under the Rajghat bridge. The authorities requested the people of Varanasi in general not to wear black clothes while venturing out of their homes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Farmers stand firm as Modi defends farm laws, plays to Sikh sentiments ||The protesting farmers stood firm on Monday despite a multi-pronged effort by the Centre to dissuade them, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi again talking up the new farm laws and his government trying to play on Sikh sentiments on Guru Nanak’s birthday. Late on Monday night, the agriculture ministry said in a statement that in view of Covid and the winter, it had advanced to Tuesday the talks planned for December 3. Those farmer leaders who had attended the previous round were invited to join the talks at 3pm at Vigyan Bhavan, it said. Earlier in the day, the farmers practically told the Prime Minister off, saying they had been hearing his Mann ki Baat (monthly radio address) for over six years and it was time he heard their “mann ki baat” (words from the heart), else his party and government would pay a heavy price. In his Mann ki Baat broadcast on Sunday, Modi had lauded the new farm laws as pro-farmer while mentioning not a word about the agitation against them. Jagmohan Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), among the most respected farmer leaders in Punjab, described the Modi government as authoritarian and fascist. “Yeh aar paar ki ladai hai (This a fight to the finish),” he said while briefing the media at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana on the GT Karnal Road. Singh said what had upset the farmers most was the government’s refusal to even talk about the issue they see as non-negotiable — the repeal of the three new farm laws. He said this was not a protest by farmers from one state — Punjab — or one religion — Sikhism — as was being portrayed by the government and its supporters. “There is no question of withdrawing; we will stay put,” Singh said. Modi on Monday suggested that the farmers were suspicious of his government’s farm policies because they had been cheated by past governments. The I&B ministry released a booklet on Guru Nanak’s Birthday to highlight “PM Modi and his government’s special relationship with Sikhs” — seen as an effort to cajole a minority community that the government believes is leading the protest. The Right-wing ecosystem too has been trying to project the agitation as Punjab-specific although farmers across the country have been protesting. While farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh staged the initial march to Delhi, their peers from other states too have begun moving towards the capital heeding a call from the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee on Sunday. To drive home this point, BKU (Haryana) president Gurnam Singh Chaduni told reporters that the Haryana Mandi Association had called a strike in the state’s agriculture markets on Tuesday. Swaraj Abhiyan’s Yogendra Yadav, who is from Haryana, said village panchayats across the state had decided to send a member from every family to participate in the agitation. On Sunday, the leaders of 30 Khap panchayats (caste councils) in Haryana held a meeting in Rohtak and decided to join the protest. Sombir Sangwan, the Independent MLA from Dadri who also heads the Sangwan Khap, told PTI that “all khaps which took part in the meeting unanimously decided to extend support to the thousands of farmers sitting in protest on Delhi’s borders”. The Indian diaspora, particularly in America, Canada and Britain, have chipped in with digital mobilisation. According to the petition website Change.org, more than 2 lakh people have signed petitions demanding justice for the farmers on its platform over the past two days. Taxi and auto-rickshaw unions in the National Capital Region have expressed solidarity with the farmers, urging them to continue their agitation till the government convened a special session of Parliament to repeal the new farm laws. Several popular Punjabi singers, including Sidhu Moosewala and Babbu Maan, have joined the farmers at the protests. Parallel efforts are on, however, to discredit the movement by alleging Khalistani links, engaging in dog whistling (“the farmers are being fed biryani”) and focusing on the traffic jams rather than the issues that prompted the agitation. Some media outlets, too, have drawn flak for dwelling on these efforts, with “godi (lapdog) media” placards coming up at some places. Punjab’s feisty farmers have refused to let the Right-wing campaign dampen their spirits. Monday evening saw them celebrate Gur Purab by lighting candles at the Tikri border. They offered prayers on the road and cooked and distributed prasad. Gurpal Singh, 25, who has come from Patiala with his 85-year-old grandfather, Ajaib Singh, said: “In the morning, prayers were held. We lit candles in the evening and greeted each other.” Jaspreet Singh, a student of Panjab University in Patiala, said this was the first time he is away from home on the festival. “We pray for the well being of everyone. People who have come here from Punjab will light diyas on their tractors and road. We are obviously missing our family….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Kerala raid anger at Vijayan police adviser||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has a new headache to handle with rumblings from a section of the ruling Left Democratic Front over undue powers being exercised by some police officers. While there was simmering discontent with the functioning of the chief minister’s police adviser Raman Srivastava, matters came to a head with the recent raids conducted by the state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau at a public sector firm that runs a hugely popular chit fund. Officials from the vigilance department on Saturday raided 36 branches of Kerala State Financial Enterprises Ltd. While it didn’t explain the reason for the raids, KSFE chairman Peelipose Thomas on Monday explained that “there were no major discrepancies” and the sleuths asked “some basic questions” and left quickly. Vijayan termed the vigilance bureau’s action as “lightning inspections” based on the report they get. “But they don’t take any action. It is the government that initiates action based on their report,” said Vijayan. He defended Srivastava and said he had no role in day-to-day affairs of the police department. “No one has to report to him or take instructions from him,” said Vijayan. The chief minister said there were 24 such lightning inspections on various departments since last year and none of them was initiated by Srivastava. Both the ruling and Opposition leaders were aghast at the state government’s own agency raiding a state-run enterprise, allegedly without informing the chief minister. A section within the CPM has pointed fingers at Srivastava, the powerful adviser who enjoys chief secretary’s rank in the government. A 1973 batch Kerala cadre IPS officer, Srivastava was appointed as Vijayan’s police adviser in 2017. One of the police officers under cloud of suspicion in the 1994 Isro spy scandal, Srivastava eventually headed the state police and retired in 2011 as director-general of BSF. A senior CPM legislator told The Telegraph on Monday that he was “shocked” to learn about the vigilance raids at KSFE branches. “I have reasons to believe that the chief minister didn’t know about it and the raids were carried out to put KSFE under a cloud of suspicion,” said the lawmaker who didn’t want to be named. He said Srivastava was already an adviser of a private security management firm that is better known for running a popular chit fund. “I am not sure if it is a conflict of interest since he is in an advisory capacity in both jobs. But an explanation is needed,” said the lawmaker. The MLA admitted that no one had the courage to question the appointment. “Since Pinarayi (Vijayan) was always a very strong leader, we thought he would be able to control him (Srivastava),” he said. According to the lawmaker, Srivastava and “some other police officers” advised Vijayan on going ahead with the controversial ordinance that inserted Section 118A into the Kerala Police Act that was repealed in just four days after an outcry over the provision against free speech. “Many of us in the party feel that Srivastava enjoys tremendous clout in the police department,” he said without elaborating. “Many of us have always felt that Srivastava’s style of functioning was behind the arrest of Alan and Taha,” he said, alluding to journalism students Alan Shuhaib and Taha Faizal, who were arrested in November 2019 and slapped with provisions under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for allegedly distributing Maoist literature. Both of them are languishing in jail. But finance minister Thomas Isaac tried to downplay such allegations from party members. “The government does not have such a view,” he said, when asked if some police officers were behind the KSFE raids. Already mired in controversies ranging from a gold smuggling case in which a senior bureaucrat was arrested over his links with the key accused, to being accused of curbing free speech with the now-repealed ordinance, the Opposition has been leveraging on the issues ahead of the local body polls in December and state polls next summer. “Strong difference of opinion within the government is coming out in the open. This is an incident that reflects the loss of collective responsibility in the government,” leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala told reporters on Monday. Former chief minister Oomen Chandy noted that during his tenure “vigilance never took any action without informing the minister concerned. But it depends on the style of those governing to decide if they should be kept informed on vigilance raids”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Poor grow poorer, and don’t even see it||The story goes that a Latin American dictator beholden to the CIA and the US President for his position met the President on one of his regular trips to America to request more military aid. He reported to the US President: “Sir, the economy is doing well, not the people.” This is a common enough situation, only seldom admitted by the heads of state. It goes without saying the state of a country’s economy depends not merely on production of output but also on the well-being of the people. The link between the two is established by the distribution of output through wealth and income. The link tends to be complex when growth or stagnation is accompanied by rapid changes in the inequality of income. Suppose a country has one dictator or emperor at the top and the rest are his subjects. The country is experiencing rapid growth in output, say 10 per cent. If all the increased output goes to the emperor, the people are no better off, the economy is richer but inequality between the top and the bottom has widened. There can be many variations of this story. Even with negative growth the emperor can be richer and the people poorer, or the other way round depending on how output gets distributed. This is mere description with numbers although more elaborate statistics with summary formulas is a much-researched area to make this point. However, we can see already that usual platitudes like, “growth automatically trickles down” or, “you must create wealth before you distribute it” are misleadingly unhelpful. Because, an understanding requires identifying the mechanism by which the process of growth is linked to distribution. The Indian case Information put together from diverse sources like UBS (formerly the Union Bank of Switzerland), PwC (PricewaterhouseCoopers), Forbes’ and Harun India Rich list, Bloomberg billionaire index as well as recent reports from Oxfam and the World Inequality Lab present an unambiguous picture of economic inequality rising at an unprecedented rate in India. Inequality rose sharply in both China and India during globalised liberalisation. In 1990 the top 1 per cent captured 8 per cent and 11 per cent of national income in China and India respectively. However, inequality accelerated faster in India, and the corresponding figures were 14 per cent and 21 per cent respectively in 2019. Since then inequality in China has shown distinct signs of decelerating but no such sign is visible in India. Rising inequality at the very top and growth were not positively correlated. Even when growth finally turned negative at minus 23.9 per cent between August 2019 and June 2020, the income of the billionaires increased by 35 per cent say, compared to 27 per cent in the US under pro-rich Trump. The richest Indian, Mukesh Ambani, the only Asian among the richest 5 in the world, increased his net worth by 73 per cent, with Gautam Adani rising fast but a distant second. Indeed, the entire group of richest 828 Indians with individual net wealth exceeding Rs 1,000 crore increased their total wealth by 21 per cent at a time when the Indian economy had been sent into a coma due to a series of negative policy shocks like demonetisation, badly implemented GST, severest lockdown at 4-hour notice, new anti-labour laws and attempts at corporatisation of small scale agriculture. What’s going on? Growth, distribution Lack of jobs is the most visible link between growth and inequality. Unemployment is massive in India, but remains mostly invisible because the very poor cannot afford to be unemployed. This is why, for instance, statistics show a higher unemployment rate among the more educated who come from relatively richer backgrounds. The very poor in the meantime have to eke out a miserable living. They are under-employed income-wise, not time-wise, often working long hours with low hourly earning. This is the low end of India’s informal economy, gives livelihood to 93 per cent of India’s workforce and produces 45 per cent of total output. And yet, this is a black box, because employment and enterprise surveys carried out by the government at intervals of five years rely on interpolation for interim years based on indices of industrial production in the organised sector, income tax data, etc. Negative shocks like demonetisation and pandemic lockdown hit hardest this sector’s income, but how hard can only be guessed. The big organised industries contributed to the unemployment problem through higher mechanisation and automation under globalisation to cope with international competitiveness, requiring quality control and on-time delivery. And yet, unlike China, India continues to be a country that imports more than it exports. However, a ‘feel good’ foreign exchange position especially for the upper middle class is maintained mostly with short-term inflow of foreign portfolio investment. This has the associated fear of capital flight. Successive governments irrespective of their political colour have managed so far not to rattle the financial sentiments of the capital market by restraining severely public spending on health, education and housing. Naturally, the poor are the hardest hit. Adivasis and Dalits are not only among the poorest, but state violence has been unleashed especially on them in the name of development. Cheap land-based natural resources like minerals, forests, water bodies, mountains and sea shores have been acquired from them by the government, and handed over to the large private corporations mostly to incentivise them to invest. Only a tiny fraction of that dispossessed population can be absorbed in modern industry because of the relative small size of the total market. We buy more than we sell in the foreign market, while vastly increased labour productivity through mechanisation in a sluggish domestic market has killed rather than creating more jobs. Technology has been working against the poor people. Big industry requires more natural resource per unit of output and puts pressure for the next round of dispossession along with further deterioration of environment. Joblessness, environmental degradation of city and countryside, and a swelling informal sector are intertwined with growth. However, even when growth falters, the show can still be kept going! The corporate sector quickly learns it can accumulate wealth more speedily because the government will hand them over land and other natural resources very cheap if they manage to be politically on the right side of the government. Corporate donations flow uninterrupted, say, through electoral bonds, as production becomes less important than acquisition of natural resources plus the usual tax breaks and anti-labour laws. Corporate wealth increases leap forward, leading to an artificial stock market boom as the rich invest a big part of their income in stocks. Higher stock values also have more collateral value, justifying bank loans whether paid back or not, which leads to further rise in stock price. Inequality grows along with the wealth of the already wealthy. The lure of quick capital gains can even turn into a bullish mania despite even negative growth in the real economy. Apart from occasional relief, democratic government with its cosiness to selected corporates hopes to ride the storms of election with the money power, a pliable media, academia and other institutions falling in line. Growing inequality blends seamlessly into this tale of democratic development. What now? The British empiricist philosopher David Hume had argued long ago, you cannot get from an “ought” to an “is” proposition. In his chilling words: “It is not contrary to reason to prefer destruction of the whole world to the scratch of my finger.” What the government ought to do is not what the government does. The government has its own reasons. When money power, biased institutions and a highly pliable media combine to create a thick fog, public visibility diminishes, and ghosts appear in the name of religion, caste, an imagined history of tradition and false nationalism. In the ghostly dance that follows, people easily lose their sanity. They lose sight of democratic, economic and social policies that might help them. Instead they become engrossed in the phantom dance that has been put on for them. Digression from the real is the only game in town played by the dictator for his people. Amit Bhaduri is an economist. In January this year, Bhaduri gave up his status as professor emeritus at JNU in protest against the throttling of dissent on the campus||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||India plans coastal surveillance on Chinese in Indian Ocean||India is planning to set up coastal surveillance radar systems in friendly countries to counter China’s growing presence in the Indian Ocean Region, sources in the security establishment said. “These radars are meant for maritime surveillance and can easily detect boats, fishing vessels and any illegal activities in the sea,” said a security official attached to the Union home ministry. These coastal surveillance radar systems will be installed in Bangladesh, Myanmar, Maldives, Sri Lanka and Mauritius. An official of the Indian Navy said India was worried over China’s increasing influence in the Indian Ocean Region. “The Chinese People’s Liberation Army is taking assertive stance in the South China Sea and is challenging India’s domination in the region. There is perceptible threat from Chinese submarines in the Indian Ocean even though they claim it is for anti-piracy. We have been carrying out threat assessment of PLA’s submarines,” he said. These coastal surveillance radar systems, he said, will help in keeping surveillance on the movements of Chinese submarines and any other illegal activities in the sea. He recounted how a Chinese research vessel had entered Indian waters last year near the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The Indian Navy had forced the PLA’s ship to return after it entered India’s exclusive economic zone. “The PLA’s ship was suspected to be on a spying mission,” the official said. Sources said eight to nine Chinese ships are usually present in Indian Ocean Region either for scientific research or anti-piracy missions. “The navy is keenly watching Chinese presence in the region,” the official said. Last month India had taken part in the four-nation Malabar exercise known as the QUAD group, involving the US, Japan and Australia in the Bay of Bengal, in the backdrop of China’s aggressive military behaviour in the Indo-Pacific, South China Sea and along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a tense border standoff along the LAC since early May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Book revisits Ramayana through a legal perspective||Few doubt that Rabindranath Tagore could have been jailed as an “anti-national” in today’s India for calling nationalism “a great menace” that “has been at the bottom of India’s troubles”. But what if the boot were on the other foot? Could Lord Ram himself be prosecuted for the murder of King Bali of Kishkindha under the judicial system of modern-day India? Could Sita seek divorce and maintenance under the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, after being “abandoned” by Ram? And what defence could Ram offer if summoned to the courts? All these points have been raised and discussed in an amusing new book, Ramayana Revisited: An Epic Through a Legal Prism, co-authored by retired journalist Anil Maheshwari and Supreme Court advocate Vipul Maheshwari. Published by Bloomsbury, the volume hit the stands recently. Although mythologist Anand Neelakantan has lauded the book for giving “a balanced perspective of the Ramayana as each character argues his or her points”, the authors have issued a disclaimer, perhaps as a shield against possible charges of blasphemy from Hindutva advocates. “All dramatisations are fictional and not intended to deal with, defame or hurt any persons or person’s family, dead or alive,” they have written. The book has conjured up the possibility of an FIR being lodged against Ram to “investigate the cold-blooded murder of Bali, King of Kishkindha”. “It is a punishable offence to physically eliminate Bali, and that too by hiding behind a tree, while he was engaged in a fierce combat with his brother, Sugriva,” says the imaginary chargesheet. “Therefore we believe that Vali’s assassination was nothing but wanton disregard (of) all the established principles of dharma. We request the court to hold Rama answerable for his conduct u/s (under section) 302 of the IPC (murder).” The Maryada Purushottam’s defence is eminently pre-modern but carries shades of present-day international diplomacy: “We were merely upholding the promises made to Sugriva. (The) doctrine of necessity is a principle which authorises kings and princes to act in a particular manner. It is not true that I was no longer a prince and did not enjoy the authority of the State…. “As the prince of Ayodhya, I cannot be held responsible when engaged in the State’s affairs. Everything I did was to search for my queen, Sita, and the court has no jurisdiction against it. Therefore, I ask, not urge, (you) to drop these proceedings at once.” The authors have desisted from passing any verdict on the rival contentions, leaving the matter to the reader. It’s the section on Vibhishan that perhaps resonates the most with contemporary relevance. The prosecution argues that Vibhishan’s dharma required his presence in — and complete loyalty to — the kingdom of Lanka, especially during such a vulnerable period, and that his duties cannot be conflated with Ram’s dharma of fighting for his wife and his honour. “Therefore we request this court to punish Vibhishana under Section 121 and 121A of the IPC (sedition) and under Section 3 of the Official Secrets Act dealing with penalty for spying, etc,” the prosecution says. Vibhishan’s defence seems to mirror the Tagorean principle that “patriotism can’t be our final spiritual shelter” — a stand the poet might not get away with today. Ravan’s brother says he had simply joined the forces of dharma against the corrupt forces of Lanka. “I believe that I acted in favour of the State of Lanka. I managed to preserve some assets, wealth and warriors to rebuild Lanka, subsequently,” he pleads. “The decimation of the ruling elite of Lanka was necessary for further progress of the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi asks citizens to choose between farmers and Modi's capitalist friends||Rahul Gandhi on Monday asked the citizens to decide who they are standing with — the farmers who feed them or Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s capitalist friends. Arguing in a video message that patriotism is protecting the country’s strength, which is the farmers, Rahul tweeted: “The farmers have come to Delhi’s border, leaving their homes and farms in this winter to protest against the black laws. You have to decide where you stand in this battle of truth and untruth: With the farmers who feed you or the Prime Minister’s capitalist friends?” The Congress ran a daylong “Speak Up For Farmers” campaign on different social media platforms, posting videos and messages giving details about the new farm laws and quotes from farmers across the country. Thousands of Congress leaders and workers participated in the campaign, which trended on Twitter nationally with around 1.5 lakh tweets. Participating in the campaign, Rahul said: “The critical question is why are the farmers out in the streets? Why have they come to Delhi walking thousands of kilometers? Narendra Modi says these three laws are in the interest of the farmers. If that is true, why are farmers angry? Why aren’t they happy? These laws are for two or three friends of Narendra Modi. These laws are meant to steal from farmers. That’s why we all have to stand with India’s strength; we have to stand with farmers.” He also appealed to Congressmen across the country to extend whatever help possible to the farmers. The Youth Congress has not only made arrangements for the farmers’ stay at its central office in Delhi, they are also distributing cooked food packets and other essential items among the farmers stranded at Uttar Pradesh and Haryana borders. The Youth Congress has opened temporary clinics at protest sites where doctors are treating farmers free of cost. The party also criticised the Prime Minister for misleading the nation on the new laws despite their complete rejection by all the farmer unions. Congress’s Randeep Surjewala responded to Modi’s renewed attempt to justify the laws saying: “How can the Prime Minister use lies and falsehood to defend the laws, which have triggered such a mass movement of farmers all over the country? Why are you using police force, tear gas, water cannons, barbed wires and false allegations to break their resolve? Why have you hatched this conspiracy to harm the farmers of the country?” Several Congress leaders used pet symbols of BJP — such as patriotism and Sardar Patel — to expose their hypocrisy in dealing with the farmers. They asked if maligning the farming community, which forms more than half of the population, calling them terrorists and using force to crush their voices were part of the BJP’s patriotic acts. They asked if Indian democracy didn’t allow space for farmers to express their resentment and whether they don’t deserve a conversation. “Meaning of democracy is respect for the voice of every citizen. Ministers are elected representatives of the people and they don’t own the country. They have to act per their will,” one video said. Many leaders pointed out that the government should not create problems for the farmers if it can’t reward them for ensuring food safety for the nation with their blood and toil. Arguing that farmers were living in wretched poverty, not even getting input costs for their yield at times, some leaders said they didn’t only feed the nation but sent their sons to the army to defend the borders. “The Modi government couldn’t wait for Parliament and introduced the black laws without discussion through ordinance, but they want farmers to wait on the road in this winter chill till December 3 to start negotiations,” one leader said. Many leaders pointed to the irony of the BJP’s desperation to appropriate the legacy of Sardar Patel who was a farmers’ leader. Shiv Sena in its mouthpiece Saamna also heaped scorn on the BJP, writing in its editorial on Monday, “Modi and Shah built the statue of Sardar Patel in Gujarat. That statue would have shed tears seeing the plight of the farmers on the Delhi border over the past few days. Sardar was a farmers’ leader. While Modi denied entry to the farmers in Delhi, the BJP government in Haryana committed the inhuman act of using water cannons on the peaceful protesters in this winter.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Ally to BJP: Roll back farm laws or I quit||Rashtriya Loktantrik Party chief and Rajasthan MP Hanuman Beniwal on Monday threatened to quit the NDA over the new farm laws, piling pressure on the Narendra Modi government that has already witnessed ally Akali Dal walk out on the issue. An independent Haryana MLA supporting the state’s BJP-led government, Sombir Sangwan, too resigned as chairperson of the State Livestock Development Board in support of the agitating farmers. Although Beniwal’s party has just one Lok Sabha member, it wields influence over the politically important Jat community in Rajasthan, which has a significant presence in 10 to 15 Lok Sabha seats in the state. Beniwal, a vocal advocate of the BJP’s nationalist agenda who aggressively extolled Modi and castigated his opponents, had backed the new farm laws when they were passed in the Lok Sabha. But his party has been under pressure from its support base to publicly oppose the new farm laws. The RLP is the second BJP ally to revolt against the farm laws after the Punjab-based Shiromani Akali Dal, which quit the NDA recently and has been backing the agitating farmers. Beniwal’s departure from the NDA would make no material difference to the Modi government but could fan protests in Rajasthan, boost the agitating farmers’ morale and weaken the government’s efforts to portray the protest as “Khalistani” and “Congress-sponsored”. Besides, it could affect Jat support for the BJP in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, where too the community is politically significant. “Mr Amit Shah, in view of the countrywide sentiment in support of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the three recently passed bills related to agriculture should be immediately withdrawn,” Beniwal said in a Hindi tweet. “The government must implement all the recommendations of the Swaminathan (farm) Commission and immediately hold talks with the farmers.” In a second tweet, Beniwal said that if the government failed to act immediately on the farm laws, he would be “compelled to rethink” his “continuance in the NDA”. Beniwal, himself from the Jat community, tweeted that farmers and soldiers were his party’s mainstay. He chided the BJP government in Haryana for using force against the farmers who were marching on Delhi. Officially, the BJP remained tight-lipped on Beniwal’s threat but party leaders privately acknowledged that it was a substantial blow and would help intensify the farmers’ protest. Sangwan’s resignation in Haryana will increase the pressure on deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janata Party, the ruling BJP’s coalition partner, which too draws its strength from the agrarian Jat community. The BJP’s government in Haryana depends on the JJP for survival. Sangwan said that farmers from his constituency Dadri had joined the protest and that he was resigning in solidarity with them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Govt’s mother tongue push worries IITs||Teachers and officials at the Indian Institutes of Technology are worried about a government move to introduce BTech programmes in Indian languages at these institutions from 2021. They have cited possible damage to these premier tech schools’ brand image and problems relating to infrastructure, teacher training and the students’ career possibilities. Several independent academics and retired professors too have questioned the government decision on these grounds, while also citing the lack of engineering books and terminology in the Indian languages. The announcement came on Thursday from the education ministry, which said the IITs and the National Institutes of Technology (NITs) would offer BTech courses in the “mother tongue” too. Currently these tech schools teach BTech courses only in English. Government officials clarified that the “mother tongue” referred to the principal language of the state in which a particular IIT was located, and that the option would probably be restricted to three courses: computer science, electronics and civil engineering. So, while IIT Kharagpur would teach these three subjects to undergraduates in Bengali apart from English, IIT Bombay and IIT Madras would do so in Marathi and Tamil, respectively, they said. The IITs located in the Hindi-speaking states will offer these programmes in Hindi and English. The officials said that each of the IITs would have to create 50 extra seats for students seeking to be taught in the regional language. This means that would-be engineers will have the option of taking the JEE Advanced and JEE Main — through which the IITs and the NITs fill their seats, respectively — in all the major regional languages too. Currently, the JEE Advanced can be written in Hindi and English while the JEE Main allows Gujarati as well. Those taking these exams successfully in the newly introduced languages will now figure on a separate merit list and will be eligible for admission only to the 50 extra seats created for them in each IIT, two officials said. “There’s huge worry (over the government decision) within the IIT system,” an IIT official who did not wish to be quoted said. “The brightest students will not want to enrol in the regional language courses. This will hurt the IITs’ national character and their brand image as quality institutions.” The IIT official said that many students who take their board exams in their mother tongue go on to do well at the IITs despite the language of instruction being English. But if learning in English is not difficult for these students, learning to teach in the regional language could prove difficult for the faculty, he said. A senior official from another IIT said the 50 extra seats for the regional language courses would add nearly eight per cent seats to each IIT’s BTech programme. The IITs have over the past two years already added 25 per cent seats to implement the Economically Weaker Sections reservation. The government has allocated only Rs 429 crore for them this year to expand their facilities to accommodate the quota, whereas they need more than Rs 20,000 crore, the official said. “The 25 per cent increase in seats has caused a shortage of hostel berths, which the 50 extra seats will aggravate,” he said. “Besides, we need to expand our laboratory and classroom facilities and recruit more teachers. But no expansion is happening on any front.” Government officials said no discussions had taken place with the IITs on the decision to have regional language BTech courses. Sunil Mukhi, a professor at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, said any decision about the IITs should be taken by the IIT Council, and after consultations with the institutes. “If the objective is to ensure that bright students who are weak in English do not miss out on the quality education the IITs can provide, I would say it’s a nice idea,” he said. “But it involves certain challenges. Are the teachers trained enough to teach (in the regional languages)? Will the government provide funds to train them?” Mukhi said the career opportunities of IIT students who take the regional language courses would be limited to a single state, or a handful of states. “The brighter students would not want to limit the scope of their career within the state. They have the natural aspiration to serve nationally and globally,” he said. A committee set up in 2011 by the All India Council of Technical Education under former IIT Delhi director R.K. Shevgaonkar had advised against the teaching of engineering in the regional languages, citing the lack of material, terminology and teacher training. “My personal opinion is that teaching engineering in the Indian languages is neither feasible nor ideal,” Shevgaonkar told The Telegraph. “The operational difficulties in terms of study material and teacher training are high.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
01-12-2020||India||Unnao girl’s lawyer dies of crash injuries||The lawyer of the Unnao rape survivor died on Monday of complications from wounds suffered last year in a truck-car collision, blamed on a BJP leader, that also injured the girl and killed two of her aunts. Mahendra Singh, under treatment for multi-organ damage at his Unnao home since being discharged from AIIMS, New Delhi, six months ago, died at the district hospital where he had been admitted on Sunday, his family said. Kuldeep Sengar, a then MLA from the BJP who is serving a life term for kidnapping and raping the then minor girl in June 2017, is also accused of conspiracy in the murder case arising out of the truck-car collision. After the July 28, 2019, collision on a Rae Bareli highway, the girl and Singh were admitted to AIIMS. While the girl recovered after a few months, the institute discharged Singh six months ago and advised home treatment. After his rape conviction and sentencing by a Delhi court last December, Kuldeep was in March handed 10 years’ jail in the murder of the girl’s father in Unnao. He had in April 2018 got the girl’s father beaten up for refusing to withdraw the rape case and implicated him in a false arms case. Days later, the father died of his injuries in Unnao jail. The truck-collision murder case is pending with a Delhi court. The Supreme Court had transferred all the three cases — relating to the rape and the murders of the survivor’s father and aunts – to Delhi and asked the CBI to probe them. In August last year, the BJP had suspended Kuldeep from the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta HC directs Saradha scam accused Debjani to cooperate with CBI investigators||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday directed Debjani Mukherjee, an accused in the Saradha chit fund scam, to cooperate fully with the CBI in its investigation into the case involving thousands of crores of rupees of investors' money. Adjourning the hearing in a bail petition moved by Mukherjee, a division bench comprising justices Sanjib Banerjee and Aniruddha Roy directed that the matter will appear for hearing again after eight weeks. The bench directed that the petitioner must cooperate fully with the CBI, both in the matter of any interrogation that may be necessary and for the purpose of obtaining her voice sample. The petitioner, an alleged accomplice and close confidante of main accused Sudipta Sen, claimed that she has been in custody for nearly seven years and as such be granted bail. Appearing for the CBI, Additional Solicitor General Y J Dastoor submitted that the petitioner along with other persons who are the accused in connected matters have woven an extensive web to trip the investigation and the courts so that the matter is delayed and prayers as the present one can be made. Dastoor submitted that a simple application for interrogating co-accused Sudipta Sen and this petitioner in custody has taken months because of the myriad objections taken. He further said that an order has been obtained on November 27 to take the voice sample of Mukherjee to match the same with some tape-recorded evidence that has been unearthed. The additional solicitor general submitted that it may not be appropriate for the petitioner's prayer to be considered at this stage, even before her voice sample is obtained. The Saradha group allegedly defrauded lakhs of people in Bengal through its several Ponzi schemes. Thousands of crores of rupees were lost after the company collapsed in 2013. Its promoter Sudipta Sen and Debjani Mukherjee were arrested the same year from Sonmarg in Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Where is the PM-CARES Fund money, asks Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday sought to know where the money of the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) fund was gone, while alleging that the Centre was using national agencies to bulldoze the country’s democracy. She asserted that the Trinamul Congress will not act as per the whims of the BJP-led central government. “Where has all the money of the PM Cares Fund gone? Does anyone know about the future of these funds? Where are the lakhs of crores of money gone? Why was no audit done? The Centre is lecturing us. What have they given us to combat the COVID pandemic,” Banerjee sad at a press conference after a cabinet meeting. The TMC supremo also claimed that the law and order situation in Bengal is better than other states, and accused the BJP of targeting her state as the Assembly election approaches. "The Centre is using agencies to bulldoze and threaten us. We are not afraid of them. They (BJP) are not a political party but garbage of lies," she said. Elections to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly are due in April-May next year. Speaking on the farmers' protest going on in the northern parts of India, Banerjee said that no other party was in support of the farm laws, but the Centre is adamant in imposing it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal govt launches 'Duare Sarkar' campaign ahead of Assembly polls||With an eye on the 2021 assembly elections, the Trinamul Congress administration in Bengal on Tuesday launched its massive outreach programme 'Duare Sarkar' (government at doorsteps) to ensure that people avail the benefits of 11 state-run welfare schemes. Elections to the 294-member state assembly are due in April-May next year. People were seen queuing up in front of various ward and panchayat offices to avail the benefits of the schemes. The outreach programme will continue till January 30. With slogan 'jar jekhane darkar, asche apnar duare sarkar' (the government will be at your doorsteps whenever you need it), the programme will be conducted for two months in four phases. "This is a revolutionary step taken by our government to ensure no one is left out. All those who are eligible for the schemes will get the benefits. For example, Swastha Sathi (health scheme) will cover the entire population of the state," Municipal Affairs Minister Firhad Hakim said while inaugurating a ward office here. The 11 schemes will be made available to the beneficiaries through camps set up for the purpose, he said. The camps will be functional from 10 am to 4 pm every day, an official said. The schemes include globally acclaimed 'Kanyashree', a cash transfer programme aimed at retaining girls in schools and preventing their early marriage, 'Khadya Sathi' which aims at ensuring food security for 90 per cent of the population and 'Sikhashree', a one-time grant to SC and ST students studying in classes 5-8 to reduce their dropout rates. Other schemes include 'Rupashree', a one-time grant of Rs 25,000 to poor families during their daughter's marriage, 'Jai Johar' for the betterment of STs, 'Taposili Bandhu' pension scheme for SCs and 'Aikyashree' scholarship programme for students from minority communities. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, however, alleged that the TMC government kicked off its election campaign using public money. "They are using public money for the election campaign. After 10 years, if the state government has to launch a campaign to ensure everybody gets the benefits, then the TMC leaders should be ashamed of themselves," Ghosh said. Hakim, while reacting to the allegations, said Ghosh should first answer about the amount of public money spent by the BJP-led government at the Centre on its publicity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Anit’s rally today to counter Roshan Giri||The Binay Tamang- Anit Thapa camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has decided to hold a public meeting in Kurseong on Tuesday at the very spot where their rivals from the Bimal Gurung camp addressed people on Sunday. The Bimal Gurung camp held its first public meeting after three-and-half years on Sunday, with the Gurung faction’s second-in-command Roshan Giri who lambasting the BJP for failed promises and the Tamang-Thapa camp for alleged corruption and nepotism in the running of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. “We will hold a meeting at the same venue tomorrow (Tuesday). Anit Thapa will be our main speaker,” said a leader from the Binay camp. The rally from Kurseong Tourist Lodge will start at 10am. “We will reply to allegations made by them (Roshan Giri) and expose their hypocrisy and duplicity,” the Tamang faction’s leader added. Giri had called upon the people of the region to “uproot” the BJP, which had been their ally for the past 11 years until October, and also lambasted the Tamang-Thapa camp, though both warring Morcha factions are now allies of Trinamul. Observers believe such shows of strength by both factions would continue. “Both parties are competing to show the Trinamul leadership that each has more supporters in the hills. However, with both parties tying up with a party against Gorkhaland statehood, it is to be seen whether this show of strength translates into votes,” the observer added. Traffic through Kurseong is likely to be affected on Tuesday just like on Sunday. Apolitical party Statehood Demand Coordination Committee (SDCC) was formed in Kalimpong with 51 coordinators on Monday. Prabhakar Dewan, a lawyer from Kalimpong at the forefront of this committee, said “genuine people wanting Gorkhaland” had no option but to grumble. “We want to stop this grumbling and unify people for Mission Gorkhaland. We want to bring all political parties on board, too,” said Dewan. Coordinators will not be allowed to contest elections as polls purportedly “creation divisions” in the hills and create distractions in the Gorkhaland demand, said Dewan, one of the two chief coordinators, the other being Udai Kumai. “There will be no single leader. We will have two chief coordinators who will also not be allowed to take up the post after two terms,” said Dewan. In the past, too, such all-party initiatives had been undertaken in the hills with little success. The perceived “vacuum” in the hills is resurfacing strongly. Recently another apolitical forum, Gorkhaland Sankalp Samua, had also been formed in Darjeeling with the same aim as the Kalimpong committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Protest halts Deocha-Pachami coal mine social impact study||Social impact assessment survey of the Deocha-Pachami coal mine project was halted at Saluka village in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar after over 100 residents protested on Monday morning against alleged omission of some families from the list of people who could be affected  by the  venture. The Deocha-Pachami coal block is spread over 11,222 acres with coal reserves of around 2.2 billion tonnes in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar. The coal block is so vast that it can generate jobs for at least 1.5 lakh people, said sources. A 20-member team of an agency hired by the Power Development Corporation Limited (PDCL) was carrying out the survey at Saluka, Kabilpur and Makdamnagar villages when a group of people stopped the work at Saluka and accused the officials of leaving out several families from the ambit of its assessment. “The surveyors were skipping many families even though they are landholders. There are also many families that live on government or private land but have no papers. We had requested the team to include those people in the survey, but the surveyors did not heed our appeal. We fear that many villagers would be deprived of compensations,” said Ratan Singh, the secretary of Bhumi Raksha Committee, an apolitical platform that was formed a week ago to protect the rights of land losers. The villagers on Monday afternoon held a meeting under the banner of the committee and decided not to allow the survey till there was clarity about the process. “We are not against coal mines but we have objections if poor people are left out of the list only because they have no land record,” said Mohammed Hasibuddin, a villager and member of the committee. The sources said there were a very large number of tribal people in Mohammedbazar who would be affected by the coal mine project. Even though the government wants to implement the project without any hindrance and had deployed top officials from Nabanna for the purpose, a section of tribal people under the banner of a faction of the Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta had already expressed their displeasure with the coalmine as they did not want to lose their land rights. “Many people are opposed to the coalmine project and Monday’s protest at Saluka is an example. The protest will become bigger if the government tries to force the project on us,” said Sunil Soren, a convener of the tribal outfit. “The project is in its primary stage and there could be some misunderstanding,” Birbhum district magistrate Vijay Bharti said when asked about the halt in the survey. “We will overcome this hurdle also.” Apprehending opposition to the project, the government had in July sent the then chief secretary Rajiva Sinha to Mohammedbazar to hold a meeting with the villagers. Sinha had assured the people that the government’s priority was to ensure that the land losers’ rights were protected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Three dead as SUV hits bike in Malda||Two youths and an underage boy died on NH512 on Sunday night when their two-wheeler crashed with a speeding SUV at Amtala under Gazole police station of Malda. Police said the SUV headed heading towards South Dinajpur rammed into the two-wheeler. The driver and passengers of the SUV fled, leaving the trio bleeding on the road. Doctors at a Gazole hospital pronounced Ujjwal Pal, 24, Kalipada Turi, 21, and Surajit Roy, 15, dead. Police suspect the SUV driver was drunk. Nurtaz Ansari, a member of the Shahajadpur panchayat, where the incident occurred, said they found the SUV, with its front damaged, parked on one side of the road. “There is a sharp bend in this stretch of the highway. There are caution boards but drivers often negotiate recklessly through the turn. We suspect the vehicle was at breakneck speed and lost control as the two-wheeler came from the opposite side,” he said. Police have seized the vehicle and are in search of its owner. “We have information that the driver was drunk. Search is on to find him and other passengers in the SUV,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Reliance Jute mill at Bhatpara shuts, 4,000 jobless||Around 4,000 workers attached to Reliance Jute Mills at Bhatpara in North 24-Parganas became jobless as mill authorities suspended production “indefinitely” from Monday after the workers’ union did not allow employers to “downsize” the workforce. Set up in 1906,  Reliance Jute is one of the oldest such mills in the country. It has no association with the Reliance groups of the Ambanis. The sudden notice angered workers who blocked the Kanchrapara-Barrackpore Road (Ghoshpara Road) for about an hour on Monday morning, dispersing only after police assured them that they would take up the issue with the district administration. The Reliance mill management said it had tried to implement the decision of a tripartite agreement adopted on July 14 last year on “production and manning pattern” but this angered workers. “When the management was trying to implement experimentally the new manning pattern (deployment of workers) in two departments, the workers resisted,” said a source in the mill. “The unions are aware that workers of selection, drawing, winding, beaming, finishing, and sack sewing departments are not performing their duties satisfactorily, and efficiency in those departments has dropped abnormally, escalating cost of production beyond sustainable level. Union members were informed about it in many meetings, including the one on November 29...,” claimed a senior official of the mill management. Workers denied the claim. “The management did not cite any specific reason. For the last few days, it has been trying to downsize the workforce. Last evening (Sunday) the workers were told that they would be paid only for specific work and we agreed. But the management decided to suspend work without discussing with us,” said INTTUC leader Rajesh Paswan. A worker said the agreement to review workforce and manning norms was signed last year when there was no Covid situation. The management eventually decided to implement it at a time workers are struggling for survival. Weaverly Jute Mill in Shyamnagar had suspended work on Sunday over jute bales scarcity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Saugata Roy ready to talk, Suvendu mum||Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy on Monday said he would not have pursued negotiations with Suvendu Adhikari, the disgruntled party colleague and former minister, had there been no approval from the party, and that there was still scope for dialogue. Adhikari, on the other hand, made another public appearance at a socio-religious event in Nandigram on Monday, but as on Sunday’s event at Mahishadal, stayed mum on his political future. Adhikari’s public appearance was for a Raas Utsav event in Nandigram, where he steered clear of making any political statement. Instead, in a brief address, he spoke of the significance of the festival and his attachment to Nandigram and its people. Adhikari also underlined the importance of the ‘Raas’ ceremony — when Lord Krishna meets his followers on the banks of river Yamuna — and participated in a performance of devotional songs to Krishna. He later tried his hand at playing a traditional percussion instrument. However, a convoy of over a hundred motorcycles that accompanied his car to the venue was conspicuous in the triangular yellow flags that the bikes brandished. Each had “Om” written on them in the Devanagari script. Given the speculation over the possibility of Adhikari leaving Trinamul for the BJP or floating another party that was aligned to the NDA, the visual was deemed significant by many. Asked about the significance of the flags, Adhikari clarified later that he had nothing to do with them. “They were handed out by the Raas committee… they are the Raas committee’s, nothing to do with me,” he said. Last week, the East Midnapore leader and Nandigram MLA stepped down from Mamata’s cabinet, and other important posts, while retaining his membership of the party and the Assembly. If Adhikari quits the party, Trinamul insiders feel he might carry along with him his loyalists, which has the potential of dealing a big blow to the party before the crucial state elections. Dum Dum MP Roy, who has been acting as an emissary of a section in the senior leadership of Trinamul in a bid to to retain Adhikari, sought to dispel the perception that he was doing so without the sanction of 30B Harish Chatterjee Street (read chief minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee). “When it (the sanction) is no longer there, I will no longer pursue the dialogue,” said the MP. “Everything I have been doing (with regard to Adhikari) has been with the stamp of approval from the party. Everything I do in the future will also be done with the stamp of approval from the party. I am a part of Trinamul,” he added. Sources in Trinamul said that Mamata, who plans to hold a “mega” rally in Midnapore — an Adhikari bastion — on December 7, was neither encouraging nor discouraging of the party’s efforts to retain Adhikari. Two recent meetings between Adhikari — one of Trinamul’s tallest leaders and at the forefront of the Nandigram movement which had catapulted Trinamul’s swift rise to power — and Roy had failed to break the ice. Adhikari did step down from the state cabinet. A third meeting was to be held in the past weekend, but Adhikari cited his mother’s ill health and gave Calcutta a miss. He, however, made “apolitical” public appearances in his home district on Sunday and Monday. “I think politics is inseparable from patience and perseverance. Talks can continue,” said Roy. Rumours of Adhikari’s discomfort with the party had been doing the rounds for years. But the leader was especially displeased with Trinamul over losing control over six key districts, when the post of party observer was abolished in a major July reshuffle apparently orchestrated by Mamata’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee — Trinamul’s heir-apparent, which Adhikari had hoped to be — and poll strategist Prashant Kishor, whose alleged interference he does not approve of.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Dilip’s legal notice to Abhishek||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh sent a legal notice to Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Monday, asking him to publicly apologise for the comments he had made at a rally near here on Sunday. At the meeting in Satgachhia, the Diamond Harbour MP had referred to Ghosh as a goonda (goon) and accused him of having links with the mafia in Bengal. The legal notice sent by Ghosh through his lawyer Partha Ghosh requests Abhishek to withdraw his remarks within three days “in the same manner in which they were made and published, along with an unconditional apology”. The BJP accuses the young MP of having links with drug and coal mafia and calls him bhaipo or bhatija (nephew), a reference to his relation with chief minister Mamata Banerjee. While addressing the meeting on Sunday, Abhishek attacked the BJP for “being afraid” to name him. “I will take names…Amit Shah is an outsider. Kailash Vijayvargiya is an outsider. Dilip Ghosh is a goon…I dare them to do so.” Ghosh admitted a legal notice had been sent on his behalf to Abhishek. “Legally one can be put in jail for some time…Law is a formality. He should’ve had some sense. It wasn’t courteous of him to use such language against someone who is an MP and the president of a party’s state unit,” Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||'Rival' political forces come together in Siliguri||Elected representatives of three prominent political forces in Bengal — supposedly rivals — attended an official event of the Siliguri civic body to attack the saffron ecosystem and stress the need for secularism. Trinamul leader and state minister of municipal affairs and urban development Firhad Hakim, CPM veteran and Siliguri MLA Asok Bhattacharya and Congress MLA of Matigara-Naxalbari Sankar Malakar shared the dais at the event held to unveil a statue of Mahatma Gandhi at Kutcheri Road. In recent years, this is the first time in Siliguri when a minister of the Mamata Banerjee government shared the stage with CPM and Congress leaders. Hakim, who unveiled the 9-foot-high statue of Gandhi in presence of Bhattacharya, Malakar, district Trinamul leaders, among others, slammed the BJP, without naming it. “Gandhiji’s last words were ‘He Ram’. These days, these people, with their divisive ideology, are inappropriately using the name of Ram and trying to defame his glory...we have to swear to thwart their attempts,” said the minister. Bhattacharya, who also chairs the board of administrators at SMC, stressed the need to maintain secularism. “Thousands from different communities reside in and around Siliguri. At this time, it is a challenge for us to uphold secularism and ensure it is maintained across the country. We feel the installation of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue, who always advocated secularism, is absolutely relevant,” he said. Unusually, Bhattacharya praised Hakim for facilitating the statue’s installation. Over the past five years the CPM veteran has accused the TMC of being biased against the Left-run SMC. “Initially, there were problems in finding a suitable plot for this statue. I met the minister (Hakim) and requested him for a place. He took up the initiative immediately...,” said the CPM MLA. Malakar, also a working president of the Pradesh Congress Committee, also appreciated the initiative. The impact was not lost on Dilip Ghosh, the state BJP president. “What suddenly changed that they are singing praises of each other?” Ghosh asked. “The people of Bengal have rejected Trinamul, CPM and Congress and are walking with the BJP now.” Additional inputs by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||November ends with recovery rate at a new high of 93.23%||Bengal on Monday surpassed 4.5 lakh Covid-19 recoveries, as 2,730 recoveries logged till 9am took the total to nearly 4.51 lakh, and the recovery rate to a new high of 93.23 per cent. The state, which also reported 2,671 new infections and 48 deaths, recorded a drop in its total of active cases for the 35th consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja. However, the lower number of infections reported on Monday was also because the state reported 38,178 tests, compared to the current level of around 45,000 daily tests. The state’s total test count went past 58.72 lakh, at 65,255 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.23 per cent. Having fallen by 12,892 since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, the total active cases now is 24,298, back almost to where it was on September 16, 75 days ago. “We crossed the 4.5 lakh mark in recoveries today (Monday), 13 days after the 4 lakh mark (on November 17). The first 50,000 of Bengal’s recoveries were achieved on August 1, over a span of 137 days from the first case (detected on March 17),” said a minister. In the 35 days since Dashami, Bengal reported over 1.4 lakh recoveries and 1.29 lakh new infections, undoing much of the damage from a major spike in infections and relatively fewer recoveries for six weeks prior to the festival. Bengal’s recovery rate, currently in an unbroken spell of rise for 39 consecutive days, inched closer to the national rate of 93.86 per cent. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases is over 4.83 lakh now, including recoveries and 8,424 deaths. Of the 48 deaths reported on Monday, 12 were from the city. Of the total toll, 7,049 or 83.7 per cent of the deaths were comorbid, according to the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Calcutta High Court’s intervention to prevent a spike in cases from overcrowding during Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath has seemed to work, going by the numbers of infections reported in late October and November. The state reported 27.91 per cent occupancy in the 13,538 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.95 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Maoist posters back in large numbers in Purulia||At least 30 posters and leaflets, along with large banners, suspected to be written by a Maoist organisation were found at several places in Purulia district on Monday morning with a call to people to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the rebel outfit’s armed wing. This is the first time since the Trinamul Congress came to power in Bengal in 2011 that such a large number of Maoist posters and banners have appeared in the Jungle Mahal. The printed and handwritten posters and banners were spotted pasted or hung at Madhupur in Bandwan block and Ramsi in Barabazar block on Monday morning. They were all seized by a large police team. The Maoist posters have surfaced in large numbers close on the heels of the Union home ministry withdrawing two battalions of the CRPF from Jungle Mahal districts of Jhargram, Purulia, Bankura and West Midnapore despite objections from residents and political parties in view of next year’s Assembly polls. In its printed leaflets, the CPI (Maoists) asked people to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the formation of the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army from December 2 to 4. The PLGA is the armed wing of the Left extremist outfit. The leaflets also advise Maoist sympathisers how to observe the PLGA’s anniversary and detail the outfit’s purported attacks in the past one year. The handwritten posters have asked the people to rise in protest against the Narendra Modi government’s new farm laws and its policy to hand over land to corporate entities. “Foil the conspiracy of the Centre to hand over the agriculture system to big capital and corporates in the disguise of the farm bill,” one of the posters in Bengali reads. S. Selvamurugan, the Purulia district police chief, said: “We have seized the posters and are conducting an inquiry.” Police sources said the appearance of the Maoist materials in huge numbers pointed to the rebel outfit’s efforts to prove its existence in the Jungle Mahal ahead of the elections. “Earlier, one or two posters had been found in Purulia district that shares border with Jharkhand. The call to observe the PLGA anniversary proves that the Left extremists are regrouping,” a police officer said. Gurupada Tudu, the Purulia district chief of Trinamul, blamed the Centre for the Maoists posters. “We had never witnessed such Maoist activity since our party came to power. We have always demanded adequate paramilitary forces in the region but the central government has withdrawn two companies of the CRPF,” said Tudu. The BJP, however, alleged that Trinamul was in cahoots with Maoists with an eye to regain its political base in a district where the saffron camp emerged as a strong force. “The Maoist move has the backing of Trinamul. The ruling party wants to create panic among the people through the Maoists, who had helped Trinamul come to power in 2011,” said Baneswar Mahato, secretary of the BJP’s Purulia unit. Political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty said Maoists always tried to spread panic before elections and the Purulia incident could be part of that strategy. “The appearance of Maoists posters in Purulia is very alarming. However, considering the political situation of Bengal, we can’t rule out the link of mainstream political parties with the incident,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Special trains extended till December 31||The Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) has decided to extend the services of a number of special trains, including some trains that connect north Bengal and the northeast with Calcutta, by another month. According to NFR sources, services of 11 trains were extended till December 31. Among these include four trains to Sealdah — the Sealdah-Agartala Special (four days a week), the Sealdah-Silchar Special (three days a week) and the Sealdah-New Alipurduar Special and Sealdah-New Jalpaiguri Superfast Special (the last two would run every day). Some other special trains that will continue to run through north Bengal during the next one month are Dr Ambedkar Nagar-Kamakhya Weekly Special, Kamakhya-Anand Vihar Express Special, Guwahati-Secunderabad Express Weekly Special, New Delhi-Dibrugarh Superfast Special and New Jalpaiguri-Amritsar Karmabhoomi Express Weekly Special train. “We are assessing the inflow of passengers and making necessary changes in train services. Another assessment would be done again after a fortnight or so to find out if these services need further extension,” said a source in NFR. Sandipan Ghosh, general secretary, Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association, welcomed the extension of the trains, because earlier the railways had said the special trains would run only till November 30. “We had been deeply concerned as all stakeholders are expecting a good turnout of tourists during winter holidays. It is good the railways made the decision to continue services of the special trains for another month. We hope in due course the services would be further extended as many visit the hills and the Dooars in January,” Ghosh said. Like in other parts of the country, train services had come to a halt in north Bengal during the lockdown. As the lockdown relaxed in phases, only one train resumed between Calcutta and the region, which led to protests from commuters demanding more trains. The railways did introduce more special trains ahead of Durga Puja, but clearly stated these additional special trains would run till November 30. This again led to an outcry here. Also, those associated with travel trade expressed worry that tourists who want to visit north Bengal during winter would only have one train available from Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Firhad Hakim flays Centre for NH dilly-dally in Siliguri||State municipal affairs and urban development minister Firhad Hakim played the development card on Monday to draw support from Siliguri residents and simultaneously criticised the Centre for delaying a highway-widening project that he said could have eased traffic snarls in a major part of the city. Hakim, here to attend a Mahatma Gandhi statue-unveiling programme organised by Siliguri Municipal Corporation, claimed that the Narendra Modi government had not taken up the task to widen a stretch of NH31 that runs through the northern end of the city. In Siliguri, acute traffic congestion in and around Darjeeling More — the principal entry point to the city and the junction of NH31 and NH55 — is a major problem. “People here suffer traffic congestion at Darjeeling More. This is because of the lack of initiative of the Centre that delayed the process of widening that stretch of the highway,” Hakim told journalists at the PWD inspection bungalow. “We have completed land acquisition for the project. The chief minister had even spoken with the Union minister of surface transport and requested him to take up the project to reduce inconveniences of the residents. But the Centre has not taken any initiative.” This stretch of NH31 also connects Asian Highway II that skirts the city. Time and again, particularly after the four-lane highway was completed, the demand to widen the stretch of NH31 (a double-lane road now) into a six-lane highway with multiple connectors at Darjeeling More had been raised. State tourism minister Gautam Deb had also held a sit-in at Darjeeling More on it. Political observers pointed out that Hakim raised an important point ahead of the elections. It is evident that Trinamul leaders would highlight unfinished central projects to make their point, they opined. “In north Bengal, augmentation of road and rail infrastructure has remained a major demand and there are a number of pending projects where the Centre is yet to make a move. It would be interesting to see how BJP handles these allegations of delay and indecision,” an observer said. Hakim spoke on some other important projects of the city. He said the new drinking water project of Siliguri would be included under AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation & Urban Transformation) scheme. “We would also take up a comprehensive sewerage project for the city soon. A project with an estimated cost of Rs 150 crore has been planned for solid waste management of the city. The state has already sanctioned Rs 18 crore for it,” Hakim said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
01-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC keeps tabs on truants as ‘possible defectors’||The Trinamul leadership in Alipurduar hinted on Monday that it would act tough against leaders and workers staying away from party events and are “possibly in touch with other parties”. Trinamul would simultaneously reach out to people to elaborate welfare schemes introduced and development work carried out by the Mamata Banerjee government during the past nine years. On Monday, district leaders, including party’s district chief Mridul Goswami, held a meeting at the district party office here where decisions were made on both issues. “Some leaders expressed their grievance over the absence of some colleagues, including elected representatives, at party events in the past one month or so. These leaders insisted that those staying away should be questioned if they intend to stay,” said a Trinamul insider. Goswami said they would serve showcause notices to two leaders. “We suspect some absentees are in touch with BJP and waiting for Suvendu Adhikari’s final call,” said a leader. On Monday, leaders such as Mohan Sharma, the mentor Alipurduar Zilla Parishad and some others were absent. Sharma, who is also the chairman of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, later said over phone that he was out of Bengal on a personal errand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Girl found hanging, finger at pictures||A 14-year-old schoolgirl of a village in Balurghat block of South Dinajpur was found hanging at her house on Sunday afternoon, the girl’s family blaming a youth who tried to blackmail her with her pictures clicked in a compromising position. Her family members filed a complaint against the neighbourhood youth at Balurghat police station on Monday, prompting the police to start a probe. Sources said the girl had been approached by the youth a few days back. When she ignored his advances, he showed her the pictures clicked on his phone and threatened to upload them on social media. “My daughter told us about the incident. We assured her that we would look into it but she panicked and became depressed. On Sunday, when she was alone at home for some time, she took this drastic step. It is because of the youth that we have lost her. He should be booked under law and punished,” said the girl’s father. A police officer said probe was on. “If the charges are found true, the accused would be arrested and charged with abetting suicide,” said a police officer. A joint team of foresters of Moraghat forest range and policemen from Banahart searched Haldibari tea estate in Banarhat of Jalpaiguri on Monday to seize a deer horn, illegal timber and tree-cutting equipment. In all, goods worth around Rs 4 lakh were seized from some locked quarters of the tea garden and probe on who were behind the racket was on, said Rajkumar Pal, Moraghat range officer. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
01-12-2020||North East||Nagaland Chief Minister thanks leaders on Statehood Day||Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio expressed his “immense gratitude” to all the leaders who ensured the creation of the state through their ‘sacrifices’, as it celebrated the 58th Statehood Day on Tuesday. On December 1, 1963, the then president Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan  inaugurated Nagaland as the 16th state of the country. The state also marked its first-ever virtual inauguration of Hornbill Festival on Tuesday in the view of the pandemic. The festival celebrates the rich culture of Nagaland and is a platform to display its cultural legacy. "We have significant and enduring achievements to show in every field. We have seen development and progress, and the quality of life enjoyed by our people has seen a marked improvement, though many challenges still remain,” the chief minister said in his address. "As we celebrate this historic day, we remember with immense gratitude all those leaders, who by their sacrifices, foresightedness and determination ensured the creation of Nagaland state with special constitutional provisions,” he added as he spoke during the main celebration at Secretariat Plaza in Kohima. “While the state has been making every effort for all- round progress in all spheres, the quest of the people for the final solution to the long-standing Naga political issue, has also continued all along,” Rio said. "The long journey towards the final solution has passed many stretches and milestones", he said while expressing hope that this journey is finally reaching its ultimate destination,” he added. "We all are aware that the negotiations between several Naga political groups and the Government of India have seen a breakthrough with common ground being reached on various issues. We expect everyone to continue with the same spirit of understanding and oneness for moving forward to the eventual solution without any delay," Rio said. He also informed that on November 15, the state government had convened a consultative meeting with representatives of all the tribal hohos, civil society organisations, political parties, ex-parliamentarians and public leaders. "It was reiterated to every stakeholder that there will be only one solution to the Naga political issue," he said. “This year has also seen a crisis of enormous magnitude in the form of COVID-19 pandemic,” Rio said while lauding the exponential increase in the state’s testing capacity that is required to break the chain of the infection. "Our preparations for combating the pandemic had been initiated early. We took every possible step to further develop and improve our entire health infrastructure. In a matter of a couple of months we managed to go from a state with a nil testing facility to 2,600-3,000 testing capacity per day," he said. He also claimed that the state had improved its health infrastructure to deal with the pandemic. He cited an increase in the number of ventilators in government-run hospitals from 14 in March to 145 in November. “The number of beds in isolation wards, ICU and non-ICU wards, in COVID hospitals, and COVID Care Centers has also increased in the last eight months”, Rio said. "We have to unfailingly continue wearing masks, maintain social distancing, wash hands regularly, and adhere to the health advisories and standard operating procedures issued by the government," he added. The chief minister also highlighted various initiatives of the government towards enhancing skills and employability of Naga youths returning from other states, reforms undertaken in agriculture and allied sectors during the pandemic, besides efforts for providing online education. During the day, the Raj Bhavan organised a special programme to unveil the bust of the president of Naga People's Convention (NPC) Dr Imkongliba Ao. Meanwhile, the Eastern Naga Students Federation (ENSF), comprising six major tribes, boycotted the celebrations demanding fulfilment of its six-point charter of demands, including 45 per cent reservation in government jobs in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
01-12-2020||North East||Nagaland Virtual Hornbill Festival this year||Visitors from home and abroad will be missing this time round at the 2020 edition of the Hornbill Festival from Tuesday because the muchawaited event has gone virtual because of the ongoing Covid19 pandemic. A government statement on Monday said the Nagaland Virtual Hornbill Festival 2020 will be celebrated in a completely virtual mode and will be  telecast through three TV channels and will also be made available on social media platforms. The virtual event, government sources said, will at least give a sense of what the festival is all about and why one should attend it. The government, they said, decided to go ahead with the virtual mode because it felt holding it symbolically was better than going blank as it will keep alive the buzz around the festival. Not without reason. The festival has emerged as a key vehicle for showcasing Naga culture and traditions and development of the tourism industry by attracting people from all across the globe. “We decided to go ahead symbolically because safety comes first. It would have been difficult to host the festival because of the Covid19 safety protocols. Holding it symbolically is better than going blank because it is a globally recognised festival. It will keep the spirit alive. Hopefully, we will return next year much bigger, much better and in a more colourful avatar. We are sure the virtual mode will convey the essence of the festival,”  Khehovi Yeputhomi, adviser,  tourism, art & culture, government of Nagaland, told The Telegraph. Last year, the festival generated business worth Rs 100 crore over ten days and attracted footfall of about 2,82,811 visitors, signifying the importance the government and the people of the state attach to the festival, the biggest in the northeast. “I have been in love with the Northeast for many years, and this, my first trip to Nagaland, has captured my heart even more.” Music maestro AR, Rahman said after his visit to the state during the Hornbill Festival in 2019.  He was among the 2,82,811 visitors who attended the festival over ten days, including 55,584 domestic tourists and 3,015 from abroad. It is held every year between December 1 to 10 at the heritage village of Kisama, about 10 km from state capital Kohima. The music festival is held in Dimapur, the commercial capital of the state. The first edition was held in 2000. The festival starts coinciding with the Statehood Day celebrations. Nagaland attained statehood on December 1, 1963. Theja Meru, the director of the Hornbill Music Festival, told this newspaper that the festival has a strong emotional connect with the people because of its inclusive nature. “ All 16 tribes of the state participate. Not being able to hold the fest pains the heart but then we cannot ignore the safety of our people. By adopting the virtual mode, the government has kept the show going even during the pandemic,” Meru said. According to the government statement, the virtual event will be showcased on  NDTV 24x7 (Dec 1 — 10:30 am &  Dec 5 12.30 pm); Northeast Live (Dec 1 — 11:30 am & Dec 3 — 3.30 pm) and Doordarshan Kendra ( Dec 1 — 5:30 PM & Dec 4 — 3 pm). It will also be uploaded and made available to viewers on all social media platforms. A message from chief minister Neiphiu Rio wishing everyone  a “very happy virtual Hornbill Festival” on Monday evening said, “ The pandemic has created new normals, and accordingly Nagaland is rewriting the tourism script by aligning the industry to the changed dynamics. Once the world reopens, Nagaland will be prepared with a tourism narrative, that is in tune with a post Covid scenario, and the Naga people will be ready to welcome you to this beautiful land, where, together we will create experiences that will become lifelong memories. I wish all citizens of Nagaland and our wellwishers and friends all around the world,  a Happy “virtual” Hornbill Festival.” Rio’s message also harped on the economics of the festival that signifies unity and oneness in all aspects while exemplifying the vast potentials and aspirations of our youth. “Most of the events are conceptualised, curated and implemented by young entrepreneurs, event management groups, innovators and nongovernment organisations that create a 100 crore plus Hornbill economy which generates more than 8000 jobs and is home to more than 500 events held across 6 districts of Nagaland.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
01-12-2020||Opinion||Blood on sand: Killing of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh||The reverberations of the killing of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh — Israeli and American intelligence believe that the scientist was the driving force behind Tehran’s nuclear weapons programme — are unlikely to be limited within Iran. It would have broad implications not only in the Middle East but also in the West. Iran has accused Israel, its principal regional adversary, of the murder. Fakhrizadeh, Iran alleges, is not the only scientist to be killed by Israel’s shadowy — lethal — security apparatus. At least five other nuclear scientists met with a similar fate in the last decade, or so says Iran. The goal, apparently, is to cripple Iran’s nuclear projects that Tehran professes to be ‘peaceful’ in nature. Israel and the West, of course, would have none of this pious pledge from Tehran. The fragile status quo in the Middle East is unlikely to hold if blood continues to be shed. Iran has already vowed retaliation at a time of its choosing. This is likely to deepen the frowns in Washington where the incoming dispensation led by Joe Biden is expected to open dialogue with Iran on the nuclear deal that had been nixed by his predecessor, Donald Trump, whose comprehension of the intricacies in the Middle East remained questionable during a fractious presidentship. The rekindling of mutual trust is of fundamental importance for the renewed negotiations between the United States of America and Iran to succeed. But Fakhrizadeh’s murder is certain to cast a long shadow on the proceedings. This does not augur well because the US has a decisive stabilizing role in this restive region. A hint of complicity would undermine the US’s credentials. Mr Biden must also keep an eye on the churn in the Middle East. There are reports that Israel is mending the proverbial fence with a number of Arab nations: Sunni Saudi Arabia, another competitor of Tehran, is among them. This fraternizing between traditional rivals is likely to add to Shia Iran’s anxieties. Provoked beyond a point, a besieged Tehran may opt for a rash response. What every stakeholder needs are calm heads, not covert assassins, to resolve the thorny Middle Eastern question.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
01-12-2020||Opinion||Star player: Goodbye Diego Maradona||Sir — It was heartbreaking to learn that the Argentinian football player, Diego Maradona, succumbed to heart failure at the age of 60 last week (“Maradona dead”, Nov 26). Maradona became a household name after he led the Argentinian football team to victory in the Fifa 1986 World Cup. In a team sport like football, it is quite difficult for a player to distinguish himself, but Maradona, with his exceptional skills, was a star player from the very beginning. The death of the controversial legend is a huge loss for football. He will be missed. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — Speaking to an Argentinian television channel in 2014, the “God of Football”, Diego Maradona, had remarked, “Do you know the player I could have been if I hadn’t taken drugs?” This, alas, is a question that has been pondered by all football fans. Maradona, who recently passed away from a cardiac arrest, was plagued by addiction and other health problems all his life. To all those who have followed his career and his life, his early demise, although saddening, does not come as a surprise. Maradona, while being an exceptional player, battled drug addiction and alcohol dependency most of his life. But, in spite of all his infamy, he will be remembered most for his controversial goal in the 1986 Fifa World Cup quarter-finals against England where he allegedly scored the first goal of the game ‘a little with the head and a little with the hand of God’. Things turned for the worse in the 1990s, and he was banned twice by Fifa for testing positive for cocaine and banned stimulants. His behaviour grew increasingly errant at this time. Maradona fired an air rifle at photographers and reporters outside his home in Buenos Aires in 1994. Later, he received a suspended jail sentence of two years and 10 months for the incident. Millions of football lovers like myself believe that Maradona was undoubtedly one of the greatest athletes of all time. It is, however, unseemly to compare the talents of Maradona and the Brazilian football great, Pelé, who was 20 years his senior. In fact, when Pelé mourned the loss of Maradona, saying, “I lost a great friend and the world lost a legend”, he showed the world what true sportsmanship is. No matter his struggles, Maradona will be remembered for his formidable skills on the football field. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Indian football fans were exhilarated when their idol, Diego Maradona, visited the country. His visits to Calcutta and Kannur — both places are known for their love of football — are remembered with fondness. Hailing from Kannur, I remember and cherish the day Maradona came to our city eight years ago to attend a private event. The whole city was in a frenzy and I remember that the roads and the premises of the hotel in which Maradona stayed were crammed with football fans. The streets of Kannur were filled with huge posters, banners and hoardings to welcome the Argentinian legend. This visit continues to be a matter of pride for all his fans in Kerala. Interestingly, the hotel room in which he stayed during his visit has been turned into a shrine by the owner, who is an ardent Maradona fan himself. Although he is no longer with us, these wonderful memories will keep millions of his fans going. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — I was not a fan of football until I saw a snippet of a match in which Diego Maradona was playing back in the early 1980s. The Argentinian player’s exceptional skill was the reason why I developed an interest in the game. It is unfortunate that he struggled with addiction all his life. Undoubtedly one of the greatest football players of all time, had Maradona led a disciplined life he would have scaled far greater heights in the game. Mohua Sen Dasgupta,Calcutta Make a move Sir — As people continue to be restricted to their homes as a result of Covid-19, the World Health Organization has, once again, stressed the importance of exercise for physical and mental well-being. This is particularly important for the elderly who, having been locked in for months, are now finding basic physical activity difficult. Staying active can be challenging for the aged, but even light exercise can be immensely helpful and reduce the risk of stroke, heart attack and cognitive decline. In such trying times we must do our best to ensure that our loved ones remain healthy. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
01-12-2020||Opinion||The wronged: No sipper for Swamy||The right to live with dignity is non-negotiable. It is the responsibility of a constitutional democracy to ensure that this right is not applied selectively. But there is mounting evidence to suggest that the application of the right is far from universal. The indignities suffered by Father Stan Swamy — now in prison as an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case — are a case in point. The activist, an octogenarian and suffering from Parkinson’s disease, has been forced to apply — twice — for such basic amenities as a straw and a sipper so that he can drink water. The response of the special court and National Investigation Agency to this perfectly justified plea has been shocking. The NIA was given 20 days by the court to file a response; when the investigative agency denied the charge, the court rejected the priest’s application, forcing the ailing man to file a fresh petition — for a straw and sipper. A perverse kind of insensitivity seems to inform the conduct of authorities when it comes to the treatment of dissenters who find themselves in New India’s prisons. G.N. Saibaba, a political prisoner who suffers from crippling disability, was forced to resort to a hunger strike to get access to medical records and books; hospital visits have been allegedly denied to Shoma Sen; the accused in the Delhi riots cases have been forced to petition the court to get warm clothing. These sufferings are consistent with what undertrials — they constitute 70 per cent of India’s prisoners — are forced to endure. Data published by the National Crime Records Bureau since 2000 reveal that over 26,000 individuals have lost their lives in judicial custody; illness, made worse by poor sanitary conditions, minimal facilities and overcrowding, remains one of the primary causes of the growing mortality rate in jails. There is concern that the authorities are taking advantage of Covid-19-induced restrictions to turn prisons even more opaque. It is not as if the rules and rights of inmates are unclear. India’s highest has reiterated the need for treating prisoners with dignity and pressed for prison reform. That the lower rungs of the jail administration need to be sensitized cannot be denied. But that should not deflect attention from another kind of laxity: the absence of political will for humane treatment. A political fraternity hell-bent on demonizing prisoners is complicit in heaping indignities on these citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
01-12-2020||Opinion||Common loss: E-access to justice||The ruling party in India moves with the times. Its tech-savvy approach to problems and propaganda and its enthusiastic endorsement of digital routes wherever possible are indicators of this. That demonetization forced cashless payments to shoot up made it praiseworthy, obliterating the dubious scores in its professed goals of eliminating black money or stopping terror funding. With its eye on technology, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government seems rather tardy about noticing issues of access. It was eager for online education even before educational institutions closed down for the pandemic. When that happened, the education ministry took time to note that an enormous number of students had no access, or uncertain and irregular access, to online lessons and study-related communication. It is thus greatly reassuring that the Chief Justice of India, S.A. Bobde, expressed concern about the inequality created by the reliance on technology at a meet arranged by the Supreme Court to celebrate Constitution Day.  The CJI was referring to inequality in the sphere of justice delivery: that the biggest challenge for the courts was delivering justice unhampered to the ‘common man’. Since the notion of justice is based on equality and fairness, this would naturally be painful to anyone who administers it. The pandemic forced a ‘bind’, because hearings had to be conducted through video conferencing or courts had to shut down altogether. But closing courts would mean blocking the rule of law. Yet at the same time, for large sections of Indians, courts seem to have disappeared anyway since they had no access to the necessary technology. The CJI requested the minister for law and telecommunications, Ravi Shankar Prasad, to find ways to ensure access as much as possible. Mr Prasad, however, expressed his happiness at the number of cases that the courts had heard in spite of the difficult situation, and condemned the increase in unfounded criticism of the judiciary. The response of the attorney general of India was rather more puzzling. He looked forward to a time when there would be live streaming of hearings from the courts. But it is the people that the CJI was talking about, specifically the ‘common man’ with no access to technology. How would live streaming help him? Somehow, he vanished from the discourse after the CJI’s reference to him||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
01-12-2020||Opinion||Learning in the time of Covid||By now, teachers across India are inured to online teaching. The abruptness of the move in March was a shock to the system and institutions took what they thought were emergency, one-time measures, only to realize that the online classroom will continue for now and, possibly, into the next semester as well. A few months ago, we formed ‘Discussion Forum for Online Teaching’, a support group for college and university teachers in India, to facilitate conversations within the community about the problems related to online teaching. These conversations — they took place over email, via online articles, discussion groups and also through panel discussions — aimed at sharing experiences and facilitating learning from one another. We have also carried out an informal, nationwide survey with voluntary participation. Our respondents were primarily teaching at the tertiary level and, in some cases, at the secondary level. The sample size is small (about 800), but it appears to be representative of teachers working in Tier I and II cities. Some of what one can learn from the responses could well have been anticipated. Many months of entirely online teaching has resulted in most of the respondents being comfortable with the new system. Many teachers were positive about the advantages of teaching online. However, since most students are at home, the digital divide plays out in every kind of institution since access is mediated by the location of their homes. An estimated 10-40 per cent of the students are unable to attend online classes regularly: only 4 out of 10 teachers said that their students had adequate bandwidth and power for the entire duration of classes. A good 10 per cent said that more than 40 per cent of the students were unable to attend the classes. Connectivity is a common problem: 40 per cent or more of the class ends up having intermittent access to the lecture. Teachers have made exceptional efforts to get their instruction across to students. The stories they shared are inspiring — one extreme example being that of a teacher based in a village who has rented a room with internet connectivity in a different town in order to conduct classes. However, there has been a serious lack of institutional support in providing hardware and adequate internet bandwidth to teachers. Some had been provided with computers before the lockdown, but without such facilities as webcam, graphing tablets and so on that improve the delivery of online classes. Teachers have, therefore, had to invest personal funds for hardware as well as for software. Our survey revealed that one in two teachers have spent about Rs 10,000 while one in ten has spent more than Rs 50,000 without subsidy or support from their institutions. A majority of teachers — approximately 75 per cent in our survey — deliver classes from their homes using either a laptop or a desktop computer. While all students take classes from home, seven out of ten access online classes on their smartphones: the devices are often shared. Phone cameras are also kept switched off during the class, leading to a near absence of audio-visual feedback and a unidirectional flow of information from teacher to student. The instruction template is not only severely shrunk (making the writing difficult to read) but is also detrimental to concentration that is necessary for learning. Since education is a concurrent subject, solving problems at the local level would not be enough and both state and Central policies need to be re-examined. In the short term, for instance, it is crucial that measures should be taken to mitigate the digital divide that exists among students, among teachers, and among various institutes. Online education is expensive for students; therefore subsidies are needed. Data must be made cheaper, connectivity needs to improve, and devices provided to those who cannot afford them. But beyond this, there is an urgent need to revisit education policies to recognize the changed reality. The effects of the Covid-19 pandemic will not pass quickly, and online instruction will persist for quite some time. Such a medium requires much more effort in terms of preparation and delivery, and this extra effort needs to be accounted for, including the associated fatigue. Greater pedagogic autonomy and flexibility are essential. Administrative decisions and intervention are urgently needed in the area of examination and evaluations. Having an inadequate and flawed process at such a time can lead to a devaluation of the degrees at a later time. We need to act, and quickly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
01-12-2020||Opinion||A new jurisprudence||The observations of Justice D.Y. Chandrachud while considering the bail application of Arnab Goswami reflected the spirit of the Constitution. The judge said that if the top court does not interfere in the event of an illegal arrest, “we are travelling a path of destruction”. Liberty of the individual is the first promise of the fundamental law. While the procedural prescriptions in the Code of Criminal Procedure that mandate the filing of bail applications before the competent court need to be the norm, those should not prevent the top court from invoking its jurisdiction to favour liberty in critical situations. Justice Chandrachud’s dissenting view in the Bhima Koregaon case (Romila Thapar vs Union of India (2018)), in which he advocated for liberty of the activists and their right to a fair investigation, was more than a dissent. Judicial history demonstrates that the dissents from the bench during unjust political situations have acted as long-term institutional critique persuading the court to introspect. As Justice Hugo Black described, those were intended for “the intelligence of the future day”. Viewed so, the criticism of the court by the comedian, Kunal Kamra, is, again, an institutional criticism in a different language. The tweets may even be annoying or shocking to a conventional institutional mindset. The fact that the attorney general granted sanction to prosecute Kamra does not mean that he is guilty. It doesn’t even mean that the court will initiate action for contempt. Rule 3 of the rules to regulate proceedings for contempt of the Supreme Court, 1975 says that the attorney general’s consent is needed to examine a petition seeking initiation of contempt proceedings. It only means that the top court gets an opportunity to go deeper into the content of the criticism while deciding whether the comedian should be proceeded against. The entire criticism against the Supreme Court has a constitutional basis as Article 14 promises equality before the law and equal protection of the laws. Al Jazeera reported that “India’s Supreme Court [is] in [the] spotlight over bail for divisive anchor.” In a report in The Wire, Ismat Ara and Sukanya Shantha have given a long list of activists, journalists and politicians who are incarcerated in different jails in the country as their bail applications were rejected. How the Supreme Court has attempted to change its philosophy on rights and even its public image immediately after the Emergency is a crucial lesson in India’s legal history. What one should be careful to find out is the invisible linkage between the dissent, say, of Justice H.R. Khanna and the perceptions of the later Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is criticized for the alleged selective approach, rather than for granting bail to the television journalist. One could think that in a given case, the court is concerned only with legal adjudication rather than an ethical or political assessment of the individual or the causes that led to the individual’s predicament. The legal constitutionalism adopted by the Chandrachud-Banerjee bench, however, cannot erase the relevance of the criticism of the court as an institution, which is essentially based on political constitutionalism. The legal scholar, Marco Goldoni, while dealing with the limits and possibilities of political constitutionalism, has described its tenets and said that political equality is its ‘reference point’. He says that “while equality before the law (isonomia) is certainly to be counted among the founding principles of legal constitutionalism, political equality as the equal chance to have one’s voice heard (isegoria) constitutes the building block of democratic politics" (Two Internal Critiques of Political Constitutionalism). Therefore, it follows that a political criticism of the court as an institution is in a broader realm and it has deeper connotations. Such criticisms of the court have arisen in very many constitutional democracies and dictatorial democracies in recent times. These are not directed against the attitude of the courts alone but they are also about the legislative gestures that enacted the draconian laws and the executive postures which invoked them. As such, Kamra’s criticism needs to be analysed in the light of the factors that encourage the present day’s aggrandizing executive, a legislature that made it, and a judiciary impacted by it. On a closer scrutiny, even the offensive vocabulary in Kamra’s tweets would call for such a deeper analysis. The State has been misusing the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act along with the penal provisions on sedition quite selectively. Equally rampant has been the misuse of Section 144 of the CrPC to suppress even peaceful protests. Riots in Delhi exposed a partisan police with scant regard for the rule of law or the sense of justice. Frequent preventive arrests reminded of the days of the Emergency. In a number of cases, dissidents of the government were booked and kept in jail. The State rigorously opposed their bail applications and the trial courts or the high courts, as the case maybe, very often declined bail. The ‘apathy’ of the high court in these cases is more or less similar to the situation in Goswami’s case that annoyed the highest court. The top court has to take stock of these episodes and consider them as a batch of cases involving individual liberty under Article 19 and Article 21 of the Constitution and immediately set the detainees free by imposing conditions if required. These cases may have very many differences in terms of facts, but there could be more similarities and common factors in all of them which, if not addressed immediately, could take us to “the path of destruction”. This, the Supreme Court can do even by invoking Article 142 of the Constitution, which is meant to do “complete justice”.  The scope of Article 142 in the context of liberty was explained by Justice Chandrachud in the case of Romila Thapar’s dissent. It may be difficult for one to imagine such a legal scenario, but it is not impossible legally or constitutionally. We need to develop a new jurisprudence on institutional criticism, especially that concerning the court.  The very existence of the law of criminal contempt and laws on sedition will have to be dealt with in that adjudicative exercise. It is not the misuse of these laws but their very existence that threaten our democracy. An approach that limits the use of such laws in only those cases that pose real and immanent threat to the nation will have to be evolved. Perhaps the Kunal Kamra episode can pose fundamental questions relating to our democracy which the Supreme Court may have to address by invoking its introspective jurisdiction, even by taking a clue from what Justice Chandrachud said while considering the plea by Goswami.  The author is a lawyer in the Supreme Court||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tuskless jumbo carcass puts officials on alert||The carcass of an elephant with missing tusks was located at Sirum jungle on Monday morning, thereby, putting the ground level staff of the forest officials in the Chandil forest range on red alert. The forest, which lies close to the West Bengal border, falls under the Nimdih thana area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district is about 60 kilometeres away from Jamshedpur. The forest department is on high alert, as the tuskless carcass suggests the possibility of a gang of poachers still being active in the Chandil forest range. Talking about the incident forest range officer of Chandil, Ashok Kumar maintained that the circumstances under which the elephant died are unclear. But it was certain that the tusks were missing from the carcass. “We are not very clear about who killed the tusker. We still need to ascertain if it was killed by poachers or villagers. But some people with a criminal bent of mind certainly cut off its tusks, in the most unprofessional way. We have put the forest guards on alert so that no tusker may fall victim to such cruelty,” said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The range officer added that an autopsy would be performed to ascertain the cause of its death. He said, “The elephant’s viscera have been sent to the Ranchi-based forensic science lab for an examination so that the cause of death can be ascertained.” He added, “As the carcass was about a fortnight-long, the age of the killed elephant could not be ascertained.” According to him, it could take a month for both the autopsy and viscera examination report to be ready but they had already begun to trace people involved in sawing off the tusks. He said that the tusks had been cut in the most unprofessional manner; hence it could be the work of locals. He added that these individuals could be easily traced. The spot where the tusker was found lying dead is about 100 feet away from Purulia’s Madha range. For the uninitiated, a large number of elephants from the Madha range tend to cross over to the Sirum jungle in Jharkhand and vice-versa regularly. According to sources in the forest department, paddy is cultivated in a small patch of rayati land which lies between Sirum jungle and Madha range. They suspect villagers having poisoned the tusker to prevent a herd of elephants from destroying the standing paddy crops. They believe that the villagers might have sawed away the tusks after the elephant died. “Chandil forest range falls under territorial forest area. Hence, there is no provision for engaging forest protection volunteers (FPVs), unlike the adjoining Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary. The forest department has to depend largely on the forest guards to protect wild elephants in the range area. In the Dalma wildlife, the forest guards and FPVs work in tandem for the protection of the wild elephants, thereby making the chances of foul play negligible,” said an official posted at the Chandil forest range.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders get extortion threat from alleged PLFI rebels||Four computer traders from Dhanbad have received extortion threats from alleged People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI) operatives on Sunday, November 29. They demanded Rs 50 lakh from each one of them for the expansion of PLFI. The computer traders, City Computers ‑ Vishal Kumar, owner of Jhajharia Computer ‑ Vikash Agarwal and owner of Agarwal Computer ‑ Tinku Agarwal and his elder brother Govind Agarwal, received WhatsApp messages on their mobile phones in the name of a banned organisation, PLFI. Office bearers of different trade bodies including the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce & Industry (FDZCCI) and Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association (JITA) have expressed concern over PLFI’s extortion messages sent to the four computer traders. FDZCCI held a meeting at Purana Bazar under the chairmanship of Chetan Goenka, president of FDZCCI on Tuesday to discuss on this issue. During the meeting, participants expressed their concern over the incident and demanded immediate investigation and arrest of people behind the mischief. “The traders can’t work properly in fear. Whether some banned organisation or some local goons are trying to use the name of this outfit for their advantage needs to be investigated and exposed,” said Prabhat Surolia president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, a participant of the meeting. He added that they (traders) have decided to meet senior police officers to demand action against those involved. Echoing similar sentiments, Ajay Narayan Lal, vice-president of FDZCCI said, “We will be meeting Dhanbad SSP, Aseem Vikrant Minz in two-three days. We will be demanding for strict action to be taken against those behind the incident after police investigates into the matter.” “The way in which the four traders have been sent WhatsApp messages demanding for money extortion is similar to the previous incident. A jewellery shop owner of Bank More, Tripurari Burnwal, had been sent a similar message in September, following which his shop was robbed on September 26,” informed Lal. He maintained that the traders are expecting some breakthrough by the police very soon. The sender of the message has also threatened to take severe actions if the traders failed to pay the extortion money. The traders later lodged an FIR in Bank More Police station against the unidentified people. Dhanbad ASP, Manoj Swargiyar, while talking to media, said, “A similar extortion threat had been given to the traders in Ranchi the name of PLFI. We are in the process of arresting those behind the incident after identifying them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||TPC subzonal commander surrenders in Chatra||Udesh Ganjhu alias Sukul, subzonal commander of Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC) who was carrying a reward of Rs 5 lakh on his head surrendered in front of senior police and Cobra officials in SP office of Chatra on Tuesday. He also handed over a USA-made MI series Springfield semi-automatic rifle and 150 live bullets. Udesh surrendered in front of the superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha, Cobra battalion commandant Pawan Badan and ASP (Operation) Nigam Prasad. Jha said Udesh was looking after Chatra and Latehar district. A total of eight FIRs are registered against him in various police stations of Chatra. He was wanted in cases of murder and violence by Chatra, Latehar, and Palamu police. Jha said that the state government will ensure education for the children of Udesh. He also said that Udesh will get all other facilities as per the surrender policy. As part of the surrender policy, a cheque worth Rs 5 lakh was given to Udesh's wife Urmila Devi. Udesh said he joined TPC after being misguided by the top leaders. He said he was fed up with the bloodbath and violence followed by the chase of police. He appealed to other cadres also to surrender and return to the mainstream of life. He was in TPC for a long time and married Urmila in 2005. He has three sons namely Abhinandan Kumar, Suman Kumar, and Prince Kumar. He also informed that after his surrender, TPC is having Shashikant as zonal commander and five subzonal commanders working under him. Jha warned the extremists that if they did not surrender in the coming days then they would have to be ready to face the actions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Baghmara MLA stands with Sindri protesters||A day after the chakka jam turned violent in front Sindri’s ACC Factory, Dhullu Mahto, BJP MLA from Baghmara organised a press conference to accuse the police and administration of taking unilateral action to control the mob. He has even demanded a comprehensive probe into the issue. Talking to the media, Mahto said, “We need to look at things logically. If the agitators had been demonstrating before the factory for over five hours (10 am to 3 pm) then why would they turn violent after having a successful talk with the administration?” He claimed that those who had participated in the dharna were not in the stone-pelting incidence. “The district administration should probe into the incident to find out people involved in pelting stones. No action should be taken against the poor who have lost their land to the factory and were demanding jobs as compensation,” said Mahto. He maintained that not many would willingly give away their land for the sake of industrialization, if the unilateral action will be taken by the administration. “Those stationed at the ACC headquarter in Mumbai are unaware of the misdeeds of their local administrative set up at Sindri. These local officials are hands in gloves with the local goons. As a consequence, only a selected few are benefitting from the perks,” charged Mahto, while demanding an impartial inquiry to unearth the truth. “I have been working for the rights of the deprived, marginalized, exploited, and the oppressed. No pressure can deter me from doing my work,” thundered Mahto. Notably, Dharmajit Singh, district president of Tiger Force, a youth organisation, who had led yesterday’s agitation at Sindri and had later participated in a dialogue with Surendra Prasad, sub-divisional officer, inside the cement factory, said, “A fight for a genuine cause can’t be suppressed by caucus which is operating in the factory in name of a labour union.” Several police officials got injured when unidentified people pelted stone. Police have arrested around 11 persons, including four women, for participating in yesterday’s chakka jam. They have also lodged an FIR against 25 people, including those arrested. A probe has been initiated to identify individuals involved in the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jayant Sinha demands release of funds for 500-bed hospital in Hazaribagh||Former union minister of state for civil aviation and Hazaribagh MP, Jayant Sinha shot a missive to chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday requesting him to release the fund for the construction of a 500-bed state-of-the-art hospital in Hazaribagh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for this hospital in February 2019, when he came here to inaugurate the newly constructed medical college, a promise made by Sinha when he fought election for the first time in 2014. Due to lack of fund, this hospital construction work came to a halt. Sinha said the total budget to construct this hospital is Rs 509 crore and the state government will have to bear the entire expense. He said in the first phase, the state government had to release Rs 140 crore, but only Rs 10 crore was sanctioned for the purpose. Sinha said due to the ongoing pandemic and to cater to proper health facilities, this hospital needs to be constructed as soon as possible. He also added seeing the importance of this project, the union government has cleared all hurdles for completion of this ambitious project. Sinha stated that the people of his constituency which comprises Hazaribagh and Ramgarh district are dependent on Ranchi for emergency health services. In his letter to Soren, Sinha requested him to sanction the rest of the amount of the first installment of Rs 140 crore, as work has come to a standstill and fund is required to restart the work again in this important project. The hospital will be constructed on the campus of the medical college at Lake Road in Hazaribagh.  Last week, targeting the state government, he said the national medical commission refused to give permission to take fresh admissions in the MBBS course due to lack of proper infrastructures at three new medical colleges of the state including Hazaribagh. Sinha also said such negligence hit hard on the future of aspiring doctors of this state. When the BJP government was there in the state, all required steps were taken at that time after which permission to take admission was given. On health minister Banna Gupta's allegation that the union government is doing politics in medical colleges’ issue, he said instead of wasting time, they should ensure maintaining the infrastructures as asked by the commission. “Instead of taking a fast decision on changing the name of the three colleges, the government should have plugged all loopholes to upgrade these important institutions,” stated Sinha. He also said due to the state government only, the ambitious project to develop Hazaribagh aerodrome failed to gain momentum. The state government did not acquire the land for which they will have to cough up Rs 250 crore and they failed to do this, added Sinha. He also stated that only centre sponsored projects are running properly in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||World AIDS Day: Tatas focus on long-distance truckers  ||Tata Steel Foundation, which has been running an activity-filled awareness campaign among long-distance truck drivers about safe sex practices, released a report on World AIDS Day on Tuesday, indicating that it had reached out to over 53,000 drivers this fiscal. "Due to frequent mobility, truck drivers lack access to general healthcare and low contact with HIV intervention programmes also restrict their access in seeking general healthcare and STI and HIV care. Thus, it is important to work with the trucking community for awareness and prevention of HIV among them,” said a statement issued by Tata Steel Foundation. For the last few years, Tata Steel Foundation has worked with long-distance truck drivers and helpers to get them tested for HIV at the Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre (ICTC). The project is being run at five truckers’ halt points at Jamshedpur, Dimna, Burmamines, Jugsalai and Baliguma. Last year (FY 2019-20), the foundation report suggested, around 56,000 truckers were reached through clinical care and awareness programmes. In collaboration with Tata Motors’ Parivar Kalyan Sansthan and Family Planning Association of India (FPAI), the foundation also conducts health camps and eye camps for drivers. Every year on World AIDS Day, rallies, nukkad natak (street plays), quiz competitions are organised. But this year no events were held due to the pandemic. Various social outfits, and the Scouts and Guides, which usually brings out an awareness rally in the steel city to mark the day, cancelled their programmes this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Activists ask Uddhav to ensure Swamy is treated with dignity in jail||Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a network of rights organisations and activists, has appealed to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to ensure that Father Stan Swamy (83) was treated with dignity and that he had access to all amenities in jail. In a letter dated November 30, but released to the media on Tuesday, the mahasabha also appealed to the state government to arrest the “actual perpetrators” of violence at Bhima-Koregaon in January 2018 -- it named two leaders belonging Hindu organisations -- and ensure speedy trial of the case. “This is to bring to your attention the current health condition of 83-year-old Father Stan Swamy, currently lodged as an undertrial in the Taloja jail. He is a Parkinson’s patient with severe tremors in both his hands. As a result, he has trouble drinking water from a glass, taking baths and washing clothes on his own. He also has a serious hearing problem and needs hearing aids in both ears. He was operated twice for hernia in the recent past,” read the letter, a copy of which has also been sent to Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren. Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on October 8 from his residence in Ranchi in the Bhima-Koregaon case. “He carried along with him some medicines for chronic illness. He also carried a steel-straw sipper, which was necessary for him to drink any liquid food item. But he was not allowed to take his sipper with him inside the jail,” the Mahasabha noted in the letter. “We would also like to bring to your notice that jail authorities refused to allow Swamy access to warm clothes sent by his family. This is a serious violation of basic rights of an elderly person with disability. While the NIA and central government continue to harass activists through the Bhima-Koregaon case, it is also the responsibility of the Maharashtra government to ensure amenities and dignity to the undertrial activists,” the Mahasabha said. Jail authorities, it has been reported, provided a sipper to Swamy on November 29 after condemnation from various quarters. “We appeal to the Maharashtra government to ensure all amenities including warm clothes, health support and dignity to Swamy, considering his age and illness. Swamy is a valued and public-spiritedness citizen who has worked for Adivasi rights since decades in Jharkhand. We have the highest regard for him and his work,” the Mahasabha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Paddy procurement begins, 1.42 lakh farmers already enrolled||Jharkhand launched its paddy procurement process for the 2020-21 kharif season in Ranchi on Tuesday as per the minimum support price (MSP) decided on by the state cabinet last month. State food and civil supplies department director Vineet Tirkey said as many as 23 procurement centres had been set up in Ranchi district. “We are officially starting paddy procurement from today (Tuesday). Ranchi is the first district to start, but remaining districts will also operationalise procurement centres by this week,” he said. This year, the state government has fixed a target to procure 4.5lakh metric tons from 1.60 lakh farmers. To encourage farmers to sell their produce at government centres, rather than to middlemen at throwaway prices, the state government has also promised to pay 50 per cent of the price to farmers on the spot through direct benefit transfer. As per the department’s data, 1.42 lakh farmers have so far enrolled themselves across districts to sell paddy. Tirkey said the numbers were more than last year’s enrolment figures and were likely to surpass this year’s target in another two weeks. “About 1.39 lakh farmers had enrolled themselves for selling paddy last year. This time, 1.42 lakh farmers have already enrolled in 24 districts. The enrolment process will end on December 15 by which time we expect to cross this year’s target,” he said, adding that around 310 procurement centres had been set up in all 24 districts. Last month, the state cabinet fixed a minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,868 per quintal for normal paddy and Rs 1,888 per quintal for grade A quality along with a bonus of Rs 182 per quintal. Tirkey said the Food Corporation of India (FCI) will run procurement centres in Latehar, Chatra and Garhwa districts while the state food corporation would handle procurement in the remaining districts. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said block development officers (BDOs) had been directed to keep strict vigil and undertake a regular inspection of procurement centres to prevent any wrongdoing. “Also, everyone has been asked to ensure strict compliance of Covid-19 safety norms at centres during the procurement processes,” he said, adding that six rice mills had been empanelled in the district for processing the procured stocks. “At the rice mills, closed-circuit television cameras (CCTVs) have been put up and magistrates have been deployed to keep a watch on the entire process to plug leakage,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Health minister advocates voluntary AIDS test by couples before marriage||On the occasion of World AIDS Day, state health minister Banna Gupta urged couples belonging to the progressive section of society to get tested for HIV before tying the nuptial knot and set an example for others, his advice coming at a time when Jharkhand has seen a steady increase in the number of HIV positive cases. “Educated and progressive people must volunteer to get tested for HIV before getting married. By doing this, they will not only ensure safety for themselves but also set an example for the people belonging to lower sections of society,” Gupta said while addressing an event commemorating World AIDS Day on Tuesday. As per figures with Jharkhand AIDS Control Society, the number of HIV positive individuals in Jharkhand has increased in the past couple of years. In 2018, as many as 21,400 people were HIV positive in the state, and by 2020, the number shot up to 25,757. “The only way we can prevent further spread of the disease is by spreading awareness. And AIDS awareness should not only be confined to school curriculums but also be practiced in daily life,” said Gupta, adding that the taboo around conversations about sex has to come to an end, especially in rural and semi-urban areas. “Three-month pregnant women should also get themselves tested for HIV,” he added. Adolescents, he said, have to be told that sexual intercourse was a natural activity and that protected sex was important for population control and prevention of various diseases. “We are running awareness campaigns in schools and colleges, but it was also important for parents to talk freely about the risks of unprotected sex,” he said. The health minister also expressed concern about the unsafe use of syringes by youths addicted to drugs, fearing that it might cause an increase in cases of HIV. “While doing drugs in itself is illegal and hazardous to health, the people using syringes for taking drugs put many others at risk of getting infected by HIV virus,” Gupta said. He admitted that it was the government’s duty to ensure the safe use of syringes at hospitals and health clinics across the state. Commoners, he said, should become more aware of the safe use of syringes for blood tests and administering of injections. “Lack of awareness also leads to misinformation about the disease, which eventually triggers discrimination against people battling AIDS. Spreading awareness will ensure better treatment of AIDS patients in the society,” said Gupta. The Joint Director of Jharkhand AIDS Control Society, Dr. B.C. Bhagat, said that HIV-positive people were also at a higher risk of getting infected by the Covid-19 virus as HIV weakens the immune system of patients. World AIDS Day is observed on December 1 every year to spread awareness about the disease and extend support to the people suffering from it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tourist flow to Maithon gradually increases||With the onset of the winter season, the tourist flow in Maithon Lake sees a good start which in turn has brought cheer in the faces of the boatmen and roadside shopkeepers. The local villagers of Maithon engaged in managing their living through the seasonal income during the winter, however, are keeping their fingers crossed over the possibility of further deterioration of Covid-19 situation which might stimulate further restrictions from the government. The maximum rush at Maithon, comprising of 15712 feet long and 165 feet high Maithon Dam lying over Barakar river and the Maithon lake spread over 65 square kilometers, along with the millennium park and the famous Kalyaneshwari temple is witnessed during the month of December-January every year. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Vishnu Bauri, a resident of Goghna Village of Maithon, ekes out his living by carrying out boat riding, said, “Though the maximum rush at Maithon is recorded during December-January but the off-season income is also good as many tourists from various parts of the country, particularly from Bengal visits here lean season as well.” “We are happy that we are witnessing some tourists since last one month which is likely to go up within a week. However the tourist flow is less than 50% compared to last year,” added Bauri who is also a member of the self-help group of over 70 boatmen, Matsya Gandha which operates the boats here. “We pray to God every day to keep the Covid-19 situation under control otherwise it will lead to the tightening of the government norms which in turn will cause a further drop in footfall of tourists,” said Bauri and added that their income during the peak season is around Rs 3,000 - Rs 4,000 per day which dips down to Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 during the lean season (off-season). Prem Mahto, another boatman of Kalibasti locality of Maithon said, “We had zero income during the first six months of lockdown due to the restrictions and even after the permission very few people visited the tourist places.” He also added that Covid-19 testing for all persons entering into Jharkhand from Bengal at Maithon also deterred tourists from other parts from visiting Maithon. “The local visitors of adjoining places even if opt for boating goes for a smaller trip around a nearby island for a fare of Rs 200 per person while only a few opts for the longer trip of all around the lake at Rs 600 per person,” said Mahto and added that their main income depends on outsider visitors. Similar is the reaction of around 80 shopkeepers selling beverages, fast foods, chats, and pakora. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Dilip Singh, owner of Lakshmi Chat stall said, “We had faced the worst days of our life during the first six months of lockdown from March 22 to September 22 due to almost negligible footfall but things have slowly started improving. We are also observing all the precautions to not let the situation go out of our hands and request visitors to put on their masks and always follow the social distancing norms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI receives re-accreditation from AMBA||The XLRI or Xavier School of Management, one of India’s premiere B-schools, has been re-accredited by the Association of MBAs (AMBA), with regard to its three flagship programs including the PGDM (BM), the PGDM (HRM) and the Executive PGDM (General). With the accreditation, all current students and alumni of XLRI will be able to join the 55,000 global community members of AMBA from more than 150 countries. This community brings business school leaders from all over the world together to exchange insights, attend sessions relevant to business, leadership, and access to the latest research along with networking opportunities. An accreditation from AMBA represents the highest standard of achievement in postgraduate business education. The association’s rigorous assessment criteria makes sure that only the best programmes that demonstrate the best standards in teaching, curriculum, and student interaction achieves AMBA accreditation. “XLRI is a prestigious business school and one which is recognized globally for its quality. I am delighted that the School has achieved re-accreditation and look forward to working with the school in the future”, Andrew Main Wilson, chief executive of the AMBA and the Business Graduates Association (BGA) said. Expressing happiness over the accreditation, Fr. P Christie, director of XLRI, said, ““We are delighted that our institution has been awarded re-accreditation by AMBA’s International Accreditation Advisory Board. AMBA accreditation is international in scope and reach. AMBA works under the belief that accredited programs should be of the highest standard and reflect changing trends and innovation in postgraduate management education.” “Its accreditation process reflects this commitment to fostering innovation and demanding Business Schools to perform at the highest level continually and is earned only by the best programs. XLRI, with its singular philosophy of Magis, i.e., the pursuit of excellence in all endeavours, has continually focused on three interrelated areas: academic excellence, personal values, and societal concern. Our flagship PGDM programs are regularly revised to enable students to meet the business world's transformational business challenges and expectations,” he added. He further informed that this year, the XLRI extended its branch by establishing the new XLRI campus in the Delhi-NCR region. The re-accreditation, he said, will further enhance the credibility of the management programs offered by XLRI to prospective Indian and international students. “It will also help recruiters acquire the top talent, and future business leaders know that our graduates have received the highest quality and the most relevant management education. Our institution has spared no effort to make the curriculum world-class and deliver it most effectively. This achievement is the result of continuous hard work and support by our faculty members, employees, students, and alumni, and we worked as a singular body with a sense of purpose for the greater common good of the society at large,” Christie said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Murder accused sets motorcycle on fire at victim’s house||Just over a month following the death of a 19-year-old Uttam Kumar Sahu at the hands of his cousins at Daiguttu in Mango, some unidentified miscreants set a motorcycle on fire at his house during the early hours of Monday. The teenager was allegedly stabbed to death on October 16. The bike, which belonged to Uttam’s father Madan Sahu, was parked on the residential premises at night but was found charred on Monday morning. Sahu has lodged a complaint with the police at the Mango thana and has accused his elder brother Nandlal and nephew Sumeet Sahu alias Pachina of committing the arson, setting the bike on fire. Someone had entered into the premises by jumping over the boundary wall, leaving behind footprints on the wall. On receiving the complaint, a police team visited the spot and inspected the crime scene. "A motorcycle has been set on fire at Madan Sahu's house in the early hours on Monday.  We have also found several footprints on the wall, suggesting that those involved in the crime must have entered by escalating the boundary wall. We are getting the footprints examined by a team of forensic experts," said OC, Mango thana Vinay Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. He also informed that in connection with the Uttam Sahu mirder case, three persons were arrested and sent to jail. However, Nandlal Sahu and his son Pachina, who are also named accused in the case, are still absconding. "We are trying to arrest the two accused and will initiate a process of `kurki-jabti' (attachment of property) by praying in the court if the duo are not arrested soon," said the OC. The late teenager was the only son of Madan, and was stabbed to death in front of his house at Teli Line in Daiguttu in October. A property dispute between Madan Sahu and brother Nandanlal Sahu was the reason behind the murder. However, this was not the first time the family faced such issues after the murder. About a fortnight ago someone launched a gun attack on Sahu’s house, leading him to lodge an FIR with the police. The police had subsequently carried out a probe and claimed that there was no trace of the firing. Madan's daughter Sujata Kumari said that after her brother was murdered, they had to live under fear as Nandalal and his son Pachina seemed to have turned blood-thirsty. "First Nandlal and his sons killed my brother and now they are resorting to frightening us by sometimes opening fire at our house and sometimes setting our property on fire. Nandlal actually wants us to flee from the house and now we are completely depending on the action by the police," Sujata told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Active Covid cases down to 2000 in a day that sees 288 recoveries||The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand dropped close to 2000 on Monday as at least 288 Covid patients recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours against 167 fresh cases of infection surfacing during the same period, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. On Monday, as many as 2016 people were battling the virus in Jharkhand. As per government data, more than half of the active cases in Jharkhand were from East Singhbhum and Ranchi – two of the worst-affected districts in Jharkhand in terms of Covid cases and fatalities. As many as 59 people were found infected in Ranchi on Sunday, while 106 patients recovered from the infection here, bringing the number of active cases down at 734. East Singbhum, on the other hand, reported 22 fresh cases against 23 recoveries. The number of active cases in East Singhbhum was 306 on Monday night. At least four districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 on the day, while 14 districts reported a single-digit-spike in the Covid caseload, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday evening stated. Meanwhile, one more Covid-19 patient, a resident of Dhanbad, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 964, the NHM bulletin stated. So far, Dhanbad has reported 91 Covid casualties, while East Singhbhum and Ranchi have reported 351 and 195 fatalities respectively. Among other districts, Bokaro reported eight fresh cases, while Dhanbad reported nine cases. At least 17 fresh cases surfaced in West Singhbhum and 12 people were found infected in Saraikela, revealed government data. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 30,813 people and around 0.50 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 41.93 lakh people and tested 41.78 lakh of them. Of the nearly 42 lakh people tested, at least 1,09,151 were found Covid positive and 1,06,171 of them have recovered. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.39 per cent. The doubling rate of the viral infection in the state was 428.14 days against the national doubling rate of 178.70 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.88 per cent, while the recovery rate was 97.26 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||JMM to meet  LS Speaker on Sarna code ||Members of the ruling UPA alliance in Jharkhand have decided to meet Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla over the inclusion of Sarna Adivasi religion code in 2021 Census. “A delegation of senior JMM leaders, including our MP (Rajmahal MP Vijay Hansdak) and several MLAs will be seeking an appointment with Lok Sabha Speaker (Om Birla) and place before him the necessity of including Sarna/Adivasi religion code in the 2021 Census for safeguarding the identity of tribals across the country and Jharkhand. We are waiting for the announcement of the next Lok Sabha session and would meet the Speaker soon after the commencement of the session,” JMM general secretary and spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharjee said. The JMM leader also called upon the BJP MPs, who comprise a majority in Jharkhand, to come forward and join hands with the JMM on this issue. “The NDA has 12 MPs and they should also join hands with us in requesting for the inclusion of the Sarna/Adivasi religion code in the Census 2021 if they are serious about this issue,” Bhattacharjee said. State Congress executive chief Rajesh Thakur said they would be meeting their senior party leaders in Delhi on this issue. “As soon as our state president (Rameshwar Oraon) gets well, we will be seeking a meeting with party state in-charge R.P.N Singh and meet our senior leaders in Delhi and request them to support inclusion of Sarna/ Adivasi religious code in the 2021 Census in Lok Sabha,” Thakur said. The Jharkhand Assembly unanimously passed a resolution for a ‘Sarna Adivasi’ religion code in 2021 Census in a special one-day session earlier this month and send it to the Centre for consideration. Chief minister Hemant Soren had then claimed that a separate Sarna Adivasi religion code would facilitate a proper analysis of the tribal population in Jharkhand, ensure that they continue to derive benefits enshrined under the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution and avail special financial assistance from the Union government. He had said the move would also help in the conservation of tribal language, custom and culture. He had also expressed apprehension about the decreasing tribal population growth in Jharkhand in the absence of a separate Sarna code. Tribal groups of Jharkhand have been agitating for more than two decades and, earlier this year, threatened to boycott the 2021 Census if Sarna as a separate religion code is not included. They claim that with the Centre dropping the “Others” option from the religion column for Census 2021, Sarna adherents would be forced to either skip the column or declare themselves members of one of the six specified religions — Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Buddhist, Jain and Sikh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||CRPF jawan shoots self with AK-47||A 50-year-old jawan of 197 battalion of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service self-loading rifle (AK-47) at iron-ore mining hub of the region in Jharkhand’s Karampada at the Maoist-affected Saranda forest area of West Singhbhum district, on Saturday early morning, over 200 km south of capital Ranchi. The deceased jawan has been identified as an assistant sub-inspector in the CRPF, Umeed Singh, a native of Churu district of Rajasthan and was deputed at the Karampada base camp of 197 battalion of CRPF for over two years. Though no suicide note has been recovered from the place of occurrence but police sources claimed that the jawan was depressed over family issues. “We rule out work related pressure as the reason for the suicide as there has not been much movement of Maoist in the region off late. We have not received any suicide note from the place and have informed the relatives of the jawan about the incident and only after they arrive at the site we can know the exact reason for the suicide. Colleagues, however, claim that he was staying depressed over some family issues for the last few days. “Today morning as usual he completed his morning ablution and all of a sudden there sounds of gun shots and jawans rushed to Umeed lying in pool of blood with his service lying near him. He was rushed to the nearby Kiriburu hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said Kiriburu police station officer-in-charge, Ashok Kumar. The body has been sent for post-mortem to Chaibasa Sadar Hospital and the last rites would be performed after the arrival of the relatives. “We have gathered that he had been in training at Delhi for a long time and was deployed at Karampada two years ago. His elder son is in railway and daughter was also married, but still he was tensed over some family issues,” said a CRPF official requesting anonymity. CRPF officials have informed senior officials at Chaibasa and also in Delhi about the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
