02-12-2020||Calcutta||IRS officer who retired on Monday, questioned at Lalbazar on Tuesday ||An Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer who retired on Monday was questioned at Lalbazar on Tuesday in connection with a three-year-old corruption case, in which another IRS officer is the prime accused and accounting firm owner Govind Agarwal is a co-accused, officers at Lalbazar said. Biswanath Jha, who retired as the principal chief commissioner of income tax (West Bengal and Sikkim region), appeared before police in the afternoon. Jha was supposed to appear before cops on November 27 but he did not turn up that day. “He cooperated with us on Tuesday. He was questioned for about an hour. We may summon him again,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Officers said he was asked about some documents found in Agarwal’s office in Mangoe Lane. “The documents resembled those of the IT department and have signatures that resemble those of senior IT officers. We had some queries about those documents,” the officer said. The Telegraph tried to contact Jha but the calls went unanswered. The police on Tuesday issued summons to an IRS officer in connection with the case, in which IRS officer Neeraj Singh is the prime accused and Agarwal a co-accused. Agarwal was arrested on November 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta police’s martial arts workshop to go online||Calcutta police’s popular martial arts training programme for girls and women will be virtual this time. Tejashwini begins on December 5. Participants will have to log in through a link to access the five-day online workshop where they will be taught techniques of self-defence. Officers involved in the project said the online course had been designed especially to train women in self-defence and help them remain fit. Girls and women between 12 and 40 years can join the programme. “The master trainer will teach the techniques live from a stage. The participants will see the techniques and try them at home. It will be an interactive session. If anyone finds it difficult to understand any technique, she will be able to type on the screen and request the trainer to show it again,” an assistant commissioner said. More than 500 women have been trained in techniques of self-defence in the three sessions of Tejashwini, which started in 2018. Many women had joined the training with their daughters in the past. The city police will invite 250 applications during the online course this time. The workshop used to be organised at the Calcutta police sergeants’ institute tent since its inception. It has been turned online this time keeping in mind the pandemic situation. “Most of the Calcuttans are confined in their homes in the last eight months. So we decided to reach out to the girls and women through the online mode to keep them fit and ready whenever they have to step out again,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. Registration for the workshop will be open between December 2 and 4. Women interested to enrol will be able to register through a link: www.kpsgtinst.org and get answers to their queries about the workshop through the WhatsApp number 9748438165.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake residents’ concerns range from digital ration card to health scheme   ||A camp was organised at BD Block in Salt Lake as part of the state government’s outreach programme, Duare Sarkar (government on doorstep), where government officials as well as elected representatives heard grievances of residents. Apart from hearing out grievances, officials at the inaugural camp of the outreach programme listed at least 11 welfare schemes launched by the state government since 2011. On Tuesday, more than 50 men and women visited the camp that was held on the first floor of BD Market. The Telegraph visited the camp to find out what sort of assistance people sought from officials. Sambhu Das, 46, arrived at the camp around midday and told an official that he needed help regarding a digital ration card for his daughter. According to Das, he and his wife had received the digital cards, but his daughter had been left out. “Although we three had applied together, my daughter’s card did not come. So I came here and spoke to the officials, who asked me to fill in a form and submit it,” said Das. BE Block resident Snigdha Bhattacharya, 57, asked about the procedure to apply for the Swasthya Sathi scheme. She was directed to an official from the health and family welfare department, who told her that a smart card would be issued in the name of the woman who heads the family and details of all family members would be inserted in the card. Those enrolled in any other government health scheme can’t opt for the Swasthya Sathi scheme. “The card will be issued in the name of the woman who heads the family. Details of all the other family members will be inserted in the card and all family members can avail themselves of the benefits,” the official said. The official also explained to Bhattacharya that the scheme has around 1,500 empanelled hospitals, including AIIMS (Delhi) and Christian Medical College (Vellore). The chairperson of the board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Krishna Chakraborty, and other officials of the civic body, the sub-divisional officer of Bidhannagar and officials from other departments were present at the camp. A board hung near the entrance explaining different government schemes, including Kanyashree (a cash transfer programme aimed at retaining girls in schools and preventing their early marriage), Khadya Sathi (which aims to ensure food security for 90 per cent of the population) and Sikhashree (a one-time grant to SC and ST students studying in Classes V-VIII to reduce their dropout rates). Other schemes include Rupashree (a one-time grant of Rs 25,000 to poor families during their daughter’s marriage), Jai Johar (for betterment of STs), Taposili Bandhu (pension scheme for SCs) and Aikyashree (scholarship programme for students from minority communities). Chakraborty, of the Bidhannagar civic body, said people had come out in good numbers to tell their grievances as well as to apply for welfare schemes. “This camp has been quite satisfactory as people turned up in numbers,” said Chakraborty. The camps will be held in phases. The first phase of the programme will continue till December 11, the second from December 15-24, the third from January 2-12 and the last from January 18-30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Report released on transgender persons lodged in Indian prisons||Two-hundred-and-fourteen transgender persons were lodged in prisons across India from May 2018 to April 2019. Around three-fourth of the states and Union Territories do not record prisoners’ gender beyond the male/female binary. A report on transgender persons lodged in Indian prisons, billed as the first of its kind, was released at a virtual programme on Friday. The report — Lost Identity: Transgender Persons Inside Indian Prisons — also takes stock of compliance of prisons with existing legal framework to protect transgenders’ rights and makes a series of recommendations. The Supreme Court, in its NALSA judgment on April 15, 2014, had for the first time recognised non-binary gender and upheld the fundamental rights of transgender persons in the country. The findings of the report are based on RTI information from 28 states and six Union Territories (see chart). Between May 2018 and April 2019, a total of 214 transgender persons were incarcerated in jails across the country, said the report, prepared by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), a non-profit. Bengal had seven transgender persons lodged in its jails during the period. Only nine states recorded data of transgender inmates separately, not categorising them as male or female, according to the report. “In some states, including Gujarat, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, New Delhi, Rajasthan, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Bengal, there existed a lack of uniformity in recording of data by jails within the state,” a representative of the CHRI told Metro. “While the authorities in some jails in these states said data of transgender persons was being recorded separately (apart from male and female), other jails responded that there was no provision to record the data of transgender persons separately,” she said. An official in the Bengal correctional services department said on paper, there was no provision of categorising inmates as a third gender. “The correctional homes do not have separate wards for transgender persons. But when an inmate is brought to a jail after court production, the person is assigned an isolated ward carved out of the existing wards if he or she wants,” the official said. “We will see the report and do the needful,” said Piyush Pandey, additional director general, correctional services. The report also highlighted the lack of awareness among prisoners on the recognition of transgender persons as a legal identity. The report was launched by Justice Madan B. Lokur, a former Supreme Court Judge. He stressed the need for training and awareness — of prison staff, lawyers and police — on the issue. “The police, the judiciary, institutions dealing with civil servants... need to get together to deal with issues facing transgender persons," he said. Justice Lokur underlined that India was a welfare state. “A welfare state cannot say that we cannot give certain facilities to some people. Answers to questions about the problems transgender persons face can come only through adequate training, awareness and recruitment,” he said. More than 300 persons — prison and correctional services officials, members of human rights commissions, metropolitan magistrates and others — attended the virtual programme. “I do not think that the judiciary has completed its task. We need to look at transgender persons in the criminal justice system as a whole,” said Justice S. Muralidhar of Punjab and Haryana High Court, one of the participants in a panel discussion that followed the launch. “The government of India, in consultation with relevant government agencies and civil society organisations, must formulate a model policy towards making prison processes more inclusive so that the special needs of transgender persons are taken into account,” said Madhurima Dhanuka, programme head, prisons reforms at the CHRI. Some of the key findings of the report, based on RTI answers from 28 states and six Union Territories ⚫Between May 2018 and April 2019, a total of 214 transgender persons were incarcerated in jails across the country ⚫Only nine states recorded data of transgender inmates separately, not male or female ⚫On the procedure for placement of transgender persons in gendered prisons, non-uniformity in policy was observed not only across states but across jails within the same state ⚫No awareness programmes among prisoners were conducted since 2014, apart from the state of Karnataka, on the recognition of transgender persons as a legal identity ⚫No transgender person had been recruited by the prison department in any of the states or UnionTerritories between January 1 2014 and January 1 2019 ⚫None of the prisons reported the inclusion of any course/module in the training curriculum which focused on the aspect of awareness and  sensitisation regarding the rights of LGBTI+communities. However, Karnataka, in its response, did mention that a training class wasconducted in the prison training institute regarding the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Bill, 2019||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Majerhat bridge to be named Jai Hind bridge||The Majerhat bridge, which will be opened to traffic on December 3, will be named Jai Hind Bridge as a tribute to Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birthanniversary, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday. “We have decided to change the name of the Majerhat bridge to Jai Hind Bridge as our tribute to Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary,” Mamata said at Nabanna. “All the community centres in Calcutta under the Calcutta Municipal Corporation have been named Jai Hind. We have decided to take forward the slogan of Jai Hind in keeping with the ideals of Subhas Chandra Bose.” The chief minister will inaugurate the bridge at 5pm on Thursday. The decision to inaugurate the bridge on December 3 was taken on Saturday, a day after the railway and the PWD, which has implemented the Rs 200-crore project, submitted a “safety certificate” about the structure to the state government. Senior officials of the PWD said final touches were being given to the structure ahead of the inauguration. The police said the Bailey bridge, set up parallel to the Majerhat bridge after the old structure had collapsed in September 2018, will remain open, providing commuters an additional option to travel in the north-south direction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Look forward to a decent winter: Met official||November did not deliver the chill it had promised. December is here but woollens are still inside cupboards. Since plunging to 15 degrees on November 23 and 24, the mercury has been on the rise, dashing the hopes of an early winter in Calcutta. On Saturday, the maximum temperature in Calcutta touched almost 30 degrees. The Celsius has been dropping marginally in the night but the minimum temperatures have still remained a few notches above normal until Monday Tuesday. The India Meteorological Department has forecast a harsher than usual winter for north and central India. Since cold and dry winds from the upper reaches of the country bring the chill to Calcutta, the forecast has raised fresh hopes of a longer and stronger tryst with the city’s favourite season. The Met office in Alipore has cautioned against jumping into conclusions. “Severe cold in north India does not automatically translate to a lower than usual temperature in Calcutta. But the city can look forward to a decent winter this year,” said a Met official. By “decent winter”, he meant “a few days of sub-12 degrees temperature” between December 15 and January 15. In the “Seasonal Outlook for temperatures during December 2020 to February 2021”, the IMD said the north and northwestern parts of the country were set to experience a colder than usual winter this time. Thanks to steady snowfall in the upper reaches of the country since November 15, winter has made an early entry in several northern states this year. The mercury has already plunged to six degrees in Delhi. But the biting cold in northern states has not brought a corresponding chill to Calcutta. A series of weather systems over the Bay of Bengal — cyclone Nivar, that hit Tamil Nadu coast last week, being the latest of them — led to moisture incursion in Calcutta, stalling the free flow of northwesterly winds and triggering a rise in temperature. Another well-marked low-pressure area was brewing over southeast Bay of Bengal on Monday. “Not every system leads to rain in Calcutta. But it injects moisture into the atmosphere, triggering a rise in temperature,” said the Met official. The minimum temperature dipped to 15.7 degrees on Monday. But the day was warm and sunny, with the Celsius climbing to 29.1 degrees. “The minimum temperature is expected to remain in the 15-16 degrees range over the next few days. The maximum temperature will be in the range of 28-29 degrees,” said a Met official. The Met office in Alipore does not formally announce the onset of winter. But December 15 is the usual time for winter to set foot in Calcutta, according to Met officials. The key parameter is that the minimum temperature has to be 15 degrees or less for at least four days at a stretch. The day temperature in the coming days will be an indicator of the chill, said G.K. Das, director, IMD Calcutta. “If the day temperature is around 27-28 degrees, the mercury will go down to around 15 degrees. But if the day temperature is around 24-25 degrees, the minimum temperature is likely to dip to 12 degrees or lower,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Daily scan of Vivekananda Road flyover||Six CMDA engineers, working in two shifts, are scanning the Vivekananda Road flyover in north Calcutta, a part of which collapsed in March 2016, every day for signs of any further damage that could bring down the rest of the structure. The engineers are examining the flyover from 9am to 9pm, with their trained eyes as well as with the help of machines, looking for signs of subsidence in the concrete, deflection caused by stress and lack of maintenance. The flyover was still under construction when a portion of it, near Girish Park, collapsed. Rows of steel rods have been lying dumped on a portion of the 2km-long flyover, adding to the weight on the deck slabs. Water has been seeping into the concrete, resulting in growth of plants and making the structure even more vulnerable. Over the past few years, several experts have warned that portions of the flyover that do not have concrete casting are less stable and their collapse could lead to another disaster. The urban development department has decided that a team of three engineers on every shift will assess the structure and note down their observations. What will they look for? Slight cracks in concrete slabs or railings, presence of unwanted materials such as tubular steel structures on the deck slab, outgrowth on the walls and the nature of loading and unloading activities around the piers in the heart of the Posta wholesale market — every minute detail will have to be noted down. A 41m-long deck slab of the flyover had collapsed on March 31, 2016, killing 26 people. The structure has since remained untouched even though a committee appointed by the state government to decide on the fate of the structure has recommended its demolition. “Demolition will take time because a company that specialises in such work will have to be engaged. Till that happens, we don't want any further deterioration of the structure, which has been without any maintenance for almost four years,” said a senior official of the urban development department. “Necessary arrangements are being made so that there can be surveillance even after 9pm by engineers.” Engineers will ensure that no trucks are parked close to the piers of the flyover, so that if a vehicle topples because of weight imbalance, none of the piers has to take the load of the impact. Officials said observations of the engineers will be discussed at the end of every week so that necessary arrangements can be made for adequate protection or removal of unused materials from the top of the deck slabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Dumped plastic bags and bottles threaten Sarobar||Regular visitors to Rabindra Sarobar have complained that an increasing volume of plastic bags and bottles is being dumped on the premises and the authorities are not doing much to stop the practice. They are surprised that despite the park opening for only about six hours a day, so many plastic bags and bottles are still found strewn across the complex. Some of the plastic waste ends up in the water, blown by the wind. Environment scientists said the waste can suffocate aquatic life. The water body in the 192-acre Rabindra Sarobar compound is spread across 73 acres. Somendra Ghosh, a daily visitor to the lake, noticed a plastic container, a plastic bottle and a garland floating on the water on Sunday. Ghosh said he had also noticed plastic bottles strewn around the place in large numbers. “There are plastic bags and bottles lying on the walkways and the green verges bordering the walkways and the gardens,” he said. Ghosh noticed a woman picking plastic bottles on the Sarobar premises on Sunday. By the time she was leaving, she had two bags filled with plastic bottles. “It shows how irresponsible some visitors are. The woman and people like her are actually helping keep Rabindra Sarobar clean of plastic waste,” he said. The plastic that goes into the water is a threat to aquatic life. The plastic that remains in the soil can damage the top soil and turn the portion into a barren stretch. “The lake is home to a variety of turtles and fish. They will choke to death if they swallow plastic,” said Parthib Basu, a professor of zoology at Calcutta University, who specialises in ecology. “The plastic that remains stuck in the soil will destroy the topsoil, which is rich in all the vital nutrients plants need. The top 1 feet of the soil contains all the beneficial microbes. Since plastic does not decompose easily, it will turn the portion where it lies into a barren stretch,” said Basu. Micro plastic — the torn smaller parts of a plastic bag — are hazardous for microorganisms, he said. Once in water, micro plastic releases toxic substances or can choke insects and other beings that are an important part of the ecosystem. The Sarobar is home to three species of turtles, Common Toads, Bullfrogs, Cricket Frogs, Skittering Frogs, squirrels, about 60 species of butterflies, about 30 species of dragonflies and snakes. Though Rabindra Sarobar has been declared as a no-plastic zone by the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), many visitors freely walk in with plastic bottles and bags. Regular visitors alleged that security personnel do not stop visitors to find out whether they are carrying any plastic item. A CMDA official said it was not possible for guards to check the bag of each and every person because entry was free. Sumita Banerjee, another daily visitor to the place, said she was surprised with the behaviour of those who dump the waste in the place. “The park is now open for three hours in the morning and three hours in the afternoon. Despite the short duration, people manage to defile the place. I think the only way to stop them is not allowing any plastic bag, bottle or container into the Sarobar,” she said. Another CMDA official said the organisation had “installed plastic crusher machines inside the Sarobar so that plastic bottles are put inside them and crushed, and they do not fall in the water or lie scattered around the place”. “We can consider imposing a penalty on people who are found to dump plastic waste inside the Sarobar,” said another CMDA official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Hospitality seats vacant in city colleges ||Many hotel and hospitality management seats are vacant this year because a section of students is unwilling to pay a full year’s fees for the few months remaining in the current academic year. Students appear ready to forgo a year and enrol when hospitality is back in business like it was. However, career counselors and teachers across several disciplines warned against the trend, which will affect the students’ prospects in terms of admission and recruitment. In the Calcutta school of the International Institute of Hotel Management (IIHM), approximately 30 per cent seats are still vacant in hotel and hospitality management. Across its eight campuses, IIHM has 25 per cent of the seats vacant. At the Subhas Bose Institute of Hotel Management (SBIHM), about 20 per cent seats are still vacant in hotel management and a little less than that in hotel and hospitality management. Usually, all seats in these courses are taken up by the time classes start in July-August. There would even be a long waiting list of candidates. Many students Metro spoke to said they were waiting for things to look up, even if that meant losing a year. A college principal said what these students failed to understand was that next year they would be facing tougher competition with more applicants. “Gap year should be avoided. Students should rather use the opportunity to attend classes online. Faculties across the world are taking classes now because virtual platforms have made that easier,” he said. There is another long-term problem with a gap year: when the industry bounces back, there may be enough opportunities but not enough trained professionals. “Students who are not enrolling this year are actually making a mistake because by the time they graduate, three years from now, the world would bounce back more strongly. There will be a huge demand for people, especially in the hospitality and tourism industry. All the projects (in this sector) that are stalled now because of Covid will restart soon and will be ready in two years. There will be a requirement from the industry and if an adequate number of students are not there, it will create a huge gap between demand and supply,” said Suborno Bose, the CEO of IIHM. BA in hospitality management at IIHM is affiliated to the University of West London and also the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (Makaut) in Bengal. Degree courses at SBIHM are affiliated to Makaut. Both universities have extended this year’s admission window to at least mid-December. The fees for the degree courses range from Rs 1 lakh at SBIHM to about Rs 2 lakh at IIHM per year. “Parents are reluctant because they are apprehensive of enrolling their children this year. But we are advising parents that the market is opening up and there will be jobs created when they graduate,” said Rajib Sen, the chairman of SBIHM. Students can take bank loans to fund their studies but many parents said they were wary of loans in the absence of proper counselling. “To help those in financial distress we have scholarships, too. Plus we are also giving them the option of paying in instalments,” said Bose. Admission had also taken a hit because local trains were not running, the head of another institute said. “There is a tendency among students and their parents to see the campus and the infrastructure before deciding on a college. We have a certain percentage of students who come from districts like Burdwan, Midnapore, Howrah, Hooghly etc, who were unable to come,” said Sen of SBIHM. Dheerata Chatterjee, 18, was waiting for a few months before taking admission two days back. “I was waiting for the sanction of a bank loan. If I had not got the loan I might have had to study some other course. I wanted to be in hotel management,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Govt tells colleges to hold BTech counselling||The state government has allowed engineering colleges to conduct counselling and select students for admission on their own as 60 per cent of the BTech seats have remained vacant following a three-phased centralised counselling. As many as 20,000 out of 34,000-odd engineering seats are vacant after admission through centralised counselling. Last year, around 12,900 of the 33,000-odd seats were vacant. An order issued by the higher education department on Tuesday said the institutions were being asked to start the de-centralised counselling as “a reasonable number of seats in such professional technical courses are lying vacant”. Vacant seats have been a problem with some of Bengal’s engineering institutions year after year.  But unlike other years, seats are vacant in large numbers this time even in premier institutions like Jadavpur University and Calcutta University. Though the order does not specify any schedule, an official said each institution had been asked to start the counselling from this week. Out of 1,253 BTech seats at Jadavpur University, 450 are vacant, said a university official. After the centralised counseling, JU’s vacancy figure had stood at 260 last year. Eighty-five out of the 237 BTech seats at Calcutta University, which is considered next to JU, did not find any takers. CU’s vacancy figure last year had been 50. The Telegraph had on November 5 reported about the large number of vacant seats in the engineering institutions even after the JEE board had carried out a three-phased counseling, which started on August 12 and ended on October 31. The staggering vacancy at Jadavpur University, where the cost of studying is bare minimum, has left officials of the higher education department baffled. “It is understandable that the students are not willing to pay the steep tuition fee at private engineering colleges for studying BTech, given the shrinking job prospect amid the pandemic. But we fail to understand why students avoided JU in such large numbers,” said an official. An official of the engineering and technology faculty at JU said that even as the university had been filling seats in the first round of centralised counseling, enrolled students started backing out after counseling for the NITs began in mid-October. “As the Joint Seat Allocation Authority started its counseling, a large number of students who had opted for JU backed out and took admission in NITs. This led to a situation where one in the three seats has remained vacant at JU,” said the official. Another official said that such an exodus for the NITs, where the cost of studying is way too high compared with JU, goes to show that JU is gradually conceding its space to the NITs. “This was not the situation even a few years ago. NITs, with better infrastructure, are snatching bright students from JU. Through decentralised counseling, we will get students who are lower down the rank,” he said. Chiranjib Bhattacharjee, a pro-vice-chancellor at JU, declined comment when contacted. He had in June asked JU teachers in the engineering faculty to find out why the university’s position in the engineering category in the NIRF ranking had been sliding continuously over the past four years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
02-12-2020||Business||Sensex dips 37 points on profit-booking||The BSE Sensex retreated from record highs to close 37 points lower on Wednesday due to profit booking in banking and infrastructure stocks by cautious investors after the recent rally. The 30-share barometer closed lower by 37.40 points or 0.08 per cent at 44,618.04. The broader NSE Nifty edged higher by 4.70 points or 0.04 per cent to end at its fresh record high of 13,113.75. Banking stocks bore the brunt of profit selling ahead of the RBI policy announcement this week. Kotak Bank was top loser among Sensex stocks, dropping by 3.28 per cent. HDFC Bank declined by 1.86 per cent, HDFC by 1.28 per cent and ICICI Bank by 0.99 per cent. SBI fell 0.5 per cent while Bajaj Finance by 0.72 per cent. Larsen & Toubro dropped 0.16 per cent. Markets had opened with losses as investors were cautious over a possible US stimulus package. However, the UK's approval for the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine cheered investors helping the indices to limit losses, analysts said. Among major gainers, ONGC rose the most by 4.11 per cent, followed by Asian Paints (3.74 per cent) and Titan (3.48 per cent). Auto stocks gained after the companies reported sales growth in the domestic market in November, aided by robust offtakes amid the festival season. Bajaj Auto rose by 2.86 per cent, Mahindra and Mahindra by 2.53 per cent and Maruti Suzuki by 1.47 per cent. IT major TCS and Infosys recovered from early lows to close higher by 0.81 per cent and 0.33 per cent, respectively. Other Asian markets were mixed, with the Nikkei 225 in Tokyo and the Shanghai Composite index in China edging 0.1 per cent higher, and South Korea's Kospi gaining 1.6 per cent. Hong Kong's Hang Seng dropped 0.2 per cent while Australian shares closed almost flat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
02-12-2020||Business||Sensex drops by 60 points in early trade on profit booking||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped by 60 points in opening trade on Wednesday due to selling in financial, IT and energy stocks as investors booked profit after sharp gains in the previous session. The 30-share BSE index opened lower by 60.37 points or 0.14 per cent at 44,595.07. The broader NSE Nifty was down by 15.30 points or 0.12 per cent at 13,093.75 in opening trade. Tech Mahindra was the biggest loser among 30 Sensex stocks, dropping by 0.74 per cent. Among other IT stocks, TCS and Infosys declined up to 0.46 per cent. HDFC twins dropped up to 0.64 per cent in opening trade, dragging the index down. Index major Reliance Industries fell 0.21 per cent. Among gainers, Tata Steel rose the most by 1.49 per cent, Titan by 1.41 per cent and Asian Paints by 1.29 per cent. Auto, FMCG and Infra stocks were trading in the positive territory with L&T rising by 1.23 per cent. Equity benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty had rallied to fresh lifetime highs on Tuesday, backed by gains in IT and financial stocks amid persistent foreign capital inflows. The 30-share BSE Sensex zoomed 505.72 points or 1.15 per cent to end at its fresh closing record of 44,655.44. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 140.10 points or 1.08 per cent to close at its all-time high of 13,109.05. Meanwhile, other Asian markets shed early gains due to profit booking. Tokyo stocks dropped by 0.17 per cent and China by 0.22 per cent. Australian stocks also dropped 0.38 per cent. Oil prices dropped in Asia with the benchmark, Brent Crude, falling by 0.53 per cent to USD 47.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
02-12-2020||Business||Himadri Group to launch lithium battery powered cycles in Bengal||Co-founders of Himadri Group, which has aggregate revenues of Rs 2,000 crore, are jumping on to the electric mobility bandwagon. The Calcutta-based group, which has Himadri Speciality Chemicals as the flagship, will launch lithium battery powered cycles in the Bengal market by the middle of December. Priced between Rs 25,000 and Rs 40,000, these cycles are capable of running between 20-70 km without charge, depending on the capacity of the battery, Tushar Choudhary, founder of Motovolt Mobility, said. While the battery cells are being imported from China, Korea or Taiwan, the company claims that it is building the battery management system and the rest at Taratolla, Calcutta. Himadri’s founders, who have committed an investment of Rs 100 crore in the venture, will be pitted against Hero Cycle and scores of other companies who are assembling electric cycles in the country. While working with lithium ion battery makers — Himadri exports carbon which goes into the battery — the founders stumbled upon the idea to venture into e-mobility. Having spent the last three years on experimenting with the final product, which they hope will withstand the rugged roads of India, it is finally ready for a commercial roll out. “Our initial target is to make 50,000 cycles a year in the first year. Going forward, we hope to come up with two-wheelers and three-wheeler in 2021,” Choudhary said. The company expects governments, at the states and at the Centre, would provide fiscal incentives to bring down initial cost of ownership and make electric mobility popular among masses. “Once there is scale, batteries can be manufactured in India, driving down cost,” he added. There is a 5 per cent import duty on cells, which account for 40 per cent of the cycle cost. Some of the cycles will be fitted with a GPS system and they can be tracked by app. The company expects demands coming from e-commerce delivery and food aggregators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
02-12-2020||Business||Pandemic-hit states staring at record 36 per cent jump in indebtedness||The pandemic-hit states are staring at a record 36 per cent jump in their indebtedness to Rs 68 lakh crore, which will be a decadal high this financial year as their revenue is seen plunging 15 per cent, according to a report. This will have their economic output shrinking by at least 2-4 per cent this financial year, Crisil said in the report on Tuesday. This is mainly attributable to the falling goods and services tax (GST) collections and sticky revenue expenditure of the states that has gone up massively after the lockdowns, which began in late-March, the report said. The report is based on the state of finances of the top-18 states, including Goa and excluding Delhi, which account for 90 per cent of the aggregate gross state domestic product (GSDP). The states are set to face a revenue deficit of 6 per cent this fiscal, up from 1.5 per cent last year, it said. Capital outlay will fall to 2.7 per cent from 3.8 per cent, increasing their gross fiscal deficit to 8.7 per cent from 5.3 per cent in 2019-20 and total debt to Rs 68 lakh crore from Rs 58 lakh crore in 2019-20. Crisil director Ankit Hakhu said the overall debt of the states, including guarantees and loans provided by the Centre to partly compensate for the GST shortfall, will increase sharply by Rs 10 lakh crore this year. Manish Gupta, a senior director at the agency, said amid falling revenue receipts, the states’ revenue expenditure would remain  sticky.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
02-12-2020||Business||Reliance Capital defaults on interest payments on loans from HDFC and Axis Bank||Reliance Capital, the Anil Ambani firm, has defaulted on interest payments on loans from HDFC and Axis Bank. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges on Monday, Reliance Capital said it could not make interest payments of Rs 4.77 crore to HDFC and Rs 71 lakh to Axis Bank. The company had borrowed Rs 523.98 crore from HDFC at an interest rate of 10.60-13 per cent per annum for tenures between six months to seven years and  Rs 100.63 crore from Axis Bank at an interest rate of 8.25 per cent per annum for a period of 3-7 years, the filings showed. Shares of Reliance Capital on Wednesday ended nearly 5 per cent down at Rs 9.23 on the BSE. Reliance Capital said it is unable to proceed with its asset monetisation plans resulting in delay in debt servicing because of the prohibition to dispose of any assets except in the ordinary course of business such as payment of salary and statutory dues following an order dated November 20, 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
02-12-2020||Business||Yes Bank aiming at Rs 10,000 crore disbursal in current quarter||Yes Bank is aiming at a disbursal of Rs 10,000 crore in the current quarter in retail and small business credit. The bank has also set a target to raise its deposits book to Rs 2 lakh crore by the end of March and increase the overall share of retail and MSME books to 60 per cent of the total loan book by 2023. “We are targeting a fresh disbursal of Rs 10,000 crore in the current quarter, which is a sizeable growth. Over a period of time we aim to increase the retail and MSME book to 60 per cent of the total loan book from the current 45 per cent,” said Rajan Pental, global head — retail banking, Yes Bank. As of the September quarter, total advances of the bank was Rs 166,923 crore, of which 55-56 per cent was corporate credit and around 44-45 per cent was MSME and retail credit. Gross retail disbursement was Rs 3,764 crore and SME disbursement was Rs 2,900 crore. “The bank is aiming to raise deposits to Rs 2 lakh crore by March 2021 and from a medium to long term strategy, by 2023, we aim to double the overall retail bank business from its current level. Unveiling Yes Premia, a premium wealth management programme of the bank on Tuesday, Pental said the bank is looking to touch 1 lakh savings accounts by March, having already reached 70,000. “The bank has the right platform, people and customers. We have a good distribution available. Within retail we are not too ambitious like going down the segments of consumer durables. We want to stick to the secured lines to augment our growth ambitions,” said Pental. The bank has also received a limited response on loan restructuring with the overall request not exceeding Rs 200 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||Business||DHFL creditors to vote on proposal to seek fresh bids||Creditors to Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) will conclude voting on a proposal to seek fresh bids for the insolvent housing financier on Wednesday. If the proposal gets the support of at least 66 per cent of creditors by value, fresh bids will be invited by December 13 instead of the earlier deadline of December 10. It is learnt that the lenders are not against the proposal and, therefore, it is expected to get the green signal. Voting was expected to end last Saturday but it has been extended because of the weekend and holiday on Monday. Adani Properties, Piramal Group, Oaktree Capital Management and SC Lowy had submitted bids for DHFL in October. While the Adani Group had initially bid only for DHFL’s wholesale and Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) portfolio, it submitted a revised offer for the entire book on November 17. Its Rs 33,000 crore bid was more than the Rs 28,300 crore offered by Oaktree. The Piramal group had quoted Rs 23,500 crore for the retail portfolio of DHFL while SC Lowy had bid Rs 2,350 crore for the SRA assets. The Adani group’s move had led to a protest from rival bidders who claimed that its bid was submitted after the deadline and that it cannot make revisions to its original plan. With the lenders also wanting the suitors to revise their bids, they are now proposing to give them more time to submit fresh bids. They have now allowed the existing participants to bid for any option instead of their earlier stand on only allowing to revised bids for any of the option that was submitted on November 17. They have proposed that the potential resolution applicants may submit “revised and duly executed resolution plans which have improved commercial terms”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||Business||Vodafone Idea announces tariff hike on two postpaid plans||All eyes are now on Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio after Vodafone Idea (Vi) announced a much awaited tariff hike on two of its postpaid plans. The telcos had hiked mobile and data tariffs by up to 42 per cent in December last year. Since then, there have been talk of another round of price increases with industry circles pointing out that the current structure is unviable and that such increases are needed to invest in infrastructure and restore their bottomline. Recently, Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal had said the present tariff is unsustainable and that it will look at the market conditions before hiking prices. He had hinted that the telco would follow Jio in taking such a step. In August, he had said that 16 gb data consumption a month for Rs 160 was a “tragedy”. The Bharti Airtel chief has maintained that the average revenue per user (ARPU) should be Rs 200 and eventually it should rise to Rs 300 for the industry to have a sustainable business model. For the September quarter, Bharti Airtel’s mobile ARPU stood at Rs 162. Vi on Tuesday hiked tariffs of its Rs 598 and Rs 749 family postpaid plans by Rs 50 with immediate effect. The Rs 598 plan offers 80 gb data with 50 gb coming for the primary member and the rest for the other user. The Rs 749 plan is now priced at Rs 799, which offers 120 gb for three connections has 60 gb for the primary user and 30 gb for the other two connections. Both these plans come with rollover of 200 gb of data along with free one year subscription to Amazon Prime, Zee5, Vi movies & TV.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||Business||Board of Trade meeting scheduled for Wednesday||Measures to boost exports, manufacturing and the new foreign trade policy will be discussed at the Board of Trade (BoT) meeting to be chaired by commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday. The board, which includes members from the public and private sector, advises the commerce and industry ministry on policy measures related to Foreign Trade Policy.  “A meeting of the BoT will be held on Wednesday,” an official statement said on Tuesday. The meeting will be also addressed by ministers of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash and Hardeep Singh Puri. The meeting will be held through video conference; attendees will include senior officials from various central ministries and departments, government bodies and state governments, the CEO of NITI Aayog and representatives of apex industry bodies and export promotion councils, according to an official statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||Business||SC rejects Chanda Kochhar’s job termination petition||The Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected Chanda Kochhar’s appeal against the Bombay High Court order which had dismissed her plea against her termination as the managing director and CEO of ICICI Bank, saying the issue falls within the realm of a private bank and employee. “Sorry, we are not inclined to interfere with the high court order,” a bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said, adding, “this falls within the realm of private bank and employee”. The top court was hearing Kochhar's appeal against the March 5 order of the high court which had dismissed her plea against the termination notice served by ICICI Bank. The high court had accepted the bank's contention that Kochhar's plea was not maintainable. Kochhar had challenged her termination by ICICI Bank in January last year despite the fact that bank had earlier accepted her resignation in October 2018. “How can my resignation be converted to a termination?” senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi appearing for Kochhar said. When the bench said it was her own decision to leave the bank, Rohatgi countered : “But what about my reputation? I worked in this bank for 30 years and now there is sacking involved?” “Then you are entitled to damages Mr. Rohatgi,” Justice Kaul said suggesting that she can file a separate suit for compensation. Bail rejected A Mumbai court on Tuesday rejected a  bail plea of businessman Deepak Kochhar, husband of Chanda Kochhar and an accused in a money laundering case.   He was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in September under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the alleged ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case. Special PMLA judge P P Rajvaidya rejected the `regular' bail application of Deepak Kochhar, filed on merits of the case as against technical grounds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||Business||Key manufacturing index dips to 3-month low; GST collections grow||A mixed set of data points for some high-frequency indicators have pointed to the challenges the economy may face as it looks to quickly regain normalcy from the ravages of the pandemic amid fears over a fresh wave of infections. A key index of manufacturing has dipped to a to 3-month low, while GST collections grew for the third month in a row. Diesel sales fell 7 per cent on an annual basis, while the country's top car maker also reported a dip in sales a possible sign of the festive season fizzling out. Manufacturing activity failed to pick up pace and dropped to a three-month low of 56.3 in November because of slower increases in factory orders, exports and buying levels, prompting firms to cut jobs for the eighth month in a row, a survey showed. The IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) fell from over a decade high of 58.9 in October to a three-month low of 56.3 in November. GST mop-up GST collections crossed the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark for the second month running at Rs 1.04 lakh crore in November. Collections were higher than Rs 1.03 lakh crore reported a  year ago but marginally lower than Rs 1.05 lakh crore collected last month. Diesel sales fall India’s diesel sales fell 7 per cent year-on-year in November after rising for the first time in eight months in October, industry data showed on Tuesday.  Sale of diesel, the most used fuel in the country, was, however, 8 per cent higher month-on-month. Maruti in reverse gear Maruti Suzuki suffered a 4.7 per cent fall in car sales in November but the other players in the industry fared well. The mini-segment cars of Maruti, comprising the Alto and S-Presso, reported a 15 per cent fall in sales, while compact segment cars comprising Swift, Baleno, Celerio, Dzire and Wagon R reported a decline of 1.8 percent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||Business||Equity benchmarks surge to lifetime closing highs||Equity benchmarks surged to lifetime closing highs on Tuesday as better than expected GDP data and progress on the Covid-19 vaccine front gave fresh impetus to investor bullishness. A strengthening rupee and persistent foreign capital inflows further boosted market sentiment, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex zoomed 505.72 points or 1.15 per cent to end at its fresh closing record of 44655.44. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 140.10 points or 1.08 per cent to close at its all-time high of 13109.05. Sun Pharma was the top performer in the Sensex pack, spurting 5.51 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Tech Mahindra, ONGC, Bharti Airtel, Infosys, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Nestle India, Titan, Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank and NTPC were among the main laggards, shedding up to 1.40 per cent. Barring consumer durables, all BSE sectoral indices finished in the green, led by realty (3.49 per cent), telecom (2.52 per cent), teck (2.42 per cent) and IT (2.39 per cent) World equities perched near all-time highs as strong factory output figures from China bolstered expectations of a swift economic recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||Business||RBI Monetary Policy Committee meet to begin||The six-member interest rate setting panel of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will begin its three-day meeting on Wednesday where the members will have to grapple with the problem of liquidity slosh in the system even as an elevated inflation has almost ruled out  the possibility of a repo rate cut. The liquidity overhang is a result of the RBI buying dollars and selling rupees amid foreign portfolio investors parking their funds in the country — inflows touched a record Rs 63,000 crore in November — and the apex bank resorting to open market purchases. An estimated liquidity surplus of anywhere between Rs 5 lakh crore and Rs 6 lakh crore has led to the overnight inter-bank call money rate falling even below the reverse repo rate, which is the lower band of the policy rate corridor, and certain companies raising funds through commercial paper at rates that are below the reverse repo. With MPC widely expected to hold the policy repo rate constant, the focus has shifted to the steps it will take to manage liquidity. This comes at a time banks are parking more than Rs 5 lakh crore in the RBI’s reverse repo window, making it the benchmark rate. The central  bank could make it unattractive for banks to access the the reverse repo window. It has tried that before: on April 17, after an unscheduled review without MPC members, the RBI cut the reverse repo by 25 basis points to 3.75 per cent and followed that up with a 40 basis point cut to 3.35 per cent after the MPC review on May 22. The rate cuts have been paused since then. At the same time it could also take steps to mop up the surplus liquidity to preserve the sanctity of the policy rate corridor while retaining the accommodative stance. “The MPC’s views on liquidity will assume more importance, as the transient surplus has pushed down short-term/overnight rates sharply…Strong and prolonged liquidity surplus has also raised concerns at over risk mispricing and potential asset-liability mismatches for financial institutions,” Radhika Rao, economist at DBS Bank, said in a note. The expectation is that the central bank may allow more players such as mutual funds to tap the reverse repo window, limited only to banks at present, or that it could also revive the standing deposit facility under which banks can park funds with the RBI without any collateral. In a recent paper titled “Four years of the inflation targeting framework”, published a fortnight ago, Ila Patnaik and Radhika Pandey of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, commented on the MPC’s April reverse repo rate cut saying amid the Covid-19 crisis, the RBI unilaterally decided to reduce the rate. “Moves such as these could raise questions on the relevance of the monetary policy committee. During this period, the reverse repo rate has been changed more frequently than the repo rate. Some members of the MPC raised question on whether the reverse repo rate has become the new effective policy rate,” they said. The MPC meeting also comes at a time credit offtake has not shown any meaningful signs of a pick up though banks have seen an uptick in retail loans during  the festival season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||India||Farmers demand special Parliament session to repeal farm laws||Agitating farmers on Wednesday demanded that the Centre convene a special session of Parliament and repeal the new farm laws as they threatened to block other roads in Delhi and “take more steps” if it failed to do so. As the number of protestors swelled at Delhi’s border points, the apex body of transporters ‑ All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), representing about 95 lakh truckers and other entities ‑ extended its support to the farmers and threatened to halt operations in northern India from December 8 if the government fails to address concerns of the farming community. A crucial round of talks between the Centre and the representatives of protesting farmers is scheduled to be held on Thursday. Ahead of the talks, Union Home Minister Amit Shah held deliberations with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal here on Wednesday on ways to dispel concerns over the new farm laws. Tomar, Goyal along with Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash had represented the Union government on Tuesday during the talks with farmer leaders but failed to reach any breakthrough. As part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march, farmers have currently been staging protests at four busy border points of the national capital ‑ Singhu, Noida, Ghazipur and Tikri ­ to press their demands under heavy police deployment. Leaders of around 35 farmer organisations held a meeting which was also attended by Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait at the Singhu border. “The Centre should call a special session of Parliament to repeal the new farm laws. We will continue our agitation till these laws are repealed,” Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal told reporters after the meeting. He accused the Centre of dividing the farmers organisations by projecting the ongoing protests as Punjab-centric. Representatives of farmers organisations from other parts of the country will also be involved under Kisan Samyukt Morcha to decide the future course of action against the new farm laws, he said. Pal said that representatives of farmer organisations will give their point-wise objections to the Union ministers at a meeting scheduled to take place on Thursday. Another farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chadoni said that if the Centre does not withdraw the laws, more steps will be taken in the coming days to press their demands. According to Tikait, all the farmers’ unions want that MSP should be turned into a law and the three central farm laws repealed. “The government had asked us to give in writing what were the problems with the laws. There would have been room for a written statement had we been looking for an amendment in the laws, but we just have one demand ‑ completely doing away with the laws,” he said. He also said that the farmers have rejected the idea of a committee. “There are simply too many committees in the country. There have been several committee reports in the past but they don’t result in anything. Committees are created essentially to avoid an uprising. I have been part of the farmers' movement for nearly 30 years, so I know that much,” Tikait said. “If the government does not come to a decision in the next few days, we will increase pressure on NH8 and NH2, we have been in talks with our farmer brothers in Rajasthan,” he threatened. The day also saw Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal trading charges against each other over the AAP government's notification of one of the three central farm laws. Kejriwal accused Singh of playing “dirty politics” and suggested that he was under pressure from central agencies. But Singh trashed Kejriwal’s assertion that states are “helpless” against central legislation and said it was clear that the AAP leader did not even want to try to fight the “draconian” laws. “Instead of meekly just notifying the central laws, Kejriwal could have tried to make some effort to counter them and protect the rights of the farmers,” the Punjab chief minister said. He alleged it is evident that “this sneaky little fellow, whose double standards have been exposed time and again, is now completely cornered on the issue”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||Centre ‘angry’ with me for not using stadiums as jails: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal claimed on Wednesday that the BJP-led Central government was unhappy with him for not allowing nine stadiums to be used as makeshift jails for farmers protesting against the agri-marketing laws. Addressing a press briefing, Kejriwal also hit out at his counterpart in Punjab, Capt. Amarinder Singh, alleging that he was speaking “BJP’s language” by accusing him of ‘passing’ the three farm laws in Delhi. “Captain sahab you are levelling allegations against me and speaking BJP's language. Is it the pressure of ED cases on your family members and the notices being sent,” he questioned. Recently, the AAP government had denied permission to the Delhi Police to use stadiums as a temporary jail to detain farmers. "The Centre had the plan of putting the farmers into jails as soon as they reached Delhi, but we refused to convert the nine stadiums into jails. The Centre is very upset with me for this," he said. “The three farm laws were implemented across the country with the signature of the president and no state can stop them,” Kejriwal added. “If the implementation of the laws depended on the states, why would the farmers from across the nation reach Delhi to talk to the Centre and put their demands forward? They would have put their demands in front of their chief ministers,” he argued. The chief minister urged the Centre to immediately fulfill the farmers’ demand. The Delhi government has notified the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, one of three farm laws of the Centre. “The Punjab CM accused me of passing the three black laws. How can he do such lowly politics at such a crucial time,” Kejriwal complained. “Captain sahab had many chances to stop the farm bills. Why did he not act against these bills being a member of the central government's committee formulating and deliberating on these bills,” he asked. “Is this Captain sahab's friendship with the BJP or is he under pressure, because of which he is making false allegations against me,” he further questioned. The Delhi CM’s remarks follow Singh’s allegations that the Kejriwal government had implemented a farm law in the “midst of a crisis” while pretending to be in solidarity with the farmers. The AAP leader claimed that he was under huge pressure to convert the stadiums into jails, but he listened to his conscience. “I want to ask Captain sahab, are you under the pressure of these very same people because of which you are making these false allegations against me, abusing me. I know that the reason may be your family is charged with cases and receiving notices from the ED,” he added. The Delhi chief minister expressed anguish over protesting farmers being called "terrorists and anti-national" by some people. “I cannot imagine what the soldiers on the border must be going through, whose parents are being called terrorists. We all have to decide - whether we are with the farmers, or whether we are with the people who are calling these farmers terrorists,” he said. “No patriot can sleep peacefully after witnessing all this. This is not only farmers' fight, this is everyone's fight. The two meals that we eat in a day, are the result of our farmers' hard work in the fields. We all have to support our farmers in this fight,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||Farmers prepared for a longer haul||Farmers protesting against the new farm laws continued their sit-in at the Noida-Delhi border for the second day on Wednesday, leading to the closure of a key route that connects Uttar Pradesh with the national capital. The route, however, was partially opened for commuters coming in from Delhi. The Noida Traffic Police in the morning advised commuters heading to Delhi to take the DND or Kalindi Kunj route instead of the Chilla route through the Noida Link road which was closed due to the farmers’ demonstration since Tuesday evening. One of the carriageways on the route was opened in the evening, allowing commuters coming from Delhi to enter Noida as the protesters continued to sit on the other side of the road amid heavy police deployment. One of the carriageways has been opened to allow people coming from Delhi to enter Noida or UP. The law and order situation is under control. Some farmers are still on the other side of the road, informed Noida Deputy Commissioner of Police Rajesh S. He said that the police and PAC personnel are deployed at the border in adequate numbers and some protesters who had gathered under the Mahamaya flyover, disrupting the road traffic, have been shifted to nearby ground and the route cleared. The protesters at the Delhi-Noida border belong to various districts of western UP like Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Kasganj and Firozabad and want to reach the national capital to join the bigger stir launched by farmers of Punjab and Haryana against the Centre's agriculture reform laws. The farmers at the border are affiliated to various groups, including the factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union but have been prevented by the UP and the Delhi police from proceeding to the national capital. According to a senior police official, the farmers will be allowed to move only if they agree to head to Burari in Delhi and not elsewhere in the national capital. He further added that the Delhi Police had offered to escort the farmers to Burari but the protesters are not agreeing to the condition. Meanwhile, the protesters looked prepared to stay put at the border for a longer duration as they were spotting cooking their meals, taking naps and even enjoying their hookah puff on the road. “We are not going back until our demands are met. We want to go ahead and join the farmers who have come from Punjab and Haryana for the cause of the farming community,” said Mahender Kumar, a Firozabad resident. Hundreds of farmers are currently staying put at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. They have expressed apprehension that the Centre’s farm laws ‑ the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 ‑ would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||No slowdown for IITians||Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) across the country kicked off their placement drives with record job offers and high salary packages, beating COVID-19 pandemic blues. IIT-Delhi students bagged over 300 placement offers, including pre-placement offers (PPOs), by the end of the first day of the first phase of the placement season. “Given the situation this year, a new company scheduling paradigm has been conceptualised for a smooth placement process. This is to create an optimum environment for both the recruiters and the students for a seamless selection process. Given the fact that all selection processes are being conducted in a virtual mode this year, the entire interview process would span a single day instead of multiple shifts unlike past years and many other campuses,” an IIT-Delhi official said. “What this translates into is that the spread of companies will be more across days. This process will give ample time to recruiters to make selection judgements to facilitate the right fitment both for students and recruiting organisations,” the official added. With a record high in pre-placement offers, many students have already bagged offers as high as Rs 1.54 crore from international companies. The packages for domestic companies have also seen a sharp rise to about Rs 80 lakh this year for all top IITs, including IIT-Madras, Bombay, Roorkee and Guwahati. In IIT-BHU, 217 students have bagged jobs with annual CTC ranging from Rs 11.5 lakh to 64.27 lakh. Last year, it was Rs 10 lakh to Rs 58.21 lakh. In IIT-Madras, a total of 123 offers were made by 222 companies during day one's session, higher in any of the preceding years. “The year 2020 has seen the placement process happening online and the number of recruiters joining the virtual placement has been very encouraging despite the pandemic and we are thankful to all the recruiters. The students of IIT-Guwahati who are appearing for the placement from across the country are very determined and are likely to benefit from this online process due the equal opportunity provided to them as other institutes and we expect an upward trend in placement this year at IIT ‑ Guwahati,” TG Shriram, Director, IIT-Guwahati. At IIT-Bombay, there were 18 companies who participated in the placement drive on December 1. At IIT Kharagpur there were 276 PPOs. The officials gave credit to the students for performing well during their internship. Recruiters like Barclay, Goldman Sachs, Honeywell, Microsoft, MasterCard, Dr. Reddy, Tata Steel have offered more than 10 PPOs each to the institute. As many as 30 companies participated on the first day, extending over 130 placement offers to the final year students. In addition to the domestic firms, International firms ‑ TSMC, Sony-Japan and Cohesity US offered jobs as well. According to a statement from the institute, for domestic jobs, the highest number of offers came from Microsoft, Google, Texas Instruments, Qualcomm, Boston Consulting Group, and Apple. Amsterdam-based proprietary trading firm Optiver, meanwhile, made lucrative international offers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||After Nivar, cyclone Burevi approaches Tamil Nadu, Kerala||As cyclone Burevi approaches Tamil Nadu and Kerala, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke with the chief ministers of the states to discuss the situation prevailing in the parts of the regions. He assured the chief ministers of all possible help from the Centre. A deep depression over southwest Bay of Bengal intensified into cyclonic storm 'Burevi' on Tuesday and is expected to intensify further and cross the Sri Lankan coast on December 2, the India Meteorological Department had said. “After making landfall in the neighbouring country, close to Trincomalee, it is very likely to emerge into Gulf of Mannar and adjoining Comorin area -around Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu- on December 3 morning”, the IMD said in a bulletin. It would then move nearly west-southwestwards and cross south Tamil Nadu coast between Kanyakumari and Pamban in the wee hours of December 4, it said. In Kerala and south Tamil Nadu, heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected in some places whereas a few isolated places may receive extremely heavy rainfall on December 3, the Met Department said. The IMD has issued a red alert for south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala for December 3. "We discussed the conditions prevailing in parts of the state due to Cyclone Burevi. Centre will provide all possible support to TN. I pray for the well-being and safety of those living in the areas affected,” Modi tweeted after his conversation with Tamil Nadu Chief Minister E. Palaniswami. Regarding his talks with Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, he said he spoke on the conditions prevailing due to cyclonic storm Burevi in the state and assured all possible support from the Centre to help Kerala. "Praying for the safety and well-being of those staying in the affected areas," Modi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||AITMC backs farmers, threatens to stop operations ||The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), the apex body of transporters, on Wednesday threatened to stop operations in northern India from December 8 if the government does not address the concerns of farmers. "AIMTC has already extended its support to the farmer agitation from day one. We have decided on stopping our operations strategically starting from North India and if the government does not address the issue of the farmers then we may decide to go for shutting down of transport operations nationwide in their support," AIMTC President Kultaran Singh Atwal said. Referring to the farmers as ‘ann daata’ (food providers), Atwal said the road transport fraternity of India had extended its full support to them. AIMTC Core Committee Chairman Bal Malkit Singh told PTI, "Starting December 8, we will halt the movement of supplies in the entire North India including Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. We will then escalate it to the entire country if the government fails to address their issues." In a statement, the organisation said that the farmers are fighting for their legitimate rights and over 70 per cent of the rural households depend on agriculture. “Entire North India is affected and thousands of trucks carrying food, vegetables and other perishable and non-perishable items coming from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir are impacted”, it said. “AIMTC supports the farmers as 65 per cent of the trucks are engaged in carrying farm produce, it added. "At present it is the season of apples, which are getting wasted. Apart from that potatoes, onions and other fruits and vegetables as well as other essential commodities like medicines, milk etc too (are) stuck up as their movement is disrupted, which is leading to their shortage in Delhi and in other northern states," the statement said. “The situation will worsen in the days to come, unless the government takes prudent and pragmatic steps to resolve farmers' concerns”, it said. "The government must treat the farmers with dignity and allay their apprehensions on the farm Acts. We wholeheartedly support the cause of the farmers and look forward to a peaceful and amicable resolution of their issues raised by the Government," it added. The AITMC represents more than 95 lakh truckers and about 50 lakh bus and taxi operators across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||Congress workers face water cannons enroute Haryana CM's home||Police used water cannons Wednesday as Punjab Youth Congress workers jumped barricades trying to march to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's home here, protesting over the new farm laws. Punjab Youth Congress president Barinder Dhillon and several others were taken into custody by the Chandigarh Police. The activists wanted to 'gherao' Khattar's home to protest against the use of water cannons and teargas against Punjab farmers last week, when the Haryana Police had tried to stop them from entering the state to continue their Delhi Chalo march. We came here to wake up the Khattar government, Dhillon told reporters. We will continue to fight till the farmers get justice, he said, appealing to all sections of society to support the agitation. The Chandigarh Police first used water cannons against the Congress workers at barricades set up about three kilometres ahead of Khattar's official residence. But some activists managed to reach closer to the CM's home after jumping over police barricades. Again, water cannons were used to stop them. Police took several of them in custody. Some activists claimed police used canes to disperse them. Chandigarh Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Chahal was present on the spot. The roads leading to Khattar's home were sealed and there was heavy police deployment near it. The protesters had earlier gathered near the Chandigarh headquarter of the Punjab Congress. They raised slogans against the BJP government at the Centre and in Haryana, calling them "anti-farmer". Thousands of farmers, most of them from Punjab, are now gathered at Delhi's borders protesting against the three new laws enacted at the Centre in September. Farmer unions claim the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving farmers to the mercy of corporate houses. But the government says the system will continue and the laws will give farmers more options to sell their crops. Farm leaders met Union ministers on Tuesday, but the two sides failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||Yogi allays Maharashtra's 'Bollywood takeover' fears||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the northern state is not desirous of taking away the film business out of Mumbai. However, it is an open competition and the one who gives the right atmosphere and security in which talent can work will get the investments, he told reporters here. Ahead of his visit to the financial capital, ruling Congress in Maharashtra had alleged a conspiracy to snatch away the city's film city to UP, and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had vowed not to allow anybody to "forcibly" take away businesses. "We are not snatching or hindering anyone's investments," Adityanath said. "No one can take anything along. It is not like a purse which gets taken away. This is an open competition. One who can give a safe atmosphere, better facilities - and especially social security - in which one can work without discrimination will get investments, he added. Responding to Sena MP Sanjay Raut's assertion that replicating the film city in another city is a tall task, Adityanath said, "We've not come here to take away anything." "We are creating something new. Why are you getting concerned? We are providing a new world class infrastructure for all. Hence, everybody will have to grow up, widen his thinking and better facilities will have to be given. One who is able to do that will get the people, he added. Adityanath said he met experts from Bollywood, including directors, producers and actors to seek their suggestions for the upcoming film city in Noida which will be spread across 1,000 acres. He added that it is not a 'pick and choose' approach which has been adopted by his government and added that specific sectoral policies have been created with long term view in mind and such meetings help them improvise on the same. Adityanath met Bollywood personalities, including Akshay Kumar, Boney Kapoor, Subhash Ghai, Manmohan Shetty and Anand Pandit over the last two days as part of his visit to the financial capital. The UP CM said the Noida film city will be located six km away from the upcoming international airport at Jewar and added this will be well connected with Delhi, Agra and Mathura. Earlier in the day, Raut had said that it will not be easy to shift Mumbai's Film City elsewhere even though attempts have been made for it. "What is the status of Noida Film City now? Can you create Mumbai's Film City in Lucknow and Patna?" Raut had said while speaking to reporters. "Earlier, attempts were made. It is difficult to replicate Mumbai's film industry elsewhere. Mumbai has a glorious film history and past," Raut said. Ahead of his Uttar Pradesh counterpart's visit to the financial capital, Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday warned he will not let anybody "forcibly" take businesses away from the state, adding Maharashtra is not "jealous" about someone's progress if it happens on the back of fair competition. Of the many centres of film production across the country, Mumbai, host to the Hindi and Marathi film industry, is the largest. Bollywood, as the industry is called, delivers a high amount of jobs and revenues and is a key component in Mumbai's soft power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||Showik Chakraborty granted bail after three months||A Mumbai court on Wednesday granted bail to actress Rhea Chakraborty's brother Showik Chakraborty, who was arrested in a drugs case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had arrested Showik Chakraborty in September this year under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Special NDPS court judge G B Gurao granted bail to him on Wednesday on a personal bond of Rs 50,000. In his bail plea, Showik Chakraborty had relied on a recent Supreme Court judgment which said that "confessional statements" made to NCB officials cannot be considered as evidence. He reiterated that he has been "falsely implicated" in the case. Earlier, the court had also granted him bail in a related case. The NCB alleged said that Rhea Chakraborty, who was Sushant Singh Rajput's girlfriend, and her brother used to facilitate drug deliveries and payment through credit cards, cash and other payment gateways. The agency is conducting a probe into various drug angles linked to the death of Rajput, who was found hanging at his residence in suburban Bandra on June 14 this year. The NCB its investigation after the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which was probing money laundering charges linked to the case, shared some social media chats retrieved from Rhea Chakraborty's mobile phone, hinting at the alleged use of banned drugs. The central agency had earlier also arrested Rhea Chakraborty and some staff members of Rajput and a few others under various sections of the NDPS Act. Rhea Chakraborty and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||NGT directs complete ban on sale, use of firecrackers||The National Green Tribunal has directed that there would be a total ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers during COVID-19 pandemic in the NCR and all cities/towns in the country where the ambient air quality falls under the 'poor' and above category. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said its direction to restrict the use of firecrackers in cities/towns where air quality is 'moderate' or below to green crackers and for the duration of not more than two hours will continue. "There will be a total ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers during COVID-19 pandemic in the NCR and all cities/towns in the country where the ambient air quality falls under the 'poor' and above category," the bench said. During Christmas, and New Year, green crackers can be used from 11:55 pm to 12:30 am only at places where air quality is 'moderate' or below, the NGT said. It directed all District Magistrates to ensure that banned firecrackers are not sold and asked them to recover compensation from violators. Any victim of pollution, apart from other remedies, can approach District Magistrate for compensation, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||SC refuses to entertain plea against publication of Hathras victim's photograph||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to entertain a plea questioning the publication of a photograph of the Hathras victim in the media, saying the court cannot legislate on it and the petitioner can make a representation on the matter to the government. A 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped by four men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. Her cremation at night by the authorities, allegedly without the consent of her parents, triggered widespread outrage. The plea, which also raised the issue of delays in the trial of cases of sexual violence, came up for hearing before a bench headed by Justice N V Ramana. These issues have nothing to do with law, said the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose. Right to freedom of expression is there. There is enough law for this. It is unfortunate that such incidents happen, the bench observed. The apex court further said, "We cannot legislate law after law. It said the petitioner can make a representation to the government." On October 27, the top court had said the CBI investigation in the Hathras case is to be monitored by the Allahabad High Court and the CRPF would provide security to the victim's family and witnesses in the case. The apex court had delivered the verdict in October on a batch of pleas raising concerns on the incident and also the manner in which the teen was cremated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Not easy to shift film city from Mumbai: Shiv Sena on UP CM's visit||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said it is not easy to shift Mumbai's Film City elsewhere even though attempts have been made for it. Raut was talking to reporters amid Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's ongoing two-day visit to Mumbai where he is meeting film personalities and industrialists. Adityanath had earlier unveiled an ambitious plan to set up a film city and rolled out an open offer to film fraternity to come to Uttar Pradesh. The UP government earlier approved a proposal for setting up a film city in Sector 21 along the Yamuna Expressway in Gautam Buddh Nagar. "What is the status of Noida film city now? Can you create Mumbai's Film City in Lucknow and Patna?" Raut asked. "Earlier, attempts were made. It is difficult to replicate Mumbai's film industry elsewhere. Mumbai has a glorious film history and past," the Shiv Sena's chief spokesperson said. Raut noted that South and Bengal also have huge film industries. Southern superstars Rajinikanth, Nagarjuna, Chiranjeevi have worked in Hindi movies also. "Is Yogiji going to those states or only targeting Mumbai?" the Rajya Sabha member asked. "Speak of unemployment, falling GDP and the economy, instead of Shiv Sena's Hindutva," he said, referring to BJP's claim that the Shiv Sena has given up its core ideology. Raut also said the central government should take steps to resolve the farmers' protest against the new farm laws going on at the Delhi borders since last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Rahul: Farmers' income has halved under 'suit-boot sarkar'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday attacked the Centre over its claim of doubling farmers' income and alleged that their income has in fact "halved" under the 'suit-boot sarkar', while that of its crony friends has grown four times. His remarks come at a time when farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders of the national capital against the Centre's new agriculture reform laws. "They said farmers income will be doubled. What they did was increase incomes of 'friends' four times and those of farmers will be halved. This suit-boot government is of lies and loot," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The Congress leader also shared a video of the atrocities and use of force against the protesting farmers with a voice-over of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech saying his government was taking steps to resolve the problems faced by farmers and double their income. The Congress has been attacking the government over the use of force against the protesting farmers, and has urged the dispensation to withdraw the new farm laws and redresses the grievances of the protestors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||HC seeks Centre's response on PIL against surveillance systems||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response of the Centre on a PIL claiming that citizens' right to privacy was being "endangered" by the execution and operation of surveillance systems like the Centralised Monitoring System (CMS), Network Traffic Analysis (NETRA) and National Intelligence Grid (NATGRID). A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the ministries of Home Affairs, Information Technology, Communications and Law and Justice, seeking their stand on the plea by an NGO and listed the matter for hearing on January 7, 2021. The plea by NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), has claimed that these surveillance systems allow central and state law enforcement agencies to intercept and monitor all telecommunications in bulk which is an infringement of the fundamental right to privacy of individuals. The plea, filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, has contended that under the existing legal framework there is an "insufficient oversight mechanism" to authorise and review the interception and monitoring orders issued by the state agencies. The NGO has sought directions to the Centre to "permanently stop the execution and the operation of the surveillance projects, CMS, NETRA and NATGRID, which allows for bulk collection and analysis of personal data. It has also sought constitution of a permanent independent oversight body, judicial or parliamentary, for issuing and reviewing lawful interception and monitoring orders/warrants under the enabling provisions of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 and the Information Technology Act, 2000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Commuters disrupt local trains in Mumbai over change in timing||Train movement on the Western Railway's suburban network in Mumbai was disrupted for over an hour on Wednesday after commuters sat on tracks at some stations in neighbouring Palghar district to protest against the change in the schedule of an early morning local train, GRP officials said. The Western Railway (WR) on Tuesday announced to restore from December 3 the timings of four special suburban locals, that are currently being run for emergency services staff, to their original schedules which were effective before the coronavirus-induced lockdown came into force in March. Currently, the first local train from Dahanu in Palghar district is departing at 4.40 am and reaching Churchgate in south Mumbai at 7.04 am. As per the restored timings to come in effect from Thursday, the train will leave from Dahanu at 5.40 am and reach Andheri in western suburbs at 7.34 am. Upset over the change in timings, some commuters started a 'rail roko' agitation at Palghar station and sat on tracks there around 5.15 am on Wednesday, a Government Railway Police (GRP) official said. A number of commuters also staged similar protests at Kelve and Safale stations in Palghar district around 5.30 am, the official said. Train movement later resumed after the GRP and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel removed the agitating commuters from the tracks, he said. The agitation at Palghar station ended around 5.45 am and at the other two stations it ended at 6.30 am, he added. WR's chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur said train services on the suburban network are normal now. He said the Western Railway has just decided to restore the special suburban services to their original timings which were effective before the COVID-19 lockdown. "We are reviewing the demand of passengers, but we have just restored the original timetable of Dahanu locals and haven't made any change in the timetable," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Sunny Deol tests positive for Covid, islolates himself in Himachal Pradesh||BJP MP and actor Sunny Deol on Wednesday said he has tested positive for coronavirus and appealed to those who have come in close contact with him to test themselves for the infection. He also said that he has isolated himself after his COVID-19 test results came out positive. "I have tested positive for coronavirus. I appeal to the people who came in contact with me recently to isolate themselves and go for the COVID test," Deol tweeted in Hindi. Himachal Pradesh Health Secretary Amitabh Awasthi had on Tuesday said that according to information received from the district chief medical officer, the Gurdaspur MP and his friends were planning to leave for Mumbai, but the actor's COVID-19 test result came out positive. Deol has been staying in Kullu district for some days, he had said. The 64-year-old Bollywood actor had undergone a shoulder surgery at Mumbai and was recuperating at a farmhouse near Manali in Kullu district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||India's Covid tally stands at 94.99 lakh, recovery rate jumps up to 94 per cent||India's COVID-19 caseload rose to 94.99 lakh, while the total number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 89 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to over 94 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 94,99,413, with 36,604 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,38,122 with 501 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 89,32,647 pushing the national recovery rate to 94.03 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The active COVID-19 caseload remained below 5 lakh for the 22nd consecutive day. There are 4,28,644 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 4.51 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, 14,24,45,949 samples have been tested up to December 1 with 10,96,651 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 501 new fatalities include 95 from Maharashtra, 86 from Delhi, 52 from West Bengal, 31 from Chhattisgarh, 28 from Haryana, 27 from Uttar Pradesh, 26 from Kerala and 21 from Himachal Pradesh. A total of 1,38,122 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 47,246 from Maharashtra followed by 11,792 from Karnataka, 11,722 from Tamil Nadu, 9,260 from Delhi, 8,476 from West Bengal, 7,788 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,996 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,821 from Punjab, 4,004 from Gujarat and 3,270 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Delhi's air quality inches closer to 'severe' zone||Delhi's air quality was in the upper end of the very poor category Wednesday morning, while pollution levels have already entered the severe zone in the neighbouring cities of Ghaziabad and Greater Noida. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 381 at 9 am. The 24-hour average was 367 on Tuesday. It was 318 on Monday and 268 on Sunday. Ghaziabad and Greater Noida recorded an AQI of 430 and 410, respectively. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The maximum wind speed is expected to be 12 kmph on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The minimum temperature was 8.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday and the maximum is expected to settle around 27 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. The minimum temperature this season has remained 2-3 degrees Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover on most days, according to IMD officials. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The predominant wind direction remained westerly-north-westerly on most of the days. These winds blow from snowcapped western Himalayas towards the plains. Another reason for the below normal temperatures is La Nina, a phenomenon associated with the cooling of Pacific waters and an antithesis to El Nino. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the air quality is likely to remain in the upper end of the "very poor" category due to unfavourable meteorological conditions. There is a possibility of the air quality reaching the "severe" category between December 4 and December 7, it said. The city's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed was 2,500 m2/s on Tuesday and is likely to be 6,000 m2/s on Wednesday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. The contribution of stubble burning in the neighbouring states to Delhi's PM 2.5 levels was 4 per cent on Tuesday, 7 per cent on Monday and 6 per cent on Sunday, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Farmer protest: A 1907 call resonates at the barricades ||The lyrics of Paghri Sambhal Jatta — a Punjabi ballad — have echoed at the barricades during the farmers’ agitation from Punjab to Delhi over the past week. A peasants’ movement against the British Raj’s agrarian laws in 1906 took the name of the song by Banke Dyal, the editor of the Jang Syal weekly. The words “Paghri Sambhal Jatta” translate to “Mind your turban, peasant”. The turban is a key religious marker of Sikhs and is seen as a symbol of dissent to tyranny. Falling of the turban is seen as a sign of defeat. The movement led by Ajit Singh, the uncle of revolutionary Bhagat Singh, has found resonance today with peasants’ groups displaying Ajit Singh’s image on badges and banners, and singing the song kept alive in popular imagination by its use in biopics on Bhagat Singh in 1965 and 2002. A series of legislation, including the Punjab Land Alienation Act, 1900, the Punjab Land Colonisation Bill, 1906, and the increase in water rates the same year, after two successive crop failures, had enraged the peasantry. The colonisation bill imposed Doctrine of Lapse-like conditions by which privately held land in agricultural colonies along the Upper Bari Doab canal was lapsed to the State if the owner died without a male heir. The annexation of princely states by the East India Company under the Doctrine of Lapse led the disposessed royals to support or lead mutineers of the Bengal Army in 1857. In his 2019 book Panjab: Journeys Through Fault Lines, Amandeep Sandhu explained: “These laws reduced the peasants to sharecroppers; they could neither fell trees on these lands, nor build houses or huts or even sell or buy such land…. In 1907, in Lyallpur, Ajit Singh Sandhu — also Bhagat Singh’s uncle — spearheaded the movement that articulated the farmers’ discontent.” The song was first sung at a 1907 rally in Lyallpur, today called Faisalabad in Pakistan’s Punjab province, by Ajit Singh, Bhagat Singh’s father and All India Congress Committee member Kishan Singh, Ghasita Ram and Sufi Amba Prasad. The previous year they had founded a secret organisation that was alternatively called Bharat Mata Society and Mehboob-e-Watan, to spark a nationwide revolution for freedom on the 50th anniversary of the 1857 War of Independence. A lukewarm response to his plans from Indian princes, only strengthened Ajit Singh’s resolve that the revolution if any would come from the peasantry who had nothing more to lose. Amandeep Sandhu told The Telegraph: “In many ways, the current protests are similar to Paghri Sambhal Jatta, a call to arms in 1907 when the British developed the Punjab Canal colonies to feed the British Empire and its troops from Punjab. That time the British needed to assert themselves after the fall of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and control the borders that touched the Tsarist Russian Empire.” He added: “Protests work either if they appeal to the conscience of the oppressor, like the non-violent freedom movement, or if they cut off the lifeline of the oppressor — which in this case was the army’s recruitment from the Majha region of Punjab where the movement took place in Lyallpur in 1907…. The British panicked and repealed the laws.” Ajit Singh and Lala Lajpat Rai were sent to prison in Mandalay for the protests. After his release in 1909, Ajit Singh lived in exile in Iran, Europe and Latin America, collaborating with Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in Italy during the Second World War. Ajit Singh returned to India shortly before Independence and died on August 15, 1947, in Dalhousie. Sandhu said: “The farmers are looking at the (the new farm) laws as the next land colonisation by crony capitalists. This time the State is not sorting the mechanism of food production and distribution, it is merely selling the system to crony capitalists who will decide what you grow, and for how much, and throw out the weakest farmers from the business — much like the labour mandis when an employer chooses the fittest-looking mason or plumber and leaves the rest without work… “Socialist ideology of the Left, and the ideals of equality and socialism of the Gurmukhi have brought farmers together this time, as they did during Ajit Singh’s movement and the Ghadr Movement…. It is being called a hondh ki ladai or battle for one’s existence.” One of the unions that uses Ajit Singh’s image as its logo is the Kisan Sangharsh Samiti based in Haryana’s Fatehabad. Its president Labh Singh — now protesting at Tikri Kalan on the edge of Delhi — told this newspaper: “Ajit Singh’s movement never died. It was always alive in our memories…. The need of the hour has resurrected it to this instance.… “In 1907, soldiers had joined peasants. This time, we estimate that we have 32,000 ex-servicemen in our ranks who have contributed their annual pensions for the struggle as these laws will break our back that is already strained by the high input costs.” In his book Sandhu says that after 200 Sikh soldiers attended a meeting in Multan in 1907, soldiers at many places refused to fire at peasant rallies. Patiala-based academic and author of several books on Bhagat Singh, Chaman Lal, recalled that Banke Dyal, whose song is resonating today, had lost his job as a sub-inspector in Punjab police for his nationalist leanings. Lal explained that the biggest similarity between 1907 and today was rural indebtedness. “In 1907, farmers were not killing themselves under the burden of debt in the numbers that they are today. They also were not as unionised as they are in contemporary Punjab…. The invoking of Ajit Singh is credit to the influence of the Left on the peasants’ movement…. From their experiences of the past, the Punjabi peasantry realises that the State cannot be resisted with arms, but only with peaceful protest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Siddique Kappan has no link with PFI: Journalists||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) on Tuesday denied the allegation of the Uttar Pradesh government that its arrested Delhi unit secretary Siddique Kappan was associated with the Popular Front of India (PFI) and said he worked for a web portal. The KUWJ sought a judicial probe by a retired judge of the Supreme Court into the veracity of the claims made by Uttar Pradesh police with regard to Kappan’s arrest on October 5. Kappan, who was going to Hathras to meet the family of a brutalised and murdered Dalit teen, was accused by the Uttar Pradesh government of travelling under the “cover” of a journalist and being an office secretary of the PFI. Kappan was booked for sedition and under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and put behind bars. “It is submitted that the accused is in no way connected with the Popular Front, either directly or indirectly or any of its activities in his life. He is from a humble family, working as a journalist from Delhi,” the counter-affidavit filed in the Supreme Court by the KUWJ said. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde will take up the KUWJ’s affidavit on Wednesday. The PFI, which describes itself as a socio-political movement that seeks to empower Muslims and other marginalised sections, is accused of indulging in violence but it is not banned. The Narendra Modi government has been considering a ban since its first term. In the absence of a ban, which has been sought by some BJP-led state governments, the PFI remains a legitimate organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-520
02-12-2020||India||Mysore language school to get central varsity tag||The Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) in Mysore, set up over 50 years ago to promote Indian languages, is to be upgraded to a central university. The education ministry last week formed an 11-member committee to study and suggest the governance structure, requirement of funds and the broad objectives of the proposed Bharatiya Bhasha Vishwavidyalaya (BBV). The proposed BBV will have a new Indian Institute of Translation and Interpretation. The committee headed by retired Gujarat-cadre IAS officer N. Gopalaswami has been given three months to submit a report. The other members include University Grants Commission chairman D.P. Singh, Mahatma Gandhi Antarrashtriya Hindi Vishwavidyalaya vice-chancellor Rajnish Shukla, Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University vice-chancellor Ramesh Kumar Pandey and Hari Singh Gaur University chancellor Balwant Shantilal Jani. The CIIL, set up in 1969, has been functioning as a registered society. It trains schoolteachers in second languages, helps in research on Indian languages and also in the translation of books written in different Indian languages. However, the education ministry has been receiving complaints about poor performance. For example, the CIIL has produced only 20 books on the grammar of different minor Indian languages in the past 50 years. It has translated another 20-odd books into English from different languages. Former CIIL directors D.G. Rao and Awdesh Kumar Mishra welcomed the government’s decision. “The CIIL was unable to offer degrees and diplomas. It will be able to offer such courses and undertake wider research after it becomes a university,” Prof. Rao said. He said the CIIL had seven centres across the country. Under the guidance of expert bodies when it becomes a university, they would do intensive research, Rao hoped. “The output from the CIIL has been low. Governments in the past have also thought about converting CIIL into a central university. Once done, the university will have a better system of checks and balances. Currently, accountability is low at the CIIL,” Mishra said. A faculty member at Jawaharlal Nehru University found problem with the composition of the 11-member committee. At least nine members are vice-chancellors or former VCs or faculty members from literature subjects or retired bureaucrat. “Ideally, the committee to examine the proposed BBV should have linguists as its members. This committee is heavily loaded with non-linguists,” he said. An email sent to the education ministry asking why there was such a poor representation of linguists in the panel did not yield a response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-520
02-12-2020||India||Neurological illness not related to vaccine: Government||The neurological illness suffered by a clinical trial volunteer in Chennai after receiving the AstraZeneca-Oxford candidate vaccine was not related to the vaccine, senior health officials indicated on Tuesday, making public for the first time the outcome of regulatory scrutiny. The officials said the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the apex regulatory agency for drugs and vaccines, and other bodies had assessed the serious adverse event that occurred in October and determined that there was no need to halt the clinical trial. “The assessment criteria is objective and scientific — the initial causality assessment finding did not necessitate stoppage of the clinical trial,” said Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, the country’s apex health research agency tracking the vaccine trials. The volunteer has sought Rs 5 crore compensation in a notice sent to the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which is producing the vaccine and conducting the trial. Serum in turn has threatened to claim Rs 100 crore in damages from the volunteer for spreading malicious information about the vaccine. The dispute between the volunteer and the company has emerged amid what some health researchers have described as the lack of transparency by the CDSCO, the agency that also regulates clinical trials. The CDSCO has remained silent through the six weeks since the volunteer reported the adverse event, prompting health rights advocates to question why the trial had not been halted or why the organisation had not made public the outcome of the investigations. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said serious adverse events in clinical trials were probed by institutional ethics committees at the trial sites and by a data safety monitoring board that has domain knowledge and experts independent of the government. Under trial protocol requirements, the institutional ethics committee in Chennai, the trial site, had submitted its findings to the CDSCO for scrutiny by the regulator to determine whether the adverse event was related to the vaccine. The health officials did not explain why the CDSCO chose to remain silent about the investigation. But doctors familiar with clinical trial protocols said investigations into serious adverse events were likely to look into the medical history of the volunteers and were not made public to safeguard privacy. However, the health officials said the government had “nothing to do” with Serum’s statement threatening to seek Rs 100 crore damages from the volunteer. Health secretary Bhushan said the statement needed to be viewed in the context of the global race to develop a vaccine against the coronavirus disease, underlining that it typically takes eight to 10 years to generate a vaccine against a new infectious agent. “Given the size and impact of the pandemic, we’re trying to compress the timline of eight to 10 years into 16 months to 18 months,” Bhushan said. “Multiple vaccine players within the country and outside the country are trying to bring about their vaccines within this compressed timeline.” “When you have this context, there is a potential that commercial interests would dictate certain strategic actions on the part of commercial entities,” Bhushan said, responding to a query on Serum’s statement. “Governments of the day have nothing to do with it.” However, he added, it is the responsibility of the Centre and state governments to ensure that people are made aware of the safety and efficacy aspects of vaccines and counter all disinformation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-520
02-12-2020||India||Farmer protest: Police hurdle for 82-year-old Bilkis||Bilkis, 82, one of the acclaimed faces of the Shaheen Bagh protest against the Centre’s new citizenship regime, was on Tuesday prevented by police from addressing the protesting farmers at the Delhi-Haryana border. Bilkis, known as Bilkis Dadi and hailed by Time magazine as among the 100 most influential people in the world and included by the BBC in its list of 100 inspiring and influential women from around the world in 2020, told reporters before she was taken away: “They (the farmers) have come to help us and I am going to talk to them. Their demands are ours too. I am also a daughter and daughter-in-law of a farmer.” Bilkis’s late husband was a fruit grower in Uttar Pradesh’s Hapur district. Bilkis, one of the elderly women who came to be called the “Dabang Dadis” of Shaheen Bagh, had on Tuesday afternoon gone to the Singhu border in north Delhi to meet the farmers protesting the Centre’s three new farm laws and demanding a legal provision ensuring minimum support price. A short while after she entered the protest site with a few associates, Delhi police escorted her out in a cop vehicle. Members of different factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) in Punjab had come to Shaheen Bagh with food supplies and set up a community kitchen there before the police cleared the protest site on March 24. The same outfits are part of the protests by the farmers at the Singhu and Tikri crossings between Delhi and Haryana, as well as the sit-in at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in north Delhi’s Burari. The Rakesh Tikait-led group of the BKU is protesting at the Uttar Pradesh border in Ghazipur. DCP (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma told The Telegraph that Bilkis had not been detained, nor had any other legal action been taken against her. “She is not at all belonging to the cadre who are doing this protest right now. Yesterday also it was reported to me that some outside people tried to intervene in their protest and they were not welcome and some manhandling was also done. Being a senior citizen and as you know the Covid pandemic is on the rise, in good faith and for her own well-being she was requested that she should leave. As a senior citizen she was escorted back,” Sharma said. Bilkis was taken home via Shaheen Bagh police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-520
02-12-2020||India||India swims against English tide  ||Mother tongue-based education that India wants to introduce in BTech courses at IITs is gradually being replaced by the English medium in countries such as Germany, China and Japan that had been pioneers in education in local languages. Several academics have disapproved of the education ministry’s decision to push for Indian languages as an alternative medium of instruction to English in BTech courses from next year. They said there had been a rapid increase in English Medium Instruction (EMI) programmes across the world since the Bologna Declaration of 1999 that proposed a European Higher Education Area, allowing free movement of graduates between countries. Since China became a member of the World Trade Organisation in 2000, the country’s education ministry has been promoting EMI courses. The top universities of China offer over 150 EMI courses, according to the research paper “English Vs Chinese-Medium Instruction” published in the journal Sustainability in November 2018. About 30 top universities of Germany, such as the University of Bremen, Frankfurt School of Fine Arts and Management, Leipzig University and the University of Berlin, have already shifted to English as the medium of education. Japanese institutions are also increasingly shifting to EMI. A university professor in India claimed that the decision to introduce BTech courses in vernacular language was aimed at helping BJP and RSS cadres to get easy entry into IITs. “In the last six years, the central government has been packing universities with people with an RSS background as teachers, vice-chancellors and other staff by compromising quality. But because entrance-based admission (of students) is tough, there is a demand from their party cadres for a separate entry system. This vernacular BTech (idea) appears to be aimed at facilitating their easy entry,” he said, requesting anonymity. All educationists agree that the mother tongue is best suited for teaching any subject. “But the world has realised the need for a common language in a globalised era. The countries that had been focusing on teaching in their mother tongue are moving towards English as a medium of instruction to get a competitive advantage. It does not make sense for India to move towards mother tongue as a medium of instruction at this stage,” the professor said. Another issue is where would the students publish their research papers, he said. There are no peer-reviewed journals in regional languages except the literary publications. China, Japan and Germany have invested a lot in having journals in different subjects published in their respective languages. Yet, they are finding merit in shifting to English medium, the professor said. Former All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) chairman S.S. Mantha said education had evolved in the native languages in countries such as Germany, Japan and China from the beginning. But English had for long served as the medium in India, which has a vast number of local languages. “Now going back to the vernacular language means you have to capture all the technological knowledge of the last 200 years in these languages. Just translation of books written in English is not possible. Copyright will be a big issue apart from finding experts to translate,” Prof. Mantha said. At the school level, preparing textbooks may not be difficult but it is a stupendous task to prepare materials at the BTech level, he said. Former IIT Delhi director Prof. R.K. Shevgaonkar also found the idea problematic. “There is no common language in India unlike in Germany, China or Japan. Since most states have their own language, English has served as the common language for the pursuit of higher studies. Another issue is when we produce manpower, they should be globally competitive. English is a global language. The journals are published in English,” Shevgaonkar said. An email this newspaper sent to the education ministry asking about the concerns expressed by the academics did not elicit a response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-520
02-12-2020||India||Amit Shah skips BSF Raising Day||Union home minister Amit Shah skipped the BSF Raising Day parade where he was to be the chief guest on Tuesday morning, pulling out at the last minute due to some “urgent engagement”. Sources in the ministry said Shah was busy planning the government’s strategy for the farmers’ protests. “The home minister decided to skip the BSF Raising Day event owing to some urgent engagement. He is said to be too busy strategising for the steps to be taken by the government over the farmers’ protests,” a ministry official said. According to him, Shah held meetings in the morning with other cabinet ministers to chalk out the strategy for the talks with farmers’ representatives later in the day. Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar and his cabinet colleague Piyush Goyal met a 35-member team of farmers at Vigyan Bhavan. The meeting started at 3pm. Shah had on Monday tweeted that he would be the chief guest at the 56th BSF Raising Day Parade at 9am. It is unusual for the home minister to skip an event at the last moment without citing a reason. In his absence, Shah’s deputy Nityanand Rai officiated as the chief guest, took a ceremonial guard and reviewed the parade at the BSF camp in southwest Delhi. Senior BSF officials said it was disappointing to learn at the eleventh hour that the home minister would not be present on the force’s big day. The BSF, which has about 2.5 lakh personnel, was raised on December 1, 1965. It guards the 700km Line of Control with Pakistan under the army’s operational command, as well as the 2,289km border with Bangladesh. The BSF reports directly to the home minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-520
02-12-2020||India||Expelled BJD MLA flayed for lifestyle in Odisha||The Biju Janata Dal on Tuesday accused its expelled Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Panigrahi of leading a lavish lifestyle and spending lakhs of rupees in five-star hotels in Delhi during the lockdown when the state, particularly Ganjam district from where the legislator hails, was fighting to check the spread of coronavirus. After being expelled from the party on Sunday for “anti-people” activities, Panigrahi had challenged the leadership to explain the charges levelled on him. “When the people are dying and Covid warriors are fighting, Panigrahi was spending Rs 2.5 lakhs per day in five-star hotels,” BJD general secretary (media affairs), Manas Ranjan Mangaraj, said in a release on Tuesday. The BJD alleged that Panigrahi was also involved in cheating the youth by assuring them jobs at Tata’s Gopalpur project. “Projecting his would-be son-in-law as the MD of Tata Project, Pradeep Panigrahi had cheated youths of his Assembly constituency by assuring them to give a job in Tata’s project. The people of Odisha are aware of the activities of Pradeep. Those who have cheated the people of Odisha, have no place in BJD,” said Mangaraj. Panigrahi’s daughter was scheduled to marry suspended IFS officer Abhay Kant Pathak’s son Akash on December 11. Akash has also been arrested by the vigilance sleuths. The BJD also cited how Tata Motors had lodged an FIR against Akash. The vigilance department had said in a release that Pathak accumulated assets worth 435 times than his known source of income. Panigrahi, who was once the blue-eyed boy of chief minister Naveen Patnaik and acted as his representative for his Assembly constituency Hinjili, said: “I have trust on the chief minister. I am still confused whether he is aware of the harassment I have been subjected to.” In a letter to  Naveen, he alleged about police harassment. “Southern Range DIG and Berhampur SP using forces to file FIR against me which is unlawful under the law. If the protector of law become law breakers, this is called anarchy,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-520
02-12-2020||India||Remember Howdy Modi in Texas? Abki baar, Trudeau’s turn||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has expressed concern about the farmers’ agitation and spoken up in support of the right to peaceful protest, upsetting the Indian government which spoke of “ill-informed comments by Canadian leaders” and described them as “unwarranted”. The Congress echoed the Centre’s stand that the Canadian comments amounted to interfering with India’s internal affairs. But at least one veteran diplomat pointed out that it was rude to call Trudeau names when Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself had echoed Donald Trump’s “Abki baar” slogan at the Howdy Modi event in Texas in 2019. Addressing the Sikh community of Canada during the birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak, Trudeau said: “I would be remiss if I didn’t start by recognising the news coming from India about the protest by farmers. The situation is concerning. We are all very worried about family and friends. We know that’s a reality for many of you. Let me remind you, Canada will always be there to defend the rights of peaceful protesters. We believe in the process of dialogue. We’ve reached out through multiple means to the Indian authorities to highlight our concerns. This is a moment for all of us to pull together.” Prior to Trudeau speaking out, his defence minister Harjit Sajjan had tweeted on Sunday: “The reports of peaceful protesters being brutalized in India are very troubling. Many of my constituents have family there and are worried about the safety of their loved ones. Healthy democracies allow peaceful protest. I urge those involved to uphold this fundamental right.’’ The New Democratic Party, led by Jagmeet Singh, started a petition urging “Trudeau to condemn the violence and make a clear statement calling on the Indian government to engage in peaceful dialogue rather than violence”. Simultaneously, several diaspora organisations had also begun mobilising opinion in Canada on the protests online. Although it was Trudeau’s remarks that drew a response from the external affairs ministry, the official reaction did not mention him by name. Responding to media queries, official spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “We have seen some ill-informed comments by Canadian leaders relating to farmers in India. Such comments are unwarranted, especially when pertaining to the internal affairs of a democratic country. It is also best that diplomatic conversations are not misrepresented for political purposes.” Congress national spokesperson Shama Mohamed said: “I am against the farm bills passed by the present government without taking our farmers into confidence but that doesn’t give any right to the Canadian PM to meddle in our internal matters. We are a sovereign nation and know very well how to carry on with our matters.” Trudeau was essentially catering to his constituency when he spoke up for the protesting farmers. At least five members of his cabinet have their roots in Punjab. Sikhs account for roughly 1.4 per cent of Canada’s population. This is just a little less than the proportion of Sikhs in India, which stands at 1.72 per cent. Commenting on India’s response to the remarks by Canadian politicians, retired diplomat K.C. Singh tweeted: “MEA rudely calls him (Trudeau) ‘ill informed’. Convenient double standards! PM Modi can gather diaspora abroad & raise ‘Abki Baar’ slogans. But their Ldrs mustn’t address diaspora fears about their relatives/India.” Trudeau had used his week-long India visit in 2018 also for establishing a cultural connect with the native place of a sizable number of Canadians just ahead of the federal elections in 2019. That visit was mired in controversy over Sikh separatist Jaspal Atwal — who was in India on a valid visa — turning up at an event he attended in Mumbai, forcing the Canadian high commission to withdraw the invitation to him to attend the official reception for the visiting Premier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-520
02-12-2020||India||Doctor strike on Ayurveda surgery||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Tuesday called on modern doctors across the country to withdraw from non-essential medical services for 12 hours on December 11 to oppose what it views as the Centre’s efforts to mix traditional and modern medical practices. The IMA has sought withdrawal of all non-essential and non-Covid-19 services from 6am to 6pm on December 11. Emergency services, labour rooms, emergency surgeries and intensive care services will function, it said. The IMA wants the government to withdraw the notification listing 58 surgical procedures that postgraduate surgeons trained in Ayurveda would be permitted to perform. “We see a policy tilt towards what is being described as medical pluralism advocated… such moves will ring the death knell for modern medicine,” said Rajan Sharma, IMA’s national president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-520
02-12-2020||India||Farmers reject Modi govt's plan to set up a five-member committee||Farmers on Tuesday rejected the Narendra Modi government’s proposal to set up a five-member committee to look into their objections to the farm laws, standing by their demand for a repeal of the laws that they fear would leave them at the mercy of oligarchs. The talks are scheduled to be held again on Thursday. The blockade of some of Delhi’s entry points — with police barricades set up to deny the thousands of farmers massed at the border entry into the national capital — is set to enter the second week. Support for the farmers’ cause is growing despite efforts by the Right-wing ecosystem to discredit it. On Tuesday, several sportspersons said they would return their awards if the farmers’ grievances were not addressed. The three-hour meeting at Vigyan Bhavan was chaired by agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Food and civil supplies minister Piyush Goyal was also present as the issue of minimum support price — a key concern of the farmers — falls within his department’s purview. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, who was expected to chair the meeting as the Modi government’s main trouble-shooter, was not present. With this round inconclusive, the government has asked the farmer leaders to give their objections on the three farm laws and the electricity ordinance in writing by Wednesday for another round of talks on Thursday. The request left the farmers perplexed because they have already submitted several petitions to the government detailing their apprehensions. Joginder Singh Ugrahan, one of the farmer leaders, told reporters: “While the government was of the view that a committee should be formed to look into the issues raised by farmers, we insisted that the new laws should be repealed. Because of the deadlock, everyone agreed to meet again on December 3.” The past 24 hours had seen the government yield not once but twice to the farmers who have blocked two major thoroughfares on the Delhi-Haryana border, raising concerns among administrators of a possible disruption in the supply lines. After a series of meetings among senior ministers, including home minister Amit Shah and Rajnath, as well as at the political level under the chairmanship of BJP president J.P. Nadda, the agriculture ministry had reached out to Punjab farmers’ unions late on Monday night for a discussion on Tuesday afternoon. The farmers’ organisations met early on Tuesday morning under the banner of the Punjab Kisan Unions Coordination Committee and announced before noon that they would not join the talks unless the government extended the same invitation to the all-India leadership of the farmers’ movement. Subsequently, the agriculture ministry invited the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) — which is the largest collective of 250 farmers organisations, and had given the call for the Dilli Chalo protest action that brought the farmers to Delhi’s borders — the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) and the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, paving the way for the meeting to be held. The Punjab farmers who have been at the vanguard of the protests have been repeatedly insisting that the government should talk to all farmers’ organisations, not them alone, as this is a nation-wide movement and not specific to one state. In a statement, the All India Kisan Sabha said the government’s decision to only call the Punjab farmers organisations for the talks was a “blatant effort by RSS-BJP to undermine the all-India movement.... AIKS condemns this heinous move to isolate the Punjab farmers’ movement which is the backbone of this struggle.’’ Senior BJP leaders have been projecting the farmers’ protests as limited to Punjab and used this argument to try to discredit the protesters, branding them “Khalistanis” and “Congress-sponsored”. However, not only have farmers from BJP-ruled Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh arrived at Delhi’s borders to give the lie to this claim, BJP allies in Rajasthan and Haryana have since spoken up for farmers. Several sportspersons, including Padma Sri and Arjuna awardees, have extended support to the protesting farmers and said they would return their medals. Some of them — wrestler Kartar Singh, basketball player Sajjan Singh Cheema and hockey player Rajbir Kaur — plan to reach Delhi on December 5 to place their awards outside Rashtrapati Bhavan, which is where these top awards are presented by the President. A PTI report from Chandigarh quoted Cheema as saying: “We are the children of farmers and they have been holding peaceful agitation for the last several months. Not even a single incident of violence took place. But water cannons and teargas shells were used against them when they were going to Delhi. If turbans of our elders and brothers are tossed, then what will we do with our awards and honour? We are in support of our farmers. We do not want such awards and that is why we are returning the same.’’ Tomar tweeted later that the government agrees with the farmers’ contention that the issues should be discussed with all the farmers’ organisations and not just a small committee. The government, he added, is working to resolve the issue at the earliest. Goyal, too, tweeted along similar lines.  The meeting was held amid tight security with all of Maulana Azad Road cordoned off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-520
02-12-2020||West Bengal||SSC candidates stage sit-in, Partha assures ‘prompt action’||Bengal Education Minister partha Chatterjee told a delegation of protesting School Service Commission Candidates on Wednesday that the government will take prompt action regarding their employment as soon as the court issues an order. The said candidates have cleared their examination and are awaiting appointments for a long time in schools. "I have told them we will ensure the government will promptly act once the Hon'ble court issues any order. We will not be found wanting," Chatterjee said. Around 100 SSC candidates, waiting for appointments in upper primary schools in the state since a long time, have been staging a sit-in since Tuesday before state Education Department headquarters at Bikash Bhavan in Calcutta. A delegation met the Education Minister on Wednesday afternoon to discuss their grievances. A spokesperson of the protesting candidates said that during the hour-long discussion, Chatterjee cited cases filed in the Calcutta High Court regarding SSC appointments as the reason behind the delay in the appointments of a large number of teachers in upper primary schools. "We will continue to sit here peacefully till there is a favourable development with regard to our demands," he said. An official from the School Education Department said Chatterjee met a four-member delegation of the protesting SSC candidates and urged them to withdraw their demonstration but they refused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Firhad Hakim second minister to take Covaxin shot||West Bengal Urban development minister Firhad Hakim became the first volunteer to take a shot of the COVID-19 vaccine, Covaxin, in the Phase III trial in Calcutta, on Wednesday. The Phase-III regulatory trial of Covaxin started at the city-based ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED). “I feel I am quite lucky to be part of the trial. I am absolutely okay after taking the shot. I do not care even if I die while undertaking this trial,” the 62-year-old minister told reporters. Hakim said that he will be very happy if his contribution helps in the research for the vaccine. Hakim went through necessary check-ups to find out whether he was having any comorbidity. Earlier in the day, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar inaugurated the Phase III regulatory trial of Covaxin at the institute. At least 1,000 volunteers will be administered the Covaxin vaccine in the Phase III trial here. Meanwhile, West Bengal governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar has also expressed his willingness to volunteer for the vaccine trial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata’s Oxford address postponed, TMC smells conspiracy||Citing “unforeseen circumstances”, the Oxford Union Debating society on Wednesday looked to postpone a scheduled online address by Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee at the last hour. The move invited flak from the ruling Trinamul Congress leadership, which alleged "political pressure from the highest level" in the issue. Mamata was about to become the first woman chief minister of India to address 'The Oxford Union Debate' around 2:30 pm on Tuesday. However, at 1:50 pm, the organisers requested the programme be rescheduled stating that "nothing prevails over circumstances sometimes". The state home department acknowledged the matter and wrote on Twitter, “Today afternoon, the organisers have suddenly sought postponement and rescheduling of the programme at the last moment!" "The request has been made telephonically from the organisers' end, citing some unforeseen problems, a brief while ago. The programme with Oxford Union today stands cancelled," it added. Infuriated over the incident, the TMC leadership said that “political pressure” might be the reason behind such a decision. "This is unprecedented... A programme planned months ahead was cancelled a few minutes before the event was scheduled to start. This is not the first time that such a thing has happened. Earlier, too, her programmes at international fora and foreign visits have been cancelled at the eleventh hour. All sorts of pressure were applied from the highest level to stop Mamata Banerjee's address. We condemn such politics," a senior TMC parliamentarian, who wished to remain anonymous, told PTI. In 2018, the chief minister’s programme at Chicago to mark Swami Vivekananda's birth anniversary, her scheduled visit to China and her address at St Stephen's college in New Delhi were cancelled, one after another. The Oxford Union Debating Society, while offering its “sincerest apologies”, wrote a nail to the government saying, “Our audience sent a great many questions, and we were all working hard to pull a number of elements together. However, nothing prevails over circumstances sometimes; it seems." "I sincerely hope that the Hon'ble Chief Minister will understand and might honour us with her esteemed presence at the earliest possible convenience to you. With your permission, I will pass your details onto my successor, to whom I hand over this Friday," the mail added. State secretariat sources said that Mamata was expected to speak on the various welfare schemes launched by her government, including the 'Kanyashree', 'Rupasree', 'Krishak Bandhu' and 'Duare Bangla' programmes, during her address. She had received the invitation in July, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Sunderbans project to turn rainwater fit for drinking||An NGO on Saturday inaugurated a system in a Sunderbans village that will purify rainwater and make it fit for residents to drink. Safe drinking water is a major problem in the area, where most people rely on groundwater. Tests conducted by the NGO Mallarpur Uthnau have revealed that even groundwater is not safe. “The WHO limit for arsenic in water is 0.05mg/l, but here at Samsernagar the level (in ground water) is 3.45mg/l. WHO permits no more than 0.003mg/l of cadmium in water, but again here it is an alarming 2.8mg/l,” said Kunal Deb, the secretary of the NGO that has been working on environmental and livelihood issues since 1996. “The water has extreme levels of lead, mercury, cyanide, EColi and other bacteria. These can lead to cancers, metabolic and neurological problems in the residents.” The handful who can afford water purifiers are better off but even their machines are useless most of the day because of power-cuts. Samsernagar, for instance, had been without power for a month since Cyclone Amphan had struck on May 20. And when calamity strikes, even this poisonous groundwater is out of bounds as the tubewells get submerged. However, the Sunderbans receive 1,600mm of rainwater per annum. The NGO will harvest the rainwater on the terrace of a building. “Rainwater cannot directly be consumed because of pollution in the air,” said Deb. The project is built on the terrace of a concrete building in the neighbourhood — Samsernagar Swamiji Netaji Seva Sangha — where children come for coaching and adults for vocational training. About 1,000sq foot of the terrace has been taken for the project and it can provide 80,000 to 1 lakh litres of potable water a year. Water from the terrace drains into a 20,000 litre storage tank. A pump (that runs on kerosene) pushes this water into different layers of purification — charcoal, sand, gravel etc — and healthy levels of minerals are added to the water at this stage. The water then collects in a supply tank. When someone turns on the tap for a glass of water, the liquid undergoes one final stage of cleansing through an ultra-filtration membrane. The project cost was Rs 2.5 lakh, which has been raised through crowdfunding. One such donor is Jael Silliman, a Calcutta-based Jew, who mobilised her friends and family in Israel and the US to pool in. “In these times of Covid, people want to support one another, especially if they see the difference it is making. I visited the site for the first time today for the inauguration but have been forwarding them pictures of the development all this while and they are delighted,” said Silliman. The inauguration was done by Jahir and Jakir Gaji, whose father recently got killed in a tiger attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Truce with Suvendu reached: Trinamul||Suvendu Adhikari, who had resigned from the cabinet earlier this week, is not leaving the Trinamul Congress, party MP Saugata Roy said on Monday night. The statement followed a three-hour meeting in which Suvendu, the Nandigram MLA, sat face to face with MP Abhishek Banerjee, poll consultant Prashant Kishor and Roy. Sources said Suvendu spoke to chief minister Mamata Banerjee over Roy’s phone and sought her blessings. The Suvendu camp is expecting an important announcement by December 8, one source said, adding that there are chances of the MLA getting more importance in the party as well as the government. Roy, the Dum Dum MP and a Trinamul vice-president, said after the meeting: “I cannot divulge all the details. It was a beautiful, fruitful, amicable discussion.” Roy added: “Suvendu very much remains in the party. There is no question of him joining any other party. He will himself state everything in detail, on record, soon.” “Suvendu Adhikari is not going to BJP..., He is with TMC and we will work together to make Mamata win again,” Roy tweeted later. The meeting was also attended by veteran party MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay. Suvendu, who reached Calcutta on Tuesday evening from Contai in his personal vehicle, could not be contacted for his reaction. But sources close to him said that he might brief the media on Wednesday afternoon. Suvendu’s father Sisir, a Trinamul MP, said that it was good that the problems had been resolved. On hearing Roy’s statement, a senior Trinamul minister said: “This is indeed a miracle.” Suvendu had not been attending party programmes or cabinet meetings for the past few months. His cryptic comments at some apolitical programmes, which were endorsed by state BJP leaders, added to the speculation about him joining the saffron camp. BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh, who had welcomed Suvendu to his party, said: “What do I say? It is their party, their meeting, their business. I don’t know. It is up to them to say. I should not say anything.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata lashes out at PM and BJP over their attacks on Bengal govt||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday sought to underscore her personal probity and lashed out at Narendra Modi and the BJP over their attacks on the Bengal government before questioning the alleged lack of transparency in the PM-Cares Fund. “I don’t even take a paisa as pension from Parliament despite being a seven-term MP... I am entitled to Rs 1 lakh per month as pension (from Parliament). I haven’t taken a paisa in six years. From the state, I can take Rs 1 lakh a month in salary and benefits, I do not take even a paisa. I pay for myself using my own money, even while staying at a government circuit house,” the chief minister told a news conference after a cabinet meeting. She preempted questions on her source of funds and attributed the money she made to royalty earned as the author of over 100 titles, in several languages, many of which are bestsellers. She also makes money from her original music. “I paint a little too. For that, so much envy. Why I paint, why are they bought? That money goes to the chief minister’s relief fund, to the governor’s relief fund. If I give some to my party to help it, what is your objection?” the chief minister asked. Mamata then questioned the controversial PM-Cares Fund, which has been accused of lack of transparency. “Lakhs of crores in your (Modi’s) PM-Cares, going where? Why no audit? Why different rules?” she said, accusing the Prime Minister’s Office and the Union home minister’s office of interfering with media houses and dictating terms for their content. Although she didn’t name Prime Minister Narenedra Modi, it was clear that she was targeting him in her diatribe. When she was asked about the Prime Minister’s apparent jibe – in a Varanasi event on Monday — at the state over a central farm scheme being disallowed here, she launched a counteroffensive. “The state government is an elected government, just like the Centre…. Projects that are already underway in the state, why will I introduce their replicas because the BJP said so?” asked Mamata, without naming the Prime Minister. She, however, did name the BJP and the Centre repeatedly. The Trinamul Congress chief was referring to central schemes such as Ayushman Bharat and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, which she has not allowed to be implemented in Bengal. “Bringing some bohiragawto (outsider) goons and handing out chits…. “Do as I say, or else I will send you to prison”. This cannot be done in an independent democracy,” she added, repeatedly accusing Modi and his government of trying to demolish the federal structure and keeping the states out of the loop. The Trinamul chief was apparently referring to the resurgence of activity in Bengal by several central agencies over the past few weeks. Sources in her party said there are apprehensions of a “politically motivated” crackdown ahead of the elections, to try and corner Mamata. “Be prepared. In the future, people will reply by the inch. Without a war, Bengal’s people will not even yield an inch of ground. No matter how many agencies you unleash, no matter how many people are sent to prison,” she said. Mamata responded to allegations from the Opposition – the BJP, the CPM and even the Congress state unit seem to be on the same page on such issues — of corruption against her party and the government. “Above all, the CPM should be ashamed of itself. The biggest sardar of the BJP today is the CPM. I am sorry to say, the CPM wasn’t so shameless during the time of Jyoti (Basu) babu or Buddha (Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee) babu,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Tumpa touched  by first contact with sarkar||Tumpa Kundu, 36, a homemaker-turned-cook who lost her husband four years ago in Birbhum’s Bolpur town, left her home on Tuesday afternoon for her first-ever interaction with government officials as part of the Duare Sarkar programme. Kundu, with her two small sons, walked to the Duare Sarkar camp in the town’s ward 6 to find out if the government had schemes for her needs. Ever since she lost her husband, a grocer, she had been asking people, including the local councillor, about government schemes that could help her family, but no one had given her a clear picture. “Many people told me to go to the SDO and a few advised me to visit the municipality office. I could not muster courage to visit those offices,” said Kundu, a school dropout, as she stood in the queue at the Duare Sarkar camp. Apart from her two sons, Kundu, who works as a cook, has her visually impaired father and her mother to support. The five of them live in a mud house in the town’s Canal Par area. On Tuesday, Kundu finished work early and reached the camp around 1.30pm. After a 10-minute wait at miscellaneous services desk, she  met officials who asked her to fill up a form to apply for the Swasthya Sathi health insurance scheme. After submitting the form, which she filled up with the help of a youth, Kundu said: “It was overwhelming to sign and submit a government form for the first time.” Kundu said she had heard vaguely about government schemes but officials at the camp gave her clarity. “Till Tuesday, I had no idea about the eligibility criteria for various pensions. I was told I could apply for the widow pension if I came back with relevant documents. My father is also eligible for a monthly pension of Rs 1,000 as a physically challenged person,” she said, adding she would come back on Wednesday with papers. In Birbhum, around 7,000 people came to 25 Duare Sarkar camps on Day One. “The lady (Kundu) came in touch with the government for the first time,” said Sweta Agarwal, additional district magistrate (general), Birbhum. “We are very happy we could reach out to such people.” Four Santiniketan residents who interacted with Soumitra Chatterjee in the Tagore town that was the late thespian’s favourite weekend getaway remembered him at “Soumitra and Santiniketan”, an event lit up by adda and anecdotes, on Sunday. Organised by the Panchabon Art Resort in Santiniketan, those who took part in the adda were professor of Bengali in Visva-Bharati Manabendra Mukhopadhyay, Patha Bhavana teacher Debalina Dalal, Rabindra Bhavana official Nilanjan Banerjee and former Kala Bhavana curator Sushovan Adhikari. The other draw was an art workshop with sketches by some Kala Bhavana students on Chatterjee’s  screen and non-screen avatars. “Chatterjee was awarded the Deshikottama, the highest accolade of Visva Bharati... After his death, authorities didn’t host any event to pay him homage. But we tried our best to honour him in a small way…” said Tapas Mallick, resort owner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Protest at deprival of state schemes in Malda||Over 100 villagers walked up to the Malda district magistrate’s office on Tuesday and held a demonstration against allegedly depriving them of benefits of state government schemes for years. The residents of the Kajigram panchayat in the Englishbazar block held the protest on a day the government launched “Duare Sarkar (government at doorstep)”. “Hundreds of us have been living at villages under Kajigram panchayat and are being deprived of cash and other benefits provided under different social welfare schemes. That is why we thought of knocking the door of the administration,” said Bappa Mondal, a demonstrator. Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda, said the authorities would look into the charges levelled against the rural body by the protesters. Satyajit Chowdhury, the Trinamul pradhan of Kazigram panchayat, however, denied the charges and alleged that the protest had been orchestrated by the BJP. In Bishnupur of Bankura, over a dozen women demonstrated at a camp set up under the “Duare Sarkar” campaign in ward 14 of the town. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty in Bankura||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Duare Sarkar: 1.25 lakh people  turn up  on first day||Around 1.25 lakh people applied for benefits under government schemes at 20,000-odd camps set up under “Duare Sarkar (government on doorstep)”, said sources on Tuesday, the first day of the 60-day programme to increase the ambit of beneficiaries in the biggest outreach attempt of the Mamata Banerjee government. The camps wound up for the day at 4pm, but people in droves queued up till evening. Speaking at Nabanna, Mamata said that by 3.35pm, 1.18 lakh had people applied for various schemes. “The response is overwhelming. We will try to give benefit to all the eligible applicants,” she added. Senior government officials said the footfall went up at camps across Bengal after the chief minister’s announcement. Sources in the state government said the top brass was happy with the “overwhelming response” as it hinted that people still trust the ruling establishment. An official said that they expected footfall at the camps to rise in the coming days from positive word-of-mouth. “The camps will continue till January 31, 2021, and the first day’s figures suggest that it (the programme) is an instant hit... The ruling establishment wanted to connect with common people through the camps and it appears that people have responded with great interest,” said a source. Visits to some camps in districts revealed that most people were trying to get more information on how to apply for Swasthya Sathi, a fully free insurance scheme for all, allowing medical expense cover of Rs 5 lakh per family per year. The state government recently announced to bring 2.5 crore more people, from existing coverage of 7.5 crore people, under the scheme. The expansion was aimed at countering the BJP’s criticism that the state government did not allow people to avail the benefits of Ayushman Bharat, a central scheme offering insurance coverage. Reports from districts suggest people were queuing up for pension schemes, which the government offers widows, senior citizens and other weaker sections, and student scholarships. There was a big rush for caste certificates, too. “In lot of places, there was a rush of inquiries on caste certificates as these could not be issued during the nationwide lockdown creating a gap between the number of applications and certificates issued,” said a senior government officer. Some sceptics suggested that this outreach was launched to cover “past mistakes”. “The West Bengal Right to Public Services Act, 2013, seeks to ensure timely delivery of government schemes... Now questions on whether the Act has been implemented properly are pertinent as the government seems to have been forced to launch a programme to reach out to people with schemes,” said Biswanath Chakraborty, professor of political science, Rabindra Bharati University. A senior government official swatted away the criticism — some Opposition leaders are already hurling similar questions — by explaining the difference between the Act and the outreach. “The Act was brought about to ensure that a person gets a service within a specific timeframe after filing an application...Duare Sarkar, however, is an outreach exercise to ensure that people are not left out of schemes. As these people never applied under any scheme, the Act (and the timeframe clause) do not apply to them,” said the official. Based on ground reports, an official said, it was apparent that many had not applied for benefits under government schemes despite being eligible. “With this programme, the message is that the state government is keen to offer benefits to those who have not even applied for them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||100 acres more for New Town IT hub, land leeway for Wipro||The Bengal cabinet on Tuesday allotted another 100 acres to Silicon Valley, a new IT hub in New Town, and allotted plots to 20 IT companies. The fast-track allotment was aimed at facilitating expansion of IT and IT-enabled services (ITES) companies through which the state government hopes to create 5 lakh new jobs in the next three years. The cabinet  cleared a proposal to allow Wipro to use 49 per cent of a 50-acre plot for non-IT  purposes. The government had given the 50 acres to the company to set up a development centre in New Town. “The Silicon Valley project had started with 100 acres and as the area has been filled up, we have allotted another 100 acres. We have also allotted land to 20 IT companies in the IT hub today,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna on Tuesday after chairing a cabinet meeting. Then, she announced the government’s decision to ease land use norms for Wipro. A similar relaxation was offered to Infosys, too, which was also given a 50-acre plot in New Town. In 2018, the Bengal government had allowed Infosys, which deferred its plan to come to Bengal as its proposal seeking SEZ status for its project was turned down by the state government, freehold land rights on a 50-acre plot in New Town, enabling the IT major to use 49 per cent of the land for non-IT purposes without seeking clearances from various departments. “Wipro will be allowed to use its plot on similar terms offered to Infosys,” the chief minister said. Mamata said the state government had requested Infosys to set up a software development centre and the IT major had responded in the affirmative. Sources at Nabanna said the initiatives suggested the state government had decided to relax some of the existing norms to help growth in the IT and ITES sectors so that its goal of creating 5 lakh jobs in these sectors in the next three years could be achieved. The Bengal government is aiming to create a policy environment and infrastructure so that 35 lakh new employment opportunities are generated in the state over the next three years. “The target is creation of 15 lakh jobs in the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector and 5 lakh jobs in the IT sector. The manner in which new companies were allotted land and the deal was sweetened for Wipro makes it clear that the government is serious about job creation in the state,” said a senior government official. Multiple sources in the government said with the land allotments and relaxations, Nabann is keen to send out a message that land availability for the purpose of industry is not a problem in Bengal. “There is a perception that getting land is a problem in Bengal... That issue is being addressed with utmost sincerity to aid the process of industrialisation, which is a must for job creation,” said a source close to Mamata. The chief minister on Tuesday also announced the government’s decision to hold 617 fairs at block, district and state levels over the next few months to give a boost to the MSME sector that has been struggling in the post-lockdown period because of sluggish demand. “It is estimated that trade of around Rs 156 crore would take place at the fairs and 3.64 lakh jobs would be generated,” said the chief minister A senior official pointed out that the government had already started working on a plan to meet its target of generating 15 lakh jobs in the MSME sector in the next three years. “The chief minister wants to build the base for achieving the target ahead of the Assembly polls so that something visible can be presented before the electorate,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal logged 3,340 recoveries, 3,315  new cases on Tuesday||Bengal on Tuesday reported a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 36th consecutive day, a spell that began since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. Having fallen by 12,969 since Dashami, the total active cases in Bengal now stand at 24,221. The state on Tuesday also reported 3,340 recoveries, 3,315 new infections and 52 deaths, including eight from Calcutta. In these 36 days, Bengal reported over 1.44 lakh recoveries and 1.32 lakh new novel coronavirus infections, undoing much of the damage from a spike in infections and relatively fewer recoveries for a six-week period in the run-up to Durga Puja. The state now has a total of over 4.86 lakh infections since the onset of the pandemic, which includes over 4.54 lakh recoveries and 8,476 deaths. “After a fairly bad September and a terrible phase in the first three weeks of October, November turned out to be the month of a remarkable, unprecedented turnaround for us. We hope we are able to persist with this in December as well,” said a state minister. Bengal’s recovery rate, currently in an unbroken spell of rise for 40 consecutive days, rose to 93.28 per cent on Tuesday, closer to the national rate of 94 per cent. “We will soon surpass 95 and widen the gap with the national rate after bettering it,” said the minister. Crowded year-end revelries pose a threat of exposure to infection. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November had shown that the court’s instructions had been effective to contain the crowds. Of the total toll, 7,096 deaths or 83.7 per cent are comorbid deaths, said the state government. However, Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.74, still lagging behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. With 43,241 tests on Tuesday, the state’s total test count went past 59.16 lakh, at 65,735 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.23 per cent. The state reported 27.28 per cent occupancy in the 13,538 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.98 lakh telemedicine consultations so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul youth and student wings protest TMC panchayat corruption in Malda||Supporters of Trinamul’s youth and student wings protested in front of the Malatipur panchayat in Chanchal-II block of Malda district on Tuesday, alleging corruption in a tender process for infrastructure work of over Rs 1 crore initiated by the Trinamul-run board of the rural body. Protesters openly asserted lack of transparency in the tender process. As the situation heated up, Mohammad Halim, the Trinamul pradhan, said they had decided to cancel the tender but said there had been no irregularity. “Some villagers pointed out that they know nothing about the tender. Though there has been no irregularity, the tender has been cancelled would be issued afresh to respect their opinions,” said Halim. Sources said in Malatipur, political parties in the Opposition had been raising the issue of corruption in the tender issued to install 22 submersible pumps, construct 10 concrete roads and a culvert and set up with plantation in nine different locations. But on Tuesday, supporters of Trinamul Youth Congress and Trinamul Chhatra Parishad assembled in front of the panchayat office and started shouting slogans against the pradhan and the Trinamul board, a resident said. “It is yet another loss of face for the party in the district,” he added. Officials at the BDO office of Chanchal-II block said they had ordered a probe into the tender process. “Now that the tender has been withdrawn, the next course of action would be determined as per the norms,” said BDO Dibyajyoti Das. This is the second time in past one week that Trinamul workers and leaders have raised their voice against panchayats run by elected members of the same party. On November 25, Trinamul leaders of Kaliachak-II block, led by party MLA Sabina Yeasmin, had held a demonstration in front of the local BDO office, alleging that the Trinamul head of Gangaprasad panchayat had indulged in corruption in connivance with the BDO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Bangladesh envoy inspects  rail route||Muhammad Imran, the new High Commissioner of Bangladesh to India, visited Haldibari in Cooch Behar district on Tuesday and inspected the ongoing work at the Haldibari-Chilahati rail route. There are indications that the rail route that would link India with Bangladesh (Chilahati falls in Nilfamari district, Bangladesh) may reopen later this month. Imran, who reached north Bengal on Monday along with first secretary Zakir Ahmed, visited the land customs station at Fulbari on Siliguri outskirts. Senior Border Security Force (BSF) officers accompanied him. Imran told the media at Haldibari that trains earlier ran through this route. “As far as resumption of services is concerned, the decision would be made after a high-level meeting between both countries.” Imran spoke with BSF and railway officials and also rode in a trolley along the rail route till the zero point. Senior officials of Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB) welcomed him at the border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||MP Raju Bista blames state for NH31-widening delay ||Darjeeling’s BJP MP Raju Bista on Tuesday blamed the Mamata Banerjee government for the delay in widening the NH31 near Darjeeling More, Siliguri’s main entry point, and said the state had not yet handed over the project report or land needed for the project to the Centre. His assertion comes a day after Firhad Hakim, the state municipal affairs and urban development minister, said that the Centre was responsible for the project’s delay that causes perennial traffic snarls at the city’s entry point. Hakim, who was here on Monday to attend a Gandhi statue unveiling event, had said chief minister Mamata Banerjee had spoken to Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari about the project but the Centre was yet to initiate it. “We have even acquired the land,” Hakim had said. Bista retorted on Tuesday that the stretch of the highway concerned was under the state PWD and not NHAI. The MP said that on July 29 this year, he received a written communication from Gadkari stating that the “state PWD has been advised to explore the option of developing the junctions at Darjeeling More and the Siliguri town underpass to a grade-separated junction within available ROW (right of way), or provide consent for furnishing land free from encumbrances and hindrances to develop these two junctions as trumpet interchanges to facilitate the local traffic.” A civil engineer that this paper spoke to explained that “grade separation” was a way to align a junction of two or more surface transport axes at different heights (or grades) so that they do not disrupt traffic flow to other transit routes, while “trumpet interchange” was a design used where a highway terminates to another highway (in Darjeeling More, NH55 meets NH31), and involves a loop ramp that links traffic entering or leaving the terminating highway with far lanes of the other highway. “The state PWD is developing a detailed project report to four-lane the stretch and is yet to hand it over to the Centre. Also, the Union ministry had asked for land so that NHAI can develop the stretch but that too has not been done by the state PWD so far,” said Bista. Widening of the road along the Darjeeling More stretch that will largely help ease traffic congestion in Siliguri can only start after the state PWD submits the DPR to the Centre, he said. “We also want this work to start immediately. The state minister (Hakim) can also send me the details so that I can take it up with the Union minister and help resolve the issues,” the MP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Binay Tamang camp counters Roshan Giri’s attack with rally ||The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang faction), an ally of Trinamul since 2017, on Tuesday said the state government should not “play foul” with them, the assertion coming in the wake of the rival Bimal Gurung faction joining hands with Mamata Banerjee’s party too. The Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa faction held a well-attended public meeting at Kurseong Motor Stand on Tuesday, the same venue of their arch-rivals from the Bimal Gurung faction, who held their first meeting on Sunday after over three-and-half-years since the violent Gorkhaland agitation, resurfacing in the hills publicly only after the Gurung on October 21 dumped the BJP and allied with Trinamul. Roshan Giri, general-secretary of the Gurung camp, had on Sunday accused the Gurung camp of corruption and nepotism while running the GTA. On Tuesday, Anit Thapa and other leaders from the Tamang camp tried to paint Gurung as a leader without vision and with wrong agendas. Warring Morcha factions despite being TMC allies are competing to show their strength to the TMC. Both the meetings — Giri’s on Sunday and Thapa’s Tuesday — drew crowds. Thapa, general secretary of the Tamang camp, who also chairs the board of administrators of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), said: “We would like to tell the state government that they must not play foul with us. We have been openly stating that we are working with the government. The government must understand (it).” The state government had appointed Thapa as the chairman of the hill body. “We jumped into the fire (by deciding to side with the state government during 2017 Gorkhaland agitation) and we are not afraid of fire,” said Thapa. Countering Giri’s allegations of corruption in the GTA, Thapa said: “They (the Gurung camp) are talking about audits. I know that when the state government wanted to conduct an audit (when Gurung ran GTA), the Gorkhaland agitation started and offices burnt to destroy papers. The GTA is now online and the government is aware of each and every file.” “When we were in jail during the 2013 statehood agitation, you (Gurung) accepted the GTA. You wanted your leader Anos Thapa to die when he was ill in jail because you thought that his death would intensify the agitation in Kurseong,” alleged Thapa. The Gurung camp, to justify their joining hands with Trinamul, said one of the reasons was to ensure that “displaced” people who had cases slapped against them during the 2017 agitation could return home. Thapa tore into this argument to say: “They are not displaced people but people who fled the hills leaving the common man on the lurch. You will not get Gorkhaland by pelting stones at police and burning houses.” Thapa said his party was trying to change the “political culture” in the hills and had allowed Bimal Gurung camp to hold a public meeting. Other party leaders said that the process had started to grant land rights to villagers of Nirpani in Mirik block and surveys in tea gardens and cinchona plantations would also be held. “Solving unemployment problem will be our major thrust area,” said Thapa. Gurung is scheduled to address a public meeting at Baga Jatin Park in Siliguri on December 6. Thapa on Tuesday countered that they, too, would hold a “mega rally” in Sukna soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu supporters hit, blame on Trinamul||Alleged Trinamul Congress supporters raided the homes of people who had offered a grand welcome to former minister Suvendu Adhikari at Sabang in West Midnapore on Monday. Suvendu’s supporters were also assaulted by the alleged Trinamul goons in Dosogram panchayat on Monday night. Adhikari had visited Dosogram on Monday to pay respects to former Trinamul block president Prabhat Maity’s wife who had died last week in Temathani. “At least 500 members of the apolitical platform Dada’r Anugami reached the Dheati bridge, 15km away from Temathani, to give Suvendu a grand welcome. There was a bike rally also,” said an eyewitness. “Adhikari paid his respects at Maity’s home in Temathani and left after 30 minutes, following which the supporters also returned.” Sources said around 20 Trinamul-backed goons raided the homes of those who had turned up to welcome the former minister and thrashed them in the presence of their families. One of them was held hostage at a local Trinamul office as well and warned against continuing to support Adhikari. “Later, Trinamul supporters carried out attacks with crude bombs in the Dosogram area around 1.30am today (Tuesday), particularly at the villages of Kolonda and Koptipur where at least 12 homes were vandalised,” said a resident. Kolonda resident and local farmers’ union president Jugal Malakar was a member of the bike rally on Monday evening. “We came back from the rally late in the evening and settled down for dinner. Out of the blue, Trinamul workers stormed into my home and beat me with blunt objects threatening me of dire consequences if I continued to be part of Dada’r Anugami,” he said. “I was dragged to the Botuabazar party office and held there till 3am. I was repeatedly threatened with violence if I did not quit Suvendu’s platform. I was let go only after I gave them a written undertaking,” added Arjun Manna, 37. Trinamul’s Sabang block president Amal Panda condemned the violence. “Though Dada’r Anugami might not have been in line with the party, violence should have been avoided.” In East Midnapore’s Haldia, a Trinamul councillor and president of Trinamul’s youth front, Ajgar Ali, called police on Monday to stop trucks that were campaigning for Adhikari’s Thursday rally. The posters on the rally were also torn down. “The trucks were going around campaigning for Adhikari’s December 3 mega rally when Ajgar called police and got the vehicles seized,” said a source. Responding to the allegations, Ajgar said: “Everyone here is Didi’s Anugami. No outsiders will come here and put up such posters under cover.” At Khejuri, a 3km-long bike rally of the BJP was attacked by alleged Trinamul goons armed with crude bombs on the Rosulpur-Boga road. The goons allegedly smashed several vehicles carrying the BJP supporters. Sources said the rally was organised by BJP mandal president Uday Shankar Maity, who has filed a complaint with the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||ECL starts crackdown on coal smuggling||Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) has launched a drive to shut down illegal coal mines in its leasehold areas across West Burdwan, Purulia and Bankura districts on the heels of allegations that a section of ECL officials is in cahoots with coal smugglers. Accompanied by personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), members of the special task force of the ECL, which was earlier formed to check illegal coal mining, have been raiding several areas of the leasehold areas since Monday and filling up pits dug by the pilferers with sand. “We have already shut down two dozen illegal coal pits in Asansol and Jamuria. The drive will continue,” said an ECL official. He, however, refused to accept that the drive started following recent raids by the Central Bureau of Investigation and interrogation of some senior ECL officials in connection with coal smuggling. “It is our regular practice. We do this whenever we get information about illegal mining in our leasehold areas,” said the ECL official. On Saturday, the CBI had carried out raids and interrogated five ECL officials — two of them general managers – in Asansol in connection with the smuggling of coal. The CBI also lodged an FIR against them and the alleged kingpin of the racket, Anup Maji alias Lala, on November 27. Dhananjay Rai, 45, a security in-charge of ECL who was among those named in the FIR, suffered heart attack during the interrogation by the CBI at his residence in Asansol’s Sripur and later died at hospital. However, sources said the central vigilance team of Coal India had instructed all its subsidiaries, including the ECL, to take serious steps to stop illegal coal mining after the CBI found names of some senior ECL officials who had links with coal smugglers. As part of the modus operandi, the coal smugglers dig pits to extract coal illegally. The coal is then transported by the mafia by trucks in an organised manner. The sources said the illegal activity enjoyed the backing of a section of ECL officials, CISF jawans, police and Trinamul Congress workers. According to the sources, two police inspectors — one posted in Bankura and the other in Purulia — are under the CBI scanner for their alleged involvement in the coal smuggling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||North East||Mizoram Love Brigade to fight AIDS||Mizoram has taken its fight against HIV/AIDS to the next level by launching the Love Brigade, a first-of-its-kind campaign which will see taxi drivers and bikers not only to spread awareness about the so-far incurable disease but also easily make available condoms free of cost to passengers and public to help check its spread. The innovative campaign has a lot to do with the high prevalence of HIV in Mizoram despite it being a small and thinly populated (1.1 mn) state in the country. Mizoram health and family welfare minister Dr R. Lalthangliana launched the Love Brigade campaign in collaboration with the bike/taxis association and Mizoram State AIDS Control Society (MSACS) to promote “free love condoms” by distributing them free of cost to their clients in a non-stigma approach while riding with them. The brigade will also be trained in HIV/AIDS counselling and would give out the details of the free HIV test initiatives of the MSACS and share pamphlets with prevention messages to create awareness among the masses. To begin with, 500 bike taxi riders and car taxi drivers will be shortlisted and branded as the Love Brigade. The campaign has been actively supported by the AIDS Healthcare Foundation India Cares (AHF). An official statement said HIV prevalence among adult population between 15-49 years in the state was 2.04 per cent, almost 10 times higher than the national HIV prevalence at 0.22 per cent. With an Annual New HIV infection rate of 1.32 per cent, 20 times higher than the national average of 0.07 per cent — makes it imperative to find a renewed spirit in designing innovative steps to check the disease. An MSACS official told The Telegraph that the Love Brigade campaign is a continuation of its condom promotion campaign launched in 2017 but with innovative features by involving taxi bikers and drivers to reach out to those who are hesitant to buy condoms from pharmacies. Another reason to launch brigade is the difference that the condom promotion campaign was making on the ground. “Though we remain a state with high prevalence, a small dip has been noticed because of condom promotion campaign. According to the HIV estimation by National AIDS Control Organization (NACO) in 2019, the HIV new infection per 1,000 uninfected population is 1.18 per cent whereas in 2017, the estimation was 1. 32 per cent, which is around 10 per cent declining trend. It is also projected that the new HIV infection will show a declining trend as per available data,” the MSACS official said. Lalthlengliani, project director, Mizoram State AIDS Control Society MSACS, while highlighting the importance of the Worlds AIDS Day, said the Love Brigade is a unique HIV prevention approach, a first-of-its-kind in the country, which will help “find lasting solutions for stigma reduction especially for free condom protection in our society”. “Furthermore, the collaboration with Church Youth Leadership will also see a lot of innovations in improving the services for the people infected and affected with HIV in the state in the coming days. Once again it is our duty to remind ourselves that the fight against HIV is not yet won!” said Dr Lalthlengliani. The campaign was launched at a meeting organised by the MSACS in collaboration with AHF to observe the World AIDS Day 2020 at Dawrpui Multipurpose Hall Aizawl, the theme of which was AIDS: The Other Pandemic. The organisers said the theme was a reminder to the world that even in times of Covid-19, HIV/AIDS must be kept high on the global public health agenda because it still claims hundreds of thousands of lives every year. With over 8.5 million cases of Covid-19, India has the second highest number of infections in the world. “With over 8.5 million cases of Covid-19, India has the second highest number of infections in the world.... The impact of the pandemic will be felt across India for generations. This year AHF unveiled a new World AIDS Day theme, ‘AIDS: The Other Pandemic’ as a reminder that each year 690,000 people die of AIDS-related illnesses, including 69,000 in India, therefore we have an obligation to fight both pandemics — it may seem daunting, but so did the early days of AIDS. We have come a long way and be cannot afford to go backwards,” said Dr V. Sam Prasad, country program director, AHF India Cares. A series of events to check HIV/AIDS will take place between December 1 and 13 to boost the free condom promotion in Mizoram, including online competitions for the youth to develop prevention messages on HIV/AIDS and get maximum shares and likes on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
02-12-2020||North East||RN Ravi: Only one national flag, one statute||Nagaland governor R.N. Ravi in his message to the people on Monday on the eve of the 58th Statehood Day said the Centre is “absolutely clear” that there is and there shall be “only one” national flag and Constitution in India. Ravi’s unambiguous message came amid the NSCN (Isak-Muivah) repeatedly stressing that a “serious deadlock” has emerged over its demand for a separate Naga national flag and constitution. The outfit has also stated “very loud and clear” during the ongoing talks that there was “no way forward” without finalising the two issues. Ravi said, “The Indian national flag and Constitution are the pride of the people of India. The Government of India is absolutely clear that there is and there shall be only one national flag and Constitution in India. Anyone talking anything contrary is peddling preposterous lies. They are trying to confuse and mislead the people.” Ravi’s message assumes significance because he is also the Centre’s interlocutor for talks with NSCN (I-M) and a signatory to the 2015 Framework Agreement with the outfit. The outfit has been ceasefire since 1997 to find an amicable and lasting solution to the decades-old Naga political problem. The NSCN (I-M) reiterated its stand on Tuesday in its news bulletin Nagalim Voice, asserting the demand is non-negotiable. The governor’s five-page message, among others, paid tributes to the founding fathers of Nagaland, which was formed in 1963, a move which is an “abiding testimony” to the triumph of the politics of peace over the politics of bloodshed. “Friends, the essence of India is its unity in diversity. Multitudes of ethnicities, languages, cultures and cuisine enrich this beautiful country from Kerala to Kashmir and Kohima to Kutch. The territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Union of India is supreme. The Government of India has never ever talked, much less negotiated with anyone on the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. Any misadventure to disintegrate this great nation shall not be tolerated,” Ravi said. Without naming any group, he asserted that a common understanding was reached “on all issues on the table” and with the conclusion of talks on October 31, 2019, the people of Nagaland are anxiously waiting for a new dawn. “However, there are some people who are standing as a roadblock to the aspirations of the people of Nagaland. I urge these people to see the writings on the wall, to come out of their make-believe echo-chamber and listen to the voice of the people and in a true democratic spirit respect their wishes,” Ravi said in oblique reference to NSCN (I-M). Ties between Ravi and the outfit are strained, so much so that it wanted his replacement. Ravi’s message will only aggravate the strained ties. The Centre had to rope in senior Intelligence Bureau officials to continue talks with NSCN (I-M). At a function to celebrate statehood day at the Raj Bhavan in Kohima on Tuesday, Ravi and other participants paid glowing tributes to the founding fathers of Nagaland — leaders of the Naga Peoples’ Convention (NPC) and to the martyrs who sacrificed their life for securing the honourable future for the Naga people and created Nagaland as the 16th state of the Union of India, an official statement said. While unveiling a bust of Imkongliba Ao, the then president of NPC and who was martyred soon after, at the Raj Bhavan, Ravi urged the people to renew their sense of gratitude to the founding fathers and commit themselves to build a Nagaland of their dreams where genius of the Naga people will blossom to the fullest. Ravi also praised former chief minister and Padma Bhushan awardee S.C. Jamir, the sole living NPC signatory to the 16-point agreement. The NPC members included village heads, tribal leaders and intellectuals of Nagaland. Also known as the statehood agreement, the 16-point agreement was signed in Delhi between the NPC and the Government of India on July 26, 1960, leading to the creation of a full-fledged state on December 1, 1963. However, the protagonist of the Naga insurgency movement A.Z. Phizo and his Naga National Council opposed the pact. The NSCN (I-M) too is opposed to the 16-point agreement. “The NPC came out of nowhere and signed the 16-Point Agreement where the Naga solution was hijacked and a state under the Indian Constitution was accepted giving a foothold to the Indian government to claim that from thence Nagas were a part of India,” the NSCN (I-M) said on Tuesday, flaying Ravi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
02-12-2020||Opinion||Think again: Ayurveda surgery||Sir — The demand of India’s largest body of doctors, the Indian Medical Association, to withdraw the notification allowing ayurveda practitioners to be trained in surgery — 39 general procedures and around 19 procedures involving the eye, ear, nose and throat — is justified (“Fatal mix”, Nov 30). While some forms of surgery have been part of ayurveda treatment for centuries, it does not explain the decision to mix up two very different systems of medical science. Allowing ayurveda practitioners to perform complex surgical procedures of modern medicine, even with some training, is problematic. More importantly, the patients must never be left in the dark about who is treating them — an allopath or an ayurveda practitioner. The patient has the right to choose what system of medicine he wants to be treated under. The IMA has therefore correctly raised questions about post-operative care and infection control mechanisms. The implementation of the notification could place thousands of gullible patients at risk. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — The Centre’s decision to license ayurveda practitioners to perform surgeries is not right. Ayurveda may have its place as a traditional and alternative system of medicine in India but not in surgery. Surgery is a complex exercise, necessitating skill and years of extensive training, along with the knowledge of hygiene and infection control. If the step has been taken to address the shortage of trained personnel in the vast rural areas of the country, then the authorities should consider training nurses in surgical procedure. In the West, nurse practitioners, trained in principles of modern medicine, are allowed to participate in medical procedures, although in a restricted way. It is likely that nurses would be willing to spend more time with patients, and provide services like health education, counselling as well as care co-ordination. Incentives to work in rural areas could encourage them to work there. After all, nurses are the backbone of our healthcare system. It is interesting to note that the political leaders who extol the virtues of ayurveda to the common man do not visit professionals in that field during a medical emergency. Instead, they fly abroad or rush to the nearest corporate hospital to have their ailment treated. The people of India deserve better than to be treated as per fields of medicine which are yet to be supported by scientific evidence. H.N. Ramakrishna,  Bangalore Sir — The government seems intent on bringing down every sector responsible for public welfare. The new notification that would allow ayurveda practitioners to handle surgeries is a big blow to the healthcare system. The political agenda behind this step is clear: the ruling dispensation at the Centre wants to gain more votes by claiming to bring back ancient India’s medical techniques to the limelight. India should move forward in time, not backwards. This decision must be resisted at all costs. D. Sengupta,Mumbai Sir —  The Centre plans to introduce medical pluralism by 2030. This is also mentioned in the National Education Policy. The government’s nod to allow postgraduate practitioners of ayurveda to perform surgery may not be a wise decision. However, if the decision is not rolled back, the aspiring surgeons should be selected on the basis of a common entrance. No back-door entry should be permitted. Basudeb Dutta,Nadia  Play fair Sir — During the first one-day international match between India and Australia in Sydney, two men invaded the pitch, holding placards against the alleged decision of the State Bank of India to provide a loan to an Indian conglomerate for a controversial coal-mine project Down Under. This attracted the attention of thousands of viewers in the two countries — following the match possibly for its entertainment value — raising awareness on the issue. The match resumed soon after; but the brief protest reminded the world that it is not wise to ignore reality, no matter how grim it may be. Moupiya Gupta,Calcutta Step forward Sir — While the entire world is engaged in the search for a vaccine for Covid-19, one should not forget other deadly afflictions. This year World AIDS Day, which is observed on December 1, brought some positive news. The latest UNAIDS report revealed that the maximum decline in new infections in the Asia Pacific region over the last decade was achieved by India. This shows that even though the eradication of HIV/AIDS is a far cry, the test-and-treat strategy has been implemented effectively in the country. Similar models should be adopted for other medical issues, such as mental health and venereal diseases, that suffer from low awareness and poor treatment, especially outside major cities and towns. Prashanta Sarkar,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
02-12-2020||Opinion||Gloom deepens: Indian economy in recession||The Indian economy has technically entered a phase of recession, which is defined as two consecutive quarters of decline in real (inflation adjusted) gross domestic product. The first quarter had experienced a decline of 23.9 per cent while the second quarter results show a decline of 7.5 per cent on a year-on-year basis. The second quarter results are much better compared to the first quarter. This was expected since production has restarted in a number of sectors of the economy. The chief economic adviser has described the results as encouraging and there is word that the recovery would be even more discernable in the next two quarters. Agriculture has been doing well with good monsoons and subsidized inputs. The growth of the manufacturing sector in gross value added was 0.6 per cent this quarter compared to a decline of 39 per cent in the previous quarter. The Markit India Purchasing Managers’ Index has increased to 54.1, which indicates an expansion in business orders. However, not all signals are encouraging, and it may be early days to predict a sustained recovery. The core sector comprising eight infrastructure industries has contracted by 2.5 per cent in October compared to a decline of 0.1 per cent in September this year. The fiscal deficit is already at 119.7 per cent of the target by the end of the first half of the current fiscal year. Consumer spending, the most important component of aggregate demand in the economy, has shrunk by 11.5 per cent in the second quarter. According to the Reserve Bank of India, credit growth has been only to the extent of about 5 per cent despite a number of schemes announced by the finance ministry and the RBI regarding soft loans available for businesses. Going forward, the lack of consumer demand will continue to be a critical factor in determining the pace of recovery. The fiscal deficit is stretched and there is not much space for fiscal policy to provide stimulation. With the consumer price index inflation rates hovering around 7 per cent, much above the RBI’s comfort zone of 2 to 6 per cent, the room for monetary policy stimulation is also limited. The main reasons for the slack in consumer demand are the widespread closures and retrenchment of labour along with significant pay cuts for those who have retained their jobs. Hence, the recessionary inertia might continue into the fiscal year, 2021-22. In such a situation, international trade and export demand can provide a fillip for recovery. But the chances are low on that count as the nation appears to be veering towards a more protectionist stance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
02-12-2020||Opinion||War against education in South Asia||Students in Kabul demanded protection from the government after gunmen attacked Kabul University in early November. The assaulters took students and teachers hostage and killed 22 people. The attack on Kabul University should not be seen as an isolated incident. It was the second strike on an education establishment in Kabul in recent times. The question is this: why are attacks on educational institutions on the rise? The Global Coalition to Protect Education from Attack estimates that over 22,000 students, teachers and academics have been injured, killed or harmed in attacks between 2015 and 2020. In South Asia, all countries except Bhutan have experienced attacks on educational institutions. In the first decade of this century, several schools were set ablaze in Kashmir; school buildings were destroyed in the tribal areas of central India too. Nepal also witnessed attacks on private and government schools during the people’s war years of 1996-2006. Countries ravaged by internal conflicts are being forced to confront the challenge of protecting schools and universities. Strife-torn Afghanistan is one example. Schools and universities keep alive the hopes of a peaceful world and a promising future. If teachers and students are getting attacked within campuses and institutions being destroyed, how can a community or a country succeed in rewriting the future? There are other problems as well. Boys and girls are vulnerable because of the continued pressure to join militias. In 2010, al Shabaab in Somalia kidnapped 2,000 students for military training. In 2011, it added 948 children — mostly school students — to its armed contingent. Al Shabaab also kidnapped schoolgirls and married them off to their commanders and fighters. A significant number of students are dropping out of schools in Afghanistan and Syria. Boys often find it useful to join armed groups because the militias help them gain power and provide them with a means of livelihood. Girls, on the other hand, are forced to drop out of school. The Nobel laureate, Malala Yousafzai — 12 years old then — had been shot and injured for attending school. Religious and extremist groups are against women’s education. In 2014, the Boko Haram, which is opposed to modern education for women, kidnapped 276 girl students after attacking a school in Chibok, Nigeria. Syria, meanwhile, suffers aerial attacks on schools, forcing Syrian children to stay out of school. These transgressions underline the importance of establishing a connection between education and terrorism. Why are teachers and children turning into targets? Who are their allies during conflict? A conversation with a group of teachers from Afghanistan had revealed that even though they wanted to remain neutral, situations force them to take sides. They said that local commanders wield influence in remote villages while cities are controlled by the armed forces. Teachers were killed for disobeying the orders of local commanders. A number of university teachers have even left their jobs because of the threat to their lives. Afghanistan must not only ponder the threat to education but also what kind of education is being imparted. There is also a case to analyse content and textbooks. Different regimes, from the Parcham Party to the Taliban, promoted their own curriculum and textbooks to orient students in their ideologies. Each regime wants to promote a specific ideology, undermining the scope of co-existence, diversity, peace and harmony that can be achieved through education. In some other countries — Indonesia, for instance — religious extremist groups have got in touch with a substantial number of students in order to propagate their ideology. The discourse on international peace and harmony must consider the threat to education. It is not enough to post guards in universities. There must be a long-term strategy to deal with the violence being inflicted on students and teachers and on curriculum and textbooks. Education is of fundamental importance to children on the margins. Unless decision-makers remain vigilant about what is being taught in schools, educational institutions will remain at a risk, be it in Afghanistan or in other countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
02-12-2020||Opinion||Unequal tongues||One of the fallouts of the revocation of Article 370 that has arguably given a new meaning to the constitutional relationship between Jammu and Kashmir and India is the adoption of five languages — Hindi, Kashmiri, Dogri, Urdu and English — as the official languages of J&K. After getting the president’s assent, the Act in this regard was notified by the Union ministry of law and justice on September 27, 2020. Language has proven to be at the heart of political consciousness and assertion and has shaped history in the subcontinent. In India, it led to the passage of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956, thereby creating linguistic states. Pakistan was fissured into two halves as Urdu was forcibly imposed on Bengali-speaking East Pakistan. The importance of linguistic identities in J&K, with a population of nearly 12.5 million, is no different and has often shaped political undercurrents in this sensitive region. The decision to exclude some languages spoken in J&K has, understandably, triggered protests over the denial of the recognition accorded to the five languages. J&K’s debate on linguistic recognition has a multi-dimensional connotation, both internal as well as external, and, yet again, exposes the decades-old systemic flaw of top-down policymaking on J&K marked by the lack of an ability to tap into accrued institutional knowledge. J&K was created in the 19th century by merging diverse cultural and geographical units. While the Kashmir Valley has its own distinct culture and language, sparsely populated Ladakh, which scaffolds Kashmir Valley to the north, is the gateway to Tibetan and Central Asian culture and ethnicities. Geographically and religiously diverse Jammu, to the south, adjoins culturally akin western and eastern parts of the once united Punjab province. Urdu became the official and de facto link language in culturally and linguistically diverse J&K in 1889 replacing Persian. The introduction of Urdu inadvertently shaped the politics of the future. The monarchs encouraged Urdu literates from neighbouring Punjab to settle in J&K. Faced with a scarcity of job opportunities, a section of the Kashmiri Pandit community, which had traditionally been the administrative class in the Valley, petitioned the princely rulers from time to time to discourage this practice. This led the princely ruler to enact a state subject law on April 20, 1927 that made it difficult for outsiders to possess land and get jobs in J&K. In a changed political context, the new political elite in 1954 enacted its own state subject law that defined a ‘Permanent Resident’ in J&K. A PR was a state subject on May 14, 1954, one who had been a resident of the state for 10 years and had lawfully acquired immovable property in the state. Its abolition became one of the foundational tenets of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, which later became the Bharatiya Janata Party on April 6, 1980, as it argued that the concept of PR of J&K goes against the concept of one India. Although Urdu was the only official language of J&K, as per the 2011 census, Urdu speakers numbered merely 19,000. In the pre-Independence era, the two broad linguistic distinctions in J&K were Kashmiri and a second group of akin languages, namely Dogri, Gojri, Pahari and Punjabi. For a long time, the second group was stated to be different dialects of Punjabi. It is a lesser-known fact that while the princely state of J&K was popularly known as ‘Kashmir’ the non-Kashmiri-speaking segment comprises more than 60 per cent of J&K’s population. The bifurcation of J&K in 1947 kept the Kashmir Valley more or less intact while dividing the more populous and religiously diverse Jammu. The population of Jammu, as per the 1941 census, was 1.9 million whereas that of Kashmir was 1.7 million. In the post facto reality of 1947, the two linguistic groups became nearly equal on the Indian side of J&K although the Kashmiri-speaking population marginally surpassed the other group. Being the single-largest linguistic group on the Indian side of J&K, the Kashmiri language was recognized in the Eighth Schedule of the Indian Constitution, which lists the official languages of the Republic of India. Each language, previously termed as a dialect of Punjab, started asserting its distinctiveness. For instance, after 50 years of effort by a progressive group of writers, poets and intellectuals like Ram Nath Shastri and Padma Sachdev, Dogri, spoken in Jammu, was finally recognized in the Eighth Schedule in 2003. As per the 2011 census, out of the 12.5 million residents of J&K, 6.7 million speak Kashmiri and 2.6 million speak Dogri. The 2011 census enumerates that 2.6 million speak Hindi in J&K. In fact, this figure needs to be unpacked to get a better sense of the actual reality. Census enumerators have denoted speakers of Gojri and Pahari, spoken in the border districts of J&K along the Line of Control, as Hindi speakers in addition to some other languages spoken in J&K. In contrast to Kashmiri and Dogri, the other languages are not recognized in the Eighth Schedule. The census mentions separately that the number of Gojri speakers is approximately 1.2 million and that of Pahari speakers around 1 million in J&K. Gojri and Pahari have their own importance in the context of J&K. They are collectively spoken by at least 17 per cent on the Indian side of J&K. Gojri is spoken by Gujjars-Bakherwals who live in Jammu as well as in the Kashmir Valley and a large section of their population are seasonal nomads. In J&K all of them are Muslims. Outside J&K, the vast majority of Gujjars are Hindus, particularly in the region around Delhi. The other linguistic identity, Pahari, a language akin to Pothwari spoken in the Rawalpindi-Jhelum belt of Pakistani Punjab, has a unique geopolitical significance. On the Indian side, Pahari is spoken in the districts of Baramulla and Kupwara of Kashmir Valley and in Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu along the LoC. It is a religiously diverse linguistic group. In Pakistan-administered Jammu and Kashmir, which excludes Gilgit-Baltistan, Pahari is the main language spoken by at least three million residents. Many British Muslims are originally from Mirpur and Kotli districts of PAJK. If the number of first-generation and second-generation British citizens are included, then globally Pahari speakers would be more than four million. A lot of work has been done in the Pahari community by the diaspora. A magazine journal, Chitka, was published in the 1990s. BBC radio has programmes in Pahari. Pahari, as understood by Indian census enumerators, is also spoken in Himachal Pradesh and Uttaranchal although the Pahari spoken in one state is quite different from the other. Apart from Pahari and Gojri, there are 60-odd languages that are listed under the category, ‘Hindi’, and they include languages such as Bhojpuri, which has seen an explosion in cinematic and musical output. The prevailing political vacuum in J&K has eliminated a feedback loop that could better inform policymaking based on ground realities and past experiences. Many laws formulated in the last one year were amended later. On account of the significant presence of speakers on both sides of the LoC, the claim of linguistic groups like Gojri and Pahari is difficult to ignore. Ignoring such claims may fuel language wars in this sensitive region. In addition, the ramifications of the official recognition have to be thought through by factoring in administrative efficiency and market competitiveness. If we apply the model of Indian states, all official matter and possibly STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) courses will have to be translated into the official languages. At this stage, hardly any language native to J&K is equipped to meet this goal. L. Puri is the author of Across the LoC||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Two brothers arrested for theft||A major breakthrough came for the Jamshedpur Police, on Wednesday, for a complicated theft case involving close family members. The suspected duo – Abhishek Chaudhury and Vishal Chaudhury have been arrested, after the police recovered cash (Rs 10,15,000) and gold ornaments from the residence of Vishal’s girlfriend, in Jugsalai. The brothers in their early twenties, had been arrested after the police had registered an FIR on the basis of a case lodged by Devendra Chaudhury, at the Jugsalai Police Station on November 28, against his brother Surendra Chaudhury and his family. Sharing the details, senior superintendent of police, M Tamil Vanan said Chaudhury, in his complaint, had maintained that cash worth Rs 12 lakhs and gold ornaments had gone missing from his Jugsalai residence, when he was out of town for some work. However, the lock of his residence was intact even after the theft. “As there was no outsider in the house, Devendra suspected his brother Surendra Chaudhury, his wife and children to have committed the theft. On getting the FIR we set up a special team to get the case investigated,” Vanan said. “Led by the deputy superintendent of police (law and order) Alok Ranjan, the team first interrogated Surendra Chaudhury and his wife, but failed to get any clue. Subsequently the team interrogated Surendra’s two sons,” he added. The police officer said that Vishal was really close to his uncle and would often drive his car as well. “On being interrogated intensively, Vishal gave in and confessed to his crime. He divulged that he persuaded his elder brother Abinash to help in committing the theft at his uncle’s house. After taking the cash and jewelry, he had kept them at his girlfriend’s house at Jugsalai,” Vanan informed. “On cracking the case, the police led Vishal to his girlfriend’s house and recovered Rs 10,15,000 and the jewelries, which included a gold necklace, gold chain, two sets of earrings and two sets of gold rings on Wednesday,” he told reporters. According to the police, Vishal had complete knowledge about his uncle’s business and was aware of the fact that he kept a large amount of money at home, therefore he had planned to commit such theft and was just waiting for an opportunity. “As Vishal was close to his uncle, he had access to the keys of the house as well as the wardrobe. He had even made duplicate keys of the house and the steel wardrobe. When the victim, who is a bachelor, went out of the house, the accused executed his plan,” said a police official who was also a member of the special team. The two brothers have been sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail after having undergone a Covid-19 test and being produced before a judicial magistrate late in the afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Minister steps in to clear the air on paddy procurement||The ongoing paddy procurement process in Jharkhand encountered a minor hitch on Wednesday when the state food minister’s comment about moisture content in crops led to an impression that the process had been halted, prompting the Opposition BJP to try and make quick capital out of the controversy. Rameshwar Oraon set the record straight soon after, clarifying that his concerns about moisture content, was aired partially by a television news channel and hence misunderstood. He said the procurement process was on, but that he had only asked officials to ensure good quality crops were bought. Oraon said, “Paddy procurement process has been started. But my concern is that officials shouldn’t buy in haste to meet the target and farmers too shouldn’t be in hurry to sell them at government centres unless the harvest stocks were totally dry.” The minister explained that crops retained moisture after harvest, and it took two-three weeks for them to dry. “If we buy moisture laden stock, overall quantity is reduced once it has dried. As a result, even though we would have paid full money to the farmer, we will get less stocks. The money that the government is paying as minimum support price (MSP) to farmers is also public money and shouldn’t be wasted,” he said. The state government kicked off paddy procurement process from Ranchi on Monday by setting up 23 centres in the district stating that other districts too would operationalise paddy centres within this week. However, the minister’s comment, aired by a local electronic channel, was construed as an admission that the government had halted the paddy procurement process for 15 days. But Oraon got wind of the confusion early and issued a clarification. He said his only advice to officials of the food and civil supplies department was to be vigilant and ensure there was no loss of government money. This year, the state government has fixed a target of procuring 4.5 lakh metric ton paddy from 1.60 lakh farmers. About 1.42 lakh farmers across all the 24 districts have so far enrolled with the government to sell their produce. The Opposition BJP was quick to step in. State party president Deepak Prakash threatened to hit the streets to prevent the government from stopping procurement. “We have credible information that the government has stopped the procurement process within a day of its start,” he said in a statement. “This exposes the grand alliance’s anti-farmer stance. In the past, it has stopped several pro-farmer policies launched by the previous BJP government. At a time when farmers need more assistance amid the pandemic, the Hemant government is forcing farmers to sell their produce at throwaway price,” he added. The state BJP’s aggressive defence of farmers’ rights came at a time when the Narendra Modi government is faced with the wrath of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and elsewhere who have mounted an unprecedented campaign against the new farm laws in Delhi. The Jharkhand government has also criticised the new laws, describing them as an attack on “annadatas”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city caps wedding guests at 200 only  ||The East Singhbhum district administration has decided to allow only 200 guests at wedding receptions, the cap imposed after blatant violation of Covid safety norms at recent gatherings. "Such a decision has been taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The host should also ensure that those attending the parties follow social distancing and other Covid norms or else necessary action would be taken as per provisions of the Disaster Management Act," said a district administrative official. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar has passed on the instructions to all hotels, banquet and community halls, especially those that are taken on rent for hosting wedding receptions. Kumar said the administration was forced to impose curbs after it was observed that those who were attending weddings were ignoring safety protocols, thereby risking the spread of the virus. The deputy commissioner has also issued instructions to all officials to keep a watch on wedding ceremonies so that the guidelines are not violated. This is peak wedding season, expected to continue till mid-December. As per the directives issued by the office of deputy commissioner, party hosts would have to keep chairs 6 feet apart or to arrange them in circles at a distance of 6 feet from each. Also, thermal scanners, hand wash facilities and sanitizers would have to be arranged for use at the entrance and exit of venues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Salaries not paid for months, JMADA employees stage protest ||Over 50 employees of the Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) on Wednesday sat on a dharna outside the office of the managing director of the civic body, at its Luby Circular Road based headquarters in Dhanbad. The protesters agitated against a host of demands including the pending salary payment, disbursement of arrears to retired employees and so on. The sit-in was triggered when JMADA Managing Director Dilip Kumar denied permission to meet a delegation of employees, who sought to discuss with him the long-pending issues related to the payment of their salaries among others. Talking to reporters on Wednesday, Raju Balmiki, the President of the JMADA unit of Janta Mazdoor Sangh (Kunti Faction) said, “It is for the first time in the recent memory that the employees have not been paid salary ahead of Chhath.” “The response of the Managing Director to the employees, who are deprived of their salary for 46 months, is really distressing as during the recent talk with us he said that they can’t pay the salary regularly. He said that the employers had paid salary ahead of Durga puja so there is no fund left to pay the salary ahead of Chhath again” said Balmiki, a fourth grade employee of JMADA. “Whenever we demand payment of our pending salaries the authorities make excuses of non-payment of funds from the government. We wanted to know from authorities when actually the fund is expected to arrive,” he added. Rakesh Singh, General Secretary of the same organisation, said, “The civic body administration is always making excuses regarding the poor financial situation of JMADA. We wanted to know how this situation can improve because it is very difficult for the employees to sustain their families due to non-payment of salary.” “We had a meeting with the participants of the dharna, during which we assured them about the steps being taken to ensure further payment of salary to the employees. We also explained the financial constraints with us,” Indresh Shukla, Executive Engineer cum Technical Member of JMADA, said. “We will make the payment as soon as we get funds from different sources, including the government,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||RMC website still defunct, property tax-payers left high and dry||The official website of Ranchi Municipal Corporation hasn’t been functioning since August, forcing residents of the state capital to either pay property tax in person at the RMC office or shell out hefty fine as, despite assurances, RMC hasn’t been able to resume online payment facilities. Ranchi deputy mayor Sanjiv Vijaywargiya on Wednesday promised residents that the website would be functional within the next 10 days. However, highly placed sources in the RMC said the hand-over process from a former third-party agency to a new agency was causing the delay in resumption of online tax payment. The fear is that the process may take longer.  RMC had promised to resume e-payments by October. But as of Wednesday, the website was still undergoing a “software update”. After the JMM-led alliance came to power in the state in December last year, the Hemant government decided to rope in a new third party agency, Shree Enterprises, for tax collection on behalf of RMC. Sparrow, an agency which was doing the job during the former Raghubar Das-led government, was shown the door. “The website is undergoing software update since we roped in a new agency for tax collection,” said Vijaywargiya, adding that property holders could still visit RMC office and pay tax in person until the website is functional. However, property owners who hadn’t paid their tax yet would have to pay a penalty along with their holding tax irrespective of the reason for the delay in payment of tax, Vijaywargiya said. The decision of not giving relaxations on tax penalty comes at a time when the government has been encouraging people to stay indoors and use online modes of payment in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The RMC had suggested to the government to waive penalty on holding tax during the nationwide lockdown, but the government did not agree, Vijaywargiya said. The RMC, he added, did not have the authority to take a call on rebates and penalties on taxes without getting the government’s consent. The Jharkhand government has been dealing with a funds crunch since the beginning of the year. While ministers in the Hemant Soren Cabinet were pondering upon ways to generate revenue, the Covid-19 pandemic aggravated the crisis. Under the circumstances, the state government was not willing to lose any more revenue, even if in the form of tax penalties. Prithwi Kumar Das, a resident of an apartment complex in Morhabadi, said that he could not even check the amount he had to pay as holding tax as the RMC website was defunct. “If online payment resumes today, I will immediately pay my holding tax. But charging a fine after not providing the option to pay taxes online is wrong on RMC’s part,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad-Bengal train services resume after 8 months||The Asansol-Dhanbad MEMU (63543/63544), running between the two towns, and the CoalField Express (12339/12340) have resumed their services from Wednesday after being suspended for 254 days due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown and a subsequent halt in rail operations. Street vendors, office goers, students and small time traders are rejoicing at the move, as they can now easily connect to different parts of Bengal including Asansol, Durgapur and Calcutta from Dhanbad. Talking to The Telegraph Online at the Dhanbad Railway station on Wednesday, Sumit Bhattacharya, an Asansol resident, said, “I came here at Dhanbad at my in-laws’ place two days ago on bus and came to know about the restoration of Asansol Dhanbad MEMU train afterwards. I booked the ticket yesterday (Tuesday) to return to my native place at Asansol to avoid the bus journey,  which is expensive as well as causes a lot of exhaustion.” The Sunshine Steel Pvt Ltd. employee boarded the train from Dhanbad at 8 am to reach Asansol at 9:50 am. Pramod Kumar, a student residing at the Sijua area of Dhanbad, appeared to have similar opinions. “The train journey is quite comfortable.The best part is that there is no usual rush in the train as only limited tickets have been sold for the second seating arrangement,” he said, as he boarded the train on Wednesday morning at Dhanbad to reach his maternal uncle’s place at Asansol. “The restoration of the train after more than eight months has provided great relief to the people like us who were compelled to make expensive, unsafe and uncomfortable journeys on bike or in buses,” Vishnu Mandal, a resident of Kalubathan in Dhanbad, said. Mandal reached the Dhanbad railway Station at 9:30 am in the Asansol Dhanbad MEMU to join his duty at a local factory in the town. The Asansol Dhanbad MEMU passenger will depart for Asansol daily at 8 am to reach Dhanbad at 9:30 am covering a distance of 58 km and making  stoppages at 11 intermediate stations. These include Barachak, Sitarampur, Kulti, Barakar, Kumbardubi, Mugma, Thapar Nagar, Kalubathan, Chhota Ambona, Pradhankhanta and Dokra halt. The same train will leave Dhanbad at 9:50 am to reach Asansol at 11 am. Another journey of the MEMU train from Asansol will begin at 6:10 pm to reach Dhanbad at 7:25 pm. The CoalField Express, running between Dhanbad and Howrah, also made its first journey after the lockdown from the coal town at 5:55 am on Wednesday. It reached Howrah at around 10:30 am. On the opposite route, the train will start from Howrah at 5:20 pm to reach Dhanbad at 9:40 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Bharat Coking Coal turns its back on polluted Dhanbad||Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board’s ultimatum notwithstanding, Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) has not taken any visible steps to improve air quality in and around Dhanbad in the last one and a half years. BCCL is yet to procure mechanical dust sweepers, or static and/or mobile dust sprinklers. Roads have not been “green-walled” as per the pollution board’s instructions. Also, the display board of JSPCB’s lone air quality monitoring station at Digwadih in Jharia has been lying defunct since the last four months. And funds to the tune of Rs 3 crore provided by the pollution board to Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) in January to launch a massive tree plantation drive and begin mechanized dust sweeping of roads are lying unutilised. The lack of urgency is staggering on the part of both the civic body and the PSU as Jharia and Dhanbad are among the worst polluted towns of the country. Yet, Dhanbad is among 102 cities/towns under the National Clean Air Programme, under which pollution levels are to be curtailed by 35 per cent in three years. Member of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board Rajiv Sharma said, “The situation is indeed pathetic as no step is in sight to control the situation. We will be discussing all the issues during Thursday’s meeting of JSPCB scheduled in Ranchi.” Jharia based environmentalist Manoj Singh said, “We were very hopeful after the June 11, 2019 meeting of JSPCB in Ranchi after which BCCL prepared a Dhanbad Action Plan. As per the plan, the PSU was to undertake a massive tree plantation drive on mines overburden, establish a 24x7 air quality monitoring station in various areas and install static sprinklers at some of the polluted street corners of Dhanbad.” None of these steps, however, were taken, he said. “People are compelled to inhale the polluted air and become victims of various breathing related diseases like bronchitis, tuberculosis, etc,” said Singh, who is founder of social organisation Green Life. Regional officer of JSPCB in Dhanbad Ram Narayan Chaudhary blamed procedural delays with regard to issuing tenders for the purchase of equipment like mobile dust sweepers and continuous air quality monitoring stations at BCCL. “However, some tree plantation has already been carried out at many mines overburden sites,” he said. Chaudhary claimed that the air quality monitoring station of JBSPCB at Digwadih was able to record data, even though it had suffered a display issue. “Only the on-screen display system isn’t functioning. But the data is being fed to the Central Pollution Control Board regularly,” he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Two years on, honey plant at Latehar remains non-operational||The honey processing plant set up at the densely Maoist-infested, remote locality of the Domakharn village under the Garu block continues to be non-operational even after two years of its inauguration. Abu Imran, the Deputy Commissioner of Latehar, a district which covers Domrakharn, said the issue has been brought to his notice and he has directed the BDO of Garu, Tutu Dilip, to find out the reason why no work had started in the honey refining plant in all these years. He informed that according to the preliminary reports, a possible lack of infrastructure was keeping the plant non-operational. The executive engineer of electricity claimed that there was no issue of power supply in the area, and neither was water, Imran said. The plant was set up to collect honey for processing, the DC said. The Jharkhand Marketing Cooperative Federation had, in 2019, offered financial aid to set up the plant, Tutu Dilip informed, adding that he has no idea what the estimated cost of the plant was. Garu Madhu Sah Van Utpadak Sahyog Samiti was the user agency for this plant, but they have shown no interest in starting any work here. Though Domakharn is a remote area with no cell phone connectivity and a Maoist hotspot, the Garu block, which encompasses the area, is rich in honey and kendu leaves used for making bidi in Uttar Pradesh. The distance between Latehar district town and Domrakharn is around 60 kilometers. S Oraon, a tribal residing at Garu, informed that the women of his community refused to collect honey for the plant as they were not sure of the wages they would be getting for their work. According to sources, big companies have their agents in the area, who collect honey straight from the tribals, and then send it to UP for aggressive marketing. The locals say that Maoists rely upon honey hugely, as they try to increase their immunity by consuming it. According to them, the rebels use it to shield themselves from Covid-19, as no one including the police has ever heard of a Maoist suffering from the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||TMH widens special service programme for senior citizens ||Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur has decided to widen the ambit of its special services for senior citizens by reducing the age limit of beneficiaries to 75  from 80 and open up the service to more people in the time of the ongoing pandemic. "TMH has always strived to extend its support to senior citizens and will continue to strengthen the patient experience, " said a statement issued by the hospital administration on Tuesday evening. It said the elderly would continue to have direct access to the pharmacy, pathology lab, cash counter, and report collection counters. As of now, senior citizens need not pre-book appointments on phone or intranet or TMH Vishwas App for OPD consultations. As per the initiative, which came into effect from Tuesday, all patients above 75 years would receive a "logo sticker" from the TMH Helpdesk. The dedicated tag line for elders is "Vishwas Saath Ka". The special assistance service has been launched to ease visits of elders to TMH and promote customer experience, the hospital said. Elderly patients would need to collect their stickers from the TMH Helpdesk for easy identification. The hospital staff would assist them with appointments and they would be seen by doctors on priority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Active Covid cases down but casualties on a steady rise in Jharkhand||While the number of people battling the Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand dropped below 2000 by the end of Tuesday, at least five more patients died of the lethal infection across the state on the day, taking the Covid toll up at 969, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As many as 181 fresh cases of infection, including 81 from Ranchi alone, surfaced in Jharkhand on the day, while at least 227 patients recovered from the infection. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 1,965 people were battling the virus across the state. At least three districts – Sabhegbanj, Pakur and Khunti – did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. However, at least 18 cases surfaced in East Singhbhum and 14 in West Singhbhum in the past 24 hours. Barring Ranchi, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum, no other district reported a double-digit-spike in Covid cases on the day, stated the NHM bulletin. As per government data, at least two people died of Covid-19 in Bokaro on the day, while East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Saraikela reported one death each. East Singhbhum has so far reported 352 Covid fatalities, while 195 Covid patients have died in Ranchi. These two districts account for more than 50 per cent of the total Covid casualties in Jharkhand. The number of active cases dropped in Ranchi as well as East Singhbhum as both the districts reported more recoveries than fresh cases. At least 29 patients recovered in East Singbhum against 18 fresh cases, while 93 patients recovered against 81 fresh cases in Ranchi on Tuesday, government data stated. As per government records, these two districts also account for more than half of the active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand. At least 726 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi and 295 people were infected in East Singhbhum. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 27,307 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in the state have collected swab samples of 42.33 lakh people and tested 42.15 lakh of them. While 1,09,332 people were found infected in the state, at least 1,06,398 of them have recovered, highlights government data. The government puts the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand at 97.31 per cent. The growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand also dropped to 0.15 per cent on Tuesday against the national average of 0.37 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 449.42 days, while the national doubling rate of Covid-19 infection was 188.05 days, reveals the NHM bulletin. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.88 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||A football contest that will get you a goat in Jharkhand||The khassi tournament that is popular in rural Jharkhand where a khassi, a castrated goat considered best for feasting on mutton, is given as prize has reached the outskirts of state capital Ranchi. The residents of Namkum Basti witnessed the final of a football tournament on Monday when the winning team, Prakash Club of Samlong area of Ranchi, was given a khassi weighing 25 kg as the prize. “The runners-up, Yuva Club from Garhi village, got another khassi weighing 20 kg,” informed Sonal Kachchap, treasurer of Gram Vikash Samiti of Namkum Basti that organised the tournament, adding cups and medals were also given to the best players in different categories. In total, 16 teams participated in the tournament and each of those had to pay an entry fee of Rs 3,100, he further informed, adding a khassi of lesser weight was also given to each of the rest two semi-finalists. “It was an exciting match with both the finalists locked in a goalless draw Prakash Club won by 3-2 goals in penalty shoot-out,” he further informed. “There was another similar tournament organised at Raja Ulatu village final match of which was played on Sunday,” informed Rajesh Kachchap, Congress MLA of Khijri who was chief guest and gave away prizes on both the occasions, adding such tournaments are often organised in rural areas in his constituency. “Khassi tournament, both for football and hockey, is very popular in countryside and there’s hardly any of us who didn’t play it those days,” reminisced Mohammed Halimuddin, 70-year-old secretary of Ranchi District Football Association. At some places, these are organised in a big way and prize money of Rs 1 lakh and Rs 50,000 were given to the winners and runners-up, besides a motorbike to the best player, in a tournament held in Chakradharpur a few years ago. These tournaments are also sometimes organised on a single day when the qualifying matches are held in smaller formats of 15 minutes or half-an-hour duration before the final on the same day followed by a feast in the evening. Such tournaments are also organised on festive occasions such as Christmas when many take leave to return home. Such persons pool money or accept entry fees for organising the event and buying khassi for prize. There were reports that those who were away from the state for earning a living also organised such tournaments in places like Vasco da Gama in Goa. These khassi tournaments, however, also faced criticism at times. When the Jharkhand team could not win a single match in the qualifying round of Santosh Trophy in 2015, some felt the players were concentrating on small format matches of khassi tournaments and could not hold on in the 90-minute format. “That’s true,” agreed Halimuddin, adding many of those concentrating too much on small format matches for easy money could not maintain the required stamina for 90 minutes. Still, khassi tournaments remain as popular as before.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
