03-12-2020||Calcutta||CM inaugurates Majerhat bridge, blames railway for bridge delay||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday inaugurated the four-lane Majerhat bridge, which had collapsed over two years ago, and claimed that the project got delayed by nine months as the railways took time to grant requisite permission. Banerjee also came down heavily on the BJP for staging a stir on November 26, "despite knowing that work has been completed and the bridge was to be inaugurated in a few days". "Will those who demonstrated in the area a few days ago be able to show their faces in the media to explain why it took so long for the railways to give their consent? Why did the railways take Rs 34 crore from the state for maintaining its own property under the bridge," she said. Portions of the Majerhat bridge, connecting Behala with south Kolkata, had collapsed in 2018, killing three people. The government has set up a cable-stayed bridge in place of the old one. The chief minister also said that the railways took Rs 55 crore for demolishing the dilapidated Tallah bridge in north Kolkata – under which runs railway tracks and sidings – and sought to know the reason for the move. "It seemed you (the railways) were doing me a favour (granting permission for Majerhat bridge). You also owe us an explanation of why you took that money from the state. Don't you run emergency services to clear the rush of passengers? Do you charge for that? The Kolkata Port Trust also took from us Rs 77 lakh for the bridge (Majerhat). With all that money, we could have built schools and colleges. If possible, please return the money," she said. Banerjee said the state has spent Rs 311.76 crore for the Majerhat project – christened Jai Hind Bridge to pay tribute to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on the occasion of his 125th birth anniversary next month. "Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose had raised the slogan, Jai Hind, from the soil of Bengal. Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay who coined Vande Mataram was also from Bengal," she said. Hitting out at the BJP for trying to create "disturbances in the name of agitation", she said, "They (saffron party) claimed that they wanted to highlight the plight of people of Behala (who faced troubles commuting after bridge collapse). Do they even know how many wards are there in Behala, how many Durga pujas held there? How many schools and clubs, organisations are there? They only know the art of destabilising peace and engineering riots." Talking about the newly constructed Jai Hind Bridge, the CM said, "Technology used for building the second Hooghly Bridge has been employed to set up this one, which is longer than the previous one – 650 metre in length and upgraded to four lanes from just two. "We had also given free land to the Metro Railways as we believe in working for the people," she said. Taking a jibe at the erstwhile Left regime, she said, "There was no mechanism to audit the safety aspect of bridges, earlier. We introduced that." Noting that the government has built several bridges in the southern and the northern outskirts of city, she said, the state spent as much as Rs 445 crore to build the Maa flyover. Another flyover, linking Park Circus with Ballygunj Phari, would come up soon, she stated. Urging commuters to follow traffic rules, the CM said motorcyclists should wear helmets to avoid untoward incidents. "I will request people to follow all rules. The state will not impose Rs 2,000 as fine for those not wearing masks. The police would instead request people to don masks," she said. She also urged people not to litter, spit or throw garbage on the new bridge. "I will ask the younger generation, who are the future of the state, to play a lead role in the cleanliness drive (undertaken by the government) to keep our places, our landmarks clean," Banerjee, who was accompanied by her cabinet colleagues Partha Chatterjee and Firhad Hakim at the programme, added. Meanwhile, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, taking to Twitter, sought exemplary punishment for those who had failed to maintain the bridge, leading to its collapse two years ago. "It is time accountability be fixed and exemplary punishment for negligence be given to those who failed to upkeep this crucial bridge. State PWD Minister should have resigned following the deaths of Prabir Kumar Dey, Soumen Bag and Gautam Mondal two years ago. But the CM did nothing." The BJP leader further said the people would never forget the September 2018 tragedy. "As CM Mamata Banerjee, under relentless pressure from the BJP, proceeds to inaugurate the critical Majerhat bridge, people of Kolkata cannot forget the pain she inflicted on them, back in Sept 2018, when the tragedy struck. She was unmoved by the damage, destruction and death," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
03-12-2020||Calcutta||‘Poor’ or ‘very poor’: Calcutta’s recent air quality ||Air quality in the city has remained “poor” or “very poor” in many instances in the past several days, according to the National Air Quality Index, raising concerns that the situation would further worsen as temperatures fall. At 4pm on Wednesday, the air quality was “poor” at the monitoring stations in Ballygunge, Bidhannagar, Jadavpur, Victoria Memorial and Rabindra Sarobar. It was “very poor” at the monitoring stations in Fort William and Rabindra Bharati University (BT Road campus). At 4pm on Monday, the air quality was “poor” at all stations barring Rabindra Bharati, where it was “very poor”. The Telegraph checked the index for the last seven days. The readings at each of these stations was the average of the air quality of the previous 24 hours, said a scientist at the Central Pollution Control Board, which compiled the air quality index based on data from the stations. The index mentioned prolonged exposure to “poor” air could cause “breathing discomfort” in most people, while prolonged exposure to “very poor” air could result in “respiratory illness”. Air quality management specialists said more days of “very poor” and “severe” air could be waiting as winter has just set in. As temperatures will fall in December and January, the polluted air will hang close to the surface and take more time to disperse in the absence of steady winds. “Severe” air quality could affect healthy people and “seriously impact” those who are ailing, said doctors. They are more worried this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The most potent of the air pollutants are PM2.5, which are less than 2.5 micron in size. They can enter deep into the lungs and trigger a host of critical ailments. “Every year the air quality in Calcutta starts deteriorating from November. This year, too, is no exception,” said Anupam Deb Sarkar, a professor of civil engineering at Jadavpur University, who specialises in environmental engineering. “As temperatures fall in winter, the surface and the air close to the surface become cold. Being heavy, cold air does not rise up easily and get replaced by warm air. It takes almost till next afternoon for the situation to improve, which is why evenings, nights and mornings are particularly bad during winter. This natural phenomenon is called thermal inversion,” Deb Sarkar said. Other specialists said other factors were adding pollutants in the air, which float for a longer duration during winter because of thermal inversion. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of the Centre for Science and Environment, said burning of biomass also contributed to the worsening air quality. Poor air quality can have multiple effects on the human respiratory system, and can have worse impacts if someone has Covid-19. “If a person who has Covid-19 is exposed to polluted air, there are more chances of the person developing severe symptoms. Besides, air pollution also exacerbates the ailments in people with COPD and asthma,” said Sumit Sengupta, a respiratory disease consultant at AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake. Average air quality over 24 hours till 11am on the days mentioned Victoria Memorial Poor: On December 1 and 2; November 26, 27 and 29 Moderate: On November 28 and 30 Rabindra Bharati Very poor: On December 1 and 2 Poor: On November 26, 27, 29 and 30 Moderate: On November 28 Source: National Air Quality Index||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
03-12-2020||Calcutta||New Town residents face fire menace||Grass and waste are being set on fire regularly on empty plots in New Town, forcing residents to stay indoors and keep their doors and windows shut as dense smoke engulfs entire blocks. On Wednesday, residents of DF Block in Action Area I were greeted with an acrid smell of burning grass and plastic and dense white smoke. A few residents stepped out to locate the source of the smoke. Bhujaya Roy Choudhury, one of the residents in the group, said they were shocked to see mounds of what seemed to be a mix of dried grass and plastic on fire. “The smoke was so bad that our eyes started hurting and it became difficult to breathe,” Roy Choudhury said. The residents alerted police. Soumyosree Dasgupta, a resident of a housing complex in Action Area II, said people were lighting fire on the field behind their complex almost every other day. Residents and guards of the complex tried in vain to catch the people who are doing so. New Town does not have an air quality monitoring station and there is no way to measure the impact of the fires on air. The air quality index in neighbouring Salt Lake, which has a monitoring station, was 284 on Wednesday, which is considered poor. “Since it is biomass burning, it will release PM2.5 and PM10. The impact on the air will depend on the existing pollution in the area,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment. The impact, she said, will not be limited to New Town. “Burning of stubble far away from Delhi worsens the air quality of the city. It depends on the wind speed and direction…. The same will happen in New Town and Calcutta, too,” she said. An official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said they, too, failed to catch anyone responsible for lighting the fires. He said they had come to know that the fires were being lit for various reasons, including clearing undergrowth and scaring away snakes. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they had placed notices on vacant plots asking people not to light a fire. A meeting has been scheduled with the pollution control board on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
03-12-2020||Calcutta||Covid patients face CT scan overuse||Many doctors and private hospitals are doing more CT scans on Covid patients than necessary, insurance companies and agencies that process hospital bills for insurance companies have said. The agencies said they were often coming across cases where treatment sheets showed a patient was made to undergo multiple CT scans even though he had all parameters normal. “We are raising queries in claims from hospitals where we feel the CT scan of thorax has been done more number of times than necessary. But we cannot interfere in the treatment. So, when the doctor is saying scans are necessary, we cannot do anything,” said Saurav Kariwala, assistant manager (medical), National Insurance Company Ltd, Calcutta. “Also, in these cases, if we deny the claim, the patient will suffer, not the hospital.” An official of a third party administrator (TPA), which processes insurance claims, also said they were raising queries about such “excess CT scans” for Covid patients. “We have come across cases where even though the stay of a Covid patient is as short as four to five days, two to three CT scans of thorax have been done,” said Jyotirmoy Kundu, network manager (hospitals) at Heritage Health TPA Pvt Ltd. “In many cases we have found that the CT scan of thorax and the collection of swab samples for the RT-PCR test were done during admission. Which means the scan was done even before the results of the RT-PCR test came. Also, in several cases, while going through the treatment documents, we find that the patient is stable, his oxygen saturation is normal, there is no fever or breathing trouble, but still several CT scans of the thorax have been done,” said Kundu. CT scans are way more expensive than X-rays. One private hospital in the city said their CT scan of the chest costs Rs 7,200, while X-ray of the chest costs Rs 500. An official of a TPA said many doctors were getting the CT scan of the chest done for patients at the outpatients department without doing an RT-PCR test. The American Colleges of Radiology, which represents about 40,000 radiologists in the US, has said CT scans and X-rays “should not be used as a first-time tool to diagnose or screen for Covid-19”. It has given three reasons: A chest CT scan or X-ray cannot accurately distinguish between Covid-19 and other respiratory infections. Also, the CT scan or X-ray of many Covid patients can be normal, which can give a false impression that they are healthy. Besides, health workers can get exposed to the coronavirus while performing a CT scan on a Covid patient. Doctors said the severity of a Covid patient’s condition depends on two factors — the oxygen saturation level and how much the lungs have been affected by the novel coronavirus, which causes Covid-19. “The CT scan of the thorax gives a better image of the lungs. Initially, when RT-PCR tests were not available for most people, doctors were depending on CT scans to decide whether a person has any chance of having been infected by the coronavirus. But now RT-PCR tests are readily available and cheaper. It is a more accurate tool of diagnosis of Covid,” said Ajoy Krishna Sarkar, a critical care specialist. “Repeated CT scans are hazardous for a patient. One CT scan leads to exposure to radiation of 100 X-rays,” said Sarkar. Doctors treating Covid patients said diagnosis of the disease should not be based on radiology alone and that swab tests are necessary, too. “A CT scan should not be part of the routine management of Covid. I get CT scans done on only those Covid patients whom I suspect might have a secondary bacterial infection, which the scan image can reveal. Also, I advise CT scans for patients who have suspected pulmonary embolism, which is a blockage in a pulmonary artery,” said Chandramouli Bhattacharya, an infectious diseases expert and member of the Covid treatment team at Peerless Hospital. “The treatment of Covid depends on clinical features of the patient and blood tests.” Arjun Alva, the administrative head of the medical intensive care unit and consultant in charge of Covid ICU at Narayana Hrudayalaya Health City, Bangalore, said less than 20 per cent of the patients in their ICU undergo CT scans. “We do not do chest CT scans unless it is clinically required to rule out pulmonary embolism or for prognostication purposes,” he said. “We mainly depend on clinical features like whether the patient is able to maintain required oxygen saturation without oxygen support.” He said CT scans at the Bangalore hospital were also done on patients who have to undergo a major surgery or procedure. “In 30 to 35 per cent cases, RT-PCR reports can be faulty. So for patients undergoing major surgeries or procedures, we do a CT scan. If the image of the lungs shows abnormalities, we defer the procedures,” said Alva. Also, CT scans can be done on patients who are having all symptoms of Covid but the RT-PCR test is returning negative, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
03-12-2020||Calcutta||Five Covid zones in Calcutta||A house on Rowland Road in Ballygunge, some apartments in a building near Ballygunge Phari and some flats in another building in Ekbalpore were declared as Covid containment zones on Monday. Following the additions, there are now five containment zones in the city. Six residents of the Rowland Road house and nine residents of the building near Ballygunge Phari have tested positive for Covid-19, said Asim Bose, coordinator of Ward 70. It was not immediately clear how many residents of the other building have tested positive. “We are only asking residents of the flat where someone has tested positive to stay isolated. People who have come in contact with an infected person are also being said so. But not others,” said Bose. “Suppose someone lives on the eighth floor and has not come in contact with an infected person on the fourth floor, that person is free to follow his or her normal routine,” Bose said. A civic official said a flat or a road or a house is declared as a containment zone only when several people test positive from a small area within a few days. “If a small road has four or five positive cases, it can be declared as a containment zone. But if five persons test positive on a long road, with people staying far from each other, there is no need to declare the road as a containment zone,” said the CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
03-12-2020||Calcutta||Park Street rape case convict completes jail term||Naser Khan, who was convicted in the gang rape of a woman in a moving car along with friends more than eight years ago, has completed his prison term and stepped out of jail. On the intervening night of February 5 and 6, 2012, the woman who had met friends at a night club on Park Street was raped inside a Honda City as it drove on. Naser, 35, walked out of Presidency jail on Saturday. He was released around 400 days before the end of his term of 10 years because of his “good behaviour”. He was arrested on Feb-ruary 18, 2012, along with friends Sumit Bajaj and Ruman Khan. His younger brother Kadir, now 33, who had been named the prime accused, and another co-accused, Ali, were arrested four years later. Sumit was released in June (he had earned a remission of around 500 days), while Ruman’s term is likely to end next February, sources in the jail department said. Naser, who has barely stepped out of home since his release from jail three days ago, told Metro on Wednesday: “I am looking forward to starting afresh. I am feeling uneasy to step out now. But gradually things will be normal, I believe. I have a bunch of close friends who know me and are helping me cope with the new situation.” His family owns a business dealing in industrial thermometers. Naser said he was yet to decide whether he would rejoin the family business. Sixth of eight brothers in the family, the biggest regret Naser had during his stint in the jail was to lose his parents. “The death of my parents has left a permanent vacuum in my life which nothing can fill,” he said. At Dum Dum and Presidency jails, where he was lodged, Naser was involved in “office work” at the welfare offices. “He was actively involved in helping inmates who were poor and could not afford lawyers. He would write petitions on their behalf and seek assistance from the legal aid forum,” said an official in the jail department. Naser said one “good thing” that happened to him during his stay in jail was to sleep early and wake up early. “I want to leave behind everything else except the sleeping pattern. Going to bed by 10.30pm and waking up by 6am is what I will follow for the rest of my life,” he said. Sumit was at the wheel while his friends Ali, Kadir, Ruman and Naser were in the vehicle, police had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
03-12-2020||Calcutta||Assurance for surgeon's dues chided by CM Mamata Banerjee||The high court on Wednesday took a written undertaking from the state health secretary that all steps would be taken to ensure that Shyamapada Ghorai, a former director of the Bangur Institute of Neurosciences (BIN), got all his dues at the earliest. Ghorai, who retired from service in 2015, was publicly snubbed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee during a visit to the institute in May 2011 and suspended as its director. On Wednesday, the division bench of Justice Saugata Bhattacharyya and Justice Soumen Sen issued the order in a contempt case moved by Ghorai. The case was filed apparently after the state government had failed to carry out an earlier high court order, asking it to immediately disburse the neurosurgeon’s statutory dues. Counsel Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya and Shamim Ahmed represented Ghorai. In an earlier order, the division bench had directed health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam to appear before him on Wednesday. On Wednesday, when the bench asked Nigam why he had failed to carry out the earlier order and clear Ghorai’s dues, the secretary remained silent. The bench then asked him to give a written undertaking that he would take all possible measures so that Ghorai got his dues at the earliest. Nigam submitted the undertaking. Mamata had made a surprise visit to the hospital on May 26, 2011, and was told by Ghorai that the trail of people behind her was inconveniencing patients. After questioning Ghorai in public over some faulty equipment, Mamata had said: “It seems you are afraid that if the media come here, you and your acts will be exposed. You have already been exposed. You don’t know etiquette, how to behave with people. I don’t want to speak to you anymore. Meet me tomorrow, I’ll take a decision.” The same evening, the chief minister had called a meeting of the heads of different state-run hospitals, including BIN, Ahmed said. “But Ghorai could not attend the meeting because he was performing an urgent operation. He was suspended the next day,” Ahmed said. The lawyer alleged that after suspension, his client did not get salaries in time. Ghorai moved the high court in 2019 because the state did not disburse his salary arrears, statutory dues and pensions, Ahmed said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
03-12-2020||Calcutta||JU science heads plead against rise in PG intake||The heads of the science departments at Jadavpur University have written to the vice-chancellor saying “there is no scope to increase the intake of students for postgraduate courses without enhancing the infrastructural facilities” of the institute. The teachers have pointed out “difficulties in running undergraduate courses with the increased numbers of intakes over the years”. Although the December 1 letter does not say it explicitly, it contains an underlying message to not succumb to alleged pressure from the students’ union to admit all students who have passed the BSc exams from the university this year in the master’s courses, even if that means admitting more students than usual. The teachers are worried how they will conduct undergraduate and postgraduate classes adhering to the physical distancing norms amid the Covid pandemic once in-person classes resume, unless additional classrooms and labs are made ready. The letter, signed by the heads of the seven science departments at JU, says: “We request the administration to take the necessary steps to enhance the infrastructural facilities as we have been experiencing difficulties in running our undergraduate courses with the increased numbers of intakes over the years.” It adds: “We do not have laboratories that can accommodate additional students for teaching in undergraduate courses….” Last week, the acting dean of science at JU, Subir Mukhopadhyay, had resigned following what sources close to him said was “pressure” from the students’ union of the science faculty to accommodate all graduating students from the university in postgraduate courses. Mukhopadhyay withdrew his resignation on Wednesday. The department heads sent their letter to VC Suranjan Das five days after the head of the physics department, Sukhen Das, had written to Das that in the absence of additional space, “It will be almost impossible to continue theory and laboratory classes for PG students, especially in this pandemic situation’’, once in-person classes resume. He had requested the VC to provide the department at least two classrooms and two laboratories for PG students on an urgent basis. The letters written in quick succession amplify the extent of the crisis related to infrastructure on the campus amid the pandemic, a JU official said. An associate professor of physics said the department had two classrooms and three labs for 45 PG students in each of the two years. “The classrooms get crowded and often four to five students work on an instrument. That cannot be allowed in this pandemic situation,” the teacher said. The situation is equally bad in the chemistry and mathematics departments, which have 41 and 70 students at the masters’ level, respectively. The number of seats has increased over the years in both general and reserved categories at the undergraduate as well as postgraduate level, said a JU official. A section of teachers has long been alleging that the higher education department has increased the number of seats without enhancing the infrastructure. “Teachers in the science departments had alleged at executive council meetings that they were finding it difficult to accommodate all students in the classrooms and laboratories. If the same numbers are maintained, they are fearing the students will be exposed to infection,’’ an official said. If the students are forced to attend the theory and practical classes in crammed facilities, they will endanger their lives and that of the teachers amid the pandemic, said a teacher. Repeated calls to vice-chancellor Das went unanswered. A university official said the issue about improving the infrastructure would be taken up at the executive council meeting on December 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
03-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Metro trains to go up, timings revised||Metro Railway is inching towards its pre-pandemic timings. Starting Monday, the first trains will leave the terminal stations at 7am, instead of 8am, the carrier said in a slew of announcements made on Wednesday. The last trains will leave Dum Dum and Kavi Subhash (New Garia) at 9.30pm, instead of 9pm. Before the service was suspended following the Covid-19 outbreak, the first and the last trains would start at 6.45am and 9.55pm, respectively. The revised timings are for trains from Monday to Saturday. The other announcements that came on Wednesday are: ⚫The number of trains from Monday to Saturday will go up to 204 from 190 from November 7, said a Metro official ⚫Also from Monday, commuters will not need an e-pass to enter a Metro station between 7am and 8.30am and after 8pm ⚫Women and children (up to 15 years) will not need an e-pass to enter a Metro station throughout the day. Now, women and children are exempt from producing an e-pass between 11am and 5pm. Senior citizens (60 years and above) can enter a station without an e-pass throughout the day ⚫The token system will remain suspended. Since services resumed on September 14, tokens are not being issued to prevent a possible spread of the Covid-19 virus Metro officials said more trains and revised timings followed a jump in the footfall over the past few days. Metro’s passenger count breached the 1,00,000-mark on November 18, for the first time since the resumption of service on September 14 and a week into the resumption of suburban trains on November 11. The usual weekday count is now above 1,10,000. “The number of passengers till 8.30am and post-8pm is reasonably low. So, we want to open slots for more commuters,” said a Metro official. “We plan to open more slots for commuters without an e-pass. But in the rush hours, the e-pass system will be the key to crowd control,” he added. From Monday, the inter-val between two trains will be around seven minutes during rush hours and aro-und 15 minutes during the rest of the day’s service period. On Sundays, the number of trains will remain unchanged at 68. But on December 6, there will be 74 trains to facilitate the journey of candidates of the West Bengal Clerkship Examination (Part II). The first trains will leave Dum Dum and New Garia at 9am and 9pm, respectively. From Noapara, the first train will leave at 9.13am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
03-12-2020||Calcutta||Francis Xavier: Missionary on the move||Francis Xavier had planned to devote himself to a prestigious intellectual life, but at a strategic moment he surrendered to God, who had long and patiently pursued him. That surrender changed the course of his life — and the course of history as well. Even Ignatius of Loyola, the leader of the new Jesuit community, had planned to deploy Francis as a scholar. But India beckoned. The Indian mission of the Jesuits lies at the very origin of their Order. It is to India that Ignatius of Loyola, the Founder of the Society of Jesus, sent his greatest son, Francis Xavier, in 1542, and to him and his successors, he gave that inspiration and those directives which became the foundation of the Jesuit mission and method in India. Xavier was a zealous “missionary on the move”. He worked in India for 10 years, from 1542 to 1552, which is called the “Xaverian decade”. India has also been the birthplace of missionary theories and the testing ground of Jesuit principles and policies. Jesuit involvement in education in India has a precious history and heritage. It is part of the larger global educational network. The Jesuits have been pioneers and vanguards in providing education to the rural poor, Dalits and tribals. By opening the doors of their institutions to all, irrespective of caste, creed, language and sex, the Jesuits have exerted a healthy and harmonious influence on the educational system of India, and the mood resonates beyond its boundaries. St Francis Xavier opened the first Jesuit College in Goa in 1543. It was named St Paul’s College. Nothing exists of this institution today except its memory, but it was the predecessor of hundreds of other schools, colleges and universities bearing the name of Xavier’s in India. Francis Xavier saw in the school an opportunity to do good by initiating the young into secular and human knowledge and simultaneously into spiritual and moral values — the love of God and human person. The success experienced in India and in Europe encouraged the Jesuits to go in for more and more schools and colleges of every kind, so that soon education came to be considered the primary work of the Society of Jesus. Hence, the Jesuit dictum “Give us a boy and we will return you a man, a citizen of his country and a child of God.” In 10 years of his stay in India from 1542 to 1552, he travelled 45,600 km by sea and land for his apostolic work. Described as the “Apostle of the East”, second only to St Paul, Xavier did not return from his trip to Chinaen route the Celestial Kingdom in 1552. He fell ill and died on December 3 at Shangchuan Island, Jiangmen, China, and was buried at the beach there. After one year from death, the uncorrupt body of Francis Xavier was shipped to Goa. The body of the 16th century Spanish saint is now preserved in a casket at the Basilica of BomJésus in Goa. Xavier was canonised as saint in March 1622 along with Ignatius of Loyola. Francis Xavier was born in 1506 at Javier, Spain. At the age of 19, he enrolled at the College of St Barbara, where he pursued an unwaveringly successful academic career. Within three short years he had earned his degree and was lecturing in philosophy at the same college where circumstances put Xavier’s spiritual career on course. Through his roommate, Peter Faber, Francis became a friend of Ignatius of Loyola. This relationship gradually revolutionised his life. He joined Ignatius and together founded the Society of Jesus, the largest religious order in the Catholic Church. Jesuits all over the world along with their collaborators, alumni and alumnae and students celebrate the feast of St Francis Xavier on December 3. I wish them all a happy feast of their patron and his abundant blessings on their good work for knowledge, health, harmony and peace. On this auspicious occasion, Prof. Suranjan Das, vice-chancellor of Jadvapur University, will release my book: WAVES – Story Bank, which contains 75 inspirational stories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
03-12-2020||Business||SC tells fund house to seek investors' consent before closing schemes||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund to initiate steps within one week for calling a meeting of unit holders to seek their consent for the closure of six mutual fund scheme and said that for the time being, there will be a stay of redemption payment to the unit holders. The top court also agreed to hear an appeal filed by Franklin Templeton against the Karnataka High Court order which stopped the fund house from winding up its debt fund schemes without the prior consent of the investors. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna observed that the issue is big and people wanted a refund. In the meanwhile, without prejudice to the rights and contentions of all parties, the trustees are permitted to call a meeting of unit holders to seek their consent/approval. Steps in this regard should be taken within a period of one week from today, the bench said in its order. Advocate Pratap Venugopal, appearing for Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), submitted that the market regulator has no role in the winding up process but had written to Reserve Bank of India in this regard. The bench posted the matter for further hearing next week and directed the Registry to also list all connected/cross special leave petitions filed by the SEBI and other parties. A spokesperson for Franklin Templeton said that they believe that the Supreme Court order will be helpful in ensuring orderly monetization and distribution of scheme assets. The spokesperson further said that they will issue the notice for seeking the consent of unit holders shortly and deeply appreciate the support of investors and partners till date and hope to commence distribution of investment proceeds at the earliest. On October 24, the Karnataka High Court had said that the decision of the Franklin Templeton Trustee Services Private Limited to wind up six schemes cannot be implemented unless the consent of the unit holders is obtained. The six schemes are Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund. Franklin Templeton MF closed these six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23, citing redemption pressure and lack of liquidity in the bond market. Till November 27, the six schemes received total cash flows of Rs 11,576 crore from maturities, pre-payments and coupon payments since April 24, 2020. The cash available stands at Rs 7, 226 crores as of November 27 for the four cash positive schemes, subject to fund running expenses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
03-12-2020||Business||Sensex ends marginally higher to finish at 44,632 points||Domestic equity benchmarks ended marginally higher on Thursday, with the Nifty settling at a fresh record, amid mixed cues from global markets. After scaling an all-time intra-day peak of 44,953.01, the 30-share BSE Sensex pared some gains to end 14.61 points or 0.03 per cent higher at 44,632.65. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched a fresh intra-day high of 13,216.60, before settling 20.15 points or 0.15 per cent up at 13,133.90 -- its lifetime closing high. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 7 per cent, followed by ONGC, Asian Paints, NTPC, SBI, Bajaj Finserv and Tata Steel. On the other hand, HDFC Bank, TCS, Bajaj Auto, Infosys and M&M were among the laggards. "Indian market opened mixed following mixed global market cues in Asian markets. Trades in the global markets also remained lacklustre...," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. During the afternoon session, markets briefly traded in the negative territory but later scaled back to trade in the positive zone. On the sectoral front, the gains were led by metals, financials and bank stocks while the auto sector traded marginally negative. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a negative note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.68 per cent to USD 47.92 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||HDFC shares down by 1 per cent after RBI stalls new activities||Shares of HDFC Bank declined over 1 per cent in early trade on Thursday after the company said that the Reserve Bank has asked it to temporarily stop all launches of its upcoming digital business-generating activities and sourcing of new credit card customers. Erasing all its early gains, the stock dipped 1.33 per cent to Rs 1,388.20 on the BSE. At the NSE, it declined at 1.28 per cent to Rs 1,388.85. "RBI has issued an order dated December 2, 2020, to HDFC Bank Ltd with regard to certain incidents of outages in the internet banking/ mobile banking/ payment utilities of the bank over the past two years, including the recent outages in the bank's internet banking and payment system on November 21, 2020, due to a power failure in the primary data centre," HDFC Bank said in a regulatory filing on Thursday. HDFC Bank said the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) order "has advised the bank to temporarily stop all launches of the digital business-generating activities planned under its program Digital 2.0 and other proposed business generating IT applications and sourcing of new credit card customers". In addition, the order has directed the bank board to examine the lapses and fix accountability, HDFC Bank added. The lender said the above measures shall be considered for lifting, upon satisfactory compliance with the major critical observations as identified by the RBI. HDFC Bank said "over the last two years, it has taken several measures to fortify its IT systems and will continue to work swiftly to close out the balance and would continue to engage with the regulator in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Sensex rallies over 300 points to scale fresh intra-day peak||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points in early trade to hit its fresh intra-day record on Thursday tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Maruti amid largely positive cues from global markets. After scaling a peak of 44,953.01, the 30-share BSE index was trading 176.87 points or 0.40 per cent higher at 44,794.91. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched a peak of 13,216.60 before trading 59.05 points or 0.45 per cent up at 13,172.80. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Maruti, ONGC, HDFC Bank, Tech Mahindra, L&T, HCL Tech and SBI. On the other hand, Axis Bank, Infosys, TCS, Bharti Airtel and M&M were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex finished at 44,618.04, down 37.40 points or 0.08 per cent, while the Nifty edged higher by 4.70 points or 0.04 per cent to end at its fresh closing record of 13,113.75. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 357.35 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic markets look to be relatively better than yesterday at the moment. However, the market may trade sideways ahead of the outcome of Reserve Bank's policy meeting, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Having witnessed sharp run over last one-month, Nifty valuations appear to be stretched and any negative development may lead to a sharp sell-off, he said, adding that midcap and small-cap stocks should continue to outperform large caps in the near term due to improved earnings visibility and wider valuations gap. "US equities closed modestly higher led by improved prospects of the announcement of fiscal stimulus before the year-end. "Statement from the House Majority leader that Congress hopes to reach an agreement on a fiscal package over the weekend and likely to vote on it next week lifted sentiments. However, the quantum of fiscal stimulus would be something, which the market would be keenly watching out for," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.10 per cent higher at USD 48.30 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Bank stocks under stress||Benchmark indices on Wednesday ended flat as investors resorted to profit booking in banking and finance stocks as the monetary policy committee (MPC) began a three-day meeting even as the Supreme Court resumed hearing on petitions seeking interest waivers on loans under moratorium. Investor sentiment, however, was positive as the UK approved Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine. The Sensex saw some volatility as it opened at a record 44729.52. However, profit booking saw the gauge hitting a low of 44169.97. The index closed at 44618.04 — down 37.40 points or 0.08 per cent. The Nifty edged up to a fresh closing record amid profit-booking in financial stocks and muted global cues. It finished marginally higher by 4.70 points, or 0.04 per cent, to end at a fresh closing record of 13113.75. Bharti Airtel on Wednesday said its subsidiary Nettle Infrastructure Investments has acquired an additional 4.94 per cent stake in Bharti Infratel for Rs 2,882.32 crore. With this transaction, Bharti Airtel’s total direct and indirect stake in its mobile tower arm Infratel has increased to 41.66 per cent, according to a regulatory filing. Banking and finance stocks bore the brunt of profit selling ahead of the RBI policy announcement this Friday. While the RBI is expected to widely hold the policy repo rate, it is expected to take some liquidity absorption measures. Observers are divided on the guidance that will given by the interest rate setting panel. Market mavens point out that stocks are set to touch higher ground on robust FPI inflows and more good news on the Covid vaccine front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Ant Group looks to exit Paytm||Chinese fintech giant Ant Group is considering selling its 30 per cent stake in Indian digital payment processor Paytm amid tensions between the two Asian neighbours and a toughening competitive landscape, people with direct knowledge of the matter said. Financial details of the possible transaction have not been firmed up and Ant, the Alibaba-backed payments-to-consumer credit behemoth, has not launched a formal sale process yet, four people told Reuters. Paytm, which is also backed by SoftBank Group Corp among others, was valued at about $16 billion during its latest private fund raising round a year ago. At that valuation, Ant’s stake in the Indian firm is worth about $4.8 billion. Both Ant and Paytm said the information was incorrect. A Paytm spokesperson said, “There has been no discussion with any of our major shareholders ever, nor any plans, about selling their stake.” Ant’s possible exit from Paytm would mark another reversal for the Chinese company hot on the heels of the dramatic suspension of its $37-billion stock listing last month, which would have been the world’s largest. It also would be a step back from its ambitions of becoming a global payments leader. Sources said in October that Ant was cutting its financial support to many of the overseas affiliated e-wallet firms. The main trigger for Ant to consider the divestment of its stake in Paytm is the worsening diplomatic relations between India and China in the past few months, said the people, who declined to be named as the deliberations are confidential. Relations between the countries are at a nadir, with troops locked in a border face-off in the western Himalayas for months after a clash in June in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. Since the clash India has tightened rules for investments from China and banned dozens of Chinese mobile apps, including from tech giants Tencent, Alibaba and ByteDance. It banned 43 more apps late last month. “There is a growing realisation within Ant management that it would not be able to raise its stake in the company,” one of the people with direct knowledge said, adding senior managers at Ant have discussed the idea recently. Even so, Ant was in the middle of an investment review and it could still decide to shelve a divestment if it failed to get the desired valuation, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Supreme Court stays order for probe against Flipkart ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the March 4 order of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) asking fair trade regulator CCI to initiate a probe against e-commerce major Flipkart for an alleged use of its dominant position. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde issued notices to the Competition Commission of India (CCI) and the All India Online Vendors Association (AIOVA) for their response on the appeal filed by Flipkart challenging the NCLAT order. “In the meantime, there shall be a stay on the operation of the impugned order,” the bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said after briefly hearing senior advocate Harish Salve representing Flipkart. Salve told the court that the NCLAT had passed an erroneous order directing a probe against Flipkart as neither was the e-commerce major in a dominant position as alleged nor was there any prima facie finding of abuse of the said dominant position. On March 4, NCLAT had asked the CCI to initiate a fresh probe against Flipkart on the basis of a complaint lodged by the online vendors accusing it of abusing its dominant position and indulging in unfair trade practices detrimental to their interests. The NCLAT had passed the impugned order after setting aside an order passed by the CCI which on the basis of an earlier complaint from AIOVA had ruled that there was no abuse of dominant position. The AIOVA had alleged that Flipkart was using its dominant position to eat into the sales of smaller e-commerce players who are into different online trades of computers, accessories, books, mobiles etc by offering huge discounts and other unfair trade practices. Ends||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Limited loan relief outcry||Various industrial lobbies on Wednesday urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre and the RBI to extend the moratorium on loans till March 31, 2021; continue the stay on declaring default loans as NPA; besides extending the waiver of compound interest on all sectors instead of just those in the Rs 2 crore bracket because of the unprecedented pandemic. The submissions were made during the inconclusive arguments on a batch of applications filed by different sectors complaining that the decision of the government to waive compound interest during the six-month moratorium period which ended on August 31 for only those in the Rs 2 crore bracket smacked of discrimination prohibited under Article 14 of the Constitution. This was because other sectors such as real estate, power, educational institutions, shopping malls were also severely affected by the Covid-19 crisis. Senior advocate Ravindra Srivastava arguing for some industrial groups pleaded that the government should adopt the role of a parens patriae —government acting as a guardian — to help all the other sectors affected by the crisis. The three-judge bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah pointed out that the government has to arrange its affairs only on the basis of its economic capacity. However, the senior counsel submitted that the decision to extend the interest waiver only to those within the Rs 2 crore ceiling was discriminatory and violated Article 14, which mandates prohibition of discrimination between two groups of citizens. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for real estate body Credai said the government has not done anything for most of the sectors. “The stand of the government of India is very clear. That they are not going to do anything… For the Union of India, the disaster has changed nothing,” Sibal said. Arguing that banks should not be allowed to declare default accounts as NPAs, Sibal said “eligible borrowers’ accounts should continue to be classified as standard”. On September 3, the court had directed that “till further orders” banks and financial institutions shall not declare any account as NPA (non-performing assets), if the same had not been done prior to August 31, 2020, the day the six months moratorium announced by the RBI on all outstanding loans in the country ended. The arguments will continue on Thursday when the consortium of banks, RBI and Centre will make their submissions. The RBI had taken the decision in view of the hardships being faced by general public and various sectors due to the present pandemic. The senior counsel rued that certain sectors like IT, pharma, mobile phones, digital platforms are prospering but not others. “They (Govt) say 70 per cent have not asked for moratorium & 30% has - this 30% is distressed. How has the Govt. balanced the two? Complete violation of Article14, Sibal argued. Another advocate appearing for an individual real estate developer argued that his fundamental right to carry any profession guaranteed under Article  19(1)(g) stood suspended during lockdown as such it was the government’s duty to provide succor to all sectors affected by the pandemic. An advocate appearing for some educational institutions said they do not come under MSME's who have been extended the reliefs. “The specific needs of educational institutions have not been taken into account by any circulars of RBI. All Engineering colleges run on non-profit basis”, the counsel said to which Justice M.R.Shah quipped “Who said so?” Advocate Abhimanyu Bhandari for Shopping Centers Association of India (SCAI) said unlike other manufacturing sectors, the shopping malls in the country were completely shut down. People were not allowed to visit the malls as such it was one of the worst sector affected due to pandemic. He said even today footfall in malls is now below 10 per cent. The arguments will continue on Thursday when the consortium of banks, RBI and Centre will make their submissions. Ends||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Three in race for Bharat Petroleum Corporation||The government has received three preliminary bids to buy a controlling stake in India’s second-largest fuel retailer Bharat Petroleum Corporation, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said at a webinar on Wednesday. Vedanta had on November 18 confirmed putting in an expression of interest (EoI) to buy the government’s 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL. The other two bidders are said to be global funds, one of them being Apollo Global Management. “A lot of interest is there...Dipam has recently informed the market... I think three parties have given EoIs,” he added but did not give the details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Exxon Mobil eyes oil, gas blocks||Global energy giant Exxon Mobil Corporation is in talks to buy stakes in producing oil and gas fields in the country, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said here on Wednesday. “Exxon Mobil is in active discussion with some of our companies to participate in some of our producing fields,” Pradhan said at a webinar. Exxon Mobil in October last year had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) to offer its expertise and technology to develop resources in offshore blocks. The MoU said ONGC and ExxonMobil would jointly bid for exploration assets in India. ONGC is developing deepwater oil and gas blocks on the east coast, which is expected to produce more than 15 million standard cubic meters per day (mmscmd) of gas. Exxon had also signed another MoU with the country’s biggest refiner Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) to explore ways to supply liquefied natural gas. Analysts said global energy firms were keen to add clean energy to their portfolio. Also, the US-China trade war and geopolitical uncertainty with Beijing has forced them to look at India for investments. Besides, rising cost of shale gas exploration has made India an attractive destination. Pradhan said the government wanted to encourage small and mid-sized players in oil and gas through appropriate incentives, citing similar policies adopted in Texas to encourage shale production. “Small companies have developed the Texas shale oil and gas sector. We are envisaging a similar scenario in India by involving a lot of small and mid-sized companies,” he said. Pradhan said India wants the new US administration to allow the resumption of oil supplies from Iran and Venezuela to give the country more options to meet its requirements. “As a buyer, I would like to have more buying places. I should have more destinations to go to purchase (oil),” he said. Iran was India’s second biggest supplier after Saudi Arabia till 2010-11, but Western sanctions over its suspected nuclear programme have led to reduced volumes. Venezuela was India’s fourth-biggest supplier but imports dwindled after the Trump administration’s sanctions in January 2019. The minister said the privatisation of state-owned Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) has received three preliminary bids. Mining major Vedanta has confirmed it has bid for the 53 per cent government stake. The other two bidders are said to be global funds, one being Apollo Global Management, reports said. H-Energy has entered into a contract with Hoegh Giant, provider of floating LNG infrastructure services, under long-term contracts,  for a floating storage and regasification unit to be deployed at H-Energy’s Jaigarh LNG regasification terminal for 10 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Welcome The Next Normal||Covid-19 has emerged as the biggest disruptor globally, affecting individuals, enterprises and the economy. As the world looks at ways to emerge from the clutches of the pandemic, the 19th edition of Infocom, the flagship event of ABP Group, will deliberate on how corporate houses and enterprises can transform themselves. While on one hand the pandemic has emerged as the biggest threat, it has also offered an opportunity for change. In this context, the three-day event starting Thursday is themed around “The Next Normal”, marking an era where organisations globally build resilience and reimagine the post-Covid world. Coming out from the pandemic, enterprises that are able to adapt and transform themselves through innovation, speed, collaboration, resilience and technology stand to win big and the virtual conference this year will cover many related topics on the subject. Infocom, which acts as a forum of one of the largest congregations of technology professionals, corporate leaders, academics, visionaries and policy makers, will go truly digital through this virtual conference in its 2020 edition. The conference will bring together over 500 delegates from large corporate houses, IT, small and medium enterprises and the government. There will be 35 speakers from business, IT, government and SMEs across 20 sessions covering subjects such as strategy and leadership, technology and information security, customer experience and digital, education, healthcare and Covid-19 vaccine, government perspectives and new age initiatives. The department of IT and electronics of the Bengal government and Webel are partnering Infocom 2020 as the host state. The event will also see the participation of leaders from the rest of India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan and other SAARC countries. The event can be watched live on all the three days (December 3-5) on the YouTube channel INFOCOM Connect. The link to the channel is https://www.youtube.com/user/ABPINFOCOM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||US court rejects visa curbs||A federal judge in the US has struck down two Donald Trump administration rules designed to drastically curtail the number of visas (H-1B) issued each year to skilled foreign workers. The ruling would provide a much needed relief to India’s IT sector. These changes, introduced weeks before the US elections, included raising the minimum wage levels and tightening eligibility requirements. The court has now ruled that the Trump administration had not justified the choice to skip key procedural steps and also pulled up the Department of Homeland Security and Department of Labour for flouting procedures. US district judge Jeffrey S. White of the Northern District of California ruled that the changes were introduced in a hurry and did not abide by  transparency obligations. Information technology lobby Nasscom said in a statement that the court decision  clearly recognises the importance of high-skill visa programmes to the United States and this will help the US businesses access talent critical to  economic recovery in the post-Covid world. Studies have suggested that the H-1B programme plays an essential role in helping US enterprises secure skill sets that they cannot find locally. Even during the height of the unemployment spike this year created by the pandemic, unemployment in IT remained extremely low — from 3 per cent in January to 3.5 per cent in September 2020, the statement said. NASSCOM said it had submitted comments on behalf of thousands of our member companies, objecting to both procedural and substantive grounds. “We viewed the rule as unjustified and had sought for rescinding the interim final rules (IFR’s) in its entirety, given the significant harm it would do to American businesses, American workers, and to the United States’ economy as a whole. It clearly was not supported by statute or procedure. By failing to permit public review and comment, DOL did not receive stakeholder input that would have pointed out the flaws in the new calculations for wage rate determinations, and the reliance interests affected by the sudden imposition of this IFR, it said. In October, the administration announced two rules - one of them went into effect immediately raised salaries for H-1B to match those of Americans workers with similar qualifications, which was intended to deny companies from hiring foreign workers only because they were cheaper. The second rule was to go into effect from December 7, which sought to narrow the eligibility for H-1B aspirants. A basic bachelor’s degree in anything would not be enough. For instance, a foreigner being hired for a job in computer engineering had to be a computer engineer. The US issues 85,000 new H-1B visa every year and more than 70% of them go to Indian professionals hired by American companies such as Facebook, Google and Microsoft, and Indian IT services companies such as TCS, Wipro and Infosys.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
03-12-2020||Business||Queries on Future group and RIL deal  ||Sebi has sought a clarification from the BSE on the no-objection certificate given by the exchange to the Rs 24,713-crore deal between the Future group and RIL. The BSE had given the clearance on November 6. The market regulator’s move comes at a time the Future Group and Amazon are locked in a legal battle after the US-based retailing giant took Future Retail into an emergency arbitration over alleged breach of contract. In October, the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) had passed an interim order in favour of Amazon barring Future Retail from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets to secure funding from a restricted party. Subsequently, Amazon had written to Sebi, the stock exchanges and the Competition Commission of India, urging them to take into consideration the SIAC’s interim decision. It had also asked Sebi to investigate FRL for alleged insider trading Amazon had agreed to purchase 49 per cent of Future Coupons with the right to buy into FRL after a period of three to 10 years. Future Coupons holds 7.3 per cent equity in FRL. In August, Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), a subsidiary of Reliance Industries ahad entered into a deal with the Future group to acquire the retail and wholesale business and the logistics and warehousing business as a going concern on a slump sale basis for lumpsum aggregate consideration of Rs 24,713 crore. FRL had recently disclosed that it is received a communication that the SIAC Court is prima facie satisfied that under Rule 28.1 of the SIAC Rules 2016, the arbitration will proceed and following this an arbitrary tribunal would be constituted in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
03-12-2020||Business||Steel stocks surge to a year’s high||Frontline steel stocks surged to a year’s high on Wednesday on the back of a record price of the alloy in the local market. Scrips of Tata Steel, JSW Steel, Jindal Steel and Power and state-run SAIL hit their 52-week peak even as the benchmark indices closed marginally in the red. For the three private sector firms, investors have not seen such levels in the last 24-30 months, underlining the demand for the scrips. Observers say the performance reflects the strengthening of the alloy’s price in India. Steel firms have hiked prices in the recent months. Benchmark hot rolled coil steel price was raised by Rs 2,500-2,700 per tonne on Tuesday by major players, taking the ex-factory rate to Rs 47,000 per tonne in Mumbai. Retail prices have now topped Rs 48,000 a tonne, a range never seen before. Steel prices have risen more than 35 per cent year-on-year. Analysts feel prices may go up as December-March is the peak sale period. Moreover, domestic steel is available at a 5 per cent discount to the landed price of imported steel. High prices coupled with affordable coking coal from Australia would translate into more profits for large firms, despite a rise in ore prices. India Ratings & Research in a note said spread for the steel companies improved despite the increase in iron ore prices due to a combination of higher domestic steel realisations and lower coking coal prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
03-12-2020||Business||Rolls-Royce and Infosys sign deal||Rolls-Royce and Infosys have signed a strategic partnership for sourcing engineering and R&D services for Rolls-Royce’s civil aerospace business. As part of the partnership, Rolls-Royce would transition a significant part of its engineering centre capabilities for civil aerospace in Bangalore to Infosys, a joint statement said. Infosys did not disclose the number of people who will move to the company as part of the exercise. Rolls-Royce will continue these complex engineering activities in India in partnership with Infosys. Kishore Jayaraman, president of Rolls-Royce India & South Asia, said India has grown to become a key contributor to the Rolls-Royce global engineering ecosystem. Wipro on Wednesday  announced that it has won a multi-year contract from Verifone, a global leader in payments and commerce solutions, to drive agility across its cloud services offerings. Wipro said it would develop new features, capabilities and interfaces for Verifone’s cloud service offerings, enabling seamless and flexible transaction processing for the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
03-12-2020||Business||Larsen & Toubro sells UK unit||Larsen & Toubro (L&T) is divesting its UK unit Servowatch Systems to Rolls-Royce for a consideration of around Rs 89 crore. L&T on Wednesday said through its wholly owned subsidiary, Larsen & Toubro International FZE, it has signed definitive agreements with Rolls-Royce’s power systems division for the strategic divestment of integrated marine automation solutions provider Servowatch Systems. Servowatch is a supplier of advanced and innovative integrated ship control systems and it now provides marine automation platforms over the past eight years of L&T’s ownership. The company, based in Heybridge, Essex, United Kingdom, has 44 employees in the UK and India. “The divestment of Servowatch Systems is as per our stated goal of unlocking value within the existing business portfolio by divesting non-core units. L&T facilitated the business to develop an award-winning software platform for the latest generation of marine integrated platform management systems that are sold globally to many navies and commercial operators. We believe its partnership with Rolls-Royce and its product and solution brand MTU will pave the way for its further growth,” S.N. Subrahmanyan, CEO & MD, L&T, said. In August this year, L&T had concluded the strategic divestment of its electrical and automation business to Schneider Electric, a global player in energy management and automation. L&T said that it continuously evaluates its business portfolio and takes capital allocation decisions from a long-term perspective and that the exit from the electrical and automation business as well as Servowatch Systems is a part of the strategic portfolio review process. Servowatch Systems posted revenues of Rs 50.42 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020, which constituted around 0.03 per cent of the consolidated revenue of L&T.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
03-12-2020||India||Legal notice to Kangana for her tweet over farmers’ stir||A member of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee on Thursday sent a legal notice to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut over her tweet allegedly targeting farmers protesting against the new farm laws. The notice was sent by advocate Harpreet Singh Hora on behalf of the committee member Jasmain Singh Noni. The notice said that when Ranaut’s premises (in Mumbai) were demolished, she used social media “to gather solidarity” from her fans, stating that the action was an attack on her fundamental rights. “Similarly, the right to peacefully protest is part of the farmers’ rights under the Constitution of India and she cannot claim a right to demean and insult the farmers,” the notice said. As per the notice, Kangana had shared a tweet alleging that the ‘Shaheen Bagh dadi’, who made international headlines during the anti-CAA protests earlier this year in the Delhi neighbourhood of Shaheen Bagh, also joined the farmers’ agitation over the new agri laws. The notice stated that the actor said in her tweet that the “same Dadi” who featured in Time Magazine was “available in 100 rupees”. The legal notice also said that several news reports claimed that the said two women were not the same. “And even otherwise, she has no right to defame any old woman for her political mileage,” it said. “This is a clear example of a hate tweet and needs to be tackled at the earliest,” the notice said. Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi’s gateways to demand a repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws. The protesting farmers are worried the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement system, while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector. The government has been in talks with farmer leaders to resolve the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
03-12-2020||India||Farm law talks deadlocked after 8-hour meeting||Talks between the government and a representative group of thousands of agitating farmers failed to yield a resolution on Thursday, as the union leaders stuck to their demand for repealing the new farm laws and even refused the lunch, tea and water offered to them during the nearly eight-hour-long parley. On its part, the government, represented by three Union ministers, assured the group of nearly 40 farmer leaders that all their valid concerns would be addressed. But the other side flagged several loopholes and deficiencies in the laws, which they said were passed hastily in September. The agriculture ministry tweeted that doubts of farmers were addressed by Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who led the government’s side at the talks. Tomar later told reporters that the next meeting would take place on Saturday at 2 pm with a source adding that no final outcome could be reached on Thursday due to paucity of time. Union leaders, who came out of the meeting venue shouting slogans, said the talks remained deadlocked and some of them even threatened to boycott any further meetings if no solution was found on Thursday. “Discussions are over from our side. Our leaders have said they will not attend further meetings if a solution is not given today by the government,” said Pratibha Shinde, AIKSCC (All India Kishan Sangharsh Coordination Committee) working group member and president of Lok Sangharsh Morcha, which represents farmers of Maharashtra and Gujarat. Another farmer leader, Kulwant Singh Sandhu, said the government made many proposals including on MSP and the procurement system, which would be discussed among the farmer organisations on Friday, before Saturday’s meeting. Sources said the government gave a detailed presentation on the three new laws and asserted its intent towards the welfare of the farmers. However, the union leaders rejected the government's position at their fourth round of talks with three Union ministers at Vigyan Bhawan here. Besides Tomar, the government side included Railways and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is also an MP from Punjab. The 40 farmer leaders present at the meeting refused the lunch offered by the government and preferred to eat the food ferried in a van from the Singhu border, where thousands of their colleagues were sitting in protest against the new agri laws. They did not accept tea and water offered to them during the meeting, which began around mid-day. During their marathon meeting on Thursday, farmers’ leaders told the government to focus on resolving the issues instead of trying to be a good host by offering lunch, Shinde said. “How can we have lunch offered by the government when our fellow farmers are sitting on roads,” said Shinde, whose organisation is among the 40 farmers’ groups engaged in the talks. The previous round of talks, held on December 1, had ended in a stalemate even after three hours of discussion as farmers' groups rejected the government's suggestion of a new committee to look into issues raised by farmers. The government had rejected the demand for repealing the laws and asked the farmers' bodies to identify specific issues related to the newly enacted Acts and submit those by December 2 for consideration and discussion on Thursday. Enacted in September, the laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector by removing middlemen and allowing farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have been worried that the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a minimum support price (MSP) and procurement system, while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector. On Wednesday, agitating farmers demanded that the Centre convene a special session of Parliament and repeal the new farm laws as they threatened to block roads in Delhi and “take more steps” if it failed to do so. Thousands of farmers have been camping at the Singhu and Tikri borders of the national capital for the last eight days as part of their protest against the laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
03-12-2020||India||Arnab seeks stay on filing of chargesheet||Arnab Goswami, the editor-in-chief of Republic TV, on Thursday filed an urgent plea before the Bombay High Court, seeking a stay in the filing of chargesheet and subsequent proceedings in the 2018 Anvay Naik abetment to suicide case. “Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who ordered re-investigation by the state CID, had no power to do so as the previous probe by the Alibaug police in Raigad district had been closed last year,” the application said. Arnab was arrested by the Alibaug police last month, for his connection with the case, before the Supreme Court granted him bail. Goswami in his plea stated that his arrest was illegal and sought to transfer the investigation to the CBI or some other independent institution. The Maharashtra government in May this year ordered a reinvestigation out of vendetta, the petition alleged. "The Home Department...or any other government authority does not have the power to order a reinvestigation or fresh investigation in a case where an `A summary' report (closure report) is filed and the same is accepted by the Chief Judicial Magistrate," it said. Last month, Deshmukh had announced in a press conference that a “strong chargesheet” will be filed in the case, which showed that the state machinery was getting involved in the issue with a “malafide premeditated diktat to the law and order officers,” it said. The re-investigation could not have been ordered without a judicial sanction and hence, the CID probe is illegal and "abuse of the process of law", Goswami said. The announcement of reinvestigation reeked of the “malice, spiteful nature and vendetta of the political dispensation” in Maharashtra, the petition claimed. Goswami also sought permission to amend his main petition seeking quashing of the FIR. He wanted to add arguments against the state home department's letter of May 26 which announced re-investigation and about which he learnt only last month, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
03-12-2020||India||Activist writes to Maharashtra CM over Shirdi temple dress code||Social activist Trupti Desai on Thursday said she has written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, urging him to take action against the Shirdi Sai Baba temple trust over its appeal to devotees to dress in a "civilised" manner. In a video message, the activist also warned that if boards put up for devotees are not taken down by the trust, she and other activists would visit the temple town on December 10 and remove them. Taking cognisance of complaints that some people come to the shrine in "objectionable" clothes, the trust had put up boards outside the temple premises appealing to devotees to be dressed in a "civilised" manner or as per "Indian culture", when they come for a visit. "Despite our protest against these boards, the trust has not removed them. If the boards are not removed, we will come to Shirdi and take them down ourselves on December 10," Desai said in a video message. The activist said she has written to the chief minister urging him to take action against the trust for putting up such boards, which are an insult to devotees and violate the freedom of expression given in the Constitution. Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust's chief executive officer Kanhuraj Bagate had already clarified that they have not imposed any dress code on devotees and it was just an appeal. Around 9,000 devotees visited the temple on Thursday and when their feedback was sought on the content of these boards, none of them took any objection, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||Domestic flights to operate at 80% capacity, says minister ||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday said that the cap on the number of domestic flights that airline companies in India are permitted to operate has increased from 70 per cent to 80 per cent of their pre-Covid levels starting from the day. On November 11, the minister had said that airlines can operate up to 70 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic passenger flights in view of the rising demand amid the pandemic situation. “Domestic operations recommenced with 30K passengers on 25 May & have now touched a high of 2.52 lakhs on 30 Nov 2020,” the aviation minister tweeted on Thursday. “Ministry of Civil Aviation is now allowing domestic carriers to increase their operations from existing 70% to 80% of pre-COVID approved capacity,” Puri stated. The ministry had resumed scheduled domestic passenger services from May 25, after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus lockdown. However, the airlines were allowed to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-COVID domestic flights. On June 26, this was increased to 45 per cent and on September 2, it was further increased to 60 per cent. On November 11, it was increased to 70 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||Those plotting love jihad will be destroyed, says Madhya Pradesh CM ||In a strong warning against religious conversion, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday said that those plotting anything like 'love jihad' will be destroyed. The comment comes as the state prepares to pass a controversial law that has stoked concerns of fanning discord and intolerance. "Government belongs to everyone, all religions and castes. There is no discrimination but if someone tries to do anything disgusting with our daughters, then I'll break you. If someone plots religious conversion or does anything like 'Love Jihad', you will be destroyed," Mr Chouhan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Chouhan’s remarks come a week after his BJP-led government in the state said it is proposing a jail term of 10 years for anyone found guilty of using marriage to force someone to change religion. Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra had said that the state government has proposed a 10-year jail term for luring, threatening and forcing someone into marriage for religious conversion, in the proposed Dharm Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill 2020. Recently, several BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have announced plans to bring laws to check alleged attempts to convert Hindu women to Islam in the guise of marriage, drawing sharp criticism from various quarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||AAP govt rules out possibility of night curfew in Delhi||The Aam Aadmi Party government on Thursday told the Delhi High Court that it does not plan to impose any night curfew in the national capital or its part at the present moment, to curb the spread of the coronavirus. On November 26, a bench comprising Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad sought to know whether the government was going to impose the curfew in Delhi, as did some other states. The government on Thursday submitted its reply before the bench clarifying its decision. In a status report filed in court, the Delhi government has said that on November 28 it issued an order directing that status quo be maintained with regard to permitted and restricted activities in the city till December 31. “Therefore, no new activity has been permitted/ allowed till December 31,” said the report, filed through Satyakam, the additional standing counsel. It also said that the Delhi government has issued another order on November 28 restricting 50 per cent attendance of employees (below grade-1) of non-essential services, government departments, corporations, public sector undertakings and local bodies. “The private establishments have also been advised to stagger the office timing and also stagger the presence of staff to reduce the number of employees attending office at the same time,” the report said further. The court was hearing a PIL by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking increase in the COVID-19 testing numbers in the national capital and getting speedy results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||Indians want to fly to UK following Pfizer approval||Travel agents have started getting enquiries from Indians who want to fly to the United Kingdom at once to get the Covid-19 vaccine by Pfizer, which was approved by the British authorities on Wednesday. One travel agent is even planning to launch a three-night package for interested people, who want to get the benefit of the mass vaccination drive in the UK, which may begin next week. The UK on Wednesday became the first country to approve the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against COVID-19 after "rigorous" analysis by its independent regulator Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). A Mumbai-based agent told PTI that some people have raised questions about “how and when and if” they can travel to the country to get the vaccine. “I have told them it is too early to say (whether Indians can get a vaccine in the UK). Anyway, the first in line to get the vaccine would be the elderly and health workers in the UK who are most vulnerable to the coronavirus,” the agent added. Nishant Pitti, Co-founder and CEO, EaseMyTrip.com said even though it was not the season to travel to London, after Wednesday’s announcement, he has received several queries from Indians who have got UK visas and can afford to fly there. He said his company was waiting for clarity from the UK government on whether there would be compulsory quarantine requirements for travellers who want to get vaccinated and whether Indian passport holders are eligible for vaccination there or not. Pitti added that the company was planning to launch a three-night package for people who want to go to the UK to get vaccinated. “We are dealing with an airline to offer fixed price seats. We already have deals with London hotels. And we are planning to do some deals with a hospital over there so that we can generate a package for that,” he said. The recent UK government rules state that from December 15, every international arrival in the UK would have to remain in self isolation for five days and then get the RT-PCR test done on the sixth day. The passenger can leave isolation on the sixth day if found COVID-negative in the test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth to launch own political party in January 2021||Actor-turned-politician Rajinikanth on Thursday, ending years of speculation, announced that he will launch his own political party in January 2021, in a big morale booster to his supporters and fans. The superstar, reassuring his brand of spiritual politics, said categorically that his party will fight the Assembly elections in 2021 and “emerge victorious”. The Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu are due in April and May next year. “We will win the assembly elections for sure and give honest, transparent, corruption-free, spiritual secular politics without caste, creed or religion. A wonder and miracle will happen,” the 69-year-old tweeted. An announcement on matters connected to the party launch would be made on December 31, he said. The superstar met the district secretaries of his ‘Rajini Makkal Mandram’ on Monday to deliberate about his political foray. While the office-bearers expressed their opinions, he conveyed his views on the matter to them, he told reporters outside his Poes Garden residence after winding up consultations with RMM secretaries at Raghavendra Kalyana Mandapam. “They (functionaries) told me that they are with me whatever my decision may be. I will make it known by decision (on political foray) as soon as possible,” he had told reporters after the meeting. Rajinikanth had disclosed last month that he had undergone a kidney transplant in 2016 at the United States and the doctors were against him venturing into politics amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||Parkash Singh Badal returns Padma Vibhushan in solidarity with farmers||Akali Dal stalwart and former Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal on Thursday returned his Padma Vibhushan award in protest against the Centre's new farm laws. In a separate announcement, dissident Akali leader and Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa also said he will return the Padma Bhushan conferred on him last year. Earlier, some former Punjab sportsmen too have threatened to return their awards. Badal's move follows over two months after his Shiromani Akali Dal pulled out of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre, protesting against the three laws which deregulate the sale of crops. His daughter-in-law Harsimrat Kaur Badal had also quit the Union Cabinet as protests over the farm bills erupted in Punjab, where the party is in opposition. I am who I am because of the people, especially the common farmer. Today when he has lost more than his honour, I see no point in holding on to the Padma Vibhushan honour, Badal said in his letter to President Ram Nath Kovind. Rebel SAD (Democratic) leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa said farmers including the elderly and women are staying put at the Delhi borders. We are also the sons of farmers. What will we do with the award? We stand shoulder to shoulder with them. Badal received the Padma Vibhushan award, the country second-highest civilian honour in 2015. A SAD statement said Parkash Singh Badal returned the Padma Vibhushan in protest against the betrayal of farmers by the central government, and the shocking indifference and contempt with which it is treating the peaceful and democratic agitation of the farmers. Thousands of farmers from the state are now camping at the border of Delhi, demanding the repeal of the three Acts that they say will lead to the phasing out of the minimum support price (MSP) system, which the government denies. In a letter e-mailed to the President Thursday morning, Badal said, After Panthic ideals of peace and communal harmony, farmers have been my second religious passion. Everything I have, everything I take pride in, every moment of glory or every office of public service that has been bestowed on me during my long public career has been pure because of my commitment to these ideals in which farmers have remained at the centre of everything, the five-time former chief minister wrote. When the country honoured me with Padma Vibhushan, I knew that it was only in acknowledgement of my commitment to the people in which the farmers featured most prominently. I owe it to them, he said. As an optimist, he hoped that the President would use his good offices to tell the government to win the confidence of farmers as well as strengthen the country's secular, democratic fabric. Hurt and betrayed, the SAD leader said when the Union government brought in the farm ordinances, there were assurances that the farmers' apprehensions will be addressed while introducing the relevant Bills. Trusting these assurances, I even appealed to the farmers to believe the government's word. But I was shocked when the government simply went back on its word, he wrote. The former CM described the period after the betrayal as the most painful and embarrassing moment in his political career. "I just cannot put in words the pain and emotional stress which I have been going through since then. I have truly begun to wonder why has the government of the country become so heartless, so cynical and so ungrateful towards the farmers," he said. Badal said he was deeply pained by the communal insinuations being made against the protesting farmers, and by the conspiracies and vicious propaganda to paint their peaceful struggle as anti-national. Badal described the black laws as the proverbial last nail in the coffin of the country's 'anna data'. The farmers are out on the streets battling police batons, tear gas shells and water cannons even as their sources of livelihood dry up. They have come to the national capital from all over the country, leaving their fields, crops and even their families and travelled long distances to get the attention of their own government, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||ICSE board asks CMs to allow schools to reopen||The Chief Executive and Secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) as in a written letter to all chief ministers of the country seeking permission to open schools partially from January onwards, especially for class 10 and 12 students, who will be appearing for the board examinations. It has Chief Election Commissioner of India to share information regarding the poll schedule of the states where elections are due in April and May, so that the council can finalise the datasheet of the exams accordingly. “Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, all schools have been closed from March 2020 till date. However, despite the closure, most of our schools have continued with the teaching and learning process in an online, offline or blended manner, as indicated by a survey conducted by CISCE on the status of online teaching, assessment and completion of syllabus,” said Gerry Arathoon, Chief Executive of CISCE. “For the final run-up to the examinations, CISCE has requested the chief ministers of all state governments and UTs to allow schools to reopen partially, specifically for the students of classes 10and 12 from January, 2021,” he added. “With the students physically attending school, this time will be utilised for practical work, project work, SUPW work and for doubt clearing lessons. This will be extremely beneficial to the students who will now get the time to interact directly with their teachers,” he said. Arathoon reassured that if allowed to reopen, the schools will be asked to follow the guidelines of the state governments regarding the Covid-19 situation, and to conform to the safety norms as well as the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) of the health department to curb the spread of the virus. “CISCE has also requested the Chief Election Commissioner of India to share the election dates of the states that are due to have their elections in the months of April - May next year,” he said. “This will enable CISCE to finalise the schedules for ICSE-Class 10 and ISC-Class 12 year 2021 examinations and to ensure that there are no clash of dates, interruption of the examinations or any inconvenience that may be faced by the candidates taking these examinations,” Arathoon added. Schools across India were shut down in March amid the outbreak of Covid-19 but were allowed to reopen from October 15. However, some states decided to keep them closed in view of the rising number of cases. The board had to cancel its pending exams in March due to the spike in Covid-19 cases and the result was declared on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||At meeting with Shah, Amarinder urges to find a ‘common ground’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Union Home Minister Amit Shah met on Thursday to find a solution regarding the situation at Delhi, where farmers have been protesting since last week. In the meeting, Singh urged Shah as well as the farmers to find an early resolution to the stir over the new farm laws, saying that the protests are affecting Punjab’s economy and the security of the nation. After meeting Shah at his residence, the chief minister said that a common ground must be found at the earliest and both the parties should not hold a rigid position about their requirements. “I came to meet the Home Minister to reiterate our position and to make a request to him and the farmers to resolve this soon because this (agitation) affects the economy of my Punjab as well as the security of the nation,” Singh told reporters after the meeting. He said he appealed to the home minister to find an early solution to the problem. Asked if he was trying to mediate between the agitating farmers and the central government, Singh said a discussion is going on between the two sides. “It is for them to resolve... we have reiterated Punjab's position,” the Congress leader said. According to sources, the meeting was held parallely with the interaction between the protesting farmers and the government at the Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi. The meeting started around noon, after it got delayed by over two hours, sources said. The Punjab chief minister and his Congress party have been supporting the farmers' stir and the state Assembly has also passed a set of bills aimed at negating the Centre's farm legislation. Singh had earlier said that he and his government were willing to mediate in the talks between the Centre and the farmers in the collective interest of all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||Jamia student arrested in Delhi riots case to be shifted to guest house for upcoming examination||The Delhi High Court Thursday directed the jail authorities to forthwith take Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested in a case related to the northeast Delhi riots earlier this year, to a guest house to enable him to study and appear in examinations scheduled from Friday. Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri also asked the jail superintendent to permit the accused to take studying material with him and also provide him with any other teaching material, if required. Tanha was directed to be taken to a guest house in Lajpat Nagar, which was suggested by the police and also agreed by his counsel. The court said that from the guest house, he will be taken to the examination centre at JMI university on December 4, 5 and 7 and shall be brought back to jail after the three exams are over. The court also allowed Tanha to make a phone call to his counsel once a day during his stay at the guest house. A trial court has granted him three-day custody parole -- December 4, 5 and 7 -- to appear in compartment/ supplementary exams of BA Persian (Hons). However, he was not satisfied with it on the ground that his entire day will be wasted and he will not be able to study and sought interim bail for the purpose. Tanha was arrested on May 19 in the case for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy in the riots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||Muted celebrations at annual Feast of St. Francis Xavier in Goa||The annual Feast of St. Francis Xavier, a ceremony which used to attract thousands of people each year, was organised in a muted way in Old Goa on Thursday, as public gatherings were not allowed at the event in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. While people formed long queues in the morning outside the campus of the Basilica of Bom Jesus, measures were taken to ensure there was no crowding at the place, and the event was telecast live online as well, said a priest. The Basilica of Bom Jesus is the area where the relics of the 16th century Spanish saint are reserved. “Precautions were taken to ensure social distancing and also allow people time to offer prayers at the relics,” said Fr Patricio Fernandes, Rector of the Basilica of Bom Jesus. Due to the outbreak of the pandemic this year, the Church authorities in Goa have withheld public gatherings for the congregational masses. Parishioners were not allowed to attend the masses, including the main event at 10:30 am, a senior priest at the Basilica informed. “For the feast mass, which is the main event, only 160 representatives from various parishes were invited and 40 priests also participated in it,” he said. “The masses (congregational prayers) were telecast live on various online platforms so that people do not move out of their homes,” he said. The veneration of the relics of St Francis Xavier was allowed from 5 am, but with a limited number of people at a time. The masses were streamed online from 6 am on various social media platforms, he said. According to official figures,Goa till Wednesday reported 48,241 COVID-19 cases and 693 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||Potential life on Mars likely lived below the surface, says study||If life ever existed on ancient Mars, it would have lived up to several miles below the surface of the Red Planet, likely due to subsurface melting of thick ice sheets fuelled by geothermal heat, according to a study. The research, published in the journal Science Advances, examined various Mars datasets to see if heating via geothermal or underground heat would have been possible 4.1 billion to 3.7 billion years ago or in the Noachian era. They showed that the conditions needed for subsurface melting would have been ubiquitous on ancient Mars. Even if Mars had a warm and wet climate 4 billion years ago, with the loss of the magnetic field, atmospheric thinning and subsequent drop in global temperatures over time, liquid water may have been stable only at great depths, the researchers found. Therefore, life, if it ever originated on Mars, may have followed liquid water to progressively greater depths, they said. "At such depths, life could have been sustained by hydrothermal (heating) activity and rock-water reactions. So, the subsurface may represent the longest-lived habitable environment on Mars," said lead author Lujendra Ojha, an assistant professor at Rutgers University-New Brunswick in the US. The study may help resolve what is known as the faint young sun paradox -- a lingering key question in Mars science. "Even if greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide and water vapour are pumped into the early Martian atmosphere in computer simulations, climate models still struggle to support a long-term warm and wet Mars," said Ojha. "I and my co-authors propose that the faint young sun paradox may be reconciled, at least partly, if Mars had high geothermal heat in its past," he said. The researchers noted that our sun is a massive nuclear fusion reactor that generates energy by fusing hydrogen into helium. Over time, they explained, the Sun has gradually brightened and warmed the surface of planets in our solar system. According to the researchers, about 4 billion years ago, the Sun was much fainter so the climate of early Mars should have been freezing. However, the surface of Mars has many geological indicators, such as ancient riverbeds, and chemical indicators, such as water-related minerals. These suggest the Red Planet had abundant liquid water in the Noachian era, the researchers said. This apparent contradiction between the geological record and climate models is the faint young sun paradox, they said. On rocky planets like Mars, Earth, Venus and Mercury, heat-producing elements like uranium, thorium and potassium generate heat via radioactive decay. In such a scenario, liquid water can be generated through melting at the bottom of thick ice sheets, even if the Sun was fainter than now. On Earth, for example, geothermal heat forms subglacial lakes in areas of the West Antarctic ice sheet, Greenland and the Canadian Arctic. The researchers noted that it is likely that similar melting may help explain the presence of liquid water on cold, freezing Mars 4 billion years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||MDH owner Dharampal Gulati passes away at 97||‘Mahashay’ Dharampal Gulati, the owner of Indian spices company Mahashian Di Hatti (MDH) passed away on Thursday at a New Delhi hospital. He was 97 at the time of his death. According to sources, Gulati, who was awarded the country's third-highest civilian award Padma Bhushan last year, was under medical supervision at the Mata Chanan Devi Hospital of the national capital, where he breathed his last. The popular entrepreneur, familiar to every Indian who watched him on the TV in his company’s advertisements over several years, was undergoing post-Covid treatment at the hospital and suffered a cardiac arrest, leading to his death. Gulati, popularly known as Spice King, was born in Sialkot (now in Pakistan) on March 27, 1923. He moved to India after Partition and set up his business in Delhi. MDH was founded by his father Chunni Lal Gulati. Tributes poured in on social media for the businessman, whose face became synonymous with the brand. President Ram Nath Kovind condoled his death and tweeted, “Saddened by the demise of ‘Mahashiyan Di Hatti’ (MDH) President Shri Dharampal Gulati ji, who was honoured with Padma Bhushan. He was a well-known personality of the Indian industry. His social service activities are also commendable. My condolences to his family and fans.” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal called him an inspiring personality, saying, “He dedicated his life for the society. God bless his soul.” “India’s most inspiring entrepreneur, MDH owner Dharm Pal Mahashay passed away this morning. I have never met such an inspiring and lively soul. May his soul rest in peace,” Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||Delhi's air quality remains 'very poor'||Delhi's air quality remained very poor on Thursday, and it is likely to remain so for the next two days. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 342 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 373 on Wednesday. It was 367 on Tuesday, 318 on Monday and 268 on Sunday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The predominant wind direction will be northerly and the maximum wind speed 6 kmph on Thursday, according to the India Meteorological Department. The minimum temperature was 8.2 degrees Celsius on Thursday and the maximum is expected to settle around 26 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. The minimum temperature this season has remained 2-3 degree Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover on most days, according to IMD officials. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said air quality is likely to remain in the "very poor" category till Saturday. There is a possibility of the air quality reaching the "severe" category between December 4 and December 7, it had said earlier. The city's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed is likely to be 3,000 m2/s on Thursday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||India's Covid tally crosses 95 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload went past 95 lakh, while the total number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 89.73 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 94.11 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 95,34,964 with 35,551 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,38,648 with 526 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 89,73,373 pushing the national recovery rate to 94.11 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The active COVID-19 caseload continued to remain below 5 lakh. There are 4,22,943 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 4.44 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, 14,35,57,647 samples have been tested up to December 1 with 11,11,698 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 526 new fatalities include 111 from Maharashtra, 82 from Delhi, 51 from West Bengal, 32 from Haryana, 29 from Uttar Pradesh, 28 from Kerala, 27 from Chhattisgarh and 21 from Punjab. A total of 1,38,648 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 47,357 from Maharashtra followed by 11,808 from Karnataka, 11,733 from Tamil Nadu, 9,342 from Delhi, 8,527 from West Bengal, 7,817 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,003 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,842 from Punjab, 4,018 from Gujarat and 3,287 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||PM calls for ensuring opportunities for persons with disabilities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that India has taken numerous measures to ensure a positive change in the lives of persons with disabilities, as he gave a call for collectively working towards ensuring opportunity and improving accessibility for them. Modi's comments were in the context of the UN choosing the theme of "Building Back Better: toward a disability-inclusive, accessible and sustainable post-COVID-19 World" to commemorate the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. The International Day of Persons with Disabilities is annually observed on December 3. This year, the UN has said, it will be commemorated on December 4 in conjunction with the 13th session of the Conference of States Parties to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (COSP13). Using the hashtag of the "International Day of Persons with Disabilities", Modi tweeted, "The resilience and fortitude of persons with disabilities inspire us. Under the Accessible India initiative, numerous measures have been taken that ensure there is a positive change in the lives of our Divyang sisters and brothers". The prime minister added, "In line with the year's @UN theme of 'Building Back Better: toward a disability-inclusive, accessible and sustainable post COVID-19 World', let us collectively keep working towards ensuring opportunity and improving accessibility for our Divyang sisters and brothers."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||Rahul attacks Centre over vaccine promise||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday attacked the Centre over its statement that it had never spoken about inoculating everyone with a vaccine against Covid-19 and asked what does Prime Minister Narendra Modi stand by. The Centre on Tuesday said there may not be a need to vaccinate the country's entire population against COVID-19 if a critical mass of people are given a shot to break the chain of virus transmission, and made it clear it had never spoken about inoculating everyone. "PM -- Everyone will get vaccine. BJP in Bihar elections -- Everyone in Bihar will get free vaccine. Now, GOI -- Never said everyone will get vaccine. Exactly what does the PM stand by?" Gandhi said in a tweet. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said at a media briefing that there may not be a need to vaccinate the country's entire population against COVID-19 if a critical mass of people is given a shot to break the chain of the virus transmission. "I just want to make this clear that the government has never spoken about vaccinating the entire country. It's important that we discuss such scientific issues based on factual information only and then analyse it," Bhushan had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||Selective Covid vaccine plan lifts eyebrows||Indian health officials have proposed a “smart vaccination” campaign to stop the Covid-19 epidemic by immunising only select groups and leaving others unvaccinated, a strategy some experts have criticised as worrying and not adequately backed by science. The experts say the strategy appears focused on the public health goal of controlling the epidemic and deviates from the key principle of universal immunisation that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had affirmed earlier: “No person should be left behind.” Besides, some of the experts have argued, the current level of scientific knowledge about the infection does not justify any group being marked as less or more prone to transmit the disease. Some health researchers have also expressed concern that while countries such as America, Britain and Canada have made advance purchases of vaccines to cover their entire populations, India’s “smart vaccination” plan appears designed to limit the distribution of vaccines. The Centre has since July signalled that healthcare workers and other vulnerable groups will receive the vaccines on priority. The Union health ministry announced in October that it hoped to vaccinate 25 crore people from such vulnerable groups by July 2021. The “smart vaccination” plan seeks to couple this goal of vaccinating priority groups with public health considerations to try and control the epidemic without having to vaccinate the entire population, Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, told The Telegraph. A parliamentary panel’s report on India’s response to Covid-19 outlines the “smart vaccination” plan, citing Bhargava who had briefed the panel six weeks ago. The plan assumes that the population can be categorised into three groups — core, bridge and general. “Once the core group is vaccinated, there is least chance of spread of the disease and there would not be a requirement for vaccinating (the) whole population,” the report said, citing Bhargava. “With preventive measures such as wearing masks and through smart vaccination, the (epidemic) can be contained without vaccinating the entire population.” Experts say the plan seems to assume that once healthcare workers, non-medical frontline workers and other vulnerable groups are vaccinated, they will be protected and therefore unable to spread the infection to their contacts. “When we vaccinate priority groups, we achieve three objectives,” said Samiran Panda, chief of the epidemiology division at the ICMR, the apex health research agency. “We protect healthcare workers and others who are at high risk of infection because of occupational vulnerability; we protect the elderly and those with underlying illnesses because they are at risk of severe disease and deaths. Once vaccinated, they all block transmission,” Panda said. But the proposal to define a core group within the population to guide vaccination has surprised some researchers. They say there isn’t enough evidence from either epidemiology or surveillance within the country to clearly make such population demarcations. “We still don’t know who transmits how much. Without such high-granularity information, it is hard to predict who should be in the core group,” said Gagandeep Kang, senior microbiologist at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and a vaccine science specialist. “The selection of the priority groups such as healthcare workers and elderly is entirely based on the need to protect them from the infection – not to block transmission. I worry that we don’t know enough to decide on a concrete plan to categorise people.” Medical experts say that while the assumption that the epidemic can be controlled by vaccinating select groups might be grounded in public health, the end of the epidemic does not mean vaccines are no longer needed. Infectious disease specialists have predicted that the Covid-19 epidemic will stop through a phenomenon they call herd immunity when around 60 per cent of the population is protected through immune responses generated by either vaccines or natural infections. But they caution that the virus will not disappear and that infections, severe disease and deaths will continue. “Suppose, the government vaccinates about 30 per cent of the population and the epidemic itself infected (another) 30 per cent of the population – we have 60 per cent protected,” said Santanu Tripathi, head of clinical pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. “Even after that point, vaccines will be needed to protect all individuals. The rest of the population should be vaccinated for their individual protection.” Modi, while chairing a review meeting on vaccines on June 30, had underlined that India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign, while starting with the priority groups, should seek to be universal with no one left out. Some experts contrasted India’s smart vaccination plan with the advance purchases of vaccines by other countries. “The governments in those countries are afraid of people’s reactions -- healthcare is a strong political issue there,” said Amar Jesani, a physician and medical ethics expert. “Here, people are gullible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||Karnataka cattle slaughter bill fuels concern||The Karnataka government is determined to impose a total ban on cattle slaughter and, in the process, do away with whatever little concessions that were allowed in the existing law. Despite the Congress voicing concerns over the wider ramifications and constitutional rights of those who might want to consume beef, the BJP government wants to emulate Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh in implementing a total ban. State animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chavan is set to visit Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat to “study” how those two BJP-ruled states have enforced the ban. According to a government source, who cannot be named, the minister would return with “inputs from Gujarat and UP on banning cattle slaughter”. The Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964, permits only the slaughter of bulls and male buffaloes above the age of 12 and certified unfit for breeding or working in farmlands. But the BJP wants to ban the slaughter of all cattle — male or female. The then BJP government led by Jagadish Shettar had moved an amendment bill in 2012 that increased the age of animal to be slaughtered and made punishment harsher. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Tuesday held a meeting with a delegation from the Muslim community who would be adversely affected once the law is passed. “The Muslim community members were extremely anxious about this law. So we discussed the ramifications,” Siddaramiah told reporters on Tuesday evening. “They (Muslims) are apprehensive that this law will put them in trouble in many ways,” Siddaramiah added. The majority of those engaged in cattle trading and meat business belong to the minority community. Siddaramiah challenged the BJP to bring in such a law in Goa where they are in power. “Why are they bent on bringing this law in Karnataka and not in Goa?” he asked, alluding to the state where a large number of people consumed beef. The Congress has decided to oppose the bill when it is tabled in the Assembly and launch a protest across the state. Karnataka is a state where cow vigilantes take law into their hands and attack cattle traders and transporters. The coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada are among the worst hit by cow vigilantism. Dakshina Kannada district CPM secretary Vasant Achari said the law once enacted would not only lead to an increase in cow vigilantism, but also hurt farmers. “Most of the farmers own cattle. At least now they can sell them to cattle traders. But once this law is passed, farmers will have to take care of aged and ailing cattle, which is an expensive proposition,” Achari said. There is also an apprehension about the way the law would further divide people. “Even those who challenge the law would be seen as against cows and for their slaughter and thus against Hindu religion,” he cautioned. Karnataka has regularly witnessed brutal attacks in the name of cow protection ever since the Sangh parivar leveraged it as a symbol of religion and Hindu culture. Even a BJP worker was lynched to death in Udupi in August 2016. A professional cattle transporter, Praveen Poojary, 29, was waylaid by a mob of cow vigilantes and beaten to death. K. Phaniraj of Komu Sauharda Vedike (Forum for Communal Harmony), an NGO, told this newspaper that cattle rearing, trading and slaughter would get badly affected by the new law. “Instead of a blanket ban on the slaughter of all cattle, the government should ideally provide an alternative to the thousands who would lose their livelihood,” Phaniraj said. “Cattle trading is essentially an economic pursuit. Striking it down with a legislation will certainly lead to lot of issues in the society,” he said, adding cattle smuggling will continue and give rise to more cow vigilantism and violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||China ‘planned’ Galwan clashes: US report||A commission created by the US Congress has found evidence suggesting the Chinese had planned the Galwan clashes, potentially factoring in the fatalities. “Several weeks prior to the clash, defence minister Wei (Fenghe) made his statement encouraging Beijing to ‘use fighting to promote stability’,” the US-China Economic Review Commission has said in its annual report. “Just over two weeks before the incident, in another potential indication of Chinese leaders signalling their intent to escalate tensions, an editorial in China’s state-owned tabloid Global Times warned that India would suffer a ‘devastating blow’ to its trade and economic ties with China if it got ‘involved in the US-China rivalry’. “Satellite images depicted a large Chinese build-up in the Galwan Valley, including potentially 1,000 PLA soldiers, the week before the deadly skirmish.” Twenty Indian soldiers died in hand-to-hand fighting during the June 15 clash in the Galwan Valley of eastern Ladakh, while the Chinese casualties are unknown. The US report mentions all that is in the public domain on what has transpired along the Line of Actual Control since the Galwan clash. The US report also makes particular note of an Indian special forces soldier of Tibetan origin dying along the Line of Actual Control, reportedly from a landmine blast. “In an unusual move, India allowed the soldier’s funeral to be publicised and dispatched a high-ranking official from India’s ruling party to attend,” it says. The Special Frontier Force was raised in 1962 with Tibetan refugees for covert operations behind Chinese lines. This was the first time an SFF soldier got a public funeral in what was seen as a signal from India to the Chinese. The commission noted that China’s increasingly assertive behaviour had accelerated cohesion among the countries participating in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or the “Quad” — that is, the US, Japan, India and Australia. “Between March and May, these countries held weekly vice-ministerial-level meetings and one ministerial-level meeting to coordinate on containing Covid-19, restore their economies, and communicate shared strategic interests,” the report says. “Notably, for the first time the grouping also took on an expanded format, known as the ‘Quad Plus’, which saw Brazil, Israel, New Zealand, South Korea and Vietnam participating in various group discussions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||SC says every case different when Arnab Goswami bail example cited during hearing||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said “every case is different” when the example of bail for Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami was cited during a hearing into an application related to incarcerated journalist Siddique Kappan. Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde asked senior lawyer Kapil Sibal, representing the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) that had filed the plea on Kappan: “Are you willing to go to the court (trial court) below?” Sibal said: “In Arnab Goswami’s case, Your Lordships have interfered when the bail application was pending. I will rely on that.” “Every case is different,” the bench said. “You show us any precedent where an association had moved the court seeking relief.” Goswami was in custody for eight days in a suicide abetment case before he was granted bail by the top court while Kappan has been in jail for the past 58 days. Kappan was picked up on his way to Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, where a Dalit girl had been brutalised and murdered. He was accused of trying to disturb peace and charged under the stringent UAPA. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the Uttar Pradesh government, told the bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, that the KUWJ was a third party in the case. Sibal submitted: “The FIR itself is false. He is arrested on the basis of false allegations…. There are judgments which say the court should consider the allegations in the FIR while considering release on bail.” The Chief Justice noted that it was not the accused or any of his family members who had gone to court. Sibal then said: “I can implead the wife and the daughter of the accused.” Following this, the court adjourned the matter for a week to enable Kappan’s wife or daughter to file a fresh application for his release. Kappan’s family lives in Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||Chinese syrups used to make adulterated honey in India||The Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment on Wednesday said its tests had found 77 per cent of honey samples sourced from big and small branded companies in India “adulterated with addition of sugar syrup”. Under the regulations of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), adding anything to natural honey — including sugar syrups — before sale is illegal. The CSE said its “honeygate” study had found that some Chinese companies were exporting huge amounts of these syrups to India and that their price was about half that of honey. It said these companies’ advertisements on Chinese e-commerce portals like Alibaba said their products enabled adulterated honey samples to cheat the FSSAI’s tests. “Out of 22 samples tested, only five passed all the tests,” CSE director-general Sunita Narain said. Narain said: “Honey samples from leading brands such as Dabur, Patanjali, Baidyanath, Zandu, Hitkari and Apis Himalaya, all failed the NMR (nuclear magnetic resonance) test.” While NMR tests are used globally to detect adulteration by sugar syrups, the FSSAI does not use them on domestic honey. A Dabur spokesperson said the “recent reports seem motivated and aimed at maligning our brand” and insisted that Dabur Honey was “100 per cent pure” and that the company imported no “honey/syrup from China”. The spokesperson said Dabur complied with all the FSSAI norms and had “NMR testing equipment in our own laboratory, and the same is used to regularly test our honey sold in the Indian market”. An Emami spokesperson said the company’s “Zandu Pure Honey conforms to all the protocols and quality norms/ standards laid down by the government of India and its authorised entities such as FSSAI”. The reactions of the other brands will be published as and when they issue them. “Only 3 of the 13 brands (from which the 22 samples were sourced) – Saffola, MarkfedSonna and Nature’s Nectar (one of two samples) --- passed all the tests,” Narain said. With the Union ministry of Ayush prescribing honey as an immunity booster in its pandemic guidelines, the sale of honey has skyrocketed, jumping 35 per cent in March alone, industry sources said. India’s honey market, worth Rs 1,729 crore in 2019, was predicted to reach about Rs 3,060 crore by 2025, with trade experts clarifying this estimate had not considered the Covid push. The CSE suggested that the Indian authorities knew about the purported adulteration, underlining how the government recently made NMR tests mandatory for honey that is to be exported but not for domestic honey. “As of August 1, NMR tests have been made mandatory in India for honey that is meant for export, suggesting that the Indian government is aware of this adulteration business,” the CSE’s report says. Further, the CSE accused the Indian regulator of sowing confusion over the adulterating agent. “The FSSAI, in the past year, directed importers and state food commissioners that golden syrup, invert sugar syrup and rice syrup imported into the country were being used for adulteration of honey,” Amit Khurana, programme director with the CSE’s food safety and toxins team, said. But these three kinds of imported sugar syrups “are either not imported in these names or are not indicted (by the CSE) for adulteration”, he said. “Instead, Chinese companies are mostly exporting this syrup as fructose to India. Why did FSSAI put out what is clearly an erroneous order?” The CSE claimed that some factories in India were manufacturing the syrup with Chinese technology. A Dabur spokesperson said the “recent reports seem motivated and aimed at maligning our brand” and insisted that Dabur Honey was “100 per cent pure” and that the company imported no “honey/syrup from China”. The spokesperson said Dabur complied with all the FSSAI norms and had “NMR testing equipment in our own laboratory, and the same is used to regularly test our honey sold in the Indian market”. An Emami spokesperson said the company’s “Zandu Pure Honey conforms to all the protocols and quality norms/ standards laid down by the government of India and its authorised entities such as FSSAI”. Red flag Narain said the trigger for the investigation was the CSE’s discovery that while the sale of honey was going up, beekeepers were leaving the profession because of financial distress. “We felt there was something amiss --- while the sale of honey was going up, why were the beekeepers in such a state?” So, the CSE embarked on a bout of sleuthing that culminated in a series of tests in India and abroad, the entire exercise taking about five months, sources within the organisation said. First, the CSE undertook an undercover operation to track down the Chinese companies from advertisements in Chinese trade portals and got hold of the syrups. “To understand whether the sugar syrups would actually pass the laboratory tests undetected as claimed, the CSE then adulterated samples of pure honey,” Khurana said. “What was shocking is that adulterated samples with 25 per cent and 50 per cent sugar syrup passed the test of purity (by Indian standards).” The CSE then selected 13 of the bigger and smaller brands of processed and raw honey sold in India, and got 22 samples tested at the Centre for Analysis and Learning in Livestock and Food (Calf) at the National Dairy Development Board, Gujarat. Nearly all of them passed. “However, when the same brands were tested using nuclear magnetic resonance (at a) laboratory in Germany,” the CSE said, “almost all big and small brands failed.” Narain said: “We are hundred per cent confirmed about the findings.” The CSE claims that over the past four years, 11,000 million tonnes of fructose syrup have come to India as “industrial raw material” from the Chinese companies that advertise their product’s ability to beat the Indian tests. Narain told The Telegraph that adulterated honey was actually hurting those regularly taking it to improve their immunity. “With a high level of sugar syrup, we are getting empty calories without benefits, which can lead to weight gain, which is detrimental in the fight against Covid,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||I know CM will give justice: Pari’s father||The alleged kidnapping and murder of Pari, a five-year-old girl from Odisha’s Nayagarh district, has triggered a political earthquake in the state. While the winter session of the Assembly that was adjourned prematurely witnessed repeated pandemonium over the issue, the Opposition BJP and the Congress continue to stage protests across the state demanding the resignation of Nayagarh MLA and higher education minister Arun Sahoo, who is being accused of shielding the culprits. A special investigation team (SIT), headed by IPS officer Arun Bothra, has been constituted by chief minister Naveen Patnaik to probe the case. The team has begun its work but the BJP and Pari’s parents continue to demand a CBI probe into the case and the resignation of Sahoo. Pari was allegedly kidnapped while playing near her house in Jadupur village of Nayagarh in July. Later her skeletal remains were found dumped in a sack behind the house. While the BJP, whose national spokesperson Sambit Patra staged a demonstration over the issue in New Delhi recently and filed a petition before the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) seeking justice for Pari, the Congress is divided with a section of its leaders demanding resignation of the minister. On the other hand, Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra has expressed satisfaction with the announcement of a court-monitored SIT probe which he has described as historic. With the issue set to snowball and have long-term political repercussions, this correspondent spoke to Pari’s father Ashok Sahoo, an autorickshaw driver, about the incident. How did your daughter go missing? Pari was my only child. We named her Pari as she looked like an angel. Whatever I have earned I have spent on her, buying her toys and whatever she demanded. On July 14, she was playing in front of our house with other children. But she did not return home. We frantically searched for her. After failing to find her, we lodged an FIR with the police the same evening. When was her body recovered? Torn by grief and frustrated over police inaction we could do little else but hope in vain for her return. Some elderly women in the neighbourhood asked us to search for her in the bushes behind the house. We found in the bushes what we are sure was her skull, 12 more pieces of her skeletal remains and her torn shirt. We immediately informed the police. The police came with the dog squad and a scientific team. Later, they took us to SCB Medical College, Cuttack, for examination. They also took our blood samples, perhaps for a DNA test. But we have still not been informed about the results. We are completely in the dark about what they have done. What do you suspect? I don’t have any enemies still my child was killed. I have a strong suspicion that she was killed by people involved in the human organ racket, especially the kidney racket. Perhaps her kidney was removed for transplantation. Since I am an auto driver no one would have thought that the issue will raise so much heat. I have already told the police and the media the name of the accused who I know is involved in the crime. He is very close to higher education minister Arun Sahoo who hails from our district. Police are yet to take action against them. Have you raised the kidney theft allegation under political pressure? No, I want justice for my daughter. Why should I seek political favour? Both the BJP and the Congress have extended support to me. I feel with their support I would be able to get justice for my daughter and the police will stop torturing me. Many say Pari was killed in an accident by a JCB (an excavator) in front of your house. As the vehicle did not have valid documents and belonged to an influential BJD leader, an attempt was made to hide the crime. What do you have to say? I don’t believe this. No JCB ran on that day in front of my house. Let’s have a fair probe. I have undergone a lot in my search for justice to my daughter. What kind of problems did you face? The local police instead of arresting the accused picked up me and my relatives, including my father-in-law, a number of times and made us sit in the police station for hours. They are doing all this at the behest of some political leaders. I was even attacked with stones and had to get seven stitches in my head. I was even forced to leave my village Jadupur and I am now living with my in-laws in Jogiapalli. For the sake of a fair probe, the resignation of the minister is a must. The accused is close to the minister and his photograph with the minister has already gone viral. Why did you and your wife decide to commit self-immolation in front of the Assembly in November? In 2010 I had worked for the then school and mass education minister Pratap Jena as a security guard (Jena is now the state law minister). During that time I had seen how people protested in front of the Assembly. My daughter went missing in July and later her skeletal remains were recovered. After running to the police station several times, we got tired and fed up with the system. So we decided to end our lives in front of the Assembly so that the issue was highlighted properly. It seems you have become a pawn in the hands of some political parties. Don’t you have faith in the SIT probe? I have faith in chief minister Naveen Patnaik. I know he will give justice to me. I am not affiliated to any political party. Only those who have lost their children will understand the pain and anguish of a parent whose child gets kidnapped and killed in this heinous manner. My daughter’s remains were found dumped in the bushes wrapped in a gunny bag.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||Woman Maoist surrenders in Odisha||A woman member of CPI (Maoist), who carried a cash reward of Rs 4 lakh on her head, surrendered before Koraput police in Odisha on Wednesday. The police said in a release that Rame Madkami was inducted into the CPI (Maoist) in 2013 by luring her into the “Sanskrutika Gana Natya Mandai”, the cultural troupe of the ultras, at the age of 16 in gross violation of child rights. The police said she was given military training and was armed with a .303 rifle by the party when she was minor. After being promoted to the rank of area committee member (ACM), she was armed with an Insas rifle. Police said she was involved in a number of cases of violence. “Rame was fed up with the anti-social attitude of the party and with their indiscriminate and unjustified violence against her own people. She was also disgusted with the unnecessary civilian killings by the party, even after protests by local people and also because of upper hand of Telugu and Chhattisgarhi cadres in the party and their attitude towards Odiya cadres,” the release said. The police said though she had received a bullet injury during an exchange of fire in the forest area of Landulu village under Pedabailu police station in Andhra Pradesh, her party did not provide her proper medical attention as she belonged to the Odisha cadre. According to the Odisha government’s rehabilitation policy for Maoists who give up arms, Madkami will get Rs 4 lakh as she had surrendered voluntarily and would be rehabilitated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||Farmers threaten to burn effigies of Ambani and Adani||Farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders have dug in their heels, iterating on Wednesday that they would not relent till the farm laws are repealed and extending their protest against the Narendra Modi government to the corporate houses who they believe these laws will serve. If the laws are not rolled back immediately, effigies of the Modi government, Ambani and Adani would be burnt in villages across the country on Saturday, the farmer leaders announced a day before the next round of talks with the agriculture minister. Late on Wednesday, home minister Amit Shah invited Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh for a meeting on Thursday morning to discuss the farmers’ issue. The farmers’ meeting with the government is scheduled later in the day. The farmers, under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha Coordination Committee, wrote to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday demanding that Parliament be convened immediately to repeal the three farm laws. The letter said that thousands, including the elderly, have for the past seven days been sitting on the highway in the harsh winter and that three farmers have died. It would be inhuman of the government to not address the farmers’ legitimate demands immediately, the letter added. The All India Motor Transport Congress, the apex body of transporters representing about 95 lakh truckers, rallied behind the farmers and threatened to halt operations in north India from December 8 if the government fails to address their concerns. If the issue is prolonged by the government, the transporters may go for a nationwide shutdown of operations, the AIMTC said on Wednesday. The farmers’ letter to Tomar also said: “We ask the government not to indulge in any divisive agendas with regard to the farmers’ movement which is united…. This was clear from the meeting proceedings yesterday.” On Tuesday, the Punjab farmers’ unions had rebuffed the attempt to reach out only to them, forcing the government to meet the leaderships of three all-India collectives. But after that the government met the Bharatiya Kisan Union, based mainly in western Uttar Pradesh and led by Rakesh Tikait, late in the night separately. The farmers in their letter asked the government not to hold separate meetings. Darshan Pal, president of the Krantikari Kisan Union, said at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border after a meeting of the farmers’ collectives in the afternoon that they had decided to move forward under the banner of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha and that Tikait too was with them now. The letter once again rejected the government’s offer to set up an expert panel on the farm laws, saying it reflected “lack of sincerity”. Pal added: “The government can keep us engaged in discussions for days on end but the protests on the streets will continue and intensify.” The entry points into Delhi from Haryana at Tikri and Singhu and from Uttar Pradesh at Noida are already barricaded, disrupting travel in the national capital region. Pal also thanked the sportspersons and ex-servicemen who have expressed solidarity with the farmers and announced plans to return their medals. Responding to media queries earlier in the day, agriculture minister Tomar had said: “I appeal to the farmers that the laws are in their interest and the reforms have been done after a long wait but if they have any objection, we are ready to address their concerns.” The government claims the new laws will benefit farmers, but the tens of thousands of farmers camped out at Delhi’s borders argue that this is a reform they never sought and do not want. If effigies are burnt in the country’s villages on Saturday, it will be a repeat of what had played out on Dussehra in villages across Punjab, where the protests have been on since the three farm laws were forced through Parliament in September. The laws are aimed at linking potential bulk buyers, such as WalMart Inc, Reliance Industries Ltd and Adani Enterprises Ltd, directly to the farmers, bypassing government-regulated wholesale markets and layers of commission agents. The farmers see the laws as an attempt to privatise agriculture, eliminate the agents who are a vital cog of the farm economy, deny them a guaranteed price for their grains and leave them at the mercy of the oligarchs. They worry that after initially paying good returns for their produce, corporate buyers would force down prices. The protesters said a similar move in Bihar had left farmers in the state worse off than before. “Some landholders from Bihar now work on our farms,” said 45-year-old Sukhbinder Singh, who grows wheat, potatoes and mustard on his 20-acre farm in Haryana. “If we don’t protest now, the next generation will curse us for not fighting the fight.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||BJP IT cell head's tweet flagged as 'manipulated media'||Twitter on Wednesday tagged as “manipulated media” an image posted by Amit Malviya, the head of the BJP’s information and technology department and co-in-charge of Bengal, while the farmers’ protest was snowballing in the capital. Twitter’s action makes Malviya perhaps the first Indian politician to be flagged for fake news and puts him in the unsavoury company of Donald Trump, many of whose tweets had been called out during the recent US presidential elections. Malviya is accused of posting an edited video to suggest that a particular farmer was not beaten, contrary to the impression left behind by a photograph tweeted by Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Friday. The purported full video showed a blow from another officer landing on the farmer. On November 28, Malviya had quoted a tweet by Rahul featuring a photograph showing a CRPF jawan aiming a baton at an elderly farmer at Singhu on the Delhi-Haryana border. Rahul had tweeted: “It is a very sad photo. Our slogan was ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ but today PM Modi’s arrogance made the jawan stand against the farmer. This is very dangerous.” Malviya tweeted a clip showing the same man running past the CRPF, where it is unclear whether any of their batons touched him. “Rahul Gandhi must be the most discredited Opposition leader India has seen in a long long time,” Malviya had posted above the clip. Several Twitter users later shared the full footage from Russia Today and Voice of America that show state and central forces hitting several farmers, including the farmer in the picture Rahul had tweeted. The farmer was identified as 57-year-old Sukhdev Singh from Kapurthala and interviewed by the news website Boomlive. He has injuries on his forearm, back and calf muscle. Twitter said in a message to viewers: “The video of police baton missing an elderly man during the farmers’ protest is edited, according to BoomLive and AltNews. An image of an officer at the farmers’ protest raising his baton to strike an elderly man went viral after being captured by PTI photojournalist Ravi Choudhary. “After being shared by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, BJP’s Amit Malviya responded with a short edited video of the incident. Malviya’s edited video shows one officer with a baton missing the man in the viral image. However, BoomLive analysed a longer un-edited video which shows a second officer swinging his baton at the man. BoomLive has identified the farmer, who stated that he was hit and showed bruises he said were from the incident.” Twitter had first announced plans to call out fake news on its platform in February but has started doing so in India now. The company has not revealed whether Malviya is its first catch. Malviya did not respond to a WhatsApp message from this newspaper seeking his comments on Twitter’s action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||Leadership unbending, doubts in BJP ranks ||The BJP leadership continued to adopt an unbending position on the new farm laws amid murmurs of “miscalculation” from some within the party and the RSS, as the farmers’ protest intensified on Wednesday. Party insiders said the government might be open to a few “minor changes” to the three new laws but there was no question of repealing them, as demanded by the agitating farmers. “Like the Shaheen Bagh protests (against the new citizenship regime), this one too is an effort to mislead a section of the farmers and build a political movement against Narendra Modi,” a BJP general secretary said. “There’s no question of relenting here, either.... The government will convince the farmers and resolve the situation amicably.” Some doubters within the party and the RSS, however, fear that the government may have “miscalculated” and have urged the leadership to “handle it with care”. “Sikh farmers are leading the protests. It would be foolish to underestimate their tenacity,” a senior BJP leader who does not hold any post said. He said that unlike the tactic adopted against the Shaheen Bagh protesters, the government couldn’t possibly label the farmers, particularly the Sikhs, as “anti-nationals” and win the perception battle. Ideologically, the RSS attaches great importance to a harmonious relationship between Hindus and the Sikhs of Punjab whose home state borders Pakistan. Atal Bihari Vajpayee had struck an alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal keeping this in mind. Now with the Akali Dal dumping the NDA over the new farm laws and Sikh farmers at the barricades, the doubters in the party anticipate a period of turbulence. Many others, however, are confident that Prime Minister Modi and home minister Amit Shah would weather the crisis just as they have weathered farmers’ agitations in the past too. They referred to the movement in Mandsaur, Madhya Pradesh, where six farmers were shot dead during an agitation for better prices in 2017, and how the party had succeeded in quelling it. The BJP’s official Twitter handle continued to portray the new farm laws as beneficial for the farmers and the protests as politically motivated. So far, the government has deployed the junior leadership, using agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal as an advance team to get a sense of the situation before the seniors step in. Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda have been holding internal briefings with Tomar and Goyal but have stayed away from the talks with the farmers’ representatives. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, an old hand at complex negotiations, was scheduled to lead the talks with the farmers on Tuesday but was pulled out at the last moment, sources said. “Amitbhai and Rajnathji will step in after getting a sense of the situation and after considering all the options to defuse the crisis,” a BJP insider said. Party sources said the government firmly believed that the new laws represented much-needed reforms in the farm sector and going back on them would be disastrous. “The government may consider bringing a few amendments to address the farmers’ concerns, but no material change will be made,” a source close to Rajnath said. He didn’t specify what amendments the government was ready for. The minimum that the agitating farmers want is a legal guarantee saying no private buyer can purchase from farmers below a minimum support price. BJP managers feel that such an amendment would defeat the main objective of the new laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||Farmers protest ripples reach Bihar||The heat of farmers’ agitation reached NDA-ruled Bihar on Wednesday as the Opposition Grand Alliance and farmers protested on the streets against the controversial farm laws. The agitators threw vegetables on roads at several places, burnt effigies and moved around with paddy bundles to register their protest against the farm laws and express solidarity with the farmers protesting on the outskirts of Delhi. Various farmer organisations associated with different parties are now planning to spearhead a movement in Bihar over the deteriorating condition of farmers and the ills plaguing the agriculture sector in the state. CPI-ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, CPI national executive member Kanhaiya Kumar, CPM Bihar secretary Awadhesh Kumar and Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Alok Mehta took out a protest march in Patna. They lambasted the central government for bringing laws against the farmers. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has insulted the farmers by bringing these black laws. He should attend the talks with farmers and take back the farm laws. We will launch a countrywide agitation if the Union government does not accept the demands of the agitating farmers on Thursday,” Bhattacharya said. The CPI-ML general secretary pointed out that it has become a pattern for the Centre to first try to quell people’s agitations and spread adverse publicity about them. However, when the attempts fail, it blames the Opposition for instigating them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||Congress youth wing gets new chief||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday appointed B.V. Srinivas as the Youth Congress president, an appointment being seen as a reward to hard work instead of networking and nepotism. Srinivas had accidentally got the chance to head the Youth Congress as interim president in 2019 August because incumbent Keshav Chand Yadav had to suddenly resign because of a controversy. The young man from Karnataka grabbed the opportunity and compelled the party leadership to regularise his appointment by his dedication to public welfare and hard work. His work among the poor during the pandemic and lockdown impressed party leaders. He was seen helping stranded people with food and transport almost round the clock. Even now, the Youth Congress under his leadership is engaged in distributing eatables and cooked food to farmers at the Delhi-Haryana border. Though he speaks Hindi with difficulty and is not known for his cerebral capabilities, his passion for social service and capacity to work among the people tirelessly helped him earn this post. Sources revealed that Krishna Allavaru, the Congress joint secretary who looked after Youth Congress, had developed differences with Srinivas and didn’t favour his continuance. However, the leadership was aware of the negative message that his exit will send out and decided to appoint him full-fledged president. Srinivas is the only second Youth Congress chief from the south in the history; the first being Ramesh Chennithala from Kerala. The party usually favoured Hindi-speaking youth from north India to lead the youth wing. Among the illustrious names to head the Youth Congress in the past are: Sanjay Gandhi, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Ambika Soni, Anand Sharma and Tariq Anwar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||Cong accuses govt of behaving like a 'slave of the capitalists'||The Congress has accused the Narendra Modi government of behaving like a “slave of the capitalists” by refusing to straightaway scrap the new farm laws despite the unanimous opinion of the agitated farmers from all over the country. Arguing that the pretence of negotiations was nothing but a delaying tactic and a ploy to break the farmers’ resolve, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Negotiations should have started after suspension of the three laws. Modi government has demonstrated political dishonesty. They are trying to stab the farmers in the back. The question is whether we are in a democracy or a handful of corporate houses are ruling this country? The government is behaving like the slave of capitalists.” Rahul Gandhi accused the government of dishonesty, tweeting: “Modi government should stop fooling the farmers. Stop dishonesty and atrocities. Stop the charade of negotiations. It should scrap the three anti-farmer black laws.” This position is in tune with the demand of the farmers who are viewing the process of negotiation with suspicion and dismay. Rahul, through another  tweet, said: “They promised to double farmers’ income. What they did is — quadrupled the income of friends and halved the income of farmers. Jhooth ki, Loot ki, Suit-boot ki sarkar (A government of lie, loot & suit-boot).” Surjewala drew his inspiration from this to declare the government a “slave of capitalists”.  He coined yet another slogan: “Dhanna-sethon ki chowkidar/ Modi Sarkar.” Surjewala said at a news conference: “The Prime Minister is repeatedly saying the new laws are good for farmers and Opposition parties were misleading them. The farmers have categorically stated their position — that their demand for scrapping of these laws is non-negotiable. There is obviously no meeting ground. What is being discussed then? What the government offered yesterday was a lollipop of a committee even as the positions are absolutely clear.” He added: “Why was this committee not formed before introduction of these laws? Why did the government not accept the demand of the joint Opposition to send the bills to a Parliamentary Select Committee for a deeper examination? Why were states not taken on board? Why no consultation with farmers and other stakeholders before bulldozing the laws using the emergency ordinance route during pandemic and national lockdown?” Highlighting the travails of lakhs of farmers who are stranded on the roads for over a week now, Surjewala said: “While farmers are out on the street in a do-or-die battle, the government has used force to raise hurdles and inflict injuries. They are more interested in putting up barbed wire fences and digging up roads to block their entry into Delhi. They used police and BSF to scare farmers. Where is the need for these coercive measures when the farmers of the entire country rejected these laws? Whose opinion should matter most if not farmers’? If we are a democracy, the natural response is to withdraw the laws.” The Congress also asked the Prime Minister himself to hold direct talks with the farmers on Thursday as nobody else mattered in this “one-man” government. Surjewala also said: “The Supreme Court says those who cause damage will pay compensation. Who will pay compensation for the losses caused by this agitation? Farmers didn’t venture out to block the roads, they wanted to reach Delhi. Why were they stopped? Why was the national highway dug up? The industry, states and the common people have suffered losses. Who will pay?” While the top leaders of the Congress have deliberately kept a distance from the movement as the farmers don’t want political parties to hijack it, the party’s MPs, MLAs and leaders from Punjab and Haryana, apart from the Youth Congress, have extended help to the protesters and held several demonstrations. The central leadership too has kept a close eye on the unfolding scenario and is also planning future course of action in case the deadlock continues longer in the absence of a compromise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||UP farmer leadership to send daily batches of protesters to Delhi||The leaders of the agitating farmers plan to send fresh batches of protesters to Delhi’s borders every day to keep up the momentum, signalling their readiness for the long haul. Wednesday’s announcement by the Bharatiya Kisan Union, one of the organisers of the agitation against the three new farm laws, will disappoint those hoping the protest would fizzle out as the biting north Indian winter sets in. “We have planned the protest in a way that will allow us to continue it for months and years. Every day, 100 farmers from one or other area of Uttar Pradesh will leave for Delhi’s borders in tractors,” state BKU vice-president Dinesh Pradhan told reporters. “They will carry foodgrain, vegetables, milk, stoves, blankets with them. We have realised it’s a long battle.” Pradhan said these farmers, and those already massed at Delhi’s borders, could return home after sometime if they wanted — the newest batches of arriving farmers would keep the protest going. Earlier on Wednesday, Pradhan had held a “panchayat” (meeting) of farmers at Amheda village in Amroha district, western Uttar Pradesh. He selected 100 farmers from the area to leave in the evening for the Chilla border between Noida and Delhi, about 150km away. “Every day, we are holding meetings in some or other village to mobilise protesters. Our farmers are agitated and want to join the protests at Delhi’s borders immediately,” Pradhan told reporters. He said the state BKU had held 200 such meetings over the past 10 days in the western Uttar Pradesh districts of Bijnore, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Meerut, Moradabad, Agra and Mathura. “We are also inviting to our panchayats protesters who have been protesting at Delhi’s borders for the past two weeks, so that they can inspire our farmers,” Pradhan said. Dungar Singh, a farmer leader who had been camping at the Chilla border, attended the Amheda panchayat on Wednesday before heading back towards Delhi. “We are prepared to attend every meeting called by the government and listen to them. But we shall keep telling the government that we will not settle for anything less than withdrawal of the new farm laws,” Dungar said. “We farmers must not listen to the rumours portraying us as divided and the protesters as non-farmers. Such conspiracies against us are nothing new.” Harprit Singh, a farmer from Hardoi district of central Uttar Pradesh who had been protesting at the UP Gate border in Noida, too attended the Amheda meeting. “Most of the farmers from our (Hardoi’s) villages, including the women, are gradually heading towards the Delhi border,” he said. “Many of us are taking our cows and buffaloes along to the protest sites in our tractors, because there would be nobody left in the villages to feed our cattle.” Harprit added: “We have formed 60 teams of farmers in Hardoi and adjoining areas. Each team has 80 farmers. These teams will keep heading to the Delhi border for the next 60 days.” He went on: “By that time, fresh teams will be formed in those villages in Hardoi, Lakhimpur, Shahjahanpur and Bareilly where our leaders will hold meetings.” Farmers from several states are camping at the Chilla, Sindhu, Tikari, UP Gate and Ghazipur borders between Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu holds rally sans party flags, vows to serve Bengal||Disgruntled TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari Thursday said he will continue to serve the people of the state as a "son of Bengal and India." His comment came amidst speculations over his next political move following the impasse in the dialogue between him and the party, which had claimed that differences with him had been sorted out. Adhikari, who resigned from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet last week, was seen on Thursday holding a rally here without banners or flags of the party. The rally was held to mark the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Khudiram Bose in Tamluk sub-division of East Midnapore district. His supporters were seen carrying the national flag during the programme. "The Constitution of our country speaks of government by the people, of the people and for the people. I am a son of Bengal and a son of India and will continue to serve the people of my state in that capacity," Adhikari told reporters when asked about his present political stand. His statement comes a day after leaders close to him had rejected the TMC leadership's claim of a rapprochement with him as "false", and said he is unpacified as his grievances have not been addressed. They said Adhikari, an influential leader with a mass base who had resigned from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet and other positions that he held a few days ago, has maintained that it is "difficult for him to work with the party." Meanwhile, according to TMC sources, the party leadership has sent Adhikari a message on Thursday morning stating that "the details of the meeting were disclosed after all the issues were discussed and resolved. "Now if you have changed your stand, it is your decision," the message said. Senior TMC leader Saugata Roy, who was among those who held talks with Adhikari to resolve the differences, said the "Party will not say anything more on the issue and now it is for him to speak up." Adhikari is said to be miffed at the way senior TMC leaders went to town on Tuesday claiming all differences with him had been sorted out after a high-level meeting that he had with TMC MPs Abhishek Banerjee, Saugata Roy and Sudip Bandopadhyay, besides election strategist Prashant Kishor. Sources close to Adhikari said he did not want the details of what transpired at the meeting during the backchannel talks to be leaked to the media. He has been incommunicado after the Tuesday night meeting. Repeated calls to the former minister for the last three days went unanswered. All eyes are now on Adhikari's scheduled press conference on December 6 at his hometown Kanthi in East Midnapore district. Adhikari, a mascot of the Nandigram movement that added to the political heft of Mamata Banerjee and catapulted her to power, had resigned as minister of transport, irrigation and waterways last week, setting off speculation that he may quit the ruling TMC ahead of the state assembly polls next year. Several rounds of backchannel talks to pacify the leader, believed to be unhappy over organisational changes and the growing clout of Abhishek Banerjee and Kishor, have come to nought. Himself a two-term former MP, Adhikari's father Sisir Adhikari and brother Dibyendu are sitting TMC MPs from Tamluk and Kanthi Lok Sabha constituencies respectively. The family wields considerable influence in at least 40-45 assembly segments in West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia, Jhargram, parts of Birbhum -- mainly in the Junglemahal region and areas in minority-dominated Murshidabad. The state polls are likely to be held in April-May next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||SUV rams into Siliguri home, youth dies||A 30-year-old person died and eight members of his family were injured when an SUV rammed into their house at Gatebazaar, a locality in ward 32 of Siliguri, on Tuesday night. Police seized the vehicle. The driver has managed to escape. “Around 11pm, members of the family had gathered in front of their house. Suddenly, an SUV that was moving through the locality rammed into their house and hit them. The driver had no control over the vehicle. We immediately rushed and shifted the family members to North Bengal Medical College & Hospital where the doctors said one of them had died,” said a local resident. The deceased was Sunil Routh. All other members of his family, including two children, are still under treatment at the NBMCH. On Wednesday morning, Ranjan Sarkar, president of Trinamul’s Darjeeling district (plains) committee, and ward coordinator Tapas Chatterjee visited the spot. They promised help for the family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Midnapore fugitive murder convict arrested ||One of the two fugitives, who had escaped from Midnapore district correctional home on Monday night, was arrested by Bijpur police from a hideout located on the Kampa-Baro Jagulia road in North 24-Parganas district late on Tuesday night. The two fugitives, identified as Mithun Das and Monojit Biswas, were convicted in the Rajib Das murder case that rocked Barasat in 2011. Both Mithun and Monojit were serving life terms at the Midnapore district correctional home along with Biswanath Chatterjee, who had also been convicted in the case. Mithun and Monojit had escaped from the correctional home by scaling the boundary wall with the help of an iron hook on Monday night. The jail authorities have suspended two guards of the correctional home for negligence in duty. A case has also been started against the fugitives. On Tuesday night, Bijpur police got a tip-off that Monojit had been seen moving around in the Charapole area on the Kampa road. A five-member team, led by the officer-in-charge of Bijpur police station, Triguna Roy, rushed to the area and found the duo in a house. While the police team managed to nab Monojit, Mithun managed to flee. Monojit was brought to Bijpur police station where he was handed over to a team of West Midnapore police. Bijpur police have begun a combing operation in the area and alerted all the nearby police stations about Mithun’s movement. Joint commissioner of Barrackpore police commissionerate, Ajoy Thakur, said: “Acting on a specific tip-off, a police team carried out a raid and nabbed one of the fugitives. He has been handed over to West Midnapore police.” An officer of Bijpur police station said: “We came to know that Monojit had taken shelter at his paternal house in Charapole area along with Mithun. From local sources we managed to get some of their pictures to be sure enough about their existence and carried out the operation.” On February 14, 2011, teenager Rajib was killed by Mithun, Monojit and Biswanath at around 11pm when he tried to resist a molestation attempt on her elder sister. Rajib, a school student, was accompanying her sister from Barasat railway station who was returning home from her workplace in Calcutta, when the trio tried to molest her near Kachhari Maidan close to the official residences of the district magistrate, superintendent of police and other senior administrative officials. As Rajib tried to resist the molestation attempt on his sister, the trio stabbed him at least 17 times killing him on the spot. The trio was arrested later. On February 12, 2015, the additional district judge of Barasat found them guilty and sent them to life imprisonment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Malda BJP joining event a flop show||BJP leaders in Malda district had a loss of face on Wednesday as a major joining programme that they had planned at Malatipur area turned out to be a flop show as only a few people turned up to receive the party’s flag at the event. The saffron camp had put impetus on the programme and had claimed hundreds of youths from the minority will join the party, a move that they felt could help them in drawing support from across Malda, a district that has close to 55 per cent minority population. Sources said that the BJP had planned the event on the Alhadipur Primary School premises in Malatipur under Chanchal subdivision of the district. The dais was readied and even a feast was planned after the programme. A delegation of district BJP leaders reached the spot and started overseeing arrangements. However, as the day rolled, they could not find any of those youths — all of them were from minority communities as claimed by the leaders — approaching the venue. They started calling up their local leaders and workers, and soon, it became evident that only a few such youths will turn up at the meeting. This made them curtail the arrangements but they kept on waiting for them. Eventually, in the afternoon, 15-odd youths from the minority community reached the venue. They were inducted into the party by Dipankar Ram, a district general secretary of BJP in Malda. “The BJP leaders had time and again mentioned about the event and had claimed that hundreds of youths from the minority community would be on board. But they could hardly get a few and we doubt whether these youths would sooner or later leave the party. It was an utter flop show and indicates that the minority community has summarily rejected the BJP by not responding to the call,” said Moazzem Hossain, the chairman of Malda district Trinamul unit. In Malda, the BJP had managed to win one of the two Lok Sabha seats in 2019 and an Assembly seat in 2016. The party is now desperate to win support of minorities, keeping in mind that there are 12 Assembly seats in Malda and that in 2016, Trinamul could not win even one seat. In closed quarters, the BJP leaders have admitted that the youths who got into the party have acted as a face-saver for them. However, leaders like Gobinda Mondal, the district BJP president, accused Trinamul for being instrumental in deterring the youths. “We have learnt from our party sources that those who were keen to join our party were threatened by Trinamul in different ways. They are mostly peasants and daily-rated workers, thus could not withstand the pressure. That is why they refrained from attending the programme,” Mondal said. Trinamul, however, has brushed aside the charges. “Local BJP leaders might have tried to persuade them but these people could finally realise BJP’s true agenda. That is why they stayed back,” said Hossain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Plan for Mamata north Bengal tour||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to visit north Bengal in the middle of this month in an attempt to energise Trinamul Congress workers ahead of the Assembly polls, party leaders in Cooch Behar said on Wednesday. “We have information that the chief minister might visit Cooch Behar in the second week of December. There are indications that she will hold an administrative review meeting and address a public meeting that will be organised by the party,” said minister Rabindranath Ghosh. The chief minister might also visit Jalpaiguri during her north Bengal tour, sources said. Mamata’s visit has been planned after Cooch Behar (South) MLA Mihir Goswami left Trinamul and joined the BJP. His cabinet colleague Binoy Krishna Burman said: “The schedule is yet to be finalised. All necessary arrangements would be made to ensure a large number of people at the public meeting.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was due to give an interview to the Oxford Union Society at 5pm (10.30pm IST) on Wednesday but the event did not take place. A spokesman for the Oxford Union Society, which describes itself as “the world’s largest and most famous debating society”, told The Telegraph: “The event had to be postponed, but we hope to reorganise it at the chief minister’s earliest convenience.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Special kiosks for Bengal health scheme ||The Bengal government has asked district authorities to set up special kiosks for the Swathya Sathi scheme at the camps under the Duare Sarkar (government on doorstep) programme after it appeared that 60 to 70 per cent visitors were applying for the free-of-cost health insurance that gives coverage up to Rs 5 lakh. “On Wednesday, a clear instruction was given from the top brass of the government that a separate arrangement be made to attend to those who are coming to get information related to Swasthya Sathi. On the first day, it was observed that 60-70 per cent of the visitors applied for the health insurance scheme,” said a senior government official. On Tuesday, the first day of the 60-day programme to reach out to people left out of government schemes, more than 1.25 lakh people had turned up at 20,000 odd camps set up across the state. “Although today’s final report is yet to be compiled, data from districts suggest that number of visitors did not drop significantly on the second day. Majority of the visitors on the second day were also showing interest in Swasthya Sathi,” said a source. In Birbhum, out of 7,711 persons who had visited the camps on Tuesday, 5,716 had applied for Swasthya Sathi. Around 3,600 of 6,000 people who turned up at camps in Bankura on Tuesday also applied for the same scheme. “The figures show people are interested in the scheme and that’s why the government is laying stress on special kiosks,” said a source So far, sources said, the state has brought 7.5 crore people under the scheme. The chief minister had announced recently that remaining 2.5 crore people in the state would also be included the scheme. “The government would try to reach out to 2.5 crore people who are yet to be brought under the scheme through the Duare Sarkar programme,” said a source. Officials also pointed out that the government was laying stress on delivery of services on time. “There is a clear instruction to issue health insurance cards to those who will apply through the camps at the earliest. Required equipment like biometric scanners has to be installed at the camps so that the cards could be issued instantly,” said an official. People showing interest in Swasthya Sathi is an encouraging sign for the ruling establishment as the BJP has been attacking the Trinamul government for not implementing Ayushman Bharat, a similar health scheme run by the Centre, in Bengal. “If people accept the state government scheme, the BJP would not be able to attack the state government on the matter,” said a source. The state government has also asked district administrations to allow self-help groups to set up stalls at the Duare Sarkar camps from where they can sell their produce. “We have already asked all blocks to set up stalls for self-help groups to sell their products. It would help the women of the groups earn money too,” Bankura district magistrate S. Arun Prasad said. Moushumi Mukherjee, the head of a self-help group which set up a stall at a Duare Sarkar camp in Bolpur town. Said: “My team sold homemade food and ornaments worth Rs 1,000. We would go to other camps in Bolpur town.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Left farmer outfits to march to Raj Bhavan||All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a Left-backed farmers’ organisations, announced on Wednesday that  it would organise a march to the Raj Bhavan in Calcutta on December 16 to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws  and express solidarity with the farmers protesting on the borders of the national capital. “We have planned a series of programmes throughout December, including a march to the governor’s residence, to protest against the laws and state-sponsored atrocities against the farmers in Delhi,” said Amal Halder, the state convener for the committee. “First, there will be a public meeting at Rani Rasmoni Avenue (in Calcutta). From there, we would go to the governor to submit our deputation,” he added. In the past two days, the committee organised more than 500 small and big rallies across Bengal in a bid to “inform people about the state atrocities on farmers in Delhi”. Tens of thousands of farmers have amassed on the borders of Delhi to protest the new farm laws. According to committee leaders, farmers in Bengal are facing additional problems because they aren’t being able to sell their produce at rates fixed by the government. “The farm laws will have adverse effects on farmers. Moreover in Bengal, corrupt Trinamul leaders have forced farmers to sell paddy at less than Rs 1000 per quintal,” Halder said. At present, the government has fixed a minimum support price of Rs1,880 a quintal for paddy, Halder added. To protest against this, members of the committee will come out on the roads on December 20 with sacks of paddy and block roads in different districts across the state. The Bengal Congress has decided to hit the streets on the issue of price hike with a programme titled Bajare Bajare (in the markets).  Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the state party chief, has asked workers to organise rallies, street corner meetings and marches in all districts of the state from Thursday on this issue. On December 9, Congress workers across the state will submit deputations at district headquarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Dilip talks of outsiders’ contribution in Bengal||BJP state president Dilip Ghosh stirred a fresh controversy on Wednesday when he said non-Bengalis had made greater contributions to the state than Bengalis. The comment drew sharp reactions from the non-BJP parties — as well as from within the saffron camp — at a time a debate on “outsiders” and “sons of the soil” has become a part of political discourse in the state. Ghosh made the remark at a party event in Calcutta’s Canning Street, a locality dominated by Hindi-speaking people. “Since the British period, people from outside have been coming to Bengal for professional reasons. Labourers from Bihar have worked at jute mills and factories on either side of the Ganga. The contribution of people from outside Bengal to the state’s development has been more than that of Bengalis,” Ghosh said. “How have these people… these Biharis become outsiders for you today? Are Shah Rukh Khan or Prashant Kishore not outsiders,” Ghosh asked, trying to take a jibe at the attempts of the Trinamul Congress to tag his party as one of “outsiders”. Multiple sources in the BJP claimed while Trinamul was trying to tag the BJP as a party of “outsiders”, Ghosh’s comment was unnecessary. “From Prime Minister Narendra Modi to home minister Amit Shah, everyone is focussing on how to shed the ‘outsider’ tag. In such a situation, Dilipda shouldn’t have said this,” a BJP leader told The Telegraph. Partha Chatterjee, state minister and secretary-general of the Trinamul, said the Midnapore MP was trying to humiliate and demean Bengalis. “I believe Dilip Ghosh is unaware of the contributions Bengal has made in the nation’s overall development and struggle for independence,” Chatterjee said. However, the CPM and the Congress accused both Trinamul and the BJP of indulging in competitive politics of identity. State Congress president and leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said Ghosh’s comment was an insult for Bengal. “Just as they have tried to divide Hindus and Muslims, they are now trying to create a rift between Bengali and non-Bengalis,” he said. Echoing Chowdhury, CPM MLA Sujan Chakraborty said: “Bengal is the land of renaissance. We believe in inclusivity. People from other parts of the nation have preferred Bengal as a destination for jobs and opportunities. The BJP and Trinamul are trying to divide the state on the basis of language, caste and religion.” Later in the day, Ghosh said he wanted to iterate that non-Bengalis had contributed to the building of the state. He referred to industrialists such as the Birlas and the Neotias and said no one could reject the contributions those people had made in the development of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Hint at end to drop in total Covid active cases in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday reported a drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases for the 37th consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja as the state logged 3,275 recoveries, 3,271 infections and 51 deaths. Having fallen by 13,024 since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, the total of active cases now is 24,166. In these 37 days, Bengal logged over 1.47 lakh recoveries and 1.36 lakh infections. But the gap between the daily recoveries and the new infections has been reducing over the past couple of weeks, which suggests the spell of fall in the total of active cases might end soon. “This is something we have noted. The number of daily recoveries has been on the decline for a fortnight or so,” said a Bengal minister. “We are not ruling out the possibility of this spectacular spell of turnaround ending in a matter of days. But that will be temporary, according to our estimates. We will be back on track again in no time,” he added. The state now has a total of over 4.9 lakh infections, which include more than 4.57 lakh recoveries and 8,527 deaths. The recovery rate, currently in an unbroken spell of rise for 41 consecutive days, rose to 93.33, closer to the national rate of 94.06 per cent. “This is far more important. We don’t foresee a break in this spell at the moment. The recovery rate will keep rising,” said the minister. Of the 51 deaths reported on Wednesday, a dozen were from Calcutta. The total toll comprises 7,139 (83.7 per cent) comorbid deaths. The state’s mortality rate improved to 1.73, but it is still behind national rate of 1.45 per cent. With 42,624 tests on Wednesday, the state’s total test count went past 59.58 lakh, at 66,209 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.22 per cent. The state reported 26.55 per cent occupancy on 13,538 beds for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Over 5.01 lakh telemedicine consultations have been made on the pandemic so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Morning after, Suvendu Adhikari signals change of mind||Trinamul Congress vice-president Saugata Roy appeared grim on Wednesday as he issued a statement suggesting a shift in former minister Suvendu Adhikari’s stand on a truce, barely 18 hours after the 73-year-old MP had said the rebellious East Midnapore leader was not leaving the party. In a dramatic turn of events after what Roy had described on Tuesday night as a “beautiful, fruitful, amicable discussion” between the sparring factions of Adhikari and Trinamul’s de facto Number Two Abhishek Banerjee, the Nandigram MLA sent a text message to Dum Dum MP Roy on Wednesday afternoon, stating it was “difficult” to work together. “I had communicated to you (media), truthfully, whatever happened at the meeting last evening and what was decided, in the presence of five people,” said Roy, one of the emissaries of the topmost tier of the leadership who had been relentlessly pursuing negotiation with Adhikari, hoping to retain him. The “five people” Roy mentioned were himself, Adhikari, Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek, poll consultant Prashant Kishor and Calcutta North MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay. The Trinamul chief had briefly joined the meeting telephonically, addressing Adhikari and others via speakerphone. “If there is any change of mind on the part of Suvendu, it is for him to decide and communicate to you,” added Roy on Wednesday afternoon, acknowledging receipt of the text message from Adhikari but refusing to divulge details on its content or react to it. However, given how the undying optimism of Roy on the Adhikari issue turned seemingly to pessimism — he said there was no scope for negotiation or further meetings if the former minister has, indeed, changed his mind — it became apparent that the frantic outreach from the Nandigram MLA’s camp since Wednesday morning, urging against believing the Triamul version, was with a clear purpose. According to sources, in the message to Roy, Adhikari told him that the concerns he had raised were yet to be addressed. “The issues I had raised are yet to be resolved. Without resolving them, everything is being imposed on me. I was to conduct a news conference on December 6. There, I was to state my position. But before that, you told the press everything,” said a Trinamul leader, quoting from the text, sent in Bengali. “It is difficult for me to work together. Please excuse me,” added the leader, quoting Adhikari’s text. Sources close to Adhikari said he would conduct that news conference on December 6, a day ahead of Mamata Banerjee’s proposed rally in Midnapore, where she had asked him to show up during the interaction on Tuesday night. Speculation has been rife for months that Adhikari, 49, who resigned from the cabinet on Friday, could join the BJP or float a new party aligned to the NDA, to deal a body blow to Trinamul in the Assembly elections. He is yet to resign from the party — he remains a general-secretary and part of the seven-member apex steering committee — and the Assembly. However, after the leadership almost pulled off a major coup on Tuesday evening by making Adhikari sit face to face with Abhishek and Kishor, claiming resolution thereafter, some saw in it a “miracle”. But things started changing soon after. At least one senior BJP leader — a Trinamul turncoat — said Adhikari had called him up late on Tuesday night and expressed “bitter displeasure” over what was being said by Roy and others to the media, as they were “lies”. Then, till around midday, the former minister’s acolytes reached out to several key loyalists —waiting for Adhikari’s decision to figure out their own political future — to not believe the Trinamul version. A senior Trinamul MP, with a relatively objective stand on the Adhikari issue, said both sides had been trying to use the negotiations to seek leverage. “The meeting had been arranged after Suvendu seemed almost over-eager. Suvendu had hoped the meeting and its content would be kept a secret, at least till he spoke to the media. He would probably have used the time to bargain, one last time, with the BJP. But Kalighat had other plans,” he said. “The public statements were deliberately issued. That cornered Suvendu and made him very angry,” he added. “Suvendu is yet to get what he wants from the BJP. That is why he is yet to jump ship.” The likes of BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh, who sounded deflated on Tuesday night, were buoyant again over the developments of Wednesday. “These old men being brought out of virtual retirement by Trinamul to desperately try and keep their young leaders from leaving have not been able to convince them. Give them to us, we will take care of them. Such hilarity is rare,” said the Midnapore MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Brick kiln owner’s school for kids of labourers||Somaiya, the five-year-old daughter of a brick kiln owner, inaugurated a primary school for children of labourers working in brick kilns at Sarberia village in South 24-Parganas’s Sandeshkhali on Wednesday. Class VIII dropout and Somaiya’s father Seikh Sahajahan, 39, set up the school at one of the kilns owned by him to fulfil his unaccomplished dream of education by educating the children of the brick kiln labourers. There are around 900 labourers who work in the numerous brick kilns in North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas, Sahajahan said. “It is a dream come true for me. The rootless life of the children of labourers used to haunt me. Their illiterate parents toil in the kilns and do not bother about the education of their children.  I feared the kids would one day end up as child labourers. That spurred me into starting an awareness drive among the labourers about the need of education. I shared the story of my life and the pain of being a dropout. Once they realised the need of education, I decided to set up a primary school for them,” Sahajahan, who is also a Trinamul leader and pradhan of the local Sarberia-Agarhati gram panchayat, told The Telegraph. The new school, which will have classes from I to IV, began its formal journey on Wednesday with around 300 students but teaching will start once Covid-19 pandemic restrictions are lifted. Sahajahan said the classes would be held from Monday to Friday and the school timings would be from 7am to 11am. To run the school, six local youths have been appointed as teachers, each of whom will be paid a monthly honorarium of Rs 4,000 by Sahajahan. Asked why he had decided to ask his daughter, who is a kindergarten student, to inaugurate the school, Sahajahan said: “I took Somaiya to tell the labourers that if she could go to school, why should their children be left out. I am happy that my effort has worked as the labourers have enrolled their kids who had dropped out of school to resume study.” Mizanur Mandal is one of those who enrolled her daughter who had dropped out of school to resume studies. “It was only because of Sahajahan bhai’s encouragement that my daughter can resume studies and does not remain illiterate like us,” he said. Apart from the seven class rooms, Sahajahan has built a vaccination centre at the school. “Education and vaccination are equally important for the children. Government health workers will be invited to vaccinate the children,” Sahajahan added. Sahjahan, however, lamented that he would not be able to offer mid-day meals to the children but plans to serve them biscuits during tiffin time. “I hope I will be able to serve them mid-day meal one day,” he said. Sandeshkhali Trinamul MLA Sukumar Mahato said: “No word is enough to praise Sahajahan. He is a man with a big heart. He has turned his pain into a noble gesture.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
03-12-2020||North East||Congress, AIUDF address first joint poll rally||The Opposition Congress and the AIUDF on Wednesday addressed a joint political rally for the first time to muster support for the alliance’s candidates in the Bodoland Territorial Council polls in Assam, a significant political development because its outcome will have ramifications beyond the BTC. Assam PCC chief Ripun Bora and AIUDF president Badruddin Ajmal addressed a total of four rallies during the day for the December 7 and 10 polls. They started at Mudaibari constituency in Udalguri district, hopping from one constituency to another in a chopper, something which only senior state cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has been doing regularly since October-end. The Congress’s alliance with the AIUDF was decided nine months ago even before the talks of a proposed grand alliance involving the two parties, the Left and regional parties started doing the rounds. The alliance is also significant because there is opposition from within the Congress on any direct truck with the AIUDF as it may impact the party’s prospects in the Brahmaputra Valley in next year’s Assembly polls. The AIUDF was formed in 2005 after Ajmal fell out with former chief minister Tarun Gogoi, denting the Congress’s dedicated minority vote bank. Ajmal said at one of the rallies on Wednesday that it was the first time they were sharing a stage forgetting “our” past, a sign of the proposed mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) for the Assembly polls taking shape from the BTAD to unseat the ruling BJP alliance. “Our mahagathbandhan will solve all your problems, not the BJP. Te Congress is our Big Brother and we will work together,” Ajmal said. The Left and the new regional parties are also for a united front to take on the BJP. Bora said they have joined hands to remove the BPF, the BJP and the UPPL from the BTC. “I promise there will be no council without the Congress and the AIUDF. We will hold the key to the formation of the council,” he said. Sharing the stage with Ajmal and Bora were former Congress minister Rakibul Hussain and AIUDF general secretary Aminul Islam. The alliance will see Congress contest 13 seats and the AIUDF seven in the 40-member council which has been ruled by the Bodoland People’s Front since its inception in 2005. Assam PCC general secretary and senior spokesperson Durga Das Boro told The Telegraph that the BTC polls will be an “acid test” for the party, the state leadership and the proposed grand alliance to take on the well-entrenched BJP in the 2021 Assembly polls. “We are dealing with the polls with the seriousness it deserves. The result will have an impact beyond the BTC and the grand alliance involving the AIUDF. Everyone has been urged to contribute to the party and the alliance’s victory. It is undoubtedly an acid test for us and the three of us — myself as BTRCCC chairman, the PCC chief and Assam in-charge Jitendra Singh. This will be our first BTC polls,” Boro said. The BJP and its ally AGP have gone all out against the proposed grand alliance, raking up the illegal Bangladeshi bogey, an emotive issue in the Brahmaputra Valley. The AGP on Wednesday said that the issue would affect the Assamese and its culture. However, one key reason the ruling dispensation is against the grand alliance is the vote share the Congress and the AIUDF command. Together with small and regional parties they could be a potent threat, the Congress and AIUDF leaders said. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the BJP-led alliance won 86 seats with a 41.9 per cent vote share while the Congress bagged 26 (31 per cent)and the AIUDF 13 (13 per cent). Together, the Congress and the AIUDF had a vote share of 44 per cent, 3 per cent more than the BJP, an AIUDF leader said. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP won seven seats while the Congress and the AIUDF bagged three and one seat respectively. The BJP polled 83,24,083 votes, the Congress 63,08,928 and the AIUDF 4,84,560. The BJP enjoyed a comprehensive edge but then the voting pattern in a general election is different from state polls, said a Congress leader. The Congress had drawn a blank in the 2015 BTC polls while the AIUDF had won four seats. Congress insiders said the party has lost a lot of ground since the birth of BPF which was the party’s ally at Dispur before it joined hands with the BJP before the 2016 Assembly polls. This time, however, the BPF finds itself in a spot, challenged as it is by its ally BJP, the United People’s Party Liberal and the Congress-AIUDF alliance. The BPF is contesting 37 seats, the BJP 26 and the UPPL 40. Presently, the council is under governor’s rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
03-12-2020||Opinion||Home fires: BTech in mother tongues||The present Indian government is constituted of experts in all fields. Else it would be difficult to account for the education ministry’s announcement that the Indian Institutes of Technology and National Institutes of Technology will offer BTech courses in the mother tongue besides English from 2021. This is, ostensibly, to make the course accessible to those without an English medium education. It does not matter that academics associated with advanced technical education insist that selecting meritorious students from non-English medium backgrounds is not difficult, and that they subsequently follow their lessons perfectly well. Instead, the government is busy imposing enormous odds on the institutes. Text books and technical terminology in regional languages are rare, and students will also need reference works. How can so much be translated — if possible at all — in so short a time? Where are teachers trained in teaching engineering in the regional languages to come from? The government has defined ‘mother tongue’ as the chief language of the state in which an IIT or NIT is situated. Surely one language for all is less discriminatory than that? The institutes would have to add 50 seats for regional language-medium students, although the increase in capacity is being ordered with no hint of fund sources. Practical aspects apart, the announcement indicates the government’s indifference to the notion of academic freedom. The opinion of teachers or of the institutes’ policymaking bodies was not sought. It may be a coincidence that regional language teaching in the highest technological spheres has long been a goal of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. In spite of some directors agreeing that this is possible, even if in the long run, most professors have expressed alarm at not just the loss of brand value of their institutions, but also the limiting of the students’ future careers. What is global would perforce become local for 50 in each BTech class. This is not to deny the importance of lessons in the mother tongue. But that has its context, and immeasurable foundational value for the development of the intellect. Perhaps the education ministry in its enthusiasm forgot that its models in introducing the mother tongue in engineering, Germany and China, have junked the experiment and returned to teaching in English. Should the moral be phrased in the mother tongue?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
03-12-2020||Opinion||Hear them: Farmer protests||Dialogue and democracy should, under ideal circumstances, be conjoined. But democracy works in mysterious ways in New India. The Centre is holding talks with farmers and their representative bodies over their reservations against contentious legislations passed in the name of agricultural reform: the second round is expected to take place today. But the deliberations between the farmers and the government were not assured: the right had to be earned by a set of courageous men and women after confronting a government resistant to talks. Every trick in the authoritarian rule book had been employed by an elected government to prevent the farmers from getting themselves heard. Several obstacles — literal and figurative — had been placed on their path: the constituency that feeds the nation had to get past lathis, water cannons and boulders on their way to get to their destination. Simultaneously, a vicious campaign was launched by the right-wing ecosystem — segments of the media are embedded in it — to discredit the movement and malign the farmers. The protesters were branded as sympathizers of Khalistan; shrill, accusatory voices suggested that the protest was being ‘sponsored’ by the Congress, which is in power in Punjab; Bharatiya Janata Party leaders also tried — in vain — to argue that the protests were limited to Punjab but the presence of cultivators from Haryana and Madhya Pradesh — the BJP is in power in both states — has given the lie to this claim. The signals from the upper echelons were equally unsympathetic: the prime minister, instead of agreeing to a meeting immediately, kept insisting that the farmers were being misled. The deep crisis in India’s agrarian sector goes beyond the features of the new farm bills. It is the result of systematic crippling of farmers’ interests and agricultural productivity by successive governments. The BJP is not the only party complicit in this institutional apathy. But what the BJP seems to be trying — and succeeding to a large extent — is to demonize protests and dissent. Any narrative that is critical of or effectively counters official policy, be it on a controversial citizenship law, communal riots, demonetization and, now, agrarian distress, is distorted and dismissed. Democracy has been rightly imagined as a din of multiple voices. This is especially true in the context of a diverse polity such as India. Unfortunately, one voice, that of the government, is being allowed to dominate all others in the country today. This does not augur well for the future of democratic India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
03-12-2020||Opinion||Fight against the virus of unreason||“If you can keep your head when all about you/ Are losing theirs...” — Rudyard Kipling Increasingly, I have been feeling the pressing need to bring back an old subject in our curriculum. The subject is logic. In the light of the kind of behaviour being generally demonstrated by people in society, not least by political leaders, it is imperative that students should learn not to emulate them. They need to learn that emotions alone cannot rule behaviour and certainly not decisions. Students must be reminded what adults are forgetting: that it is the ability to reason that largely distinguishes man from beast. While studying logic, students used to learn about fallacies in reasoning. I remember that one of the first textbook examples was the famous Aristotelian syllogism, “All men are mortal; Socrates is a man; therefore, Socrates is mortal”. This was followed by “All birds can fly; XYZ is a bird; therefore, XYZ can fly”, which in turn generated animated discussions. An airplane could fly but it wasn’t a bird; an airplane can’t fly on its own unlike a bird. But some birds can’t fly — so the basic premise is incorrect, and so on. This kind of mental exercise was good for students and they soon learned not to jump to conclusions. Arguments are so riddled with fallacies that we often fail to recognize them. Someone has suggested that there should be a fallacy-checker in our computer software just as there is a spell-checker and a grammar-checker. Of course, it is another matter when people knowingly use false data and statistics while trying to persuade others to follow their line of thinking. Many election campaigners are guilty of this but I never thought that I would live to witness a president of a country being abruptly cut off by three television channels because he was spouting blatant lies. Recently, I learnt the difference between a lie and a falsehood and between truthfulness and truthiness (something that only seems to be true). All this made me painfully aware that we live in a post-truth world which urgently begs that we teach our students to seek evidence, look out for fallacies and identify fake news. A common practice in present times is appealing to emotion rather than facts or reason to make a point. The manipulation of emotions is dangerous because it fuels hatred, anger, envy and other negative passions. Ironically, intense religious and patriotic feelings and obsessive love for a leader or icon can also be damaging and has often led to mindless violence. It is the absence of clear reasoning and the igniting of emotions (in addition to ‘conditioning’) that reinforce prejudice, discrimination and superstition. Today, we despair over a polarized world which sees every issue in black and white. If we wish to change this state of affairs, we must ensure that our young develop the ability to process opposing views in their minds. This ability has been described as the hallmark of adulthood. Sweeping generalizations, the red herring strategy and the bandwagon fallacy are other examples of faulty reasoning. We all know how skilled speakers can deftly introduce a red herring in the middle of a discussion. The diversion is actually a ploy to distract the listener from unpleasant features of the topic and prevent uncomfortable questions from the audience. I often hear students (and adults too) starting a sentence with “everybody”. “Everybody is saying that our exams are being postponed.” On asking for the identity of “everybody”, the response that one gets is usually hilarious. “Everybody is supporting something and therefore it is right” represents the bandwagon fallacy. Then there is the rampant use of harmful stereotypes to prove a point. Often, unproven statements such as “X institution is the best in the country” are made with great conviction. Young people must learn to distinguish between opinion and fact. Appealing to tradition as justification for a particular line of thought or action is a fallacy. “We have always done it like this” does not prove its superiority to other untried ways. Also, it is important to be conscious of our own biases as they often lead us to unwittingly select only the examples or data that support our beliefs and ignore others that do not. A singularly uncivilized way of arguing is by making personal attacks. In school debating clubs, personal attacks can get debaters disqualified. Yet our students witness political leaders resorting to name-calling, making fun of their opponents’ physical characteristics or talking disparagingly about their personal lives to influence the audience against their rivals. Then there is the tu quoque or ‘you too’ tactic. Public debates these days soon turn into whataboutery — as if someone else’s misdeeds automatically erase your own. Personal attack as a strategy in argument is uncouth and fatuous, but appeal to force is the most primitive and dangerous. The veiled and sometimes open threat of harmful consequences if one does not follow a particular way of thinking or acting has become a common way to bring people into line. Sometimes, a harried mother, tired of explaining rules to an exasperating child, will end an argument by saying, “You will obey me because I am your mother, period”. Incidentally, most children of authoritarian parents know that dictators do not need to reason. A fallacy in reasoning that everyone is familiar with is the non sequitur. It is a conclusion that does not follow logically from previous statements. For example, the other day someone remarked that she still missed the old 1,000-rupee note. The spontaneous, ridiculous response was, “Ah, so you are a Nehrubhakt!” I rest my case: students must learn to protect themselves from the virus of unreason.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
03-12-2020||Opinion||Out of step||Question: What may be kissed once every while, caressed and sworn by, often be held and photographed as if a trophy, and left to the side only to be arrived at occasionally and ritually? You may wish to ponder, you may well arrive at multiple correct answers. Meantime, we’ve made progress, and it should get our attention. We have moved from the solitary peacock-peppered majesty of perfumed palace gardens to locations closer to people, so close they appear to be within waving distance. The extravagant Dev Deepavali enactment in Varanasi, the mostly woe-begotten constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has seduced many descriptions. Sober, or modulated to the timbre of a marauder pandemic and its devastations, cannot be one of them. Nor was it remotely resonant of rites or traditions associated with worship along the holy banks of Kashi. If anything, it had the markings of a belligerent violation of the native elegance of Dev Deepavali, grace and splendour bombarded to bits by dazzle and decibel purchased from merchandisers of kitsch. To call it a son-et-lumière would be to besmirch that description. It was more a nouveau night-clubber’s idea of a jaunt on the river. But the prime minister’s outlandish ostentation on the Ganga should be deemed only part of the takeaway from the evening, a lesser and insignificant part of it. Style can be subjective; turning out at a summit event in bespoke personalized pinstripes may seem crass to some, classy to others. The message being sent out with in-your-face unabashedness of posture was where the vulgarity really lay. Covid has claimed close to a hundred and fifty thousand lives. Multiple millions lie afflicted, displaced, deprived of livelihoods, struggling without means to see through the next day. The economy is in alarming contraction. Hardship is mounting and nobody is in doubt that the worst is yet to come. The intimations of gloomier times are widespread and understood enough for even the most blatant and inveterate drum beaters of the regime to stir anywhere near the mention of achchhe din; the promise must seem to them like a ghost in need of exorcising. That the Chinese army waged in and now squats over vast territories we considered our own is no longer in need of attestation or acknowledgement; it is an adverse truth that Modi hasn’t displayed the will or strategy to change. That the farmlands that fill our granaries are aflame over the government’s unsolicited interventions is not some conspiracy cooked up in the back rooms of the Opposition. Chance would be a fine thing if the Opposition was even able. Farmers, possessed of collective native wisdoms accumulated over generations, have smelt a rat in the package being handed out; they fear corporate smash-and-grab. They’ve left home and hearth and have laid siege to Delhi to press for a reversal. They are bivouacked under open skies in the northern winter, being lavished by the government’s propagandists as a league of conspirers. And what must one call our pradhan sevak tapping feet and fingers to psychedelic strobe beats on a riverfront at such a time? People may some day discover the words and the sentiments to express how it feels to see the prime minister of a nation marooned in darkening deficits out on a garish picnic. It’s an effrontery whose coarseness of quality will take time to make itself felt where it hurts. Sublime disregard should work for lack of a fuller description. He couldn’t care. But do we care? Or shouldn’t we? We must ask of ourselves questions far more fundamental than the questions we ask of those we elect. Nations, after all, are not creatures of government in a democracy; governments are creatures of nations, they make and unmake governments and, therefore, the responsibility of what a nation becomes must lie with those who populate it. Democracies are not electoral fetes called at designated intervals as handing-over rites; democracies are a consequence of elections and must remain animated between one election and another. Democracies must transcend what happens in elections and the governments that get formed as a consequence. Else, democracies will sooner be dead. Governments don’t keep democracies alive, nations and people do. We are at a stage in our journey where we must wonder if we even wish to continue as a democracy. The cacophonic rejoicing of bigotry tells us otherwise; indifference to, or silent acceptance of, the methodical demolition of our chosen essentials only serves as endorsement of the undoing of what we set out to be. Do we care that the magical tapestry of our nation is being ripped at the seams? It wouldn’t be quite enough to label Narendra Modi a power-intoxicated authoritarian usurping powers, dismantling institutions, and cynically manoeuvring every lever at his command to disable or demolish what comes in his way. He represents a government, we represent the nation that put him there. It is critical to understand the difference. But do we care? Do we care how shoddily we have been treated through this calamitous crisis? Shuttered by a firman on a four-hour lockdown notice, commanded to clap and dance and light up, left to our devices and harassed and whipped as we tried to cope in ways we could? Do we care about all this while we have been prescribed counterfeit cocktails disguised as magic potions by profiteer thugs? Do we care that our fellow citizens have been stripped of their rights, shoved into prison and allowed little recourse? Do we care that the writ of habeas corpus has become what may be called two dead letters? Do we care that our justice system has forgotten how to dispense it? Or dispenses it with audacious partisanship? Do we even care, or know, what it means when the eminences of the highest court of the land blithely pronounce they are trying to curtail the use of Article 32, the arch-protector of the fundamental guarantees we gave ourselves? Do we care what atrocity, insult and humiliation we continue to heap on the people of Kashmir whom we call our own, if only because they come under the sweep of our laws and forces? Does it strike us that some among us have lynched and killed with abandon and been celebrated for the act of murder? Do we understand the bleak contours of the dystopia we have wilfully arrived in? Where love can been deemed an act of war, dissent anti-national, rape a justifiable resort whose evidence is required to be torched under official fiat, and biryani a weapon of mass destruction? Do we understand the meaning of one of our most powerful and popular corporate houses not being able to sustain an advertisement that celebrates inter-faith harmony? Do we even grasp the connotations of our kaleidoscopic demography? It can fall into beauteous patterns, it can also be brought to shatter and cut. It seldom cuts one way; history is proof, and the future a foretelling. And, by the way, one of the things that answers to the question posed at the top is the Constitution of India; the clues that give the answers away can be read as the paces of getting discarded. Be well warned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||12 workers injured in Brahmaputra Metallics plant blast||Six technicians were severely injured when an explosion took place at Brahmputra Metallics Ltd, a sponge iron plant in Kamta of Ramgarh’s Gola block, on Thursday. The blast occurred due to a gas leak in the sponge iron plant, a noted industrial establishment of state. According to the eye witness, around a dozen of the employees, all technicians have sustained injuries. The injured workers were first taken to Chittaranjan Hospital, where they were given the necessary first aid, before being rushed to Ranchi’s Devkamal Hospital. Out of the six technicians, who have sustained serious injuries, three of them are in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Ranchi hospital. Around nine of the injured workers have been admitted here. Locals have alleged that there was complete chaos in the plant when the explosion took place. They even accused the company of not maintaining the safety standards inside the plant. The ambulance too arrived late to ferry the injured to the hospital. A team of police led by DSP head quarter Prakash Soy reached the accident site in factory to investigate. Soy said, “The injured individuals are being treated at Devkamal hospital, Ranchi. We have begun out investigation. Once we are done with the investigation we will take legal action if needed.” Local Congress leader Sudhir Manglesh accused the company of ignoring safety standards. “In 2018, there was an explosion in the factory, in which one worker was killed. In another accident, one person had to be amputated. Today again a major accident has taken place. The factory management should provide proper treatment to those injured. These people should also be compensated.” Human resource head of the company Anjani Kumar, when contacted said, “The accident took place unexpectedly. We are busy providing medical treatment to the injured. Company will provide all the help to them. It is an unfortunate incident. We are present in Devkamal hospital to help the injured.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Special people observe black day,  protest with begging bowl||The disabled persons of the district on Thursday took part in a unique protest as they hit the streets with begging bowl near the district collectorate at Sakchi. Around 50 physically disabled persons under the banner of Akhil Bhartiya Viklang Adhikari Sangh sat with begging bowl along the Subarnarekha Link Road near the district collectorate. The protest, in which the agitated disabled persons demanded advance pension, began at 10.30 am continued for over two hours. “We chose today for the protest as it is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. During the lockdown in March, the Centre had announced to give three months pension in advance to all persons with disabilities. But, we are yet to get the advance pension. This has led to hardships and acute financial crisis for the disabled,” said Deepak Kumar, secretary of Akhil Bhartiya Viklang Adhikari Sangh. According to Kumar, persons with disabilities also observed a black day on Thursday. Later, the outfit submitted a memorandum highlighting their demands at the deputy commissioner's office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||CCTV cameras in Steel City parking lots to curb vehicle theft||Thanks to Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), vehicle parking will be a lot safer in Steel City now. The civic body, JNAC, is all set to have surveillance cameras and barricades installed in parking lots across the city. The move to put parking zones under surveillance aims to curb the menace of vehicle theft, which has been on the rise of late. Significantly, the civic authority has put up a drop gate at one of the parking areas in Bistupur to assure owners that their vehicles are protected. City Manager, JNAC, Sandeep Kumar Singh, while explaining the need for such initiatives, said that the move to put up barricades and have CCTV cameras installed to provide enhanced security to the vehicles parked. “We have over a dozen parking lots in Bistupur, Sakchi, and Kadma area. We are going to put up barricades wherever necessary and also have CCTV cameras installed. The parking lots will have barricades. And owners will be allowed to park their vehicles through the drop gates only. This arrangement is going to provide more protection to the parked vehicles,” said the City Manager while talking to The Telegraph Online. Singh said that Bistupur and Sakchi had the most parking areas, whereas Kadma market had only one. “All the parking zones will have surveillance cameras, which will be monitored by the concerned police station. In case of theft, the CCTV footage could be used to trace the thieves easily,” he said. Parking tender for the financial year 2019-20 had ceased to exist, post-March 25, 2020 as no one used public places for parking their vehicles during the lockdown period. But with the lockdown being lifted, in phases since August, city life is returning to normalcy, made the civic body float parking tender once again. But with incidents of vehicle lifting shooting up forced them to cancel the parking tender based on the old pattern. JNAC has made several new provisions which includes the installation of CCTV cameras and putting up barricades around parking lots. Contractors have been allotted to all the parking lots across the city. An official working with one of the parking contractors, Shail Engineering, said, “As per the new system, vehicle riders have to collect parking slips at the entrance and while leaving the place, they have to hand over the slip to the parking men at the exit. The security system will be further enhanced when the parking area will be covered by the CCTV camera,” said the official while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||CM rewards class 10, 12 toppers with Rs 1 lakh each||Chief minister Hemant Soren felicitated toppers of class 10 and 12 board exams on Thursday by presenting cheques worth Rs 1 lakh to each student for meritorious performance and also presided over the launch of two digital teaching platforms to improve the quality of online education in government schools. Hemant assured the government’s support to all the meritorious students of Jharkhand, asking them to aim high and strive for success in academics. “The government stands by your side. We will support meritorious students of our state in achieving success. Very soon, the government will also provide foreign scholarships to students of our state,” he said. This year, more than seven lakh students appeared for class 10 and 12 exams conducted by Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC), Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISC) in Jharkhand. On July 22, the Jharkhand Cabinet decided to give away cash awards of Rs1 lakh to each of the toppers of class 10 and class 12 in a bid to encourage them to pursue higher goals. As per a document shared by the HRD department, as many as 38 students were felicitated. The government launched two digital platforms – Digi School and Learnytic 2.0. While Digi School will be used for online classes for students of classes 1 to 8, Learnytic will make online education easier for students of class 9 to 12. Through the Learnytic app, students will get access to e-books, sample question papers with answers, and audiovisual aids, something that was ill now restricted to private schools of Jharkhand. Officials of Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) said the apps were much needed for government school students as online classes using WhatsApp were quite challenging for teachers. Students will have to get registered on the two apps, using their school credentials, and get access to all the study materials. Besides giving away cash prizes to toppers, Hemant also felicitated at least eight government school students, who found berths in IITs and medical colleges after preparing through Jharkhand’s Akansha project. Under the project, the government provides free coaching to meritorious students of government schools to help them crack JEE and NEET exams. Hemant also conferred Mukhyamantri Swaccha Vidyalaya awards to nine schools for maintaining cleanliness and hygiene on campuses. Representatives of Government Public School, Kutmu, Lohardaga; Government Public School, Gopalpur Deoghar; Rajkiya Madhya Vidyalaya, Kaswagarh, Bokaro; Government Madhya Vidyalaya Lohardaga; Rajkiya High School, Amlabad, Bokaro; Yogada Satsang High School, Jagganathpur; KGBV Senha, Lohardaga; Samarth Residential School, Golmuri, Jamshedpur and Saraswati Vidya Mandir School, Gumla were felicitated by the CM at project building in Ranchi. The schools were awarded with cheques ranging between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 2 lakh depending on their performance. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, another 110 schools, which were supposed to get felicitated in Ranchi, were given the awards at ceremonies organised in their respective districts on Thursday. “Due to Covid-19 restrictions, all of you could not attend the event. However, I thank everyone participating in the ceremony via online platforms for joining us today,” said Hemant. Talking about the glorious past of some of the reputed schools in Jharkhand, Hemant said that Netarhat School in Latehar had produced more than 2000 IAS officers. “We feel proud that schools of such high stature are imparting education to our children,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Leaders, local residents pay tributes to Tundi MLA ||Political leaders including AJSU supremo Sudesh Mahato, Giridih MP Chandraprakash Chaudhary and locals of Dhanbad on Thursday paid tributes to former Tundi MLA Raj Kishore Mahato, who passed away at the age of 75 on Wednesday while undergoing treatment at the Asian Durgadas Jalan Memorial Hospital. The leader died at around 8:30 pm on the day. The politician joined active politics following the death of his father Binod Bihari Mahato, who was the founder of JMM, and contested the parliamentary election in 1991 to win a seat at Giridih. He later won the assembly election from Sindri on a BJP ticket in 2009. Following his win at Sindri, Mahato contested the assembly elections from Tundi in 2014 on an AJSU ticket to win it. However, he could not prove himself during the last polls, and lost the Tundi seat to JMM’s Mathura Prasad Mahato. Raj Kishore graduated in Mining Engineering from Indian School of Mines (now IIT (ISM)) in 1968, and later went on to earn his LLB degree from Chotanagpur Law College in 1975. The former Tundi MLA also served as the chairman of the state Legal Commission after his loss in the last assembly polls, to concentrate on educational and social work under the banner of Binod Bihari Mahato Smarak Samiti. AJSU supremo Sujesh Mahato, who arrived at Raj Kishore’s Professor Colony residence at Chiragora to pay his last respects, told the media, “We have lost our guardian in his death.” “The state has suffered a great loss in the demise of Raj Kishore Mahato, who propagated the ideals of his father,  Binod Bihari Mahto, throughout his life. A void has been created following his death,” he further said. Giridih MP Chandraprakash Chaudhary was also among the ones who arrived at the deceased leader’s house. Tundi MLA and former land revenue minister, Mathura Prasad Mahato also reached his residence on Thursday morning to console his family members. “He was a man of principles who never compromised his principle for the sake of political or personal gains,” he said. Dhanbad MP PN Singh, said, “Rajkishor Mahto, like his father Binod Bihari Mahato contributed hugely in the development of educational institutions in the district.” Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha said, “He was an intellectual leader and carried forward the social work and educational activity of his father in true spirit.” “I am personally shocked over his death as he was my political guru and I started politics under his guidance,” said Sindri MLA Indrajit Mahato, while expressing grief over Raj Kishore’s death. The former MLA’s body will be cremated on Friday Baliapur Mukti Dham where several prominent leaders of the state, including the state chief Hemant Soren, are likely to be present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Parents say thank you to special teachers ||As the world celebrates International Day of Persons with Disabilities on December 3, parents of children with disabilities in Jharia expressed their gratitude to the special teachers of a government-owned resource centre for the disabled children. The teachers of the centre took the extra effort to continue the training and exercise session for these children even during the lockdown by reaching their houses. The resource centre was established under the education programme of Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan. Manoj Singh, physiotherapist of the Jharia-based resource centre, and Akhlaque Ahmad, special educator-cum-speech therapist, during the lockdown, didn’t allow the training and exercises to be discontinued even for a single day for over 20 cerebral palsy affected and autistic children. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Singh said, “Though altogether 109 children are registered at our centre, we were greatly concerned about the well-being of around 20 cerebral palsy affected children, ever since the imposition of lockdown. We used the smartphones to make video calls explaining the exercises and even sent videos of exercises to be carried out regularly through WhatsApp.” “With the gradual passage of time and improving Covid-19 situation, we started visiting the house of some students occasionally and provide training to them,” further said Singh. Echoing sentiments, Akhlaque Ahmad, said, “We also carried out training in basic hygiene and cleanliness about these children which is quite crucial for their health.” “For some children of the economically backward section of the society, whose parents could not afford to have smartphones to avail the online exercise lessons, we had to visit their home and give them the lessons,” said Ahmad. Hasina Khatoon, grandmother of a cerebral palsy affected student, Sajjad Ansari (12), who accompanied her grandson during a programme for the International Day of Persons with Disabilities organised at the resource centre on Thursday said, “My grandson could not walk properly and used to fall while walking and also profuse saliva secretion used to take place. Ever since he started training at the resource centre the condition of Sajjad improved a lot and now he plays cricket with the other children of the locality.” “We are grateful for the help carried out by the teachers of the centre and particularly, Manoj Singh sir and Akhlaque sir who continued the training all through the lockdown and even took the pain of sometimes visiting our house to clarify the exercise steps,” said Khatoon, whose son Imtiyaz Ansari is a daily wage earner. Sima Devi, the mother of 15-year-old cerebral palsy affected girl Pammi Kumari, said, “We were very disappointed seven years ago when we admitted our daughter to the centre as she could even stand on her own properly but the dedicated efforts of teachers did a miracle for her. Now she not only runs but also sings devotional songs during some of the religious programmes at a nearby temple.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Sex toys, arms & ammo recovered from rebel hideout||Security forces on Thursday recovered a huge cache of arms and ammunition and sex toys from a Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad (JJMP) hideout in Palamau after a brief gun battle with the rebels, police said on Thursday. During a search operation, security forces recovered one AK-56 rifle, three magazines, a country-made pistol, about two dozen cartridges, 8 cell phones, a couple of walkie talkies and notebooks. A CRPF officer said that they also found a polythene sheet which meant that the rebels had spent considerable time there. However, the appearance of sex toys at the hideout of Left Wing Extremist (LWE) group has surprised police. “We found one sex toy with a vibrator at the JJMP hideout. The group has both men and women as cadre, many of whom we saw flee,” said Palamau SP Sanjeev Kumar. JJMP is a splinter CPI (Maoist) group, which is active in parts of Jharkhand. As per records with the Union home ministry, it is one of the 17 splinter outfits in the state, involved in extorting levy from businessmen and killing villagers. Police say that JJMP rebels do not follow the ideology of the CPI (Maoist), the main rebel outfit in Jharkhand. The raids on Thursday were conducted at Salamdiri under Panki police station, a little over 100 km north-west of capital Ranchi, after the CRPF and police acted on a tip-off based on credible intelligence. Commandant of the CRPF’s 134 battalion A.D. Sharma said the encounter took place around 9.45 am and lasted for 10 minutes before the rebels, around a dozen or so, fled. Police failed to nab any of the rebels. “We have made recoveries, but the insurgents fled the spot. Our operations will continue in the area, and the rebels will be caught soon,” said the Palamu SP. As per data with the MHA, at least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand are LWE affected. Apart from the CPI (Maoist), splinter outfits like JJMP, Peoples Liberation Front of India (PLFI) and Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC) are active in various pockets of Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Left parties back farmers, plan road blockade in Jharkhand||Left parties and social groups linked to them have announced statewide road blockades on December 10 in solidarity with protesting farmers, who are camping on the borders of Delhi in support of their demand to repeal the new farm laws enacted by the Narendra Modi government. As a prelude to the December 10 blockade, Left parties will also hold candlelight processions across district and block levels. Days earlier, on December 5, they will hold block-level demonstrations. A decision to this effect was taken at a joint meeting, held between representatives of CPI, CPM, CPI (M-L), Marxists Coordination Committee (MCC) on Wednesday, CPM state secretary Prakash Viplav said in a statement on Thursday. He claimed members of the ruling coalition, namely, JMM, Congress and RJD, would also support the protests. Viplav called the new farm laws pro-capitalist and anti-farmer. “The farm and labour laws brought by the government are totally pro-capitalist, no wonder the Modi government tries to justify its stand. If farm laws are for the farmers, why are so many farmers on the streets?” he said, adding that the country was united against privatisation of farmland. “In solidarity with lakhs of protesting farmers, we have also decided to hold chakka-jam on December 10. However, throughout this week, different groups will be staging demonstrations and marches across the state in the run-up to the statewide chakka-jam,” he said. CPI state secretary B.P. Mehta said that the way farmers were beaten up during the protest showed how nervous the Union government was. “We condemn such attacks on farmers,” he said. The state’s ruling coalition government, headed by Hemant Soren, has already expressed his views on the legislations by calling them black laws. Reacting to the ongoing protests by farmers in Delhi, Hemant told reporters that he felt sorry for annadatas. “Those who feed the country and are considered as the main drivers of the nation’s economy are today forced to fend for their rights on streets. In the current regime at the Centre, farmers, marginalised, labourers and the likes are constantly under threat,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI's Samarthya hosts Reflections-2020 on virtual platform||Samarthya, the student body of XLRI which help school students realise their potential by focusing on social and emotional learning, successfully conducted the annual event  ‘Reflections -2020’ virtually on Thursday. The event was organised on the topic ‘Mental Health and the Pandemic: Its implications and how to cope’. ‘Reflections - 2020’ emphasised the importance of mental health, especially during these challenging times, and initiated discussions amongst students, teachers, and parents on various issues that affect school children, like their social connections, physical health, and performance in studies. It is imperative to help students and their families deal with the anxiety and confusion that the current pandemic has brought about. The event saw participation of over 150 students from three different city schools - Dayanand Public School, DAV Public School, and Tarapore School. To fight the negative impacts of this pandemic and ensure mental well-being, school students were engaged in various fun-filled interactive activities. The activities helped to better understand emotions and cultivate good mental health practices. Even the school teachers and parents who participated in the event got valuable insights on identifying difficult emotions and their impact on the kids. Some of the common questions the school children asked during sessions were, “I'm always worried about doing well in school”; “How do I cope with the academic pressure?”,” How do I identify and work on my emotions and feelings”. To debunk the myths about mental health, an interactive quiz session was conducted. Participants were asked to assess how they felt during a particular situation with the help of a thought record worksheet; they could easily pinpoint emotions and work upon alternative thought processes they can adopt. It helped the students understand various existing misconceptions about mental health and the stigma attached to a person suffering from these issues. Several engaging activities were conducted to make the children comfortable in sharing their thoughts about the topic. A video explaining mental health issues amongst students and what they can do to get support from each other was shown and discussed with the students to help break the stigma. The students could relate well to the instances shown and even cited examples of some of their favourite celebrities who have talked about their mental health. The guest speaker of the event, Pooja Mohanty, a psychotherapist associated with the B-school commented, “The unfortunate pandemic which the world suffers from today has shifted our mental make-up to complexity and confusions. Yet, borrowing from the spiritual teachings and even from modern science today, we understand that there basic interconnectivity in everything, and nothing happens without our participation. Therefore, it is wise to keep our sanity at the deepest inner level with peace and harmony even though the outer world may seem sinking and a total mess. That is exactly how one feels in the awakened state. To feel this wonderful sense of peace, there is a requirement for our transformation. This revolution happens neither in our perceived futures or in our memorised pasts; it finds you peace only here and now in your being in the present moment.” Notably, Samarthya is an initiative taken by the students of XLRI to help school students realise their full potential by focusing on their social and emotional development. It is the youth wing of the Centre for Education Management, Leadership and Research (CEMLR) at XLRI. Since its inception in 2012, Samarthya has conducted various activities to aid students in unravelling their intrinsic capabilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Marching orders for vendors to free up Sakchi market  ||Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) banned vendors from footpaths at Sakchi market on Thursday and asked them to set up shop at near-by Ambagan ground. The move, said sources in the urban civic body, was initiated to make it more convenient for shoppers to move around in the congested market area and to reduce the threat of transmission of the coronavirus. Around 200 footpath vendors, who have been selling various products at the Sakchi market for several decades, have now been told to move to Ambagan ground renamed as Netaji Subhas Maidan. On Wednesday, the district administration had carried out an eviction drive at Sakchi market, dismantling makeshift shops and seizing commodities sold by footpath vendors. Vendors on footpaths add to the risk of transmission of the virus, said JNAC city manager Ravi Bharti. “Vendors attract a large number of customers. People come to buy daily-use products from them. Most fail to follow social distancing norms,” he noted. The JNAC official said Mangla Haat, the weekly market of vendors held every Tuesday at Sakchi, would also be suspended. Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) has appealed to footpath vendors to conduct business at the Ambagan ground. "This will help in avoiding crowds at the Sakchi market which is already congested," said Bharat Vasani, the SCCI vice-president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi enforces 'no tobacco' rule near schools||Close on the heels of a government decision of tightening the noose around tobacco trade in Jharkhand, the Ranchi district administration has started demarcating areas around schools as tobacco-free zones. In the past 48 hours, areas falling in 100 meter radius of at least 55 schools in the State capital have been marked with “yellow lines” to indicate that the sale and consumption of tobacco products in the said areas was prohibited, officials from the district administration said on Thursday. “Legal actions will be taken against people found selling or consuming tobacco products in the demarcated tobacco-free zone around educational institutions,” said Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan. The Jharkhand government has imposed a blanket ban on pan masala and gutkha across the state and also come up with the provision of issuing special licences to tobacco traders in Jharkhand recently. A government order issued earlier this week also stated that government employees in Jharkhand will have to sign an affidavit vowing not to consume tobacco products. The campaign of making the vicinity of educational institutions tobacco-free will be run extensively across the district this week, officials said, claiming that one of the major objectives of the campaign was to discourage the use of tobacco products by minors and students in their early twenties. The deputy commissioner has directed officials to cover all the government and private schools across the district in the next couple of days. The district administration will also hold meetings with representatives of various schools in the city to ensure that they spread awareness about the hazardous impact of tobacco on health and environment, officials said. The sale and consumption of tobacco products in the vicinity of educational institutions has been banned under the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003. However, the sale of tobacco products continued unabated near some of the reputed schools in the state capital despite the ban, sources said. Many stationary shops and small cafeterias have been selling cigarettes to school students in the vicinity of educational institutions here. Meanwhile, the administration in the state capital has also launched a special drive to put a check on the entry of banned tobacco products in Ranchi district from neighbouring districts, officials said. Following an order from the Ranchi deputy commissioner, officials slapped fine worth nearly Rs.40,000 on tobacco traders selling loose cigarettes and banned pan masala in rural and urban areas of the district in the past 48 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid test prices slashed in Jharkhand||The government on Wednesday slashed the price of Covid-19 tests conducted by private laboratories in Jharkhand, bringing the maximum price for an RT-PCR test down at Rs.800 and that for Rapid Antigen Test down to Rs.150, a notification issued by National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the notification, the price of CBNAAT test was capped at Rs.2,200 while the price for TrueNat test was set at Rs.1,100. However, the standard price for Covid-19 test in the state will be Rs.800 as RT-PCR is the most commonly used process for Covid-19 tests in Jharkhand, health officials said. Jharkhand on Wednesday reported at least 206 fresh cases of infection against 262 recoveries, data compiled by the health department stated. While the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped in the state in the past 24 hours, the virus claimed at least two more lives, both from Ranchi, during the same period. The Covid-19 toll in the state jumped to 971 on the day, while the toll in Ranchi alone reached 197, highlighted a bulletin released by the NHM. However, the number of active cases dropped in Ranchi as the district reported 85 cases against 98 recoveries. As per government data, at least 709 people were battling the virus in Ranchi by Wednesday night. At least four Jharkhand districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on Wednesday, but Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Bokaro reported a double-digit spike in cases. At least 20 cases surfaced in East Singhbhum against 18 recoveries, taking the active cases there up at 296. Dhanbad reported 18 cases against 20 recoveries, while Bokaro reported 11 cases against 20 recoveries. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 21,114 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 42.58 lakh people and tested around 42.40 lakh of them. As many as 1,09,538 people have been infected by the lethal virus so far in Jharkhand while 1,06,660 of them have recovered. As per government data, as many as 1907 people were battling the virus in Jharkhand on Wednesday night, and more than half of them were from Ranchi and East Singhbhum districts. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.15 per cent against the national average of 0.35 per cent, highlights government data. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 459.72 days against the national doubling rate of 196.72 days. The Covid recovery rate in the state was 97.37 per cent, while the Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.88 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Two wedding guests sitting on bus roof electrocuted to death||Two wedding guests were electrocuted to death while another was injured, when a group of invitees perched on top of a bus ferrying all the guests to the venue came in contact with a hanging high tension electric wire in Jharkhand's Palamu district on Wednesday, said the police. The incident took place near Jamua bridge in Manatu area when a group of people was going to attend a wedding at a temple by bus. Around 10 people were sitting on the roof of the bus when around three of them came in contact with a high tension wire that was hanging on the road. One of the guests who died on the spot was the groom’s uncle. The second person succumbed to his injuries a little later in a hospital, said the police. The third person was also admitted to the same hospital. According to the police, his condition is also not stable. The dead bodies of the two individuals have been sent for autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||IIT-ISM offers warm clothes to the poor||Budding techies and staff of the Indian Institute of Technology-Indian School of Mines have come forward to help the underprivileged in the coal belt who spend nights in the winter (minimum temperature dipping to 12 degrees) without the comfort of warm clothes. Members of the Centre of Societal Mission (CSM) unit of the IIT-ISM started a clothes donation drive in November. The members distributed the first lot of warm clothes to the poor on November 28 at a shanty near Barwadda, around 6km from their Dhanbad campus. The CSM was established in 2015. “We donated over 250 warm clothes to the poor residing at Malhar Basti near Barwadda. The clothes were donated by residents of the IIT-ISM campus during the drive conducted by us in October-November. We will be distributing clothes on every weekend in December amongst the poor residing in various slums who cannot afford expensive woollens,” said Sanjeev Sahu, head of the CSM unit of IIT-ISM. Malhar Basti is inhabited mostly by street vendors who have been worst affected due to the pandemic-induced lockdown this year. “Unlike earlier years, we have very few students as most of them are not at the campus. However, we were determined to do something for the poor. Our staff at CSM pitched in and an NGO, Sahayata Ek Achchi Soch, comprising members of IIT-ISM non-teaching staff, also helped us in the distribution work in Malhar Basti. We will be taking their help in the distribution as well as for collection of clothes throughout the month,” said Sahu. The IIT-ISM staff have also extended their support to the clothes donation drive. “We are privileged to be enjoying the comforts and would like to do our bit for the downtrodden and underprivileged. Hence, we have decided to donate our warm clothes for this drive,” said Rajni Singh, associate dean, media and branding, IIT-ISM, Dhanbad. There are over 300 staff and faculty residing at the IIT-ISM campus who will be donating their warm clothes for this drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tobacco check for government jobs in Jharkhand||Those seeking government jobs in Jharkhand will from next April have to submit affidavits declaring they would not consume tobacco products in office or outside. Stringent checking will be conducted at the state’s borders to prevent the entry of tobacco products for sale. (Individual visitors from other states are not banned from carrying their cigarettes or pan masala.) These were among decisions taken at a meeting of the state tobacco control coordination committee in Ranchi on Tuesday. In April this year, the Jharkhand government had banned the sale and use of all forms of tobacco — including cigarettes, beedis, pan masala, areca nuts, khaini and zarda — fearing their users’ tendency to spit would spread the coronavirus. Tuesday’s meeting, chaired by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, resolved to ensure compliance with the ban as well as the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (Cotpa) 2003. The 2003 act, passed by Parliament, prohibits the advertisement of tobacco products in India and mandates the regulation of their production, supply and distribution as well as trade and commerce in them. “The committee has decided that from April 2021, anybody getting employment in Jharkhand’s government sector would have to submit an affidavit against consuming tobacco products not only in office but also outside,” the state’s nodal officer for the national tobacco control programme, L.R. Pathak, said. “The state personnel department has been asked to frame the rules at the earliest so that the decision can be executed while filling vacancies from April next year.” The deputy commissioners of the state’s 24 districts have been directed to ensure strict checking at all entry points from Bengal, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Bihar with the help of the commercial tax department. All tobacco products being brought in for commercial purposes will be confiscated at these checkpoints. “Since April this year, the sale of tobacco products has been banned in Jharkhand. However, after the unlock, there have been reports of tobacco products being brought in clandestinely from neighbouring states in commercial vehicles and being supplied to stockists in the bigger cities,” Pathak said. “They (stockists) sell it through their networks to other outlets. We want to break this supply chain.” In April, the state government had used its powers under the Disaster Management Act 2005 to ban the “sale and use of tobacco products in public places till further order”. It had warned that violation would bring a jail term between six months and two years, or a fine of Rs 200 or both, under Section 188 of the penal code. The Global Adult Tobacco Survey 2017 (GATS 2) shows that nearly 38.9 per cent adults in Jharkhand use tobacco in some form, said Deepak K. Mishra, executive director of the non-profit Socio Economic and Educational Development Society (Seeds) and member of the state tobacco control programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
