04-12-2020||Calcutta||Sunny Fort kids’ night out||They had wanted to celebrate Halloween in October, by sending the kids ‘trick or treating’ but obviously that had to be cancelled. Then they realised that Diwali would be devoid of crackers, another favourite of kids. “So I came up with the idea of organising a ‘costume walk’ for juniors and it so happened that most of them chose the horror theme,” says Madhumita Bhattacharya of Sunny Fort Ladies’ Team in New Town. “Of course, it all fit in perfectly when we realised Diwali was also Children‘s Day this year.” Horror had many faces at Sunny Fort. More than 10 kids in the four to 14 age group took part and paraded along with thematic music. Sreyash Chatterjee sacred the audience as Dracula, Rishi Banerjee dressed as as Bhuter Raja from Goopy Gyne Bagha Byne and Suditi Bhowmik did a little jig as Paromi Rakkhoshi of Thakumar Jhuli that she watches on Hotstar. “The toughest part of my costume was the long nails, which I cut out of chart paper. But they wouldn’t stick to my fingers! When no amount of cellotape worked, my mother fixed them with BandAid,” laughed the fifth grader. Avipsa Chatterjee had dressed as Annabelle, the evil doll from the eponymous film. “I’m scared of ghost movies and haven’t seen Annabelle but my friends talk about it so much that I know all about it. I wore a white frock and tied my hair with red ribbons like the doll,” said the 10-year-old. It seems the girl knew exactly what make-up was required too and asked her mother Chandrani for white eye shadow to apply on her face, along with lipstick on the cheeks. “The only thing missing was a blonde wig,” said Chandrani, who anchored the show along with Sudeshna Dutta (whose kids Asmi and Arav dressed as a rabbit and crocodile respectively). “The show was a super success,” beamed Madhumita. “I hadn’t expected parents and kids to invest so much this time into this.” Her own six-year-old Adrita Bhattacharjee had dressed up as Stree, the ghost in the Shraddha Kapoor film. The child enjoyed the show but got so scared by the other participating “ghosts” that she couldn’t sleep all night after that! “Ami ma aar dida ke shara raat khub jaliyechi,” says the child who even vomited out of fear. Mother Madhumita says Adrita isn’t supposed to watch horror films but saw Stree on the sly once. “She got so scared thereafter that that I had to take leave from office to pacify her the next day!”  As a sideshow Juna Dutta, a ladies team member, taught the kids to shape mashed potatoes like stubby strips and push in almonds at the end. “They were zombie fingers and the kids ate them after making and clicking them,” smiled Juna, who happens to be the co-ordinator of a preschool. “They also made zombie teeth with apple slices, jam and nuts and instead of Jack-o’-lantern pumpkin carvings, drew eyes and teeth on oranges with markers.” Suchita Mukherjee got homemade Swiss rolls for the little ghosts to snack on and Mukulika Adhikary brought home-made butter cookies that resembled witch fingers and Jack-o’-lantern faces. Her own sons were dressed up too. Twelve-year-old Rittik walked as a vampire (with mom’s black dupatta fastened as cape) and seven-year-old Rishaan had draped a stitched white sheet over himself with a red ribbon to demarcate his head, much like Casper, the friendly ghost. “Since my face was hidden no one could recognise me. My friends were wondering who I was,” laughed the little one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta’s air quality deteriorates to 'very poor', ‘severe’ in certain parts||The air quality in most parts of Calcutta deteriorated to 'very poor', while it turned 'severe' in the northern parts of the metropolis on Friday, a West Bengal Pollution Control Board (PCB) official said. The automated air monitoring station at Rabindra Bharati University (RBU) on B T Road in north Calcutta recorded the air quality index (AQI) of 408 PM 2.5 at 3 pm, which is categorised as 'severe'. "The AQI recorded at RBU during the day is the worst this year. It was caused mostly due to wintry conditions with particulate matters hanging in the air and a large number of vehicles hitting the roads," he said. AQI between 401 and 500 is designated as 'severe' and affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases, causing respiratory difficulties, environmentalist S M Ghosh said. "It is caused by the plying of a large number of diesel-run commercial vehicles, use of coal-fired chulha (clay stove) by roadside eateries and garbage burning at dumping yards," he said. The air quality turned 'very poor' (301-400) in other parts of the city. It can aggravate asthma and other respiratory conditions. Ballygunge recorded AQI of 309, Bidhan Nagar 320, Fort William 324, Victoria Memorial 314 and Jadavpur 303. "The PCB is taking steps like banning coal-fired chulha and old commercial vehicles in the city. The board is also using water sprinkler vehicles to prevent the accumulation of dust in the air," the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Let the margins thrive||Back in the 80s, before scientists had come up with a name for it, AIDS was casually referred to as Grid (Gay-Related Immune Deficiency) or even gay cancer. “Such terms were inaccurate and insensitive,” said Anindya Kar, a doctor speaking at a webinar on the rights of LGBT+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and related communities). In 2020, the community may be better off than in the 80s but the discussion revealed that society still has a long way to go before LGBT folks feel truly at home. “Homosexuality is just a variation of sexuality. Like being left-handed, it is simply less common but sadly, the world is yet to understand this,” said Kar, who is assistant director and chief medical officer of Advanced Neuropsychiatry Institute, Joka. “States like West Bengal are still better off. Here a person like Rituparno Ghosh is respected despite his orientation but up north, things are frightening.” The webinar was conducted by PeaceLiveLaugh, a counselling, life coaching and mental health unit with a branch in BL Block. “Even today, we have clients who bring their homosexual children to us and ask us to ‘fix them’. It’s such parents and families who need counselling,” said Kakoli Das Mandal, psychotherapist and co-founder of the group, who moderated the session. “In school, it is expected that a boy will like a girl but if by chance that is not the case he is bullied. If an effeminate boy goes to complain about his harassment, he is further ridiculed. In our country teachers lack gender sensitisation,” said Kar. His sister, a counsellor, had once assessed a bullied student and found that he might be homosexual. She wanted to speak to his parents but the principal would not hear of it. “He said such an assessment would unsettle the parents and they would take his ward out of the school. So the topic was buried and the child’s harassment continued,” he sighed. Kar explained that chronic stress from school, the neighbourhood and within the house leads students to the their threshold and makes them vulnerable to mental health issues. Aritra Kanjilal, an openly gay individual who champions the cause of LGBT rights, was another speaker at the forum. He noted that most suicides and attempted suicides in the LGBT community took place at the student stage. “Adolescence is tough as it is and if someone’s orientation is different he has this additional burden to bear. Families need to tell them that their feelings are valid so they can focus on other aspects of growing up,” said Kanjilal. When Kar was in college he had wanted to conduct a study on the attitude of Indian medical students towards homosexuality but the authorities rejected his proposal as being unnecessary. “But it is extremely necessary. It may affect patient care,” says Kar, who fought it out and conducted the study anyway. “As per the 2018 study, 15 per cent doctors felt homosexuality was an illness and 24 per cent felt homosexuals were neurotic,” he said sadly. “We live in a country when if a homosexual teenager visits his doctor with a sexually transmitted disease the first thing the doctor asks is: ‘Do your parents know you’re doing all this?’ Who gives the doctor the right to judge his patients?” said Kar. He cited the case of doctors from rural and conservative backgrounds who get into the profession without any knowledge of homosexuality. “Since the education system doesn’t so much as mention the term, such doctors believe it is abnormal. They don’t even talk properly to these patients. And since the LGBT community as it is lives in fear, they don’t know they can sue doctors for such behaviour.” “Why is the ideal family always depicted with a mother, father, son and daughter?” wondered Kanjilal. “Why is a same-sex couple never highlighted? Let alone marriage, could the government and society at least consider same-sex union?” Kanjilal said he and his same-sex partner have a difficult time renting a home together. “We have to tell the landlord we are cousins or school friends. We cannot open joint accounts, our relationship status has no legal recognition.” Another can of worms is gays being forced into marriages. “A 2018 study found a huge portion of Indian gay men to be married,” said Kar, citing the web series Made in Heaven on Amazon Prime where the character played by Vinay Pathak is a closeted gay man living with his wife and child. “The complex situation requires family counselling. If the man ‘comes out’, his wife accuses him of having cheated her all these years. Then comes the question of divorce, which itself is a taboo.” Then again, Kar said many gay men inform their would-be brides about their orientation beforehand. “It’s a marriage of convenience. To the world, they are a couple but in private each is free. Such a marriage, too, was shown in Made in Heaven,” he said. In the 1950s, British scientist Alan Turing, considered the father of theoretical computer science and who helped crack Nazi codes during World War II, was prosecuted for homosexuality. “Instead of being honoured, he was administered hormone treatment to try to ‘cure’ him,” said Kar. Turing died of cyanide poisoning, which many believe to have been suicide. Kar also touched upon other torturous ‘treatments’ meted out to homosexuals down the ages. In the 21st century, at least some MNCs have embraced the community. Kanjilal works for a company that he says is inclusive. “They allow medical benefits for same-sex partners, have gender-neutral adoption policies…. Why, last year we even took part in an LGBTQI (the last two letters stand for queer and intersexed) job fair in Bangalore,” said Kanjilal, who leads their company’s South Asia ‘pride’ employee resource group. Footfall at the job fair comprised mostly members from the LGB community as transgenders lack formal education and it is difficult to even reach news of such an event to them. “Transgenders who did come did not have resumes and we wrote their details down for them.” Sambit Dey, who used to work for the same company as Kanjilal and spoke on the forum, felt any kind of diversity increases productivity, be it women, the differently-abled or LGBT. “If an employee is holding back, he is not free to work to his full potential. In fact, a lot of companies are now hiring LGBT but only to tick a box. The atmosphere is missing at their workplaces with people still sniggering at employees from the community. A huge help is if the top management is an ally,” he said. While their company advertises vacancies on LGBT websites, the applicant is free to hide where he spotted the ad. “It is against the law to ask a candidate his orientation but if we create an atmosphere of trust, we can attract talent from there,” said Kanjilal. After a point, Dey said, orientation no longer matters in office. “Aritra is ‘out’ but we forget about it,” he said. Perhaps the most important role in the journey of the LGBT community is played by allies. If you are a heterosexual person but one who believes that gay lives matter, you are their ally. “Your best friend could be gay. Create an atmosphere so he can ‘come out’ to you without worrying about your reaction,” said Kar. “If you find someone making homophobic jokes, prod him politely. Ask him why he thinks it’s not ok for two men to be holding hands. He won’t have conviction in his answer because there is really nothing wrong with it. Don’t attack them, just help them contemplate. Create peer pressure for others to be nice to LGBTs.” As for LGBTs trying to ‘come out’, the journey needs support, resilience and someone to confide in. “This need not be a doctor, it could be a friend of family member. And once you are out, don’t be afraid. Raise your voice against discrimination,” said Kar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Physiotherapy course to promote employment||At a time when unemployment is on the rise due to the pandemic, Rotary Club of Salt Lake Central has certified 19 young girls in physiotherapy in the hope that they be self-employed. The classes were held over four months last winter and the convocation that took place in September was to have taken place in April. The course was conducted in association with Workshop for the Blind in LB Block, which was the venue of the classes as well as the convocation. The workshop was conducted by senior physiotherapists and physicians and taught the participants about the various muscle groups, nerves and organs in the body, mobility exercises for those with joint pains, frozen shoulder, chronic neck pain etc. “We were also taught massaging and the use of blood pressure monitors, oxygen cylinders etc,” said Swapna Pradhan, who was teaching at a Montessori till before the lockdown. Nirupama Ghosh, a resident of Duttabad, has already taken charge of a few patients in Salt Lake. “One of them is a 76-year-old lady who couldn’t even lift her leg when I joined. She’s much better after my therapy,” said the youth who has completed her Higher Secondary exams and would tutor students before making the job switch. “Schooling is not enough. One needs vocational courses like this to land jobs.” The girls also got many a practical tip from the chief guest at the event. “I am a psychiatrist and can prescribe medicines. But alongside my services patients need psychologists for counselling. It’s teamwork. Similarly, your job as physiotherapists is important for orthopedics,” said Kedar Banerjee, a resident of AL Block in New Town. He asked them to prepare visiting cards. “No need for anything fancy, take plain print outs of your name, profession and phone number and give doctors when you meet them. They may laugh at your face saying four months is not enough to become a physiotherapist, but take it up as a challenge,” said Banerjee. “Speak to senior physiotherapists and ask to become their assistants. You will gain experience and confidence. And in case a doctor does recommend you, call him up every week to share the status of the patients. The doctor will remember you and refer more patients to you.” The psychiatrist also anticipated taunts from neighbours. “They’ll ridicule your profession, comparing you to their IT sector-employed children but don’t you believe them. You are now health workers and deserve more respect than anyone,” assured Banerjee, adding that while it would not be possible to maintain distancing with patients, they should be careful and follow the other Covid safety norms. Arindam Nandy, a Rotarian who was compering the event, said this was the first time that they conducted such a camp, deviating from tailoring, beautician and similar time-tested vocational courses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Plea in Green Tribunal against stubble burning||On Wednesday, environmentalist Subhas Datta filed a public interest litigation before the eastern zone bench of the National Green Tribunal, alleging large scale crop residue cum stubble burning in various parts of the state, including New Town, triggering significant air pollution. The case is expected to be heard soon. "In West Bengal every year after the kharif crop is harvested in October and November… stubble burning becomes rampant throughout the state for which the city lives become miserable due to various air borne diseases” wrote Datta in his affidavit, a copy of which is with The Telegraph. “The stubble burning is not limited in the districts only, it is largely being practised … in New Town Action Area II”, further wrote Datta attaching several photographs of such burning and even spots being blackened with such burning. “It’s a matter of real concern and shock that the unbearable air pollution level in our city is accelerated due to such stubble burning,” added the activist while pointing out that large scale burning happened on November 25 at the land earmarked for and fenced for construction of Calcutta High Court complex at New Town. According to locals, stubble burning in vacant plots has become a menace in New Town for about a month. It has added high level of toxic particulate and gaseous pollutants over and above the already deteriorating air in the area, a common phenomenon during winter. According to PCB sources, the automatic air pollution measuring station in Bidhannagar, closest to New Town among the automatic stations, recorded an Air Quality Index (AQI) value of 357 at the stroke of midnight on December 1,which falls under the ‘very poor’ category. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, people exposed to such air for a prolonged period can develop respiratory illness. “Often plastic is burnt along with the stubble, which makes the fume even more toxic,” said Krishnajyoti Goswami, a resident of Alaktika Housing Complex in Action Area IID. “On Tuesday, a fire blazed for an hour and did extensive damage. The benefit of desisting from bursting fire crackers this Diwali is being frittered away through this pollution,” said Ranadip Basak of Mahua Madhabi, in Action Area IIB. Debasish Sen, chairman of NKDA, said that they had placed notices on vacant plots asking people not to light fire on the grasslands and stubble. “We have not yet been able to find who have been starting the fire,” said Sen, adding that they had formed watch groups to locate the offenders. A recent project by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) on Calcutta’s air pollution has not carried out any study on specific impact of stubble burning on the city’s air pollution but found that open burning is responsible for about three per cent of PM 10 pollutants and seven percent of PM 2.5 pollutants in the city air. PM 10 and PM 2.5 are fine particulate pollutants, the latter being tinier and hence more penetrative and potent. These can enter the deep crevices of the respiratory system and trigger several diseases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||CC Block post office to be nodal delivery hub for parcels||The CC Block post office in Salt Lake has become a nodal delivery hub for parcels. It will handle parcels not only for Salt Lake but also New Town. “Parcel is a new trend of mail that is developing for both home delivery and commercial sectors. They require a slightly different approach than letters. While a single mailman can handle a large number of letters for a small area, parcels are bigger and heavier. So in a digitally integrated environment that post offices now have, it is necessary to redelineate the area and designate a location in each area where parcels can be handled in a more focused manner under proper supervision,” explained post master general, Calcutta, Niraj Kumar. Thus a nodal delivery hub caters to a slightly larger area than a traditional post office. The CC Block post office will be the sixth hub in the Calcutta metropolitan area, after the General Post Office, Alipore, Dum Dum, Tangra and Bhowanipore. “We realised that Tangra could not handle parcels for Salt Lake and we also recognised the commercial importance of the area which includes the tech hub in Sector V and New Town. That’s why we decided to carve out this area under a separate post office,” added Kumar. Since parcels are bulkier, the department has recognised that the traditional mode of delivery — on foot or by cycle — will not work. So the mailmen have been provided with e-scooters, four-wheelers and three wheelers. Kumar added that the department also plans to introduce extended parcel booking hours at the Salt Lake post office. “Currently, counters close at 3pm. So people are deprived of our services after that. We want to roll out parcel booking facility till the evening hours from here,” he said. But before that, the staff crunch at the post office would need to be addressed. The post office is functioning with half its allotted strength of personnel and does not even have a full-time post master. Even the person who was handed charge temporarily has gone on leave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Twin health units for New Town||The New Town administrative authorities are gearing up to address a long-standing demand of residents to boost the public health infrastructure in the township. Two projects have been taken up, one by Hidco and another by NKDA. The tender processes for both have been initiated and the Hidco project has reached the bid evaluation stage. The chosen site for the latter is near the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Government College in Action Area 1. “We are constructing a polyclinic with ambition of a big hospital in future. For now, it will have a diagnostic centre and an out-patient department with specialist doctors available for consultation,” said Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The pile foundation is of a seven-storied building, of which only two floors will be built at present. Hidco has taken help from the medical engineering wing of the health department in drawing up the building plan. “We have no expertise in matters like designing a surgery room — what its required dimensions should be, whether the entry needs to have a double door to prevent infection... The building layout has been planned in such a way that later it can be expanded into a multi-speciality hospital,” Sen said. Though Hidco is constructing the building, Sen emphasises that the health department has to run it. “We are not equipped to deal with nurses, doctors, surgical equipment or medicines beyond the level of the requirements of a primary health centre.” Though health infrastructure in New Town, as anywhere else, has been in focus in the aftermath of the Covid-19 infection, Sen affirms that the two projects are not a reaction to the recently felt need. “It is the result of planning for three-four years. We have been in dialogue with the health department. The requirement we have placed before them is at the minimum of the standard of Bidhannagar Sub-divisional hospital but preferably a full-fledged multi-speciality hospital like SSKM. Though nothing has come about yet, we thought of making a start, drawing up lateral and upward linkages which by themselves involve a difficult process.” Though the Hidco has a long wishlist of specialisations from cardiology and endocrinology to ophthalmology and dentistry, Sen admits that it will all depend on who the health department can spare. “Shortage of doctors is a perennial problem. Even if a specialist can come once a week for outdoor consultations at the polyclinic, we will be happy.” The other project is an urban primary health centre to come up near Akankha More in Action Area 2. It will be a three-storeyed building to be built by NKDA and will offer the facilities enlisted under the National Urban Health Mission. “The thrust of these primary health centres is on public health and prevention. So it will spearhead detection and treatment of seasonal outbreaks like dengue and malaria and also mass vaccinations and sterilisations. Mother and child care will also be a component of its activities,” said Sen. New Town already has a primary health centre functioning from a building that also houses a public health and engineering office located behind DPS New Town, on a lane near Tata Medical Center. A doctor, two nurses and a pharmacist are posted there. “The new set-up will be in a dedicated building and with more facilities,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital principal dead||The principal of the College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital, Hashi Dasgupta, died on Thursday after a heart attack. A test revealed she had Covid. Dasgupta was 57. Officials at the hospital said Dasgupta had attended office on Wednesday. She was taken ill and was admitted to Sagore Dutta Hospital around noon. She was found to be Covid positive. She was shifted to the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday evening after her condition deteriorated. She passed away around 5pm on Thursday. “When she was brought here, her oxygen saturation was about 70. She had diabetes. Besides, she had fibrosis in the lungs because of Covid. She suffered a cardiac arrest on Thursday,” said an official of Calcutta Medical College. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed grief at the death of Dasgupta. In her condolence message, Mamata said Dasgupta had been serving as principal of Sagore Dutta Hospital since 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Workstations on hourly rent in New Town||Are you tired of working from home? And yet not feeling confident enough to travel all the way to office daily? A solution will soon be on offer in every extended New Town locality which will allow people to step out for some hours and get some quality work done in a socially distanced and convenient set-up. The Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) is building neighbourhood work cocoons. These will be community spaces of 800 to 1,000sq ft area in residential localities where people can spend a few hours on payment. The space will be wi-fi-enabled and one will have to bring one’s own device. It will be like an internet cafe but away from commercial hubs where cafes are usually located. There will be provision for photocopy. One person will be in charge who can serve coffee and biscuits too. It will be a silent zone with library-like discipline. If a person wants to stretch his legs or take a call, he can walk around outside before settling back. “In a situation where we are trying to decentralise, the aim of building these facilities is to provide a flavour of office in one’s own neighbourhood,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. Its uniqueness and appeal in the Covid situation lie in the way the space has been designed. “We are breaking the open office design which can spread infection. There will be glass panel partitions about three feet higher than the table tops and sufficient spacing between what we are calling isolation desks,” he explained. Hidco is building two such work cocoons in Action Area 1 and will hand them over to a private agency against a rent. “These will also generate employment in a situation where people are losing jobs. We will set the operational module which the agency will have to follow,” he said. Sanitisation, for instance, will be a vital part of the maintenance and the private management will have to follow a protocol set by the government authority. For instance, Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority, which Sen also heads, has a routine prescribed for Sector V offices. “We recommend workplaces to be sanitised thrice a day — before opening, at lunch time and after shutdown,” he said. The hourly charge for use will be decided by the agency taking the facility on rent. “It will have to be affordable enough to ensure high footfall and be viable to leave them a margin after paying us the rent,” said Sen, predicting that the charge could be flexible, with Sundays having a lower rate. Abin Design Studio, which has designed Nazrul Tirtha, has drawn up the layout for the work cocoons. “This is a visionary idea. With people avoiding  commuting in public transport and companies avoiding gathering of employees in offices, work from home is here to stay for long. And this will be the future. This will also generate local revenue,” said Abin Chaudhuri, the architect. While the ground floor will be air-conditioned, one can climb up the stairs and sit on the open-air terrace too, especially in winter. The terrace will have gallery-like steps by way of seating arrangement and will have wi-fi connectivity as well. There will be space for lockers in the single-floor structure to store one’s belongings if one wants to spend all day there. The furniture would be modular so that it can be installed and reoriented with ease. Each of the 21 isolation desks will be equipped with a laptop charging station. The brief from Hidco was to evolve a model which is scalable. While the current plots will house 1,000 sq ft structures, a smaller plot can be two-storeyed too, said Chaudhuri. The work cocoons will be of use even to those wanting to take a break from the monotony of a life of leisure indoors. “It can also be used for relaxation, like reading newspapers or a book. A rack will have books and magazines. Even if you want to watch a film, you can bring your laptop or tab along and watch it over a cup of coffee,” said Sen The space, Chaudhuri explained, will be divided into a work area and a round table for those wanting to relax. The table can sit about four people in a sufficiently distanced manner. Separate toilets will be there for men and women. For starters, Hidco has earmarked plots for three work cocoons — two in Action Area 1, which has disjointed plots in residential blocks, and another in Nababpur in Action Area 2. The first two sites are on the Major Arterial Road, making them convenient to reach. “Apartment complexes have their own community centres and coffee shops where we cannot intervene. So we are targeting people in the standalone blocks for now as potential users,” said Sen. Construction is in full swing at all three sites — beside the NKDA office, between the Croma store and Sankalpa 4 and the third across the road from Eco Park’s Christ the Redeemer statue. “The structure next to the NKDA office should be ready by the end of the financial year,” Sen said. Sen had foreseen the requirement in April when the lockdown started. “People will realise the problems of work from home with conflicting demands on the home space. Once they get fed up, they will feel it necessary to go out but not venture too far out,” he had told The Telegraph Salt Lake in early May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Post-Amphan, parks of Salt Lake in disrepair||Several parks in Salt Lake have been reduced to a shadow of their former selves with defunct lights, broken down walls, damaged playground furniture and tall weeds. The parks were once popular hang-out zones for residents as well as visitors to the township but are now run down. Many of these were ravaged by Cyclone Amphan back in May and have been languishing in that state since then. At a park inside FE Block, locally called Green Verge 2, a lamppost that was broken in the cyclone still lies prostrate in the middle. Several portions of the park’s boundary walls have gaping holes and broken branches of trees lie along the periphery. The swing lacks seats and the slide has partially caved in. Several lights inside a nearby park, that houses the Jaideep Mukherjea Tennis Academy, have stopped working and both here and in another smaller park inside the block, lampposts have electric wires sticking out dangerously from them. On November 11, a man had snatched a handbag from one of two girls walking home at night. After the crime, he got on his bicycle that was kept inside FE Park and pedalled away. Basab Basak, a resident of the block, said that the civic body had not carried out repairs in the parks for a very long time and that nothing, be it lights or the benches, had been repaired or painted in a long time. “There has been absolutely no maintenance in our parks,” said Basak. At HA Park, a swing hangs lopsided as one of the chains has snapped, residents said. A rusted iron pole stands at the spot where a monkey-bar once stood. In IA Block, the jungle cage is rusted and the swing’s chains are falling off in chunks at the slightest hint of movement. However, work has finally started here as the tender for the job had been floated before the civic board’s term ended in October. FD Block resident Ayantika Chakraborty said their park plunges into darkness every evening. “Many of the lights don’t work properly. We feel unsafe to take a walk in the park after sunset,” she said. Not a single child was spotted in AD Park despite the presence of colourful swings, slides and merry-go-rounds. The reason is not far to seek. Not one of them work and many of them are broken. “The children's section of the park has at least 10 rides. All of them have stopped working because of lack of maintenance,” a resident said. The broken base of a merry-go-round stands partially hidden from view by overgrown grass and anyone can trip over it and get injured. The merry-go-round itself lies overturned near the wall. In AC Block, a park alongside the Kestopur Canal is so overrun with weeds that creepers have nearly masked a Rabindranath Tagore statue there. In fact, the standing statue is tough to spot unless someone goes looking for it. The civic body had in 2015 cleaned and decked up the parks in all three sectors of the township at a cost of more than Rs 30 lakh. Just four years later, however, most of them are in such a state that residents are shunning them. Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson of the board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, said they had started repairs. “The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is carrying out these repairs as emergency maintenance work. We cannot call for fresh tenders now as the term of our board has ended. However we have started the repairs and it will be done in phases,” said Chakraborty. According to her, ward co-ordinators (former councillors) that have damaged parks in their wards have sent in reports on the repair needs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Extortion cuffs on Salt Lake spa employee||An employee of a spa-cum-grooming centre has been arrested for allegedly blackmailing the owner and posting her objectionable photographs on social media when she refused to pay him. Bidhannagar police said the accused, identified as Shahnawaz Hossain, in his 30s, had earlier been a guard at a highrise where the woman stays. “They had met a few years ago when he was working as a security guard in the building where the victim lives with her family. The victim has said that on his request she employed him at her spa-cum-grooming centre,” said an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. Initially, the woman had paid him some money when he allegedly threatened to send her photographs to her relatives but later she refused when his demands increased. “At this point, when the woman stopped paying him, he threatened to post their intimate photographs and videos on social media. He then sent her objectionable photographs to her husband and posted them on social media,” the officer said. The woman lodged a complaint with Bidhannagar North police station on November 28, alleging blackmailing, criminal intimidation and extortion. The case was taken over by the cyber cell of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. A case has been registered under IPC sections related to putting someone under fear of death to extort, extortion, criminal intimidation and outrage of modesty with words and gestures. Hossain was arrested near Rajarhat on Thursday morning. Officers said incidents of accused persons trying to use social media as a tool to commit crime have been happening quite frequently. “It is important for women to come forward and report the crime to the authorities. There are strict cyber laws against online offences,” said a senior police officer not attached to the case. Hundreds of such incidents happen where women are subjected to extortion and blackmail by men they had trusted. However, only a few are reported. Another officer said it was best to avoid clicking personal photographs with strangers or with persons whom we barely know. Social media platforms, including messenger services, have become potential weapons of cyber crime. Many cases have been reported to the police where a woman is blackmailed by her virtual friends, whom she had never met in real life but shared private moments with them through online chats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Refund order to two Calcutta hospitals||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Thursday directed Desun Hospital and Woodlands Hospital to refund various sums to the families of three persons treated there. The family of a 61-year-old man, who was admitted to Desun on July 22 with Covid-19 and passed away four days later, had lodged a complaint stating that they had been billed Rs 2.92 lakh for the four-day treatment. “In the bill, Rs 52,400 was shown as bed charges, Rs 86,000 for investigations and Rs 96,000 as pharmacy charges. We found the pathology charges exorbitant,” said Banerjee. “Rs 2.92 lakh for four days seems to be a very high amount.” The commission considered Rs 50,000 as each day’s cost of treatment and asked the hospital to return the rest to the family. The commission asked Desun to return Rs 48,000 to Swapna Dey, who stayed at the hospital for 29 hours. “The bill came to Rs 1.23 lakh. The woman was billed Rs 29,000 for bed charges, Rs 58,000 for pathology charges. Sanitisation charges were also taken. We found the cost exorbitant,” he said. Dey had Covid and was admitted to the ICU. Banerjee said in this case, too, the commission had fixed Rs 50,000 as the rate for a day and asked the hospital to keep Rs 75,000 as the amount for one and a half days. “We asked them to refund Rs 48,000 to the family,” he said. Tapas Mukherjee, the deputy managing director of Desun Hospital, said they would have to examine the order before commenting. The commission asked Woodlands to refund Rs 50,000 to the family of an 85-year-old woman who was admitted to the hospital in June. “The woman’s family said the hospital billed them Rs 6.47 lakh. She had tested negative for Covid, yet the hospital took Covid protection charges,” said Banerjee. “We also found the hospital did not offer any discount on pharmacy charges.” The commission had asked private hospitals to offer Covid-19 patients discounts on the maximum retail price of medicines. An official of the hospital said: “We have billed according to our existing and displayed rates and felt we became a victim of circumstances today. The patients’ relatives complained about medical management. They had no complaints on billing. The commission today asked the hospital to reduce the pathological test charges, waive off Covid protection charges and asked for a discount on pharmacy bills and a total refund of Rs 50,000 was ordered.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Dues deny waiver at South Point||South Point school sent a notice to parents on Thursday telling them that those who had not cleared their fee dues by the November 30 deadline set by Calcutta High Court cannot avail of the waivers offered by the court. The school had extended the last date by a day. Those who did not pay by December 1 will be deemed to have opted out of the waiver scheme. They will be charged the fees that the school had levied last year. The high court had on October 13 ordered private schools to waive 20 per cent of tuition fees and 20 per cent of session fees. The court had also restrained the schools from charging fees on non-academic heads like “laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extracurricular activities or the like”. The high court had said that the discounted fees would have to be paid by November 30. The school’s notice says: “We would like to inform that the school fee for the months of October & November 2020, in respect of those parents who have not opted to obtain the benefit of the waivers and in respect of whom fees up to the month of September 2020 already stands cleared, will be collected... on or around December 7, 2020 at the rates as applicable to each class...” The notice has been sent to parents of children from Nursery to Class XII. The school has 12,000-odd students. “A little less than 50 per cent of our student fees have been paid at the concessional rates,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point school. The school has thanked parents who have refrained from obtaining the waiver. “...at the very outset we would like to extend our heartfelt gratitude to the large number of guardians forming a majority, who have refrained from obtaining the waiver in terms of the Hon’ble Court’s order, and thus agreeing to pay the school fee at the same rate, as applicable in the last academic year,” read the  notice. “We would also like to thank those guardians who have cleared all dues of the school, till November 2020, after obtaining the waivers, within the specified date of November 30, 2020 later extended by the school to December 1, 2020. This will go a long way in helping the school manage its finances effectively,” the notice said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Four Toco Toucans rescued along Bangladesh border||Four Toco Toucans that were allegedly being smuggled from Bangladesh were rescued early on Thursday by a team of BSF personnel, an officer said. Toco Toucans are also called Giant Toucans because they are the largest among their species. The birds grow up to a length of 25 inch and their beaks can be 7.5-inch long. They are found in Central and South America. The birds were being allegedly smuggled from Bangladesh near the Khararmath border outpost in Gaighata, North 24-Parganas. A BSF team saw some men moving suspiciously. They were carrying a box covered with cloth. On being challenged by the BSF team, the men dropped the box and ran deep inside a forested area. “Our men found the four birds crammed inside,” a BSF officer said. The forest department identified the birds as Toco Toucans. All four birds were handed over to the Alipore zoo hospital. A zoo official said they would be quarantined for at least a fortnight. Bapai Sen, a member of the All Bengal Birds Lover Organisation, said there was a demand for Toco Toucans as pets. “A pair can cost more than Rs 18 lakh. There are only three birds with the city's collectors now,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta doctors restart Bangladesh unit||A cardiac unit in Bangladesh’s Chittagong, which runs in collaboration with a Calcutta hospital and was shut down in March as the Indian workforce returned home amid the Covid pandemic, is back in action again. The outpatients department of the cardiology unit at Imperial Hospital in Chittagong resumed operations on Thursday. The unit runs in collaboration with the Narayana Health group in India. The cardiology unit had been shut since March-end when the doctors and other healthcare workers from the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences at Mukundapur, a flagship unit of the Narayana Health group, returned to Calcutta. They could not go back to Bangladesh as all flights were suspended because of the pandemic. The team of 22 from Calcutta, including four doctors, reached Chittagong in two phases by December 1. Flights between India and Bangladesh resumed last month. The Telegraph had on September 28 reported that around 160 heart patients, who were scheduled to undergo surgery or other procedures at the Chittagong hospital, had been calling desperately to find out when the unit would resume functioning. It was around Durga Puja last year that the 350-bed hospital had tied up with the Calcutta hospital. The 65-bed cardiology was opened on February 16. On Thursday, 36 patients turned up at Imperial Narayana Cardiac Center’s OPD for consultation, said an official. One of the patients was Md Imran Chowdhury, 40, a businessman from Chittagong. “Since August I have been having pain on the left side of my chest. I had gone to local doctors... the pain is persisting. I could not go to Calcutta because flights were suspended. So, I had called up Imperial Hospital to know when the cardiac clinic would reopen,” Chowdhury said over the phone. “The hospital finally gave me an appointment today. The doctor has advised some tests.” Devi Shetty, the chairman of the Naryana Hrudayalaya group, said there were plans for further expansion of the unit. “Chittagong does not have facilities for treatment of cardiac ailments and cancer. We have plans to provide good quality treatment for cancer and heart ailments at affordable rates for all. Because of the pandemic, everything was delayed, but shortly we will be drawing up the strategy for expansion,” he said. Binayak Chanda, a senior cardiac surgeon, is one of the doctors who went to Chittagong from Calcutta. “I had 19 patients whose surgeries were lined up before the unit was closed down in March. Eight of them have contacted us. By next week we will start operations,” Chanda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Focus on post-Covid options in education||A parallel system of education exists along with the conventional school-college-university system, which Sugata Mitra, professor emeritus of NIIT University, calls the “street smart education system”. In the new normal, post-pandemic, the street smart education system needs to integrate with the conventional system, Mitra said while talking in the final session of Day One of Infocom 2020, titled Power of Experiments in the Next Normal. With Mitra were Pradeep K. Khosla, chancellor of the University of California, San Diego, and Suborno Bose, founder of Eduguy and founder and chief mentor of Indismart Group, who moderated the session. “All of us went to school, college and university. That is the formal system of education. But there are people who have not gone through that education system or they might have dropped out of it. But they picked up a lot of stuff from the streets and taught themselves to be plumbers or electricians. A street smart electrician can do an entire rewiring of your house. So the street smart education system is an alternative education system that has been with us for a long time,” explained Mitra, who was professor of educational technology at Newcastle University. Every nation has them and with the internet, the power of the street smart people becomes immense. Earlier, they might not have known certain things but today, with a smart phone in their hands and Net connectivity, they can easily find out and teach themselves. And Covid has made it possible for us to think of an alternative education system that combines elements of the formal education system with the street smart education system. Khosla, who has a $6 billion college infrastructure in UC, San Diego, said the four-year education system imparted not just intellectual development but also social development. “Living on a campus, students learn to experiment, they learn in groups. There is a biohacking lab on my campus, a physical lab. In the pandemic situation, no one is allowed in that lab. How to run a lab like that in this pandemic? How do I give the social experience of campus life? That experience has a lot of educational value,” Khosla said. Mitra, the creator of the hole-in-the-wall experiment that showed unsupervised children could learn by themselves in self-organised learning environment, does not rule out the role of teachers. While he propounds that learners should not be taught what they can learn by themselves, he also believes that the teachers’ role is to formulate interesting questions to which children can seek answers with the help of a computer and internet. Moderator Bose said in the post-Covid world, learning and the education system as a whole have undergone a change. He felt both the student and the teacher need to redefine their roles in the changed environment. Khosla advises against getting rid of the physicality in the Zoom world. With huge university campuses in the best of locations, the chancellor stresses the need for the physical touch. “How do you do a chemistry experiment, how do you make something in the lab, we need an equivalent of that experience in the virtual world,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Mamata revives hopes of two Calcutta flyovers ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday revived hopes for the construction of two flyovers in Calcutta which appeared to have been shelved — one between Park Circus and Ballygunge and the other between Ganesh Chandra Avenue and New Market. “We are trying to build a flyover between Ganesh Chandra Avenue and New Market. You all know New Market is a congested area,” Mamata said while inaugurating the Majerhat bridge, rechristened Jai Hind bridge, at Taratala. “There will be another flyover — Park Circus to Ballygunge Phanri. Total Calcutta would be covered with flyovers.” State government officials said the Park-Circus-Ballygunge flyover was part of an earlier plan to construct a Ballygunge-bound ramp of the Parama flyover. The arm was to branch off the AJC Bose Road flyover-bound ramp of the Parama flyover above the Zeeshan crossing on Syed Amir Ali Avenue. The urban development department had engaged RITES, the consulting arm of the railways, to carry out a “feasibility study” of the project. Last March, RITES had submitted a report saying it was “feasible” to construct the ramp. “A traffic survey had shown that nearly 1,400 cars were likely to use the Ballygunge-bound arm every hour during the rush hours,” said an official of the CMDA, which is the custodian of the Parama flyover. The arm was to be 2km long and officials had said it should not have taken more than two years to be ready. According to the plan, the ramp was to touch down near Kalyan Jewellers, opposite The BSS School and only a few metres from the Gariahat flyover. “The chief minister’s words have infused new hope among us about the project,” a CMDA engineer said on Thursday evening. “We had nearly given up hope for this ramp, which will reduce travel time for those headed towards Ballygunge from Ultadanga down the Parama flyover.” The state government had decided on the New Market-Ganesh Chandra Avenue flyover two years back. The idea was to decongest one of the most busy pockets of the city. A flyover from New Market to GC Avenue over Central Avenue would have helped commuters skip at least three busy traffic signals - at the SN Banerjee Road crossing, Esplanade crossing and the Ganesh Chandra Avenue crossing. Commuters remain stuck at each of the crossings for 15 minutes on an average, police said. In February 2018, a tender was floated for a detailed project report. Engineers said a feasibility study would have to be carried out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Festive crowd on Majerhat bridge||Pedestrians, not cars, took over the Majerhat bridge after it was inaugurated by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday evening. The bridge was closed for vehicular traffic till 10.30pm because the dismantling of the giant dais at the Taratala end took a lot of time. A traffic officer said the bridge was unlikely to be opened for vehicles till early Friday. Barricades with guardrails were placed at both ends of the bridge. Cops posted at the barricades kept telling motorists that the bridge would be opened “shortly” once the dais was cleared. “You have waited for over two years. A couple of extra hours is nothing,” one policeman told a biker coming from Mominpore. But hundreds of people descended on the 650m-long bridge soon after the VIP convoys left. In swarms, people walked up and down the bridge, glowing in miniature lights and decked out in a fresh coat of blue and white. The bridge, or what remained of it, was witness to a bigger turnout on September 4, 2018. A portion of the structure had just collapsed. Two years ago, the mood was chaotic. Many people had come looking for “missing” relatives and friends. A heavy contingent of cops struggled to keep people at bay. On Thursday, the mood was similar to that at a promenade along a seafront. Most of the pedestrians had their phones in their outstretched hands. Some kept taking pictures and others made video calls to near and dear ones to share the “inaugural experience”. “I am making a WhatsApp video call. Please answer it,” a middle-aged man was heard telling over the phone. The cops stopped a couple of cyclists from taking the bridge. But on the Mominpore-bound approach road, a young girl was trying her hands on a scooty under the watchful eyes of her father. A man on a cycle was selling tea and doing multiple rounds of the bridge. The pedestrians included children and grown-ups. A group of teenagers, bags slung on their shoulders, posed for a group picture, after requesting another passer-by to click. Many pedestrians on the bridge had helmets in their hands. They had parked their two-wheelers on Diamond Harbour Road to take a stroll on the bridge. The crowd was denser as one approached the 260m deck slab of the bridge, held by 84 cables — imported from Switzerland — supported by towering pylons. A string of blue and white miniature lights fixed to the lamp posts and wrapped around the cables provided ample illumination. A mother and her daughter in joggers clicked pictures of the giant cables. “We go out for a run every evening. We were drawn here by the carnivalesque ambience,” the 12-year-old girl, a New Alipore resident, told Metro. The deck slab stands over the railway tracks that lead to the Majerhat station. The honking of an approaching train prompted many pedestrians to look over the boundary walls of the bridge. At the Taratala end of the bridge, a group of men were busy dismantling the blue and white dais. Scores of food packets were stacked on top of a boundary wall. Two men were transferring them to the boot of a car.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Plea for Classes X, XII opening ||The ICSE council has requested the chief ministers of all states to allow schools to “reopen partially” from January 4 for the students of Classes X and XII to attend practical classes and “doubt clearing” lessons and do project work. All schools have been closed since March as a precaution against Covid. The council has also requested the chief election commissioner to share the election dates of the states that are set to go to the polls in April and May so the council can “finalise” the schedules of next year’s ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), Gerry Arathoon, said in a statement on Thursday. “For the final run-up to the Examinations, CISCE has requested the chief ministers of all state governments/UTs to allow schools to reopen partially, specifically for the students of Classes X & XII from January 4, 2021. With the students physically attending school, this time will be utilised for practical work, project work, SUPW work and for ‘doubt clearing’ lessons. This will be extremely beneficial to the students who will now get the time to interact directly with their teachers,” Arathoon said. Arathoon told Metro there was a difference between “online teaching and teaching in a classroom”. “At least if schools open in January, students will get time to clear doubts and, most importantly, do practicals for physics, chemistry, biotechnology and other subjects, which have to be done in school…. We are asking for Classes X and XII. They will get some time in school and get ready for the board exams,” Arathoon said over the phone. “Teachers have put a lot of effort into online classes. They have shown experiments from the labs and sent videos to students. But nothing can compare with children doing the practicals themselves. Students need to have hands-on experience and do the experiments themselves. Proper practical exams cannot be conducted without hands-on practicals,” he said. On November 13, Metro had reported how teachers across schools were concerned about the loss of practical classes because of the pandemic, especially for the Class XII students. An official in the Bengal education department said that since the council’s letter had been addressed to the chief minister, they were awaiting an instruction from her office. “This is a crucial decision. During the pandemic all decisions with regards to reopening of campuses have been taken by the chief minister,” the official said. The statement issued by the council said the schools, if allowed to reopen, would be asked to abide by Covid-19 protocols of the respective state governments. The schools will be told to “conform to the safety guidelines and the standard operating procedures (SOP) of the state health department to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” the statement said. CISCE has also requested the “Chief Election Commissioner of India to share the election dates of the states that are due to have their elections in the months of April-May 2021”. Last week, Arathoon had said the ICSE and ISC board exams were not likely to take place “before the end of May or in June”. On Thursday, Arathoon said it was difficult to say in which format the board exams would be conducted — online or pen and paper. “It is difficult to say right now… in all probability it will be pen and paper, but it all depends on the pandemic,” he told Metro. Arathoon did mention the challenges of online board exams. “There are challenges like connectivity and bandwidth issues in an online exam. There are students who are doing classes on a smartphone. How can they write a board exam on a smartphone,” he said. “There could also be power failure during an exam…. Imagine, if suddenly the electricity goes off, while the child is writing an online board exam,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
04-12-2020||Business||Fraud-hit PMC Bank gets positive response from investors ||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday said the response from potential investors for the reconstruction of crisis-ridden Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank looks "positive" so far. Last month, the fraud-hit multi-state urban cooperative bank sought Expression of Interest (EoI) from potential investors for investment or equity participation in the bank for its reconstruction. The deadline for issuing Information Memorandum (IM) was November 20 and for seeking pre-bid clarifications was November 30. "The response looks positive at this point in time. The bank and its management are fully engaged with the investors who had purchased the information memorandum," Das told reporters after announcing the monetary policy. The last date for submission of EoI by potential investors is December 15, he said, adding "let us see what is the response and after that we can take a view on this". In September 2019, the RBI had superseded the board of PMC Bank and placed it under various regulatory restrictions after detection of certain financial irregularities, hiding and misreporting of loans given to real estate developer HDIL. The central bank appointed A K Dixit as the new administrator of the bank in September this year. While announcing the monetary policy on Friday, Das said, "With the preservation of financial stability and depositors' interest being uppermost in our agenda, we could swiftly resolve the situation at two scheduled commercial banks." Two private lenders – Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank were rescued in 2020. When asked about the reasons for delay in finding a resolution for PMC Bank, the governor said PMC Bank's situation was completely different from the two banks that the RBI has resolved this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
04-12-2020||Business||Sensex breaches 45,000 mark for the first time||Equity benchmark Sensex hit record-breaking numbers as it crossed the 45,000 mark for the first time on Friday, tracking strong buying sentiment in financial stocks after RBI's policy outcome. Earlier in the day, the Reserve Bank of India left interest rates unchanged for a third straight meeting as inflation stayed stubbornly high, and said the economy was recuperating fast and would return to positive growth in the current quarter itself. The Sensex rallied 447 points on Friday. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched a new high of 13,280.05 during the session, before finishing 124.65 points or 0.95 per cent higher at 13,258.55 -- its record closing high. The top gainer of the Sensex pack was the ICICI Bank, which rose around 4 per cent, followed by UltraTech Cement, Sun Pharma, Bharti Airtel, HUL, SBI, L&T, Axis Bank and IndusInd Bank. Among the laggards were Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finserv, HCL Tech and HDFC were among the laggards. The RBI's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) "decided to continue with the accommodative stance of monetary policy as long as necessary - at least through the current financial year and into the next year," Governor Shaktikanta Das said. The central bank’s aim is "to revive growth on a durable basis, and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 while ensuring that inflation remains within the target going forward," he added. According to Gaurav Dua, SVP, Head - Capital Market Strategy and Investments, at Sharekhan by BNP Paribas, growth remains high on the priority of RBI. "The commentary is dovish in spite of the elevated level of inflationary pressure. It essentially means the liquidity situation would be comfortable and interest rates likely to remain soft in the near term. However, we see limited scope for further easing of interest rates by banks to borrowers given the tapering of growth in retail deposits and rising credit demand in the economy," he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
04-12-2020||Business||RBI keeps repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday left interest rates unchanged for a third straight meeting as inflation stayed stubbornly high, and said the economy was recuperating fast and would return to positive growth in the current quarter itself. The benchmark repurchase rate will be maintained at 4 per cent, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) retained its accommodative stance, signalling its intentions to cut interest rates whenever the situation eases. A spike in consumer prices forced RBI to pause after cutting rates by 115 basis points this year. The central bank, which had previously expected the economy to shrink 9.5 per cent in the year to March, revised its forecast after a shallower-than-expected decline in the gross domestic product (GDP) in the July-September quarter. Das said high-frequency indicators point to a recovery gaining traction, with double-digit growth in passenger vehicles and motorcycle sales, railway freight traffic, and electricity consumption in October. The GDP, he said, will grow by 0.1 per cent in the October-December quarter and by 0.7 per cent in the following three months. Overall, 2020-21 fiscal will end with a (-) 7.5 per cent degrowth. The economy had contracted by a record 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter and by 7.5 per cent in the following three months. The two successive quarters of contraction pushed the economy into a technical recession. This is the first recession since quarterly records started in 1996. RBI had previously forecast a 5.6 per cent contraction in the quarter through December, followed by a return to growth in the three months to March. Das said inflation continues to be sticky. Headline retail inflation at 7.6 per cent in October was well above the upper end of the central bank's 2-6 per cent target band. For H1 2021-22, RBI projected growth of 21.9 per cent to 6.5 per cent. RBI saw inflation in the fiscal third quarter at 6.8 per cent and easing a bit to 5.8 per cent in January-March. It is projected to be in the range of 5.2 to 4.6 per cent in the first half of the 2021-22 fiscal. "Inflation is likely to remain elevated," he said, adding that this constrains the monetary policy at the current juncture from using the space available to act in support of growth. Stating that RBI was ready to take further measures to ease liquidity, he said the central bank will use various instruments at the appropriate time to ensure ample liquidity is available in the system. He also announces measures to deepen the corporate bond market and supervisory measures for the shadow banking sector. RBI raised the limit of contactless card transactions to Rs 5,000 per usage from the current Rs 2,000, with effect from January 1. Also, real-time gross settlement systems (RTGS) will be available 24x7 in the next few days, he said. "The MPC decided to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary at least during the current financial year and into the next financial year to revive growth on a durable basis and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on the economy while ensuring that inflation remains within the target going forward," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
04-12-2020||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points ahead of RBI policy outcome||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Friday tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, L&T and ICICI Bank ahead of the Reserve Bank of India's monetary policy outcome. The 30-share BSE index was trading 202.71 points or 0.45 per cent higher at 44,835.36. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was trading 66.10 points or 0.50 per cent up at 13,200. UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by L&T, M&M, Maruti, ONGC, Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid and ITC. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Infosys, Reliance Industries and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 14.61 points or 0.03 per cent higher at 44,632.65, while Nifty settled 20.15 points or 0.15 per cent up at 13,133.90 -- its lifetime closing high. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,637.42 crore on a net basis on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities continue to look resilient and firm. A continued foreign fund flow remains a key driver for markets, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Outcome of the Reserve Bank's policy meeting would be crucial for the day. While RBI is broadly expected to maintain status quo, any sort of hawkish commentary, given the concerns over inflation due to excess liquidity, might result in hardening of bond yields and BFSI may come in pressure," he noted. Given current valuations, a sharp up-move in broad indices looks difficult, he said, adding that midcap and smallcap outperformance should continue to persist in the near term. US markets finished mostly higher as investors continued to focus on renewed hopes on fiscal stimulus. "However, benchmark indices came off day's highs after Pfizer announced that it will be able to ship only 50 per cent of targeted vaccines in 2020 due to supply chain issues. "A record surge in new COVID-19 cases, which touched 2 lakh on Wednesday, is being overshadowed by increasing possibility of agreement on COVID-19 relief package in coming days. However, the quantum of fiscal aid might not excite the street," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red in mid-session deals, while Seoul was trading with gains. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 1.81 per cent higher at USD 49.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
04-12-2020||Business||Post-Covid data consumption per person rose two-fold in India||Data consumption per person has seen an almost two-fold rise in India following the Covid pandemic with the increasing adoption of digital services. Speaking at Infocom 2020, an ABP Group initiative, Sanjay Gupta, country manager and vice-president, Google India said the digital economy had become more accessible and digital services were playing a bigger role in people’s lives. “Back in 2014, monthly data consumption per Indian user was just a mere 86MB. By 2018, that had risen to 8GB, helped by the steeply falling data prices. But in just a few months since Covid struck, monthly data consumption has soared to 14GB per user per month, almost doubling versus 2018,” Gupta said, adding that at 500 million, India is already home to the world’s second largest online population . Rising adoption of digital payment services by small SMEs and video conferencing, particularly in education, have been among the key drivers towards the adoption of digital services during the pandemic. Citing an example, Gupta said local grocers had started using digital payments during the lockdown offering safety and convenience to their customers. “Many even put their inventory and catalogues on Google Sheets to share with their customers in the absence of e-commerce options.” He said that the pace and scale of technology adoption brought on by the pandemic was unprecedented. “In some ways in the past 10 months, we have squeezed in potential changes for the next 10 years,” he said. Realising further potential, Google in July had said it will invest USD 10 billion in the country through a mix of equity investment, partnerships and operational infrastructure and ecosystem investments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
04-12-2020||Business||Accenture expects companies to adopt hybrid model to manage workforce||Global professional services major Accenture expects companies to increasingly adopt a hybrid model to manage its workforce in the post Covid era. In a hybrid model, employees can work remotely; employers, thus, do not have to recruit keeping their own location in mind. “After the vaccine comes, are we going to go back to offices or stay in this mode? It will depend on different industries and different businesses, but I am sure that this would be a hybrid model,” said Bhaskar Ghosh, chief strategy officer, Accenture, at Infocom 2020, the flagship event of ABP Group. Citing an example, Ghosh said IT players, like many other industries, usually recruit from Bangalore if there is an opening in Bangalore; or if the recruitment is from another city, the employee is transferred to Bangalore. But in the future, it will be possible to recruit from different parts of the world and India, without the need to transfer the employees to Bangalore. From an employee perspective, technology will make it possible for individuals in Calcutta to apply for a job outside the city without the need to relocate on their part. Ghosh said after the disruption by the pandemic, companies have accelerated the pace at which technology is being adopted into businesses. “During the last nine months, the progress companies have made in terms of their digital journey may be equivalent to a three years or five years’ journey. That is a huge acceleration,” he said. Ghosh also shared two personal experiences — how he moved to buying fish online during the pandemic instead of the traditional market and how video calls have strengthened joint family bonds during this period  — as key leadership lessons to grow business in the post-Covid period. The first lesson Ghosh said is to learn to develop trust, retain clients and grow business. He said that Accenture which sells professional services, found that clients were willing to buy services remotely instead of the earlier way of sealing the deal only after conferences and meetings. “In this new world, client experience has changed the way they buy services and what is most important now is building trust.” The second lesson is unlocking the untapped potential of technology to create exponential value in business. “What we see today, tons of technology are available — whether it is blockchain or AI or robotics etc. It is important to use the technology to create the right value,” Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||Maruti to not get Vitara Brezza manufactured at Toyota plant||Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) on Thursday said it will not get its compact SUV Vitara Brezza manufactured at Toyota Kirloskar Motor’s manufacturing plant in Karnataka as was decided earlier. Maruti said it will allot some other model, in place of Vitara Brezza, to be manufactured at the Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) plant. It, however, did not disclose the name of the model which will now be produced at the TKM plant. TKM on Thursday said it has resumed production at its two plants at Bidadi in Karnataka even as a group of workers continue with a sit-in strike. Audi push Audi AG will invest 35 billion euros in pushing ahead its transformation to a provider of networked and sustainable premium mobility.  Some 17 billion euros, amounting to half of the investment sum, is allocated to future technologies. Like the Volkswagen Group as a whole, Audi is reinforcing investments in electromobility. The premium manufacturer has earmarked approximately euro 15 billion for this and the future topic of hybridisation. BMW launch BMW Group India launched the new BMW 2 Series Gran Coupé ‘Black Shadow’ edition on Thursday. Locally produced at the BMW Plant in Chennai, the exclusive edition will be available at the BMW digital shop from December 7 onwards. Vikram Pawah, president, BMW Group India, said, “The first-ever BMW 2 Series Gran Coupé blends the comfort of a sedan and the sportiness of a coupé.” Tata Nexon milestone Tata Nexon EV has crossed the 2000 sales milestone in 10 months since its launch. Till November 2020, the Nexon EV had sold 2200 units, indicating the rapid demand for the EVs. After rolling out its 1000th Nexon EV in August this year, the car clocked in another 1000 sales units in three months (Sept-Nov 2020).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||Indian economy witnessing V-shaped recovery||The Indian economy is witnessing a V-shaped recovery as the gross domestic product (GDP) has recorded a quarter-on-quarter growth of 23 per cent in the July-September quarter of this fiscal, according to the finance ministry’s latest monthly economic review. The decline in GDP narrowed to 7.5 per cent in the second quarter of this financial year, over 23.9 per cent in April-June quarter. “The year-on-year GDP contraction of 7.5 per cent in Q2 of 2020-21 underlies a quarter-on-quarter surge in GDP growth of 23 per cent. “This V-shaped recovery, evident at the half-way stage of 2020-21, reflects the resilience and robustness of the Indian economy,” the Monthly Economic Review for November said. Services PMI dips in November The dominant services sector growth lost some momentum in November as demand weakened, a private survey showed on Thursday, clouding hopes of a quick economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic’s blow. IHS Markit Services Purchasing Managers’ Index dipped to 53.7 in November from October’s 54.1 but still held well above the 50-mark separating growth from contraction for a second month. Though the sector activity rose for the third straight month in November, but the pace of growth softened from October’s near nine-year high.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||Jharkhand only state yet to accept Centre’s GST compensation formula||Jharkhand remains the only state yet to accept the Centre’s compensation formula to meet the GST cess shortfall. The formula mandates the Centre to borrow on behalf of the states. With Chhattisgarh communicating its acceptance of the formula on Wednesday, all the remaining 27 states and the three Union Territories with legislative assemblies — Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir and Puducherry — have opted for the plan. “I can let you know only after I discuss the matter with the departmental officers and also consult the finance ministers of Bengal and Chhattisgarh,” Jharkhand finance minister Raneshwar Oraon told The Telegraph when asked what would be the state’s stand at this juncture. “There were certain issues relating to the principle amount of the loan and its interest that needed to be sorted out,” he further said,  adding that could not be done as he had to be hospitalised after he tested positive for Covid-19 last month. The minister was released from hospital after he tested negative and he is recuperating at his residence. The Centre since October 23 has borrowed Rs 30,000 crore on behalf of the states in five instalments till December. The states, are also entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50 per cent of gross state domestic product out of 2 per cent additional borrowings permitted by the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||Flipkart announces a 'partial spin-off' of PhonePe||E-commerce major Flipkart on Thursday announced a “partial spin-off” of PhonePe as the digital payment firm raises $700 million in funding — valuing it at $5.5 billion. In this financing round, PhonePe is raising $700 million (about Rs 5,172 crore) in primary capital at a post-money valuation of $5.5 billion from existing Flipkart investors, led by Walmart, a statement said. Flipkart will remain PhonePe’s majority shareholder, and the two businesses will retain their close collaboration, it added. “Recognising the momentum that has been achieved, as well as PhonePe’s significant growth potential, Flipkart’s Board determined that this was the right time to partially spin-off PhonePe so it can access dedicated capital to fund its long-term ambitions over the next three to four years,” the statement said. PhonePe has crossed the 250 million registered user milestone, with over 100 million monthly active users (MAU) generating nearly one billion digital payment transactions in October 2020. “Flipkart and PhonePe are already among the more prominent Indian digital platforms with over 250 million users each. This partial spin-off gives PhonePe access to dedicated long-term capital to pursue our vision of providing financial inclusion to a billion Indians,” PhonePe founder and CEO Sameer Nigam said. Kalyan Krishnamurthy, CEO of Flipkart Group, said the move will “help PhonePe maximise its potential as it moves to the next phase of its development, and it will also maximise value creation for Flipkart and our shareholders”. PhonePe was founded by ex-Flipkart executives Nigam, Rahul Chari and Burzin Engineer, and was acquired by Flipkart in 2016. In 2018, Flipkart was acquired by Walmart, and PhonePe was part of the transaction as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||Centre raises cap on domestic flights by 10 percentage points||The Centre has raised the cap on domestic flights by 10 percentage points to 80 per cent of pre-coronavirus level as the airlines look to do better business during Christmas and New Year. “Domestic operations re-commenced with 30,000 passengers on May 25 and have now touched a high of 2.52 lakh on November 30, 2020. Ministry of Civil Aviation is now allowing domestic carriers to increase their operations from the existing 70 per cent to 80 per cent of pre-Covid approved capacity,” civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said in a tweet. The government had resumed scheduled domestic passenger services from May 25 after a gap of two months because  of the coronavirus lockdown. Since then, air passenger traffic has gradually picked up. Airline bookings have risen, with daily domestic passenger count touching about 2,50,000. The numbers, however, are still way below pre-pandemic figures. Heavy loss: Icra Rating agency Icra said it expected profitability of the  industry to be adversely impacted in this fiscal due to lower revenues and high fixed costs. It estimates the industry  to report a significant net loss of Rs 21,000 crore in this fiscal, against net loss of Rs 12,700 crore in 2019-20, with the industry debt level increasing to Rs 50,000 crore (excluding lease liabilities) over 2021-22 and the industry requiring additional funding of Rs 35,000-37,000 crore 2020-21 to 2022-23. It expects 2020-21 to witness a higher decline of 62-64 per cent in domestic passenger traffic, than its earlier estimates of 41-46 per cent decline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||RBI can roll back 100 basis points cut in cash reserve ratio||The RBI could roll back the 100 basis points cut in the cash reserve ratio (CRR) and come out with various other measures as it looks to soak up surplus liquidity that has resulted in money market rates slipping below the reverse repo rate. The apex bank is set to announce its monetary policy on Friday where it is widely expected to hold the policy repo rate at four per cent because of  elevated inflation. However, the focus has shifted to the liquidity management measures that it could take with risk averse banks parking close to Rs 6 lakh crore at the its reverse repo window. Experts say the monetary policy committee (MPC) could reverse the reduction in CRR that was done in March. The RBI had then brought it down to 3 per cent which resulted in releasing liquidity of more than Rs 1 lakh crore into the system. However, this might signal the RBI withdrawing its accommodative policy stance particularly after the economy has shown strong recovery signs.  The apex bank therefore will have to toe a careful line to continue with its growth agenda while mobilising the surplus liquidity. The interest rate setting panel could look at other options as well. Analysts at Emkay said the RBI may consider introducing Standing Deposit Facility (SDF) by which participants can park surplus funds without any collateral. They added that RBI can fix this rate a tad above reverse repo and that the facility can even be extended to non-banks such as  mutual funds and insurance thus creating an effective floor for the money markets. Additionally, the RBI may also consider longer tenor term reverse repos.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||Siemens India reportedly fires CEO and CFO||The Indian subsidiary of Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy has reportedly fired its chief operating officer and chief financial officer after an internal investigation found he failed to conduct appropriate due diligence when engaging a consultancy that had political connections. A Reuters report said that the unit’s former chief operating officer and chief financial officer, R. Venkatesh, is alleged to have disregarded corporate governance processes when dealing with UAP Advisors LLP. This is according to a June 28 filing in a case where Venkatesh is challenging his dismissal. Siemens Gamesa reportedly said in the filing that significant sums of money were paid to UAP without any diligence whatsoever and without even ascertaining proof of performance, while adding that UAP had strong links with “politically exposed” persons. The size of the payments made was not disclosed. According to the UAP Advisors’ website, while Uma Prabhu (wife of former railway minister Suresh Prabhu) is the managing partner, Ameya Prabhu (son of Suresh Prabhu) is a partner at the firm. It provides strategic advisory, financial services, principal investments and India market entry partnerships Venkatesh, who was fired in May, said in a statement to Reuters he was removed as the company owed him “a large amount of money” and that he will legally contest attempts to hurt his reputation. In court filings, he has called the internal inquiry “a sham” and said thousands of pages of UAP’s findings were shared with the management over time. Siemens Gamesa said in a statement its dispute with the former executive was private and it would not comment further as the matter was before the court. It said it does not intend to initiate proceedings against UAP. In a statement sent by Ameya Prabhu, UAP said it had “the highest quality of corporate governance”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||RBI prohibits HDFC Bank from issuing new credit cards||The Reserve Bank of India on Thursday barred HDFC Bank from issuing new credit cards and launching fresh digital banking initiatives, delivering one of the harshest regulatory penalties to any banking entity for a breakdown of services during which customers were unable to transact on its platforms. The banking regulator was responding to expressions of customer outrage over service outages — with the most recent episode occurring on November 21 when a power outage knocked out its primary data centre. HDFC Bank is the country’s largest credit card issuer with close to 1.5 crore credit card consumers — far ahead of SBI’s 1.1 crore consumers and ICICI Bank’s 92.7 lakh users. The regulator also asked HDFC Bank to ensure that its board “examines the lapses and fixes accountability”. This is the first time that the RBI is cracking down on any bank for lapses in service and it does raise questions about whether the severity of the penalty is proportionate to the magnitude of the deficiency. One must wait to see whether this is a veiled warning to other banks that have also witnessed similar outages. Until now, the RBI has always preferred to slap monetary penalties for lapses and irregularities and rarely resorted to regulatory action that has the potential to interfere with market outcomes. The penalty is certain to strangle HDFC Bank’s aspirations to grow its digital footprint at a time the pandemic has ignited a tsunami of digital transactions through cards and payment apps. There was no word on when the curbs would be lifted which would give its rivals the opportunity to overhaul the market leader in digital transactions. The bank tried to play down the wider implication of the penalty on market competition. Sashidhar Jagdishan, HDFC Bank’s new MD & CEO who recently took over from Aditya Puri, put out an apology to the customers. “We take this opportunity to assure our existing customers that there is no reason to worry. You can continue to transact with the bank without any concern. We realise that as our valued customer, you expect us to maintain a very high standard of service quality and experience. And sometimes, we have not been able to live up to your expectations. For that, please accept our sincere apologies,” he said. “We will work with the experts and the regulator to fortify the identified areas for improvement. Internally, we are looking at this as an opportunity to further improve ourselves and emerge stronger,” he said in a message that was put up on the bank’s website. Two outages HDFC Bank has been penalised for two major outages: one in November 2018 and the other in December 2019. “Unexpectedly, another incident happened on November 21 and the primary reason for the same is the power outage in our primary data centre. We are working on a war footing to strengthen this area also now,” Sashidhar added. Card customers had complained that they were stuck at merchant establishments with payments not going through. Customers of other banks have also been left out in the cold on a few occasions. Rival State Bank of India had to face the ire of customers earlier this week because of transaction failures. The SBI had faced technical glitches in the previous month as well. Customers of the SBI also faced difficulties with Yono app which was impacted by a system outage. Many customers had complained that the application showed an error M005. At that time, SBI had sent out a tweet to its customers requesting them to use onlineSBI or the Yonolite app for their banking needs. The RBI has also directed HDFC Bank to temporarily stop all launches of its digital business generating activities under its programme ‘Digital 2.0’ and other proposed business-generating IT applications. Under this initiative, HDFC Bank was looking to upgrade its net banking and mobile banking mediums to offer a better experience to users. A senior banker, who did not wish to be identified, said that while the system has witnessed a rapid growth in transactions via digital channels, the lenders have only resorted to minor upgrades to their infrastructure, which clearly have been inadequate. However, Suresh Ganapathy of Macquarie said in a note that when a bank is growing at a rapid pace and a way faster than the system, challenges are bound to crop up. “While the system loan growth has been at 5 per cent, HDFC Bank has grown its loan book at a level of 16-17 per cent, almost three times and this comes on the back of a 10 per cent market share. Added to that, it has a market share of 35-40 per cent in payments. While a market share in credit cards on an outstanding basis was 26 per cent, on an incremental basis, it was 31 per cent in the calendar year till date. Against this backdrop,  technology is unable to keep up with the pace of growth." He added that today’s move by the RBI would have only a limited impact on HDFC Bank’s profitability vis-à-vis issuing new cards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||India||Chargesheet filed against Arnab Goswami in suicide case||The police on Friday filed a charge sheet against Arnab Goswami, the editor-in-chief of Republic TV, as well as two others, in a 2018 case related to abetment to suicide. The charge sheet was filed before an Alibaug court in the neighbouring Raigad district, where the alleged abetment to suicide case of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud has been lodged. Other than Goswami, the other two accused named in the charge sheet are Firoze Sheikh and Nitish Sarda, said Pradeep Gharat, a special public prosecutor. “As many as 65 persons are named as witnesses,” he informed. On Thursday, Goswami filed an urgent plea before the Bombay High Court, seeking a stay in the filing of chargesheet and subsequent proceedings in the case. Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud committed suicide in 2018, allegedly because of non-payment of dues by firms of Goswami and other two accused. The case, closed for want of evidence in 2019, was reopened in May this year, with Goswami alleging that the Maharashtra government was pursuing a vendetta against him for his work as a TV journalist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
04-12-2020||India||Farmers call for nationwide strike on December 8||Farmers protesting at the borders of Delhi against three central agri-marketing laws have called for a countrywide shutdown on Tuesday, saying they will block all roads leading to the capital, amid a deadlock with the Centre. Addressing a press conference, Bharatiya kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Chadoni said if the Centre does not accept their demands during Saturday's talks, they will intensify their agitation against the new farm laws. “In our meeting today, we have decided to give a 'Bharat Bandh' call on December 8 during which we will also occupy all toll plazas,” another farmer leader Harvinder Singh Ladkhwal said after a meeting on Friday. “We have planned to block all roads leading to Delhi in the coming days if new farm laws are not scrapped,” he added. “More people will join our movement,” Lakhowal was quoted as saying by NDTV. The farmers representatives said that during their talks with the government, they asked for the repeal of the three new laws, which they think will leave them at the mercy of big industrial players. The farmers, who faced a crackdown at the Haryana border from the state police last week, said they will burn effigies on Saturday, NDTV reported. "We see the government agreeing to our demands on Minimum Support Price, electricity and penalties for stubble burning but we won't stop till the laws are repealed," Jamhoori Kisan Sabha's Punjab President Satnam Singh Ajnala, told NDTV. On Thursday, a group of representatives of the farmers refused the lunch offered by the government during their fourth round of talks and stuck to their demand for repeal of the three new farm laws, rejecting offers of amendments. During the first two meetings, the government met only farmers’ unions from Punjab, which were at the forefront of the agitation. But since farmers from five north Indian states converged on Delhi's borders in response to the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee’s “Dilli Chalo” call for November 26 and 27, they insisted and got the government to invite their national-level collectives. The farmers refused government hospitality during the talks at Vigyan Bhavan. Lunch was brought for them from the nearby Gurudwara Bangla Sahib, and they ate standing or sitting on the floor in the dining area of Vigyan Bhavan. Tea too was brought from outside for them. “We cannot be sitting down for a sumptuous meal offered by the government when our farming community is out on the street,” a farmer leader explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
04-12-2020||India||ED seize Mallya assets worth Rs 14 crore in France||Fugitive billionaire Vijay Mallya's assets in France worth 1.6 million euros have been seized by the Enforcement Directorate, the probe agency said in a statement today. "On the request of Directorate of Enforcement (ED), a property of Vijay Mallya located at 32 Avenue FOCH, France has been seized by the French Authority. The value of the seized asset in France is 1.6 million euros (Rs 14 crore). Investigations revealed that a large amount was remitted abroad from the bank account of Kingfisher Airlines Ltd," the ED said in a statement, as reported by NDTV.com The latest seizure of Mallya's assets comes as India fights a legal battle to extradite him from the UK. The founder of now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines is wanted for defaulting on loans worth up to ₹ 9,000 crore. He has been living in the UK since March 2016 and has been fighting his extradition to India. The 64-year-old's extradition was ordered by a British court in May but has been delayed by "secret proceedings" initiated in the country, the government told the Supreme Court last month. Vijay Mallya, who denies the charges against him, has repeatedly said that Indian banks can take back 100 per cent of the principal amount owed to them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
04-12-2020||India||Covid a threat to country's internal security, says Ghulam Nabi||Covid-like pandemics can pose a threat to the country's internal security and policymakers should address this challenge, senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said on Friday. Addressing the all-party meeting convened by the government to discuss the Covid-19 situation, the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha also said that the country should be well placed to get vaccines at affordable prices and at an early stage. "Covid-like pandemics can be one of the greatest threats to the internal security of any country. In the future, policymakers at the national level should include Covid-like pandemics as a threat to internal security, besides external threats and internal insurgencies, if any," Azad said in the meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Expressing hope that the country's pharma manufacturers in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will get the final nod from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for a COVID-19 vaccine soon, he said that mechanisms for delivery of vaccine at the grassroots level should be ready. "Considering the challenges due to the population and size of the country, we should be well placed to get vaccines at an affordable price and at an early stage," he told the meeting. Scientists, policy makers and political leaders must work together to set parameters for vaccine prioritisation and distribution, said Azad, a former Union health minister. Calling for prioritisation of target population groups like healthcare workers, the elderly, police and those dealing with Covid-19-related activities, he said adequate trained human resources should also be developed. The government must prepare for building capacities for vaccine availability up to the district, community and primary health care levels, the Congress leader said. "We are hopeful that a vaccine will be introduced shortly," he said. The UK has already approved a vaccine for use domestically and in India too, several vaccine candidates are in advanced clinical trials, Azad said. "I am sure by January, our pharmaceutical manufacturers in collaboration with the ICMR will get a final nod from the DCGI," he said. He also asked the government to deal with issues of storage, distribution, number of dosages, eligibility and side effects of the vaccine. The Congress leader called for putting in place a vaccine safety monitoring mechanism in place to assess the adverse events after immunisation. "There could be adverse effects or side effects or even long term after-effects which may need time to be identified and which are not discovered in Phase I, II or phase III clinical trials. India has to be more cautious since we have a large and young population and the government should rigorously monitor the quality, safety and efficacy of the vaccine," he said. Azad thanked doctors, nurses, paramedics, security forces and sanitation workers for their contribution and paid tributes to those front line doctors and workers who lost their lives in saving others during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
04-12-2020||India||Plea in SC seeks removal of farmers from Delhi borders||A plea in the Supreme Court was filed on Friday, which sought direction to remove protesting farmers from the Delhi borders immediately, saying that it poses hardships to commuters due to the road blockades and such gatherings might lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases. The plea seeks the top court’s directions to authorities to open roads at the borders, shift the farmers to an allotted place, and provide guidelines on social distancing norms and wearing of masks to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The petition, filed by law student Rishabh Sharma, has claimed that Delhi Police had on November 27 allowed these protesters to hold demonstrations peacefully at Nirankari ground at Burari here but despite that they have blocked the borders of Delhi. “Because of the ongoing protest at the Delhi borders, the roads have been blocked by the protesters and closed border points, which have affected vehicular traffic and people who are travelling to and from Delhi to get medical treatment in reputed government/private hospitals situated in Delhi are also affected”, the plea, which was filed through advocate Om Prakash Parihar, said. “It is pertinent to note that in view of the prevention of the community spread of the pandemic disease Coronavirus (Covid-19), it is very necessary to remove the gathering and this protest is further blocking the roads for all the emergency/medical services which are very much required to be supplied within the territory of Delhi in order to stop the spread of coronavirus..,” it said. The plea referred to the October 7 verdict of the SC where it had said that public spaces cannot be occupied indefinitely and demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone. The verdict came in view of the road blockade at Shaheen Bagh, where women and children protested against the Citizenship Amendment Act. “The petitioner is seeking urgent direction from this court to issue a direction for immediate removal/ dispersal of such mass gathering of protestors at Delhi borders and shift them to the place already allotted by the Delhi police in view of immediate threat of coronavirus infection and spread,” the petition added. It said that the protesters can carry out peaceful agitations when the pandemic threat is over, and keeping in mind the increase in the number of cases, it is important that the protest must be stopped at once. Traffic moved at snail's pace at several border points of the national capital as police kept key routes connecting Delhi to Haryana and Uttar Pradesh closed in view of the farmers' protest against the new farm laws, which entered its ninth day on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||India summons Canada diplomat over Trudeau’s remarks||India on Friday summoned the Canadian High Commissioner and told him that the remarks made by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and some other leaders on the farmers’ protests ‘constituted an “unacceptable interference’ in the nation’s internal affairs. The external affairs ministry said that the Canadian envoy was also conveyed that if such actions continue, bilateral ties between India and Canada will face “seriously damaging” impacts. Trudeau had recently backed the agitating farmers who are protesting against the three agri-marketing laws of the Centre, and said Canada would always be there to defend the rights of peaceful protests. He had also expressed concern over the situation in the country. “The Canadian High Commissioner was summoned to the Ministry of External Affairs today and informed that comments by the Canadian Prime Minister, some Cabinet Ministers and members of Parliament on issues relating to Indian farmers constitute an unacceptable interference in our internal affairs,” the Ministry of External Affairs said, adding that a demarche was made to the diplomat. The MEA said that such comments by the Canadian leaders have resulted in “gatherings of extremist activities” in front of the Indian High Commission and Consulates in Canada, which have raised concerns regarding safety and security. “We expect the Canadian government to ensure the fullest security of Indian diplomatic personnel and its political leaders to refrain from pronouncements that legitimize extremist activism,” the MEA further said. Canada's Indian-origin Defence Minister Harjit Sajjan had also expressed concerns about the “peaceful protesters being brutalised in India”. “The reports of peaceful protesters being brutalized in India are very troubling. Many of my constituents have family there and are worried about the safety of their loved ones. Healthy democracies allow peaceful protest. I urge those involved to uphold this fundamental right,” he tweeted on Sunday. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting for the last nine days at the borders of Delhi against three farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||Former Boxing coach offers to return Dronacharya award in farmers' support||Former national boxing coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu, during whose tenure India secured its maiden Olympic medal in the sport, on Friday said he will return his Dronacharya award if demands of the farmers protesting against new agriculture laws are not addressed. Sandhu, who served as India's national men's coach for over two decades before guiding women boxers for a couple of years, said it is his way of showing support to the farmers, who are protesting in "bitter cold without any consideration for their own well-being". "By doing this, I feel a huge morale pressure is off me. I come from a family of farmers, their fears need to be addressed. If the ongoing talks do not yield a result satisfactory to the farmers, I will return the award," Sandhu told PTI from his home in Patiala. Sandhu was the national coach when Vijender Singh became the first Indian boxer to fetch an Olympic medal back in 2008. It was during his tenure that a then-unprecedented eight Indian boxers qualified for the 2012 Olympics in London. Sandhu won the Dronacharya much before that in 1998. He also served as the national women's coach after his stint with the men came to an end. "This award means a lot to me but the plight of my fellow farmers means even more. It is painful for me to see them sitting on roads in this cold. All that the government needs to do is talk to them, clear their doubts and assure them," he said. "If the situation is resolved to their satisfaction, then I would not go ahead with it but if it is not, I will return the award," he added. Sandhu joined several former sportspersons in extending their support to the agitating farmers. Among them are Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee wrestler Kartar Singh, Arjuna awardee basketball player Sajjan Singh Cheema and Arjuna awardee hockey player Rajbir Kaur. Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have stayed put at various Delhi border points for the past few days, protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||Stan Swamy finally given straw, sipper by jail authorities||The advocate of activist Father Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, on Friday told a special court here that Swamy has been given a straw and sipper by the Taloja jail authorities. Swamy, 83, on Friday, filed three fresh applications seeking a direction to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to return his bag (seized by it at the time of his arrest), a clone copy of his hard disk (seized by it) and a direction to not transfer him from Taloja jail. Swamy claimed that he apprehends that he would be transferred from the Taloja prison near here in Navi Mumbai. Swamy, who is suffering from various health ailments including Parkinson's disease, was arrested on October 8 by the NIA. Last month, he had filed an application seeking the NIA to return the straw and sipper allegedly seized from him at the time of his arrest. The NIA, however, told the court last month that it had not seized a straw and sipper from Swamy and hence there was no question of returning those items to him. Swamy then filed an application seeking a direction to the jail authorities to provide him with a straw and sipper and winter clothes. On November 26, the special NIA court had directed the jail superintendent to file his reply on the application. On Friday, Swami's advocate Sharif Shaikh told special NIA Judge D E Kothalikar that Swamy has been provided with straw and sipper and winter clothes by the jail authorities. Swamy had also filed a bail plea on medical grounds. The court had sought a report from the Taloja prison on his health condition. On Friday, the jail authorities told the court that they need time to submit the report, following which court posted the matter for further hearing on December 10. The court said it would also hear the three new applications filed by Swamy on December 10. NIA's lawyer Prakash Shetty told the court that the agency does not have any items belonging to Swamy. As per NIA, Swamy was involved in the activities of the banned CPI (Maoist) and had received funds through an associate for furthering Maoist agenda. He was also the convener of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI (Maoist), the NIA claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||Vaccine will be ready in weeks, says Prime Minister||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said a Covid-19 vaccine may be ready in a few weeks as he noted that experts believe the wait for it will not be long, and asserted that the vaccination drive in India will begin as soon as scientists give the nod. In his remarks here at an all-party meeting held virtually on Friday to discuss India's Covid-19 vaccination strategy, Modi said healthcare workers involved in treating coronavirus patients, frontline workers, who include police personnel and municipal staff, and old people suffering from serious conditions would be inoculated on priority. Modi sought to address most burning aspects of the issue, ranging from India's vaccine readiness to its pricing, and reiterated that the country had done better than even some developed countries and those with better health infrastructure in tackling the pandemic. Opposition leaders also expressed their views at the meeting with Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad saying that a Covid-like pandemic could pose a threat to the country's internal security, and that policy makers should address this challenge. The Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, who is also a former Union health minister, said that the country should be well placed to get vaccines at affordable prices and at an early stage. Noting that there have been questions about the price of the COVID-19 vaccine, the Prime Minister said it was natural to have such queries and asserted that public health would be accorded top priority in the matter and states will be fully involved. This was the second all-party meeting called by the government on the pandemic since its outbreak. The Union Health Ministry gave a presentation in the meeting. It said the vaccine, when it becomes available, will be first given to about one crore health workers from both the public and private sectors, and then to about two crore frontline workers. Modi said nearly eight vaccine candidates, three of which were indigenous, were at different stages of trial and would be manufactured in India. Speaking about his interaction with Indian scientists involved in developing the vaccine and his visit to Pune, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad facilities where work is on in this regard, Modi said they were very confident of success. “Their confidence level is very strong,” he said, adding that various vaccines from different countries may be being spoken about but the world was keeping a watch on having a vaccine which was cheap and also safest. “That is why,” he said, “it is natural that the world is looking at India, a global centre for mass manufacturing of different vaccines at a very affordable cost.” In his remarks at the meeting, TMC leader Sudip Bandopadhyay said state governments have been cooperating with the Centre to fight the pandemic and in many cases, they are coming up with ideas to prevent the spread of the disease. “In West Bengal, the situation is being monitored categorically,” he said. The TMC government has taken various measures to fight the pandemic and these included setting up of dedicated COVID hospitals, plasma banks, and tele-counselling, free ambulance, special helpline, integrated helpline and admission helpline services, he said. The Prime Minister said a feeling of fear and apprehension marked the months of February and March, when India reported its first COVID-19 case, but now an atmosphere of "hope and confidence" has replaced it, asserting that India had come a long way in its fight against the disease. "India is one of the few countries where the testing and recovery rates are very high and the mortality rate is very low. Compared to developed countries, India has fought against COVID much better and has managed to save a lot of lives," Modi said. Striking a note of caution, the Prime Minister referred to a fresh surge in COVID cases in some countries and said no one knew what shape the future would take as he called for adhering to "proven weapons" like use of masks and adhering to social distancing to keep the virus at bay. “At a time when the country stands on the verge of having a vaccine, any carelessness can be damaging,” he asserted, underlining the need for having public participation and cooperation in curbing the pandemic. Modi also urged political parties to keep the masses aware and protect them from rumours which, he added, were often spread whenever there was a mass vaccination exercise. “The Centre is working in tandem with states for vaccine distribution,” he said, adding that India was better than many countries when it came to expertise and capacity of the programme. India has also prepared a software, Co-WiN, which would have real-time information about the vaccination drive, including available stock of vaccine, he said, adding that a "National Expert Group", with representation from the Union as well as state governments, will spearhead such an exercise. Besides Azad and Bandyopadhyay, floor leaders of various parties in Parliament including Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of the Congress, Sharad Pawar of the NCP and Ram Gopal Yadav of the SP were among those who attended the meeting. Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Pralhad Joshi and Harsh Vardhan were also present. An official statement later said that the DMK, YSR Congress, JD(U), BJD, Shiv Sena, TRS, BSP, SP and the AIADMK also participated in the meeting. "The leaders assured the Prime Minister of their full support to ensure efficient and speedy vaccination. They hailed the leadership of the prime minister in tackling the pandemic and praised the scientific community as well as vaccine manufacturers for their efforts in vaccine development," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||BJP defeated in Maharashtra Legislative Council polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday found itself at a murky position in Maharashtra, where the results of the Legislative Council elections have been announced. Of the six seats where the polling was held last week, the BJP could manage to win only one. The NCP-Shiv Sena coalition is won four seats, while an independent member won the remaining one. The Shiv Sena, however, failed to win a single seat though its alliance partners bagged four. Sena's lone candidate lost in Amravati. The BJP, on the other hand, has missed out on its major strongholds, including Nagpur, which was earlier represented by Union minister Nitin Gadkari. The BJP only won by-polls to the Dhule-Nandurbar local body seat, the results for which were declared earlier. "The results of Maharashtra Legislative Council polls are not as per our expectations. We were expecting more seats but won only one. We miscalculated the combined power of the three parties (Maha Vikas Aghadi)," Devendra Fadnavis told news agency ANI. Meanwhile, Sharad Pawar’s NCP won the Aurangabad and Pune graduate constituencies. NCP's Satish Chavan won the Aurangabad division graduates' constituency, defeating BJP nominee Shirish Boralkar. In Pune division graduates' constituency, NCP's Arun Lad defeated BJP candidate Sangram Deshmukh by a margin of 48,824 votes. According to Pawar, the result was a reflection of the MVA government's performance in the last one year. The biennial elections to six legislative council seats - three graduates' and two teachers' as well as one local body seat were held on December 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||India's Covid caseload stands at 95.71 lakh, recoveries cross 90 lakh||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 95.71 lakh, while the total number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 90 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 94.20 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 95,71,559 with 36,595 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,39,188 with 540 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 90,16,289 pushing the national recovery rate to 94.20 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The active Covid-19 caseload continued to remain below 5 lakh. There are 4,16,082 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 4.35 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, 14,47,27,749 samples have been tested up to December 3 with 11,70,102 samples being tested on Thursday. The 540 new fatalities include 115 from Maharashtra, 82 from Delhi, 49 from West Bengal, 32 from Haryana, 31 each from Kerala and Uttar Pradesh, 22 from Chhattisgarh and 20 each from Punjab and Rajasthan. A total of 1,39,188 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 47,472 from Maharashtra followed by 11,821 from Karnataka, 11,747 from Tamil Nadu, 9,424 from Delhi, 8,576 from West Bengal, 7,848 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,014 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,862 from Punjab, 4,031 from Gujarat and 3,300 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||Orissa HC seeks status report in Pari case||Orissa High Court on Thursday directed the police to submit a status report on what action it has taken during the past five months in the case of alleged kidnapping and murder of  five- year-old  Pari from Nayagarh district. Based on a petition filed by the president of Bharatiya Bikash Parishad, Surendra Panigrahi, the high court issued the directive and asked the Nayagarh SP to provide security to Pari’s parents —Ashok Sahoo and Saudamini. “We have sought protection for the family of Ashok Sahoo and the high court agreed to it and issued the direction to the superintendent of police of Nayagarh. It has asked him to submit a detailed report on the investigation into the case so far,” Panigrahi told The Telegraph. Both Ashok and Saudamini had to leave their native village Jadupur following an attack by the supporters of the suspected accused in the kidnapping and murder of Pari. The parishad also demanded a CBI probe into the incident as a senior minister, Arun Sahoo has been accused of shielding the accused involved in the gruesome crime. “We have urged the court to give a compensation of Rs 25 lakh to  Pari’s parents. All these issues will come up during the next hearing of the court scheduled to be held on December 16,” Panigrahi said. Union minister Pratap Sarangi on Thursday came down heavily on the Odisha government for failing to arrest the accused. “The state has no moral right to remain in power. It has utterly failed to solve the case and punish the accused involved in the case,” he said. Sources said the special investigation team (SIT), constituted by the government to probe the matter, has intensified its investigation. On July 14, Pari was kidnapped while playing near her house in her native village in Nayagarh district. A fortnight later, her skeletal remains were found in a decomposed state from the backyard of the house. Her parents have accused the police of inaction as the people involved in the crime are close to higher education minister Arun Sahoo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||Farmers reject tweak, stick to repeal demand||Farmers’ leaders refused the lunch offered by the government during their fourth round of talks on Thursday and stuck to their demand for repeal of the three new farm laws, rejecting offers of amendments. According to the farmers’ organisations, the three ministers at the talks conceded the merit of some of their concerns and offered to tweak the laws, but the leaders of the 40 farmers’ unions and collectives unanimously dismissed the amendment route. “We told the government that cosmetic changes will not help,” All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah said. The farmers’ unions were, however, appreciative of the time the three ministers gave them on Thursday. The talks, which lasted well beyond six hours, ended with a decision to meet again at 2pm on Saturday. Among the amendments the government suggested, sources said, were: On the issue of a minimum support price (MSP), Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union appeared satisfied with a purported promise that no change is being envisaged for the time being. But the other union leaders said the government had given no assurance about a legally guaranteed MSP. This is expected to be discussed at length on Saturday. ANI quoted Harjinder Singh Tanda of the Azaad Kisan Sangharsh Committee as saying: “In the half-time, it seemed that today’s meeting will yield no result, in the second half it seemed that there is pressure of farmers’ agitation on government. Talks were held in a conducive atmosphere.” Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar was accompanied at the meeting by food minister Piyush Goyal and the minister of state for commerce, Som Prakash. Goyal has been holding the food ministry, which deals with procurement and the MSP, since the death of Ram Vilas Paswan in October. Tomar told reporters the government would not be constrained by ego while talking to the farmers, and that it was willing to address their fears. He was confident that the talks would enter a decisive stage on Saturday and urged the farmers to call off their siege of Delhi, saying it was inconveniencing people. This was the fourth meeting between the farmers and the government since the farm laws had been enacted in September. In the first two instances, the government met only farmers’ unions from Punjab, which were at the forefront of the agitation. But since farmers from five north Indian states converged on Delhi's borders in response to the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee’s “Dilli Chalo” call for November 26 and 27, they insisted and got the government to invite their national-level collectives. The farmers refused government hospitality during the talks at Vigyan Bhavan. Lunch was brought for them from the nearby Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, and they ate standing or sitting on the floor in the dining area of Vigyan Bhavan. Tea too was brought from outside for them. “We cannot be sitting down for a sumptuous meal offered by the government when our farming community is out on the street,” a farmer leader explained. The farmers’ feistiness seems to be endearing them to the citizenry at large. The protest music being played at their camps along the Delhi-Haryana border, and the Punjabi language they are speaking, are fast becoming the flavour of the season. Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh have blocked National Highway 9 near UP Gate, while thousands from Punjab and Haryana are massed at other points on Delhi’s borders, PTI reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||Parkash Singh Badal to return Padma Vibhushan in protest against government's betrayal of farmers||Parkash Singh Badal, former Punjab chief minister and the Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch, on Thursday joined the “award wapsi gang”, a derisive label coined by the current regime originally for writers who had returned awards to protest against the government’s silence on hate attacks. The 92-year-old Badal has informed the President that he has decided to return his Padma Vibhushan, the second-highest civilian honour, in protest against the Narendra Modi government’s “betrayal of the farmers”. The Akali Dal, the BJP’s oldest ally, has already pulled out of the Modi government over the farm laws, and Badal’s action is certain to pile more pressure on the Modi government over the farmers’ protest. “I have decided to return this honour of Padma Vibhushan in protest against the government’s betrayal of the farmers on the three acts against which the farmers of my state and the country are agitating in this cold winter,” Badal wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind. Led by the Prime Minister, the ruling BJP had slammed prominent writers who had decided to return their awards in protest against the government’s silence on the killings of rationalists and lynchings of Muslims by cow vigilantes. Badal, who had in 1996 stitched the alliance with the BJP that broke in September this year, said the Modi government had gone back on its promise to hold consultations before bringing the bills to Parliament. “When the Government of India had brought the ordinances, assurances were given to us that the farmers’ apprehensions… would be addressed to their satisfaction when these would be converted into bills,” he wrote to the President. “Accordingly, I even appealed to the farmers to trust the government’s words. But I was shocked when the government simply went back on its word,” Badal added. Badal's decision comes at a time another ally, the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) in Haryana, has been exerting pressure on the Centre. The JJP derives its strength from the state’s land-owning Jat community, which has joined the farmers’ protest. Former Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda has been claiming that many JJP MLAs are in touch with him. The BJP-led government in the state depends on the support of the JJP’s 10 MLAs. Some Independent MLAs supporting the government have already come out in protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||Indian wage floor lower than Pakistan's: Report||The gross minimum wage in India was lower compared with Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Nepal last year, a report by UN’s labour arm says. It adds that with hardly any wages paid during the first two phases of the national lockdown, spanning 40 days, informal workers in India suffered a 22.6 per cent fall in wage earnings for the year. Formal-sector workers were better protected, undergoing wage losses of 3.6 per cent. For countries that have multiple minimum wages across regions or sectors, unlike India’s nationwide floor wage of Rs 176 a day, the Global Wage Report 2021, issued by the International Labour Organisation on Wednesday, considered the median value (the middle figure in a series). It found that the global median value of the monthly minimum wage was equivalent to Rs 9,720. In India, it was Rs 4,300, Pakistan (Rs 9,820), Nepal (Rs 7,920), Sri Lanka (Rs 4,940) and China (Rs 7,060).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
04-12-2020||India||Navy chief flags China security concern||Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh on Thursday said attempts to change the status quo on India’s northern borders had increased complexities in the country’s security situation and posed a challenge along with the Covid-19 pandemic. “The Covid-19 pandemic disrupted every aspect of life. The near simultaneous attempt to change the status quo at our northern borders has significantly increased the complexities in our security situation. The dual challenge scenario continues as we speak and the country collectively continues to battle the pandemic and tackle the security challenges,” he said. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since early May. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army has altered the unmarked Line of Actual Control at several friction points and, according to estimates, have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Addressing a news meet on the eve of Navy Day, Admiral Singh said his force was alive to various threats in the maritime domain, including from China, and was fully ready to deal with them. He said the Indian Navy will formally write to the Centre on the pressing need to have a third aircraft carrier to enhance its maritime capabilities and air operations that are critical in the seas and are important for an “aspirational nation”. “We will soon make an official case for it… We are absolutely clear of the utility of the carrier. This is because air operations are integral to naval operations and air power at sea is required since the navy is all about reach and sustenance,” Admiral Singh said. Underlining that enhancing the underwater capability of the country has been a focus of the Indian Navy, he said: “If you are a nation that is aspirational and you want to become a $5-trillion economy shortly and you want to do well, you will have to go outwards and seek the world. The nation does not want the navy to be restricted to its shores… aircraft carriers are absolutely necessary.” The navy chief’s remarks are significant in the wake of the growing influence of the Chinese navy in the Indian Ocean region. Currently, India has INS Vikaramaditya as the only operational aircraft carrier while INS Vikrant is under construction. “Vikrant is in an advanced stage and will begin sea trial in early 2021,” the navy chief said, adding that Chinese research and fishing vessels have been active and three warships deployed in the Gulf of Aden in the Indian Ocean region, but there has been no infringement of India’s maritime boundaries. He said the Indian Navy is in the process of procuring Smash 2000 rifles to enhance its anti-drone capabilities in the seas. The rifles can take down unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) meant to carry out combat operations. Admiral Singh said the navy will also soon take forward the process of acquiring six more submarines. Referring to the situation along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, Singh said the Indian Navy had pressed into action its assets, including the P8I reconnaissance aircraft and Heron Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, in the region. “Whatever we are doing is in close coordination with the army and the Indian Air Force,” he said. He said the navy has put in place a standard operating procedure in the event of any infringement of its maritime domain in the Indian Ocean region by China. On the rapid expansion of the Chinese PLA and possible challenges for India, Admiral Singh said the navy was cognizant of it and was focusing on its overall combat prowess. “As a primary manifestation of India’s maritime power, the Indian Navy stands ready to fulfil its mandate to protect our national interest in the maritime domain,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
04-12-2020||India||India buys China stand on Brahmaputra dam||India and China on Thursday maintained a semblance of accepting each other’s concerns and contentions about Chinese plans to construct a major dam on the Brahmaputra river in Tibet even as the disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh remains a vexed issue. After the Chinese Communist Party-owned Global Times reported on Sunday that China will build a hydropower project on the Yarlung Zangbo (as the Brahmapura is called in China), there was concern that this would affect the lower riparian countries — India and Bangladesh. China sought to allay fears with statements coming out of its embassy in New Delhi on Wednesday and Beijing on Thursday. India, for now, appears to have accepted the Chinese contention that they are only undertaking run-of-the-river (which involves little or no water storage) hydropower projects. Fielding questions on the subject at the weekly briefing, external affairs ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said: “The government carefully monitors all developments on the Brahmaputra river. As a lower riparian state with considerable established user rights to the waters of the trans-border rivers, the government has consistently conveyed its views and concerns to the Chinese authorities and has urged them to ensure that the interests of downstream states are not harmed by any activities in upstream areas. “The Chinese side has conveyed to us on several occasions that they are only undertaking run-of-the-river hydropower projects which do not involve diversion of the waters of the Brahmaputra.’’ On Wednesday, Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong had claimed that China has always taken a responsible attitude towards the development and utilisation of cross-border rivers, and adopts a policy that protection goes together with development. “Any project will undergo scientific planning and demonstration with full consideration for the impact on the downstream areas and the interests of both upstream and downstream countries. At present, the downstream development of the Yarlung Zangbo river is still in the stage of preliminary planning and demonstration. There is no need to over-interpret it.” A somewhat similar statement was repeated in Beijing on Thursday by Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
04-12-2020||India||ED searches 26 PFI premises in 9 states in money-laundering probe||The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday raided 26 premises in nine states linked to the Popular Front of India (PFI), including its chairman O.M. Abdul Salam and national secretary Nasarudheen Elamarom, in connection with a money-laundering probe. Sources in the agency said the raids were being conducted in Bengal, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi and Maharashtra under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). “Multiple money-laundering cases against the PFI have been clubbed into one and the searches are still continuing,” said an ED official. The PFI describes itself as a socio-political movement that seeks to empower Muslims and other marginalised sections. The Narendra Modi government has been considering a ban on the organisation since its first term. In the absence of a ban, which has been sought by some BJP-led state governments, the PFI remains a legitimate organisation. The PFI called the raids a gimmick and an attempt to divert attention from the farmers’ issue. “Modi government has always used national agencies against its political opponents and to crush dissent in the country to the point that the credibility of these agencies has come under question,” the organisation said in a statement. The central government has come under immense pressure following the farmers’ protests blockading Delhi and the ED raids are nothing but a “gimmick” to divert the issue, it said. It said authorities “intend to prevent the organisation from its fight against the anti-constitutional CAA-NRC, as it is a forerunner and stays a major force in the citizenship agitations across the country”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
04-12-2020||India||Amarinder Singh asks farmers and Centre to reach an amicable solution||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday asserted that nothing except scrapping of the new farm laws was acceptable even as the Narendra Modi government indicated its readiness to make some amends to address the apprehensions of the farmers. Interestingly, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had also asked both the government and the farmers to find a meeting ground at the earliest. He didn’t insist on scrapping or withdrawal of these three laws after his meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah. As farmers resumed negotiations with the government on Thursday morning, Rahul tweeted, “Accepting anything else than complete scrapping of the black farm laws will be a betrayal of India and her farmers.” Amarinder’s tenor was indisputably different as he appealed to both the sides not to show rigidity. “My appeal to farmers is that they just urgently find a solution to this problem. It is impacting national security and Punjab’s economy. The two sides should not take rigid positions and a meeting ground must be found,” he said. This position is not in tune with Rahul who advocated rigidity by insisting on just one acceptable solution. Amarinder, however, stressed the need to protect the MSP and continue with the Agricultural Produce Market Committee-based mandi system but didn’t set any precondition like withdrawal or scrapping of laws. Sources said the chief minister’s concern over the deadlock can be understood as Punjab is in a state of paralysis owing to the movement going on for months now. They said apart from Punjab’s economy, the chief minister is concerned about lakhs of people from the state stranded on the road. Rahul’s stance appeared to be in tune with the farmers’ inflexible position. Farmers have not yet shown any  inclination for a compromise and even asked the government on Thursday to stop the charade of negotiations if they were not willing to withdraw the laws. The Congress also echoed their demand for calling a special session of Parliament to withdraw the three farm laws. Congress’s leader of the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, wrote to Speaker Om Birla to convene the session to discuss farmers’ movement and Covid-19 vaccine protocol. Many other Congress MPs like Manish Tewari and Partap Singh Bajwa also called for an immediate Parliament session. Amarinder’s mellowed posturing allowed the Akali Dal to criticise him as it asked why was he linking the peaceful farmers’ movement with national security. Amarinder has often stressed that Punjab was a sensitive border state which has suffered a lot because of militancy. He had earlier warned that Pakistan and China could fish in troubled waters and exploit peasant unrest to foment trouble. He also expressed grief over the death of two farmers, Gurjant Singh and Gurbachan Singh, who were participating in the ongoing protests against the farm laws and announced financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to their families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
04-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi seeks clarity on Centre's Covid vaccine policy||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday sought clarity on the Narendra Modi government’s coronavirus disease vaccination policy amid concerns among health researchers that the Centre is deviating from universal immunisation and could leave millions unvaccinated. Rahul used Twitter to flag what some health experts view as contradictory signals from the Centre — an assurance from Modi in June that the country’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign would be universal and “no person should be left behind”, but suggestions by health officials that the government would not vaccinate everybody. “PM — everyone will get vaccine. BJP in Bihar elections — Everyone in Bihar will get free vaccine. Now, GOI (Government of India) — never said everyone will get vaccine,” Rahul tweeted. “Exactly what does the PM stand by?” The BJP, while releasing the Bihar Assembly poll manifesto in October, had pledged free Covid-19 vaccines to everyone in the state, prompting the Opposition to accuse the party of playing politics through the pandemic. Amid clinical trial results from outside India promising high-efficacy vaccines, Rahul had on November 23 also asked Modi to clarify the country’s vaccination policy. “The PM must tell the nation: Of all the Covid vaccine candidates, which will GOI choose & why? Who will get the vaccine first & what will be the distribution strategy? Will PMCares fund be used to ensure free vaccination? By when will all Indians be vaccinated?” Rahul had tweeted. He isn’t alone seeking answers. Health researchers say they are puzzled by what appears to be the Centre’s efforts to backtrack from an earlier commitment to universal immunisation and instead discuss proposals that will select only certain groups of people and leave others unvaccinated. In a review meeting on June 30, Modi had asserted that the Covid-19 vaccination policy while starting with priority groups such as healthcare and frontline workers and other vulnerable groups should also be universal and not leave any person out. But since early October, top health officials have signalled that the government has no intention to vaccinate everybody. Members of the Centre’s expert panel on Covid-19 vaccines had told this newspaper in October that people already infected with Covid-19 and thus carrying antibodies could be left out of vaccination campaigns. Earlier this week, Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, the apex health research agency, suggested that the goal of vaccination is only to break the chain of transmission. “Our purpose is to break the chain of transmission. If we’re able to vaccinate a critical mass of people and break that chain, we may not have to vaccinate the entire population,” Bhargava said. “The role of masks is important. Masks will be protective and should continue to be used so as to break the chain of transmission.” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan also said on Tuesday: “I want to make this clear: the government has never spoken about vaccinating the entire country.” Health experts have cautioned that vaccinating a critical mass of the population — even several hundreds of millions of people — would leave the unvaccinated vulnerable to the infection, severe disease and death. “No one is safe until everyone is safe,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “Selectively offering vaccines to certain sections of the population is not going to break the chain of transmission.” “While those at high risk of getting infected such as healthcare and frontline workers have to be prioritised to match the vaccine availability, there needs to be a comprehensive plan in place to sequentially protect everyone,” he said. Experts expect the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India to be the first Covid-19 vaccine to roll out for public use in the country. The Serum Institute has indicated that it would apply for emergency use authorisation of the vaccine and health experts believe, if drug regulators are convinced with the clinical trial data and expedite approval, immunisation could begin in January.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
04-12-2020||India||Tamil Nadu BJP intellectual cell chief is Rajinikanth’s party coordinator||Movie superstar Rajinikanth on Thursday said he would launch a political party in January ahead of the May 2021 Tamil Nadu elections, ending 24 years of suspense over whether he would enter politics. “A political party will be launched in January. The announcement will be made on December 31,” Rajinikanth, who turns 70 on December 12, tweeted. “In the coming Assembly elections, with the people’s support, we will usher in a transparent, corruption-free, secular government, beyond caste, religion. It will be the birth of spiritual politics.” The actor later confirmed the decision at a media interaction. He said he would take the “full plunge” into politics only after completing the shooting of his latest film, Annathai, by March. Speculation that the proposed outfit might be “pro-BJP” continued despite the phrasing of the tweet appearing to distance Rajinikanth from the BJP’s brand of politics. The actor declared that Arjun Murthy, head of the state BJP’s intellectual cell, would be “chief coordinator” of the new party. Hours later, Murthy resigned from the BJP. State BJP general secretary Karu Nagarajan promptly accepted his resignation, relieved him of all party posts and told the cadre not to have any association with him. At the media conference, Rajinikanth also introduced Gandhian activist and Tamil writer Tamizharuvi Manian as a key office-bearer who would “oversee” the new party’s formation and launch. Rajinikanth fans across the state celebrated, bursting crackers and distributing sweets. Speculation about Rajinikanth joining politics has continued since he helped fashion Jayalalithaa’s defeat in the 1996 Assembly elections. The actor had openly attacked Jayalalithaa for corruption and backed the breakaway Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC), led by G.K. Moopanar. Rajinikanth’s one-line indictment —“If Jayalalithaa is voted back to power, even God cannot save Tamil Nadu” —went down well, helping the DMK-TMC-CPI combine win the election. On Thursday, the actor brought up his declared intent in 2017 to launch a political party before the Assembly polls and contest all the 234 seats. He said he had never gone back on a promise and was now fulfilling it. “I had planned to travel all over Tamil Nadu and build awareness among the people to create an upsurge for change before launching the political party,” he said. But a kidney transplant and subsequently the pandemic hindered the programme. Rajinikanth said his doctors had advised him against interacting with people too much, “but even if my life is at risk, I have now decided to enter politics as people’s welfare is paramount”. “The time to rewrite Tamil Nadu’s destiny has come. There’s a great need for change... it’s now or never. Voted to power, we will change everything,” Rajinikanth promised. Some among the Hindu Right and Rajinikanth’s fans believe that the actor alone can fill the “vacuum” left by the deaths of Jayalalithaa and M.K. Karunanidhi. This despite fellow actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Neethi Maiyam having already contested last year’s Lok Sabha polls. Several Opposition politicians, however, suggested that Rajinikanth’s health problems would make it difficult for him to emerge as “MGR-II” — a reference to the late M.G. Ramachandran, a movie star who formed the AIADMK and ruled Tamil Nadu as chief minister from 1977 to 1987. AIADMK chief minister E.K. Palaniswami played down the sudden development. “I have not seen his statement in full; I shall respond later,” he said in Salem. Deputy chief minister O. Panneerselvam, also of the AIADMK, welcomed Rajinikanth’s announcement, adding that an alliance “with his party is possible”. DMK parliamentarian and spokesperson T.K.S. Elangovan was unimpressed. “Even a few days ago, he had sounded undecided. Now he has said something. We don’t know what the pressure is on him to say this,” he told The Telegraph. “It won’t affect the DMK, for at best he may take away AIADMK votes.” Dalit MP and VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan was dismissive, saying: “There is no clarity in his idea of ‘spiritual politics’.” He said the term tended to imply majoritarian communal politics in the national context, for which there was little scope in Tamil Nadu where Dravidian parties and progressive Left forces held sway. TMC president G.K. Vasan said one had to “wait and see” what impact the announcement had on the popular mood. “If he’s going to complete his film assignments only by March, when will he have the time for the elections?” state Congress president K.S. Azhagiri said. He suggested that Rajinikanth’s “spiritual politics” may have little in common with the Gandhian notion of spirituality. Rajinikanth had been expected to meet Amit Shah during the Union home minister’s recent trip to Chennai, but it didn’t happen. However, BJP ideologue Swaminathan Gurumurthy, who edits the Tamil political weekly Thuglak, recently met Rajinikanth and advocated he enter politics to take on both the Dravidian majors — an indirect plea for him to back the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
04-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP selling farmers' rights to corporate houses, says TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Friday expressed its ire against the "draconian" farm bills, which it alleged were passed without consultation with stakeholders and accused the BJP of selling farmers' rights to corporate houses. A TMC delegation will soon meet the agitating farmers in Haryana, party sources said. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, while referring to her 26-day hunger strike against "forcible" land acquisition in Singur in 2006, expressed her solidarity with the farmers protesting the new farm laws. The TMC supremo was then an opposition leader during the Left Front rule in the state. She tweeted, "14 years ago on 4 Dec 2006, I began my 26-day hunger strike in Kolkata demanding that agricultural land cannot be forcefully acquired. I express my solidarity with all farmers who are protesting against draconian farm bills passed without consultation by Centre #StandWithFarmers." Banerjee had on Thursday threatened to launch a country-wide agitation if the "anti-farmer" new farm laws were not withdrawn. Senior TMC MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar alleged that the new farm laws are "unconstitutional" and were passed to help the corporate houses. "We demand that these laws be withdrawn. These laws were passed not to help the farmers but were done to help the multinational and corporate houses. The intention of the BJP is to sacrifice the interest of the farmers to serve its own interest," she told reporters here. She also said that the TMC will launch a country-wide movement if the farm laws were not withdrawn. Marathon talks between the Centre and the agitating farmer unions on Thursday failed to end the standoff over the new farm laws as the protestors refused to budge on their demands and another round of discussions will be held later in a bid to forge a resolution. The government side, led by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, assured the group of nearly 40 farmer leaders that all their valid concerns would be discussed and considered with an open mind, but the other side stuck to their demand of repealing the three "hastily-passed" farm laws, saying there were several loopholes and deficiencies. Agitating farmers had on Wednesday demanded that the Centre convene a special session of Parliament and repeal the new farm laws as they threatened to block other roads in Delhi and "take more steps" if it failed to do so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal cabinet clears technology ventures worth Rs 3,000 crore||Bengal is hoping to create at least 40,000 jobs in the technology sector as it tries to crank up investments in the pandemic-hit year. The state expects to receive investments worth Rs 3,000 crore from 20 technology ventures in Rajarhat, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday. These ventures were cleared by the state cabinet on Tuesday and will form Phase II of the Bengal Silicon Valley Hub in Rajarhat. Addressing the inaugural session of the 19th edition of Infocom — an initiative of ABP, which publishes The Telegraph — Mamata said these projects would create 9,000 jobs. The projects cleared on Tuesday, along with those cleared earlier and slated to come up in Phase I of the Hub, are expected to generate more than 40,000 jobs. The chief minister said technology giant Wipro had committed an investment of Rs 500 crore on its second campus, where 10,000 jobs would be created, taking the IT major’s total headcount in the city to 19,000. Wipro operates a special economic zone in Salt Lake’s Sector V. The Wipro project is not part of the Hub. In her speech, delivered from Nabanna — Infocom 2020 is taking place on a virtual platform because of the pandemic — Mamata spoke of the need to usher in digital technology to improve people’s lives and create employment opportunities for Bengal’s pool of talent. Mamata said: “We need to focus on the right priorities and create an environment of inclusive growth rather than polarise the polity. Technology can be a great leveller. Infocom must show us the way to bridge the digital divide and demonstrate how technology can spur growth and development.” The state’s top bureaucrats — chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and home secretary H.K. Dwivedi — sat by her side as she spoke. An Airtel data centre — one of the 20 Hub projects — will be built at a cost of Rs 350 crore. This is the second such centre by a telecom company at the Hub in Rajarhat. The other one is being developed by Reliance Jio. The Silicon Valley Hub sprawls 200 acres. TCS, part of the first wave of companies to come to the Hub, has taken up 20 acres to build a second campus. India’s largest IT company already employs 44,000 people in Calcutta and the headcount could go up to 61,000, the chief minister said. To meet the aspirations of job seekers, especially those who returned to Bengal during the pandemic, the state government has introduced a skill-matching portal called Karmo Bhumi. “Some 352 companies and 40,000 job seekers are registered with the site. The placement of 8,000 people has already been done,” Mamata said. Around 1,500 IT companies, including Cognizant, IBM and Cap Gemini, operate in Bengal, together employing more than 210,000 IT professionals. Infosys recently informed the state government that work on its maiden campus would start in July 2021 and be completed in two years. Mamata told the virtual audience about the rapid strides Bengal had made in the past eight years in terms of capital expenditure, and described the challenges it was grappling with since the outbreak of the pandemic. The state GDP has gone up 2.5 times from 2011, she added. “We are doing better than other states even though revenues are low…. If there’s a will, there’s a way. If there’s no will, there’s no way,” Mamata said. The three-day event, being live-streamed on a dedicated YouTube channel, has brought together 500 delegates from large, small and medium enterprises as well as government representatives from Bengal and other eastern states. Across 20 sessions, the event features 35 speakers, including Google India country manager and vice-president Sanjay Gupta, Accenture’s chief strategy officer Bhaskar Ghosh, Ericsson India Global Services managing director Amitabh Ray and the director-general of Software Technology Parks of India, Omkar Rai. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel will address a session on Friday. Amit Mitra, Bengal’s minister for finance, industry and information technology, will address the valedictory session on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata’s black kite riddle||Mamata Banerjee, known for her plainspeak, surprised Bengal’s political circles with cryptic avian comments on Thursday, which sources close to her interpreted as an indirect jibe at former minister Suvendu Adhikari’s potential flight from Trinamul’s nest. Asked on the eleventh-hour postponement of her virtual address at Wednesday’s Oxford Union Society event, she came up with a loaded answer. “There are times when we see a black kite (bird) flying in the sky and assume a storm is coming. There are times when the black kite is blown away by the storm. But when it passes, the black kite returns to search for its nest,” she said. “I said something without saying anything,” Mamata added. “A black kite is flying in the storm now. Keep watching. In future, the black kite will look for its nest, from me. Be it a black kite or a crow, a parakeet or a common myna… we have the ability to give (a nest). Bengal doesn’t run to anybody, everybody runs to Bengal. That is Bengal’s credit.” A senior Trinamul MP said Mamata made the cryptic comment, in an oblique reference to Adhikari, who has been trying to chart a different political course for himself. The source said Mamata told the top tier of her party’s leadership to move on from the Adhikari chapter. “She said the chapter should be deemed closed by all of us.” TMC vice-president Saugata Roy also said he would no longer pursue the matter. “I have nothing more to say about Suvendu (Adhikari). Whatever has to be said after this, he will say,” said the Dum Dum MP. “I do not have any interest in him anymore,” added Roy, in a departure from his relentless optimism the entire past week. Roy apparently changed his stand after receiving a message from Adhikari — following which Mamata issued her orders to disengage from the Nandigram MLA — on Wednesday, stating it was “difficult” to work together. The message was a drastic U-turn from the events on Tuesday night, described by Roy as a “beautiful, fruitful, amicable discussion” between Adhikari and Trinamul’s de facto Number Two Abhishek Banerjee. Adhikari is expected to make his political stand public at a news meet on Sunday. On Thursday, Adhikari made multiple public appearances in his home district East Midnapore, at apolitical events, to commemorate the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Khudiram Bose. But some of his remarks, said sources in the party, were indirect jibes at the Abhishek faction. “I have been coming here for decades…long before 2011 (when Trinamul came to power in Bengal). Now, because the village boy is on the ground, some living in flats have problems,” said Adhikari at an event. On the sidelines of another event, when asked what his political identity now was, Adhikari said: “A son of Bengal. A son of India.” “I will continue to serve the people of my state,” he added. Former CPM leader Laxman Seth, held responsible for long by Mamata Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikari for the Nandigram situation on the ground, was seen on the dais of a Haldia event along with Trinamul spokesperson Kunal Ghosh. Ghosh apparently defended Seth and suggested the CPM made him a scapegoat. Seth, who joined the BJP and the Congress since his expulsion from the CPM, has been a free agent for some time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Digital device for Class XII students in Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced that her government would distribute tablets to nearly 9.5 lakh Class XII students studying at 14,000-odd government or government-aided schools and 636 madrasas to enable them to attend online classes. “We will give tablets to all 9.5 lakh students of Class XII who are studying at government or government-aided schools or madrasas. This will help them attend some online classes before higher secondary exams,” said the chief minister at Nabanna during a meeting with Trinamul-backed state government employees’ union on Thursday. After making the announcement, she instructed education minister Partha Chatterjee to arrange for regular online classes for higher secondary students before the exam. “If required, give computers to the schools so that they don’t face trouble in conducting online classes,” said the chief minister. The Class XII students could attend classes for only about two months after the new session started in January as the coronavirus-induced lockdown came into effect from March 25. Unlike the private schools, the government or government-aided schools could not arrange online classes in the past eight months. “Most schools don’t have the required infrastructure to hold on-line classes... Besides, a majority of students at these schools didn’t have smart phones or laptops,” said a source. Sources said the scheme would leave an additional burden of about Rs 350 crore on the state exchequer. According to school education department sources, tenders would be floated to buy tabs and computers. “The chief minister wants to complete the project at the earliest so that the students can attend some classes before the exams. If the exams are held in May-June, we will try to ensure that online classes start by the end of January,” said another official. The initiative by the chief minister also holds political significance as many of the examinees would turn 18 and become first-time voters. “The ruling party will surely benefit if the roll-out of the scheme is handled properly,” said a source. But distribution of tabs alone cannot solve their problems, said a school headmaster. “A majority of the students of these schools are from rural areas and belong to low-income groups... It is still not clear whether they would be given Internet. If internet connection is not provided to the poor students, a large number of them could be left out.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Dearness allowance back, 3% of enhanced salary||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced a 3 per cent dearness allowance for nearly 8 lakh government employees and staff of government-aided institutions like schools, panchayats and municipalities from January 1, next year. “Despite the fact that we are facing financial distress as the Centre is not releasing funds under various heads, including GST compensations, we announce a 3 per cent DA to the employees from January 1, 2021. It should be remembered that we are giving a fresh installment of DA at a time the Centre has frozen DA for two years,” the chief minister said while addressing representatives of Trinamul-led state government employees union at Nabanna on Thursday. The 3 per cent DA is expected to give the majority of state government employees monthly hikes ranging between Rs 1,200 and Rs 2,000. The DA is estimated to cost the state exchequer Rs 2,200 crore a year. The chief minister’s announcement practically resurrects the dearness allowance, which was merged with the basic salary under a new pay scale that came into effect from January 1, 2020. Along with other benefits, the basic salary had gone up by 2.57 times under the pay scale that was recommended by the sixth pay commission. From January 1, 2021, the beneficiaries will get DA amounting to 3 per cent of the merged and enhanced salary. “So, the 3 per cent DA under the new pay scale is equivalent to almost 8 per cent DA under the previous pay scale,” said an official. A section of the employees, however, said 3 per cent DA would not be of great help for them as their due DA was not cleared for several years. Some employees said even after the fresh instalment, they would lag behind their central counterparts by 14 per cent. The central government employees get 17 per cent DA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Land papers not needed for dole application in Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said land documents would no longer be required to apply for financial assistance under the state government-run Krishak Bandhu scheme and the dole could be given based on farmer’s self-declaration of the plot’s ownership. Under the scheme, farmers across the state are offered Rs 5,000 per an acre annually. So far, nearly 45 lakh of a total of 72 lakh farmers in the state have been enrolled in the scheme. “The farmers are facing trouble in obtaining mutation certificates (which establish one’s ownership of land) on time and getting enrolled under Krishak Bandhu. I have asked the chief secretary to enrol farmers based on self-declarations. We want to bring all farmers under the scheme,” the chief minister said. Mamata said the state would start giving financial assistance to farmers — irrespective of their ability to prove land ownership — based on their self-declarations. She added in case it was found they submitted false declarations, they could be asked to pay a penalty. According to sources, the chief minister initiated the step primarily for two reasons. First, she wanted to counter the BJP’s propaganda that the Bengal government was denying farmers PM-Kisan, a similar central scheme, by not implementing it in the state “To counter the allegation, the chief minister has to ensure that all 72 lakh farmers in Bengal get the benefit of the state’s scheme. The relaxation will surely help the government achieve the target,” said a bureaucrat. Another reason, sources said, is to send out a message to the farmers’ community in the state that Mamata’s government is more farmer-friendly than the Narendra Modi dispensation. “The chief minister is protesting against the farm laws and also showing that she is sensitive to the problems faced by farmers,” said a source. Mamata’s initiative to make the farmers’ unrest an issue in the state was apparent on Thursday morning when she put out a tweet demanding withdrawal of the farm laws. “I am very much concerned about the farmers, their lives and livelihood. GOI must withdraw the anti-farmer bills. If they do not do so immediately we will agitate throughout the state and the country. From the very start, we have been strongly opposing these anti-farmer bills,” the chief minister tweeted. In another tweet, Mamata said she would convene a meeting of her party leaders on the farm laws, dropping a hint that she was preparing to launch big scale agitation to mount pressure on the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||RT-PCR test becomes cheaper in Bengal||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday capped the cost of RT-PCR testing for Covid-19 at Rs 950 in Bengal’s private facilities, down from the existing Rs 1,500. “The state now has 95 laboratories approved by the Centre for Covid-19 testing, of which 45 — state-run and private — conduct tests using RT-PCR,” a minister said. Covid-19 testing by the RT-PCR method fell from the initial Rs 4,000-plus to Rs 2,250 in June, Rs 1,500 in October and Rs 950 now, he said. On Thursday, the state reported 44,130 tests, taking the total to 60.03 lakh, at 66,699 tests per million people. Bengal logged 3,257 recoveries, 3,246 new infections and 49 deaths, 12 from Calcutta. The state has 24,106 active cases in all, having fallen by 13,084 since Dashami on October 26, a continuous dip since 38 days. During these 38 days, Bengal reported over 1.5 lakh recoveries and 1.39 lakh new infections. The state now has a total of over 4.93 lakh infections, which includes over 4.6 lakh recoveries and 8,576 deaths. The recovery rate, rising for 42 consecutive days, rose to 93.38, closer to the national rate of 94.18 per cent. The state’s mortality rate improved to 1.73, but is still behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Of Bengal’s total toll, 7,180, or 83.7 per cent comorbid deaths. The state reported 26.05 per cent occupancy in the 13,538 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.03 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Locked Malda school building reduced to rubble||An old primary school building in Malda town has reduced to rubble overnight, much to the concern of residents and officials of the district education department. The Chhatra Bondhu Primary School in Kalitala under ward 10 of the town is run by the District Primary School Council (DPSC), founded in 1969, has a campus spread over some 1,500 square feet, 40-odd students and two lady teachers. Like thousands of other academic institutions of the state, the school was closed since the middle of March this year amid the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown. On Thursday, residents of Kalitala were surprised to see that the school building — with concrete walls and a roof of earthen tiles — was no longer there and debris was strewn all over the premises. The “mysterious disappearance” of the building led to a hue and cry, prompting former minister and local ward coordinator Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury to rush to the spot. The school, residents said, is barely 30 metres from Choudhury’s Trinamul party office. Choudhury called up Suniti Sapui, district inspector of schools (primary) and told him about the building. Sapui, after a site inspection, filed a complaint at Englishbazar police station.  “We have asked the police to find out how the building got dismantled. Our senior officials have been told,” he said. Choudhury, the most prominent Trinamul leader of the area, said he did not suspect foul play. “The building was in a deplorable shape. It seems  Amphan further weakened it and the building collapsed on its own. I do not think there is any foul play. Arrangements have been made to clear the debris as there is information that the building, under lock and key for months, has turned into a pit of snakes,” he said. Administrative officials are not ready to buy the theory. Though Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate, denied making any comment, administrative sources revealed they sought a quick report from the police. “The building may be old but there is no reason to believe it fell on its own. We suspect that it was deliberately demolished with some other interest. Police are probing and we hope the truth is out soon,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Bimal rally versus Binay rally on Sunday||Leaders of the two factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, both allies of the ruling Trinamul, will hold two separate show-of-strength rallies on Sunday. The twin rallies to be held at venues 80km from each other have suddenly raised the political temperature in north Bengal and sent the administration into a tizzy. While Bimal Gurung will address his first public meeting after a gap of three-and-a-half-years at the Indira Gandhi Maidan in Siliguri, the rival Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha will observe the foundation day of the party’s youth wing at Jamuni in Takvar of Darjeeling, an area considered to be Gurung’s bastion. “Hundreds of vehicles carrying supporters of both camps will be criss-crossing the hills and the plains... There is a major law-and-order concern for us,” said a senior police officer. Multiple sources said that the apprehension of a face-off comes from the intense competition between the two camps to prove their supremacy in the hill politics. “Both are allied to Trinamul and so it is likely that each faction will try to prove that it is more powerful than the other in north Bengal politics,” said a source. Earlier, the Gurung faction was supposed to hold the public meeting at Baghajatin Park, a ground in the heart of Siliguri. However, leaders of the faction later decided to shift the venue to Indira Maidan and said there would be huge turnout of party supporters from the hills, Terai and the Dooars and thus needed a larger ground. On Thursday, Bishal Chhetri, a vice-president of the central committee of the Morcha (Gurung camp), visited the ground. “Our president Bimalji (Gurung) will reach Siliguri on Sunday and will address a public meeting at Indira Gandhi Maidan here. We expect over one lakh supporters at the venue to listen to him,” said Chhetri. Back in May 2008, Gurung had addressed a similar public rally at the same venue. The Morcha leader, Chhetri hinted, will continue to stay in north Bengal to monitor the party's activities in the coming days. Leaders of the Tamang faction, when asked whether their rally was in response to Gurung’s first public appearance after a long gap, said theirs was an independent event that had nothing to do with the Gurung show. “Our event has nothing to do with Bimal Gurung’s event in Siliguri. We will observe the foundation day of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha Yuwa Morcha on Sunday,” said a leader from the Tamang camp. Ahead of the meetings, the administration is trying to make elaborate arrangements to ensure that there are no major law-and-order problems. “There is tremendous animosity between the two camps... There are genuine reasons to be worried. We are taking all precautions,” said a police source. According to him, the police are contacting the leaders of both the camps to diffuse tension ahead of the rallies. “Separate routes for participants of the two rallies are also being worked out,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul, CPM offices attacked, BJP blamed||A couple of party offices of the Trinamul Congress and the CPM were ransacked in Hooghly’s Arambagh late on Wednesday night, bringing rivals on the same page with leaders of both accusing the BJP of the attacks. Along with the offices, a gram panchayat office was also ransacked in the attack. Sources said unidentified persons ransacked a Trinamul party office in Gourhati and damaged furniture late on Wednesday. They tore party flags and posters with pictures of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, and ransacked the Trinamul-run Gourhati-II gram panchayat office. “The BJP is losing its support in Arambagh and that's why it chose to attack our party office and gram panchayat office. We have filed an FIR,” said Palash Roy, Trinamul block president in Arambagh. All-India president of the Trinamul Youth Congress Abhishek Banerjee is scheduled to visit Arambagh on December 10 for a mass rally, Roy added. The goons went on to attack the CPM area committee office at Dongol More. The door of the office was damaged and 100 party flags were destroyed. The CPM branch office at Gourhati More was also ransacked. Local CPM leaders said the saffron camp was angry with the Left for leading the farmers’ movement against the Narendra Modi government in Delhi. “The success of the November 26 strike and the farmers' movement in Delhi have angered the BJP and they vented their ire at our party offices,” said Samir Bera a CPM leader in Arambagh. Though Bera accused the BJP directly, Purnendu Chatterjee, CPM area committee secretary in Arambagh, said: “We filed complaints against unidentified goons for the attacks but we cannot rule out the BJP’s presence." The BJP denied both allegations. “There is no reason to attack CPM party offices as the party has no impact in this area. Attack on the Trinamul office is result of its own infighting,” said BJP's Arambagh unit president Biman Ghosh. Responding to the complaints lodged by two political parties, police rushed to the area and a police officer said they were keeping an eye on such incidents in the run-up to state polls. “We have started a probe and will arrest those involved in the attacks,” said Arambagh SDPO Abhishek Mandal. These apart, a Trinamul party office in village Bankra of North 24-Parganas’ Hingalganj police station area was ransacked on Wednesday night. Local Trinamul leaders found on Thursday morning that the party office and a few shops were ransacked. Police have been informed. In West Burdwan’s Kanksa and Andal, tension erupted between Trinamul and BJP workers over capturing walls for graffiti. A group of Trinamul workers stopped BJP workers from writing graffiti on walls in Madanpur village of Andal, Trinamul workers saying they had already "marked" them as theirs. This led to a minor clash. In Bishnupur village of Kanksa, the BJP said walls marked “BJP” had been captured by Trinamul workers. Additional reporting by Abhijeet Chatterjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
04-12-2020||North East||Gadkari unveils highway projects worth Rs 4,127 cr in Nagaland||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday inaugurated a major national highway project in Nagaland and laid the foundation stone for 14 others entailing a total cost of about Rs 4,127 crore, the government said. The Road, Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister said 55 highway projects worth Rs 11,711 crore were approved for the state in the last six years. "Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari virtually inaugurated and laid foundation stones for 15 National Highways projects in Nagaland on Friday...These NH Projects has (have) a length of about 266 km involving the cost of about Rs 4,127 crore," Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. Chief Minister of Nagaland Neiphiu Rio and Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways VK Singh were present on the occasion besides MPs, MLAs and senior officers. Gadkari said the Centre is committed to the development of the North East and Nagaland and informed that 667 km were added to the NH network in Nagaland during the last six years, which depicts the growth of nearly 76 per cent. The NH network in the state today has been extended to 1,547 km up from 880.68 km till 2014. The minister said almost all districts in Nagaland now have been connected except a few, to a robust network of National Highways. He said, “The NH network density now is 93.30 km/1,000 sq km against national average of 39.90 km/1,000 sq km. The population-wise density of NH network in the state is 77.73km/lakh population against the national average of 10.80 km /lakh population," as per the statement. Gadkari further informed that for development and improvement of National Highways, 55 projects of a total length of 1,063.41 km and total cost of Rs 11,711 crore have been approved in the last six years. These include improvement of Dimapur City, largest city of Nagaland, project at a total cost of about Rs 1,598 crore. Sixteen projects of length 690 km amounting to Rs 7,955 crore are in progress, he added. Another seven works of 105 km amounting to Rs 966.75 crore are in tendering stage, the minister said adding that 11 works of 178 km length costing Rs 2,127 crore are to be approved during 2020-21 with enhanced sanction ceiling. Five works of 524 km costing over Rs 6,000 crore are in the DPR (detailed project report) stage. The Union Minister added that under CRF (central road fund), total sanction till now from 2002 is Rs 1,334.3 crore, of which Rs 487.14 crore has been released. He announced that a sum of Rs 45 crore is being released for Nagaland soon. Gadkari requested the chief minister to urgently send the estimates for Land and Damage Compensation in respect of Kohima Bypass, the statement said. He also informed that NHIDCL (National Highways & Infrastructure Development Corp Ltd) has taken up two-laning of Kohima-Mao road in Nagaland and the civil work has already been awarded on September 30, 2020. Chief Minister Nephiu Rio requested the Union Minister to consider the development of foothill roads in the State. Gadkari informed that the same is under consideration. The CM also raised the issue of Dimapur-Kohima Road, called the lifeline of Nagaland. "Gadkari responded that work is in progress, and 70-80 per cent work on this road has been completed. NHIDCL has undertaken rigorous efforts to bring the projects on track and expedite the progress of work. Regular meetings at the highest level have been taken to expedite the progress of work on ground," the statement said. Gadkari also urged the CM to further review the NH works to resolve the issue. Speaking about 26.25 km Kohima-Mao road for which the foundation stone was laid on Friday, Gadkari informed that this stretch is also an important part of Asian Highway (AH-1) connecting to Myanmar as it will greatly improve the connectivity of Kohima city to Manipur border. It is also important for socio-economic progress of Nagaland, he said, and added that better roads will help improve the growth of industry and trade and marketing of local products from various resources like bamboo, etc. VK Singh hoped that the new NH projects will attract improved tourist traffic to the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
04-12-2020||North East||Jahnu Barua to make film on Ahom general Lachit Borphukan||Eminent filmmaker Jahnu Barua will direct a Hindi film on legendary Ahom general Lachit Borphukan so that the war hero gets his “overdue share of limelight on the national and the international stage”. “For well over 20 years, I have been living with this dream of doing a film on my favourite war hero Lachit. There were a number of government initiatives to this  effect, including proposal from two former governors, but because of budgetary constraint the production of such a mega project could not be taken up,” Barua, a multiple National Award-winning filmmaker, said. “ ...after more than seven decades of Independence Assam’s war hero and the pride of India will get his overdue limelight on the national and international stage,” Barua said. The announcement comes at a time when Lachit and his exploits in the 1671 Battle of Saraighat to check the advancing Mughal army are invoked only to sway voters before every state and general elections. It is no different in the run-up to the 2021 Assembly polls in Assam. The ruling BJP and its allies use the Saraighat metaphor against illegal Bangladeshi Muslims — and by default against the AIUDF which is seen by the ruling party as backing a community which poses a serious threat to Assamese identity. The Congress and the newly floated Assam Jatiya Parishad counter by pointing out that Muslims, who constitute over 34 per cent of the state’s population, have coexisted for generations by referring to Bagh Hazarika, one of the main Ahom commanders in the Battle of Saraighat, was an Assamese Muslim fighting against the formidable Mughal army led by Raja Ram Singh, a Hindu. The 1952-born Barua is known for films such as Maine Gandhi Ko Nahin Mara, Halodhia Choraye Baodhan Khai, Firingoti and Xagoroloi Bohu Door, among others.. Barua now wants to depict the story of Lachit’s life and times across India through the film because he was a national hero, not only of Assam where the warrior is eulogised and revered for his leadership and heroism. Every year on November 24 the Assam government celebrates Lachit Diwas in remembrance of the general’s heroism. Since 1999, the National Defence Academy (NDA) confers the Lachit Borphukan gold medal to its best cadet but still most in Assam feel not many know about the Ahom general outside the state. On Wednesday, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal unveiled a 33-feet life-size statue of Lachit at Sepon in Charaideo district and said the general’s courage and valour gave distinct identity to the Assamese people worldwide inspiring generations after generations to dedicate themselves selflessly in the service of the nation. Thanking industrialist and producer Suresh Sharma for his willingness to produce the multi-crore mega film, Barua said research on the project has already begun under the guidance of Prof. J.N. Phukan, a scholar and former head of the department of history, Gauhati University, to depict with accuracy the events leading to the Battle of Saraighat, which catapulted the Ahom general to the status of a legend. To be produced by Guwahati-based Dream House Productionz, besides top production houses of the country, the film is expected to be released by late 2022. The film will have a leading actor of the country playing the role of the Ahom general, a statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
04-12-2020||Opinion||Face value: New surveillance||A report by the Internet Freedom Foundation estimates that 32 facial recognition technology systems are getting installed in India under Project Panoptic. This is worrying in a country where, in spite of privacy being declared a fundamental right by the Supreme Court, the Union home minister declared in Parliament that the Delhi police had tapped into driving licences and voter identity databases to apprehend 1,900 ‘rioters’ from the Delhi riots. On paper, the Automated Facial Recognition System proposed by the home ministry is supposed to be used for “criminal identification, verification and its dissemination among various police organisations”. In reality, for the AFRS to be effective, biometric facial data from all individuals, not only the targets of surveillance or those suspected of criminal activity, need to be collated. Worryingly, accuracy rates of facial recognition algorithms are particularly low in the case of minorities, women and children, as demonstrated in multiple studies across the world. Use of such technology in a system where vulnerable groups are over-represented — more than half of all convicts and undertrials in Indian prisons are Muslims, Dalits or adivasis — risks replicating human biases. What is worse, the use of such surveillance is being contemplated without the checks and balances offered by a comprehensive data protection law. Strikingly, the proposed personal data protection bill — it is yet to be passed by Parliament — gives significant leverage to State agencies. While the bill envisages alerts for users when an attempt has been made to access data from, say, a facial recognition database, the government has been kept out of the purview of this provision. Even if the bill is amended to safeguard citizens against such loopholes, implementation may not be guaranteed. The Justice Srikrishna panel, which was constituted to look into data privacy, had pointed out that in spite of legal checks against phone-tapping, a review committee has to go through as many as 15,000-18,000 interception orders every meeting. Significantly, such privacy concerns are being aired in other parts of the world as well. The European Commission is considering imposing a five-year moratorium on the use of facial recognition technologies in the European Union; in the United States of America, municipalities have passed, or are considering passing, similar prohibitions. In India, where public awareness about digital depredation is minimal, such a system can increase privacy violations and bring about the genesis of a pliant society. Deliberations on facial recognition tools must strike a balance among security concerns and privacy, liberty, and freedom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
04-12-2020||Opinion||Stick to it: Policy announcements||The courts may lay bare politicians’ attitude to power. In the context of a recent case, the Supreme Court ruled that the announcement of policy decisions make public authorities accountable; the decisions cannot evaporate as soon as the political purpose behind the announcement is served. In this critique of quick-fix populism, of which every political party in India is guilty, the court reportedly remarked that the State must get rid of the colonial mindset that it is a sovereign, handing out doles to the people at will. Little else can express the attitude of Indian politicians who, after being elected, begin to treat their electors like subjects. This especially characterizes the conduct of the ruling dispensation in Delhi. It dresses up all aspects of governance — policies, federal transactions, inherited schemes, infrastructure projects — as gifts from the prime minister. But most important in the Supreme Court ruling was its emphasis on policy decisions being solemn promises to the people. That is, not fulfilling them would amount to fraud or deceit; depriving people of their legitimate expectation would violate Article 14 of the Constitution. The right to equality enshrined in this provision is a guarantee of protection against arbitrary State action. Colonial-style whimsicality and hollow promises made for short-term political gain were thus sharply condemned by the court. As important was the Supreme Court’s invocation of the trust of the people in the State — an aspect of democracy that seems all but completely lost. The Indian citizens’ cynicism with regard to politicians is a sickness that is eroding the base of the democratic edifice. The State should act in a transparent manner in order to retain the people’s faith. When public authorities cannot keep a promise made to the people, they must cite reasons for the failure — reasons that must be proportional to the requirements of public interest. Since the context of the court’s remarks was a promise made by a state government to industries, the court said that the commercial sector needed to trust that its expectation from public authorities would be fulfilled for certainty and consistency in their planning. This ruling is of great significance at a time when populist promises have become accepted political strategy and the accountability of politicians in power threatens to become an obsolete notion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
04-12-2020||Opinion||New rules for parents in China||Not all Chinese mothers choose to be “tiger moms”. Some are pushed into becoming so. Already struggling with the race to transform their only children into multi-talented wonders, new forms of pressure now act on Chinese parents. The latest is being asked by teachers to grade their children’s homework. The practice came into public focus when the outburst of one father went viral on social media. “What can you do now that I have quit the parent-teacher WeChat group!” he asks in the video. “What’s your value since I’m the one who teaches my child and grades his homework?” With WeChat (the Chinese equivalent of WhatsApp) groups of parents and teachers having become the norm, the father’s anger struck a chord with parents. A mother grumbled that the constant messages from parents on her WeChat group disturbed her at work, yet she couldn’t afford to switch off notifications for fear that the teacher may have sent an important message. Another father, however, said the opposite: he simply blocked the group’s notifications and glanced through them only when he went to pick up his son from school. “As parents we have enough else to stress about,” he said. However, not everyone is so self-assured. Parents at a school meet were embarrassed to see a father burst into tears when a teacher asked him why he had not been replying to messages on the WeChat group, and questioned his interest in his child. In front of everyone, he had to explain that with his wife having died a few years ago, he had to work twice as hard to support his parents and his son, and didn’t have the time to go through the messages on the WeChat group. What started off as a direct means of communication between parents and teachers on topics of importance to students turned into a forum where parents curry favour and teachers make impossible demands. Promises by eager parents of helping their children clean the school and compliments to teachers have left parents who disapprove of or have no time for all this anxious. Then there’s the ubiquitous practice of every member wishing “Happy birthday” to  students. The parent of the birthday child is expected to buy gifts for her classmates; this when children are forbidden from receiving birthday gifts in school. The demand that parents grade and sign off on their children’s homework has proved to be the last straw. Teachers say this monitors the parents’ involvement in the child’s progress, without acknowledging that it helps them shirk their duties. They argue that they are overworked; but so are parents. Only those families where the mother can afford to stay home can do justice to this demand. One parent grumbled that she was up till 3 am grading her child’s homework. Things have come to such a pass that now rules have been framed by city and provincial education bodies on what can be posted on such WeChat groups. Demands to grade homework are forbidden. Also forbidden is the damaging practice of posting students’ grades on the group and criticism of individual students. Violating these rules would mean an end to promotions for teachers and even a disqualification of principals who allow this. Teachers, on their part, hope that this puts an end to the exasperating practice of parents messaging them at all times of the day. In India, where such groups have just started, the Chinese experience may come handy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
04-12-2020||Opinion||The grapes of wrath||The farmers’ protest near New Delhi is a major political event challenging the Narendra Modi government. The participation is widespread and it is growing by the day. That farmers have been unhappy with their economic condition was evident from the number of marches to Delhi during the past two years. This time the protest is about three bills passed in Parliament in September 2020. Before coming to the reasons why the farmers are protesting, it is important to mention two facts surrounding these bills and the ensuing protests that form the political backdrop. The first is that these bills were virtually bulldozed in the Rajya Sabha, passed by voice vote despite a demand for a division. This is against the rules. Those members who protested were suspended. The second is the way in which the government reacted to the farmers’ march to Delhi. The farmers were met with lathis, tear gas and water cannons; they were dubbed ‘anti-nationals’, ‘Khalistanis’, agents of Opposition parties and middlemen who were not ‘real’ farmers. A large part of the media either did not highlight the event, or added even more demeaning and false epithets to those articulated by the ministers of the Central government and the leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Both these incidents represent the most recent instances of the Centre riding roughshod over democratic institutions and practices. But unlike what was done with the Rajya Sabha members, ‘suspending’ protesting farmers is not an option that the government has. The farmers’ anxieties emerge from the three bills that were passed: the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Certain provisions made in these legislations have led the farmers to believe that their incomes will come under greater uncertainty and, ultimately, get reduced. What are the factors that the farmers are basing their perceptions on? Since 1965, the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act enabled the setting up of regulated mandis or markets that allowed farmers to sell their produce to private agents and traders for a mandi tax or fee. If there was any residual produce left unsold, the government bought it at a pre-announced minimum support price. The regulated mandis were of particular importance in the Green Revolution belt of Haryana, Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh. Not that the system was faultless. The agents became powerful and formed cartels and even harassed farmers. Farmers were always allowed to sell outside the mandis, but they would not be entitled to the MSP if they ended up with unsold stocks that they could not store. The mandis were a kind of insurance for the farmers. Only a small fraction of farmers were able to avail of the MSP: somewhere around 6 per cent. The remaining 94 per cent still depend entirely on markets. The first law envisions the creation of ‘one nation, one market’ for agricultural trade. To induce this transition, the legislation has given a tax holiday for trade outside the mandi, while the mandi tax remains. This, it is hoped, will gradually shift all trade outside the mandis and the mandis would become redundant. E-trading will become more common and give access to market data from all over India. An important implication of all this is that the MSP will become a thing of the past. The farmers believe that with the MSP gone, large traders and agri-businesses will dominate the open market and drive down prices for the farmers. These large players would be much more powerful and have deeper pockets compared to the agents of the APMCs. There will be no benefit for the farmer. The National Democratic Alliance government had promised to make the MSP more efficient, computed on considerations suggested by the Swaminathan Committee report published over 10 years ago. In fact, the MSP was a part of the NDA’s election manifesto. This sudden turnaround is now upsetting the farmers. The government is claiming that MSP will stay, but it is refusing to put the pledge down in writing. Indeed, if anything is the need of the hour in a crisis-ridden agriculture, it is a universal MSP covering all farmers. This eclipse of the APMCs also takes away a source of revenue for state governments without their consent, representing an attack on the federal structure of the republic. The second legislation allows contracts that farmers may enter into with agents, traders, businesses and multinational firms for producing an agreed crop at a pre-agreed price. The government expects that the farmers will have access to better technology and assured prices, leading to higher profitability and lower uncertainty. The language of the Act, however, allows for written as well as oral contracts. Section 19 of this Act puts any dispute arising from the bilateral contract out of the jurisdiction of civil courts. Now consider small farmers facing big buyers with oral contracts that cannot be enforced in a civil court. The prices, in such a situation, can surely be manipulated post-harvest. Also, if the inputs are given to the farmer and the crop chosen by the buyer, the cropping pattern will change towards commercial crops or towards export crops required only by multinationals. The seeds may be GMOs with increased vulnerability for crop failure like in the case of cotton. If that occurs, who pays the farmer? Will a buyer compensate the farmer if there is a crop failure? Or will the other creditors from whom the farmer might have bought his inputs spare him the debt? Indeed, this has been tried in advanced economies too, like France, the United States of America and the United Kingdom. The model has failed, and has been the reason behind a number of suicides by farmers. The same holds true for India. What remains a greater worry for the farmers is that in the game of competition amongst buyers, just a handful of giants will win. The monopolization of trade cannot be ruled out with a couple of big houses in India and maybe three or four multinationals cornering the overwhelming share of agricultural trade. At this point, one might raise a question: what prevented big business from cornering markets until now? The answer lies in the amendment to the Essential Commodities Act, which was the third bill passed in September. This amendment deletes cereals, oilseeds, pulses, potatoes and onions from the list of essential commodities, except in the time of war. In rendering the commodities inessential at the stroke of a pen, it makes their hoarding completely legal. Who benefits, once again? Big traders can now easily influence consumer prices keeping them as high as possible and manipulating farm gate prices by delaying buying till the farmers become desperate to sell at any price. The farmers were not covered under the Essential Commodities Act. They were allowed to keep as much stock as they wanted to of their own produce. However, the ability to do so is extremely limited for almost all farmers in India because of the lack of infrastructure. India certainly needs more incomes for its farmers. As per the last data available for farm incomes in India, according to the NSSO report of 2013, the average monthly income of an entire farm household with five individuals in the family from all sources was a mere Rs 6,426. Bringing the model of corporate control over agriculture is not going to be a solution. It will only aggravate the problems of uncertainty and debt, land use patterns and soil fertility, and availability of freshwater. In the US, where this model has been tried for decades, data suggest that since 1960 there has been a steady decline in farm incomes. The survival of farmers depends heavily on government subsidies. In India, the situation is much more forbidding. Unless the government sits down to consider the demands of the farmers, the anger will only continue to escalate while the ‘grapes of wrath get heavy’. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||Telmacho bridge connecting Dhanbad and Bokaro closed for repair work||The vehicular movement on the 325-meter-long Telmacho bridge has been completely suspended from Friday for the repair work of the bridge. The movement of all kinds of vehicles including heavy vehicles like bus, truck, tipper, trailer and other smaller vehicles like SUV, motorcycles has been suspended for two days, December 4 and 5. The Telmacho bridge on the Damodar river connects Dhanbad and Bokaro. Confirming the development, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said, "All traffic between Dhanbad and Bokaro has been diverted on Birsa bridge passing through Digwadih and Mohalbani area of Dhanbad for the two days during which the maintenance as well as load testing work of the bridge will be carried out.” “The other alternative route for movement is a diversion ahead of Mahuda More through Telmacho village and it can also be used for vehicles heading towards Chandrapura in Bokaro,” said Singh. This is the second suspension of traffic on the Telmacho bridge since 2017. A comprehensive repair of the bridge was carried out from September 13 to September 22, 2017, after suspending traffic for 10 days. All this, as the bridge had developed crack on March 6, 2017, on three different places between pole number 1 and 3 as a portion of the bridge fell. Established in 1984 on river Damodar, the Tel is the main connecting link between Dhanbad and Ranchi through Bokaro through which more than 30,000 small and large vehicles pass through the bridge every day. Before the comprehensive repair of 2017, minor repair work on the bridge was conducted on August 9, 2015, during which the traffic was diverted. At present, all heavy vehicles including buses and trucks running between Dhanbad and Bokaro pass-through Chandankiyari crossing through the Birsa bridge on river Damodar in Amlabad area of Damodar, which is 15 km longer than the Dhanbad-Bokaro distance through Telmacho bridge. The heavy vehicle movement remained diverted for more than six months from March 6, 2017, to September 22, 2017 till the completion of comprehensive repair work and only the movement of cars, SUVs, bikes were allowed from the Telmacho bridge while other vehicles movement remained diverted on Birsa bridged. Shankar Singh, manager of a pharmaceutical company- marketing division in Dhanbad said, “I had to cancel the doctor’s appointment in Bokaro for two days on December 4 and 5 due to the suspension of traffic on Telmacho bridge as it would have been an arduous journey travelling through the Birsa bridge through Chandankihyari.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel’s Green School makes a mark during pandemic||Tata Steel under its flagship Green School Project reached out to more than 7,300 students and teachers in the past eight months, spreading awareness about climate change and the importance of sustainable development model. Climate education and its awareness is a critical instrument in the global strategy to address the environmental impacts of climate change. To address the challenges posed by the pandemic in reaching out to the school community, Tata Steel leveraged the digital platforms like websites, mobile applications, and social media to continue this outreach program and connect with the green crusaders. The online initiatives involved virtual seminars and hands-on training workshops, digital competitions, self-learning series in the form of audio-video learning capsules, and more. The Green School Project, a joint initiative of Tata Steel and TERI, involves the school fraternity to bring about a change using climate literacy as an effective tool. It promotes environmental stewardship to enhance critical and interdisciplinary thinking through formal and informal modes of teaching. The project is being implemented in various schools at a grassroots level in the operational areas of Tata Steel in Jharkhand and Odisha and has touched the lives of more than one lakh students, teachers and community members since its inception. Pankaj Satija, chief regulatory affairs, Tata Steel said, “People form the core of bringing about transformative change needed to create an equitable and green future for coming generations. A sustainable ecosystem requires all sections of the society including community, corporates, NGOs, government, and especially students, to come together to #ActforNature and work towards a sustainable tomorrow by following a holistic approach.” Students and teachers took up homebound ‘Community Impact Projects’ like making paper bags, wealth out of waste, installing bird nests and bird feeders, etc. to bring about the change in the society. As many as 20 project schools across Noamundi, Joda, Jajpur, Jharia and West Bokaro and six project schools of Angul along with 36 schools across six panchayats implemented these community impact projects. Pradeepta Kumar Das, a teacher at Tata DAV Public School in Noamundi said, “I feel extremely glad to share my experience of the online activities. Undoubtedly the way TERI is conducting the activities with students and teachers in the pandemic situation is quite praiseworthy. The students are extremely happy and enthusiastic to take part in this program. They are taking part in the project with heart and soul. I am thankful to Tata Steel and TERI for such an innovative way to involve the students and teachers in this program. Being a part of this project, I feel proud and happy. This will be very helpful to the students, teachers and the environment.” The ‘Green pedagogy’, designed under the Green School project, operates with an objective to develop systemic thinking, participatory learning, and creative thinking for face future scenarios. The Green School Project was launched in April 2017 with select schools with an overarching goal of creating amongst students, awareness on climate change and the ways in which a sustainable lifestyle can help mitigate the adverse impact of climate change. This is achieved by promoting environmental stewardship through both classroom and outdoor activities like teachers training workshops on digital pedagogy, development of green curricula, community impact projects, outdoor educational activities, development of Information Education and Communication (IEC) resources for joyful learning activities. In September last year, Phase-III of the project was launched to expand to more schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||Manika MLA does a Sonu Sood, turns saviour for bereaved tribal family||Ramchander Singh, the Congress MLA of Manika in Latehar district of Jharkhand, is being dubbed as the local version of Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, who in recent months has gained popularity for helping migrant workers reach home during the lockdown. In Jharkhand, Singh has done near identical work by arranging two air tickets for a bereaved primitive tribal family of Netarhat in Latehar district. Singh said the tickets will help the family of Bahadur Kissan of Sarna Toli to reach a remote area of Pathar Kanni under Assam's Karimganj district. Since the last three days, the mutilated body of Kissan, the sole breadwinner of the family, is awaiting cremation in the state. The man had met with a road accident, resulting in his death, in Pathar Kanni where he worked as a daily wager. And his family wanted his body to be brought down to Netarhat. Singh said he spoke to the Deputy Commissioner of Laterhat, Abu Imran, and discussed ways to bring back the body to his home. “The tribal died some 1,600 kilometers away from Netarhat and his bringing body, which was all crushed and mutilated, by road would have meant a journey of 40 hours or more,” the MLA said. Understanding the difficult journey, the family then wished to travel to Guwahati, and accordingly, two air tickets were arranged for them. One of the two travelling to Guwahati, Ram Raju, is an Assamese residing in Netarhat. He is being sent to accompany Abhas, the nephew of the deceased, who is going to perform his last rites. The MLA praised Imran for his help in enabling him to send the family to Assam. Bahadur Kissan has no son, but four daughters named Sarita,  Sabita, Amita and Amrata, Rekha Devi, an activist said. While Sarita is the only married daughter, her mother Budhmaniya Devi is an ailing woman, Rekha added. “This family needs urgent food and pension cover from the Latehar administration,” the activist demanded. Singh said that the family will reach Guwahati on Friday night, and acknowledged the efforts of some ‘good souls’ who helped in meeting this expenditure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||Police release photos of PLFI chief, henchmen||Jharkhand police on Friday released photos of Dinesh Gope, the chief of People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI), and six operatives of the breakaway faction of CPI (Maoists), seeking information about their whereabouts and also announced cash rewards for those who provide tip-offs. An official statement from police headquarters read: “Anyone having clues about these PLFI rebels and their illegally amassed properties may inform DIG (Ranchi) at 9431706118, Ranchi SSP (9431706136), Khunti SP (9431706116), Gumla SP (9431706376), Simdega SP (9431116444) or Chaibasa SP (9431706451). The identity of the informants will strictly remain confidential and those giving successful tip-off will be given the entire cash amount registered against the rebel.” PLFI supremo Gope, who is wanted in over dozen cases of arson, extortion, and murders, among others, in Ranchi, West Singbhum, Simdega, Gumla and adjoining districts, is carrying a reward of Rs 25 lakh on his head. The six PLFI rebels on the state police’s most wanted are Jiden Guriya with a Rs 15 lakh reward on his head, Tilkeshwar Gope, alias Rajesh Gope, with a reward of Rs 10 lakh, Awadesh Kumar Jaiswal, alias Abodh Kumar Jaiswal, alias Chuha, alias Bihari, with a reward of Rs 2 lakh. Also, Ajay Purti, Sanichar Soren and Mangra Lugun are carrying rewards of Rs 2 lakh each on their heads. Awadesh is from Nalanda (Bihar), Sanichar from Gumla, Mangra from West Singhbhum and the rest are from Khunti district. An officer said the move to release pictures is a part of the police’s drive against the extremist forces. “While police are constantly undertaking anti-Naxalite and anti-PLFI operations, it is now seeking public support to flush them out from the state. The Covid-19 induced nationwide lockdown has dented the flow of illegal money to rebel camps. As a result, they are now trying to instil fear among people by resorting to extortion for sustenance. Without enough resources, they are even trying to set up bases near urban pockets using different covers and this will be the right time to hit them hard,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||State ready with a new tourism policy to create local jobs ||The state tourism department has drafted a new tourism policy aimed at encouraging private investments to boost tourist circuits and generate local jobs locally after concluding that the one framed by the former government of Raghubar Das in 2015 had failed to achieve similar objectives. “The draft of the New Tourism Policy 2020  is ready and has received an in-principle nod from chief minister Hemant Soren,” an official of the department said on Friday, adding that work on it had begun soon after the Hemant Soren government took office in December last year. Referring to some of the salient features of the policy that is yet to be put in the public domain, the official said, “The policy has the provision of providing 30 per cent subsidy, or Rs 10 crore _ whichever is lesser _ on capital investment of a private party. If the investment is made in a tribal area, then there’s an additional 5 per cent subsidy.” He noted that the 2015 tourism policy failed to bring any private investment and whatever projects were rolled out in Jharkhand during the time were done with government funds. “Private players were roped in to develop projects on an outsourcing basis. This model can’t be sustainable unless investments are encouraged to take place in this sector for building parks, amusement options, hotels and so on. The new policy aims to be forward-looking, wooing investors to create all-round facilities for tourists,” said the official who has been involved in drafting the new policy. The 2020 policy also aims to create employment opportunities for an estimated 75,000 to one lakh people. As per statistics available with the tourism department, around 3.5 crore tourists had visited Jharkhand in 2018-19 of which around 1.50 lakh were foreign arrivals. Figures of 2019-20 are yet to be released. “The tourism and hospitality sector is the biggest job-creator, besides contributing to state earnings. One of the provisions of the new policy is to set up a tourism security force (TSF) that will act as facilitators for incoming tourists, take care of their well-being and double up as guides,” he said. The state tourism sector has been divided into 12 parts for specific interventions and plans. These include religious tourism, eco-tourism, cultural tourism, rural tourism, craft tourism, adventure tourism, weekend getaway, film tourism, water sports, recreation tourism, wellness tourism and mine tourism. “Also, there is a plan to geo-tag every tourist point, document the place and put it out along with available facilities on a single-window platform so that it can act as a ready reckoner for visitors. It will also help the government keep a track of every incoming visitor, their movement and their well-being from safety and security point of view,” he said. State tourism director A. Dodde said the new policy would be tabled in the cabinet soon. “We presented the new policy before the chief minister and chief secretary on Thursday and received an in-principal go-ahead,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||HC asks Birsa jail to file detailed report on Lalu’ phone use||Jharkhand High Court has sought a detailed report from prison authorities in the wake of reports of alleged violation of the jail manual by incarcerated RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, convicted in cases related to the Rs 970 crore fodder scam. While hearing a case pertaining to the appeal filed by Lalu seeking squashing of his remaining jail term in connection with the Dumka treasury case involving the illegal withdrawal of Rs 3.13 crore on Friday, the court of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh asked jail authorities to submit a report before the next hearing on December 18. Jail authorities were also asked to furnish provisions for providing attendants to a convict and their opinion on frequent reports of violations. To a question on who allowed Lalu to be shifted to RIMS director's bungalow, additional advocate general Ashutosh Anand said it was done as per SOPs fixed by the hospital authorities and the state government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. During the hearing, CBI in its plea before the court accused Lalu of using a phone despite being in jail and cited news reports of him allegedly trying to lure BJP MLAs of Bihar ahead of the Speaker’s election last month. The central agency also told the court that it had filed a fresh FIR against Lalu in this connection. A purported audio clip of Lalu’s alleged conversation over a phone provided to him by his attendant at the RIMS director’s bungalow had gone viral on social media. Lalu was later shifted back to the paying ward of the state-run hospital by the Ranchi district administration following widespread criticism and protests by the Opposition BJP. Citing news reports, CBI also alleged that Lalu continued to meet party workers and people whenever he wished, dubbing it a violation of jail manual. Notably, Birsa jail authorities, in response to a showcause notice issued by Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan last week, pinned the blame on Ranchi policemen on duty for the lapse. Birsa jail said ensuring security and the implementation of the jail manual outside the jail was the responsibility of district police. On November 27, the high court had deferred Lalu’s petition for bail and suspension of sentence. The RJD chief’s counsel, Prabhat Kumar, said in his plea for bail on health grounds that of the seven-year sentence his client was awarded in the Dumka treasury case, he had already spent 3.5 years in jail. Lalu has been in custody since January 2018 and is currently undergoing treatment for various age-related ailments at RIMS. He was shifted to the director’s bungalow for fear of infection in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||Maithon hostel made for National Games lies in ruins||Years after its construction in 2011, the 250-bedded four-storey sports hostel developed during the National Games that year, is lying in a poor shape due to poor maintenance. Developed at a cost of Rs 3.66 crore worth of public money, the hostel is neither being used for sports activities, nor for tourism promotion. In 2011, the National Games were hosted by Jharkhand, and several water sporting activities including Kayaking -Canoeing, Triathlon and Rowing were held at the Maithon lake from February 21 to 25 that year. However, in a stark contrast to those days, the building lies abandoned, with thieves stealing doors and windows from its premises. In addition to the hostel, out of the 26 rowing boats that were procured by the National Games organising Committee in 2011, 13 were seen lying in a damaged condition. Three of them were somewhat restored, with the other 10 being beyond repair. Some of these were also stolen in a February 2014 incident. The electronic scoreboard constructed near the hostel to flash the scores of the participants has also been lying damaged. “We have written to the district administration and State Art, Culture, Sports and Youth affairs department more than 100 times to hand over the infrastructure to us so that regular training for water sports can be carried out. But all our communications were left unanswered,” said Jubair Alam, while talking to The Telegraph Online. Alam is the Vice President of Dhanbad District Olympic Association, and also acted as the joint organising secretary of the Dhanbad events of 34 National Games in 2011. “In fact the hostel and its adjoining infrastructure developed in 2011 could have been used for developing slalom course which in turn would have added to more tourist attraction of the site,” he added. Expressing sadness, former Nirsa MLA Arup Chatterjee said, “The magnificent infrastructure developed at one of the best locales of Jharkhand is lying on death bed due to administrative apathy and typical red tapism.” “Though several organisations including the Maithon Power Limited (MPL), Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) and some private hotels had expressed interest to take the hostel, impractical pre-conditions fixed by the government, such as the exorbitant security money and rent, propelled these them to retract,” he added. He further said as the hostel lies in extremely dilapidated state due to poor upkeep and many organisations are not keen on taking its charge as a huge amount of money would be needed to repair it. Executive Magistrate and the officer-in-charge of sports of Dhanbad, Kumar Bandhu Kachhap, said, “Though I am not aware about the 2011 hostel lying in such a bad shape, but if true, I would soon visit the site and initiate a handover process. I will also look into its further development as a water sports training facility because it is one of the best locations to do so.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||New Covid cases outnumber recoveries in Jharkhand||The Covid toll in Ranchi reached 200 on Thursday as at least six more patients, including three from the State capital, died of the lethal infection in 24 hours, taking the total count of Covid casualties in Jharkhand up at 977, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. While Covid fatalities continued to haunt Jharkhand on the day, the fresh cases of Covid-19 infection also outnumbered the recoveries, causing a marginal rise in the count of active cases of infection. As per government data, as many as 1926 people were battling the viral infection across the state on Thursday. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 233 people, including 85 from Ranchi alone, were found infected on the day. On the other hand, at least 208 Covid patients recovered from the infection, but the number of active cases shot up in Ranchi as only 41 patients recovered here. There were 751 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi on Thursday, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. At least 297 people were undergoing treatment for the infection in East Singhbhum, which has the second-highest Covid tally in the state. While Ranchi reported three deaths, East Singhbhum, Hazaribag and Bokaro reported one Covid casualty each, taking the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand up at 0.89 per cent on Thursday. Gumla did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, but Ranchi, East SInghbhum, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Ramgarh and Hazaribag reported a double-digit-spike in the Covid caseload. Dhanbad reported 28 cases against 24 recoveries, while Bokaro reported 11 cases against 13 recoveries. At least 16 people were found infected in Hazaribag and 10 people were found infected in Ramgarh. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 22,786 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 42.83 lakh people and tested 42.65 lakh of them. Of the over 42 lakh people tested, as many as 1,09,771 were found infected and at least 1,06,868 of the infected people have recovered, states government data. As per the NHM bulletin released on Thursday, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.34 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 443.64 days against the national average of 204.43 days. The recovery rate in Jharkhand was higher than the national recovery rate of 94.10 per cent. The state’s recovery rate on Thursday was 97.35 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren plea on medical colleges||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, in a letter written on Wednesday, requested Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to reconsider the decision of the National Medical Council (NMC) to stop admission process in three newly-formed medical colleges of the state. “I have spoken to the Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhanji,” Soren tweeted on Thursday, adding he requested the Union minister to reconsider the matter that involves future of the students. The NMC had earlier decided to stop admission of students in three newly-formed medical colleges located at Hazaribagh, Palamau and Dumka for the academic year 2020-21, citing lack of infrastructure and faculty. These medical colleges were sanctioned by the Centre under a centrally sponsored scheme. While the Union health and family welfare ministry had sanctioned Rs 340 crore for the purpose, the state government also released Rs 392.88 crore for establishing those colleges by upgrading the existing district hospitals in Hazaribagh, Palamau and Dumka districts. Those were also inaugurated by the Prime Minister last year. Earlier, Soren had also written to the NMC chairman Dr Suresh Chandra Sharma on November 5 and requested him not to stop admission process in those colleges. But approached the Union health minister again when no positive response was received. In the letter he wrote to the Union health minister on Wednesday, Soren said that the Medical Council of India had permitted admission of 100 students in each of those medical colleges and admission process for 2019-20 was completed. The admission process had also begun this year after the results of national eligibility cum entrance test (NEET) was declared for 2020-21, he added. But the NMC meanwhile ordered, on the basis of some infrastructure and faculty deficiencies, that there will be no fresh admission into those colleges for 2020-21. “This has sent a shockwave among the aspiring students of this poor, backward and tribal state,” Soren said, adding these colleges are located in aspirational districts where the Union government was keen to improve education system and the Niti Aayog was monitoring in all spheres. “The state is fully aware and committed to fulfilment of the NMC norms. However, certain finishing work in building infrastructure and installation of equipment and furniture etc could not be completed due to the lockdown imposed in March,” he further informed, assuring those would be done by December 15. The vacant positions of senior and junior residents and other para-medical staff was also being addressed, Soren further assured the Union health minister, adding the government was facing certain constraints in filling up the vacancy of professors “as eligible candidates are not willing to work in those backward districts”. “We are in the process of making certain amendments in the recruitment policy so that these vacant positions of senior faculty could be filled up at the earliest,” Soren further assured. While assuring that the state government would resolve the issue at the earliest, he requested Harsh Vardhan to consider his request for not stopping admission in those medical colleges “in the interest of aspiring students”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
