05-12-2020||Calcutta||SBIHM keeps festive spirits alive with cake mixing ceremony||Subhas Bose Institute of Hotel Management (SBIHM) organised the Annual Cake Mixing Ceremony on Saturday. This is an annual affair for the SBIHM family. The ceremony this year was a small event due to Covid-19 but was dazzling with live music, varieties of Christmas bakes, sangrias and mulled wine. The cake mixing ceremony marks the beginning of the festive season. During the ceremony, dry fruits were soaked in a combination of liquor, so the students and faculties both are ready in time to bake the Christmas plum cakes. At Subhas Bose Institute of Hotel Management (SBIHM), New Town campus, the mix was prepared with an assortment of dry fruits such as cashews, almonds, figs, apricots, raisins, black current and many more, with a variety of spices and a selection of rum, whiskey and cognac. Due to the ongoing pandemic, this year SBIHM organised two separate cake mixing ceremonies to follow government rules and regulations. In the first half of the cake mixing ceremony, which started at 2 pm onwards, the chief guests were Mr. Debasis Sen, chairman HIDCO and Mr. Abhshek Sachdev, GM, Fairfield by Marriott. Mrs. Bidisha Sarkar, group director, SBIHM; Mr. Ujjwal Basu, head F&B service and teacher-in-charge, SBIHM; Chef Prantik Bhandary, HOD production, SBIHM; Chef Soumik, SBIHM; Ms. Triranga Deka, HOD, front office, SBIHM; Ms. Oindrila Kundu, HOD accommodation; the first batch of the students, faculty members, and other associates put on a chef’s apron and hat and joined right in for the mixing. In the second half, a separate cake mixing ceremony with the second batch of the students with a good number of dignitaries including – Mr. Angad Sathe, Hr. manager, The Westin; Mr. Arup Panda, F&B manager, The Westin, Mr. Anindya Gupta, manager accommodation; Mr. Bivek Kalia, Executive Chef, Westin; Mr. Ankit Bhatt, sous chef Fairfield by Marriott; Mr. Utpal Dey, executive chef, Pride Plaza; Mr. Prosenjit Jana, executive pastry chef; Ms. Megha Dutta, Hr. Landis+Gyr; Mr. Arnab Das, GM operations, Times Group; Mr. Pritam Mondal, corporate front office manager, Clubs Ambuja Neotia; Mr. Niladri Saha, executive front office, The Oberoi, Kolkata; Mr. Ashutosh Avasti, sous chef, Park Hotel participated in the fun cake-mixing with different fruit juices, an assortment of fruits, a variety of spices and a selection of rum, whiskey and cognac. The mixture will be left to soak till just before Christmas, when the sealed containers will be finally opened for the baking of the Christmas cakes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
05-12-2020||Calcutta||Back on the menu, is a flavour packed culinary journey at your favourite Marriott International restaurant||Suffice to say that 2020 has been a challenging year and as we moved along, people adopted a myriad of ways to keep themselves busy. Needless to say, food and cooking were at the very top of the list. Though as we slowly move towards adapting to new normal and with hotels and dining venues reopening across the country, Marriott International invites you to relive a traditional in-restaurant fine dining experience in stylish yet sanitised environments across its properties in Kolkata, Mumbai, New Delhi, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad. As the group’s restaurants ready themselves to welcome you once again, with best-in-class safety measures in place, it’s time to load up your plates and clink your glasses together in anticipation of brighter times ahead. For a truly memorable post-lockdown dine-out experience, we list the best dining venues for you in your own city, Kolkata. JW Marriott Kolkata: A chic dining venue, JW Kitchen is where you’ll be treated to a range of international classics across breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Also expect lavish buffets and tempting à la carte meals prepared using the freshest ingredients. As the group’s restaurants ready themselves to welcome you once again, with best-in-class safety measures in place, it’s time to load up your plates and clink your glasses together in anticipation of brighter times ahead. For a truly memorable post-lockdown dine-out experience, we list the best dining venues for you in your own city, Kolkata. Westin Kolkata Rajarhat: Whether it’s a refreshing breakfast, an elaborate lunch, or a light dinner, catch up with your loved ones over a quiet meal at Seasonal Tastes. Basis your preference, order Indian or international fare...or tease your taste buds by opting for a mix of both. Fairfield by Marriott Kolkata: Variety truly is the spice of life, and nowhere is this more apparent than at Vertex. Discover a perfect place to unwind with outdoor and indoor seating overlooking the iconic Biswa Bangla Gate. There’s nothing quite like the feeling of gathering around a table with your loved ones and celebrating togetherness over a lavish spread. Pamper your taste buds in luxurious spaces, which have been revamped with stringent sanitation protocols and redesigned to be as contact-less as possible. These restaurants serve up some of the most inviting and exciting culinary adventures at their dining venues. Take it from us: they’re the perfect way to bond with those closest to you. For reservations, contact: JW Marriott Kolkata, JW Kitchen – +91 9007062262 Westin Kolkata Rajarhat, Seasonal Tastes - +91 9073970005 Fairfield by Marriott, Vertex - +91 7605086817||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
05-12-2020||Calcutta||'No helmet no petrol' rule to be reimposed in Calcutta||Calcutta Police has decided to re-impose the "no helmet no petrol" rule forbidding petrol pumps from selling fuel to motorcyclists without helmets, a senior officer said. The "no helmet no petrol" rule would start from December 8 and will continue for 60 days, the officer said. "It has been observed that several instances of two-wheeler riders riding without a helmet as well as carrying pillion riders without a helmet have been reported and occurrences of such infringement of rules have increased manifold", Calcutta Police Commissioner Anuj Sharma said in the order issued on Friday. It said that "In spite of several prosecutions in such cases being drawn up by the law enforcement agency, the apprehension and possibility of untoward incidents/ accidents arising out of riding two wheelers without helmet always remains. In order to ensure better road discipline and deter such violators of traffic laws, stringent actions need to be taken in accordance with law". "No Helmet No Petrol shall be enforced within the jurisdiction of Calcutta Police to the effect that no petrol pump shall henceforth sell petrol to any such two wheeler rider who arrives at the petrol pump riding two-wheeler without wearing a helmet as well as carries pillion rider without a helmet in contravention of provisions as enumerated under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act", the order read. In July 2016, the city police, following Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressing her displeasure over motorcyclists not wearing helmets, had imposed similar "no helmet no petrol" rule forbidding petrol pumps from selling fuel to motorcyclists without helmets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
05-12-2020||Calcutta||Chhath goes local in pandemic year||With the pandemic raging and the high court also taking a serious stand regarding maintenance of Covid protocol, Chhath puja went the Durga puja and Diwali way to be a much restrained affair this year. In such a scenario, some housing complexes made their own arrangements to worship the sun god within their own precincts. At Uniworld City in New Town, separate inflatable pools were provided to each family offering puja. “We wanted to minimise risk of infection,” said joint secretary of the Uniworld City Cultural Association Pradipta Dutta. Around 15 families take part in Chhath puja in the complex. “We have a WhatsApp group. Since 2016, we are celebrating together,” said Pritesh Kumar, a resident. In 2016 and 2017, they went to Upsana Ghat to offer puja. “But since it was so crowded, in 2018 we thought of doing this in one of the fountains in our complex. Its wall was raised from half feet to three feet, the water outlet was sealed and more water was pumped in,” Kumar recalled. But this time, no two families were  allowed to get into the same waterbody. “We ordered 15 inflatable tubs online. The whole area was done up with lamps and incense sticks. There was even a dholak playing to accentuate the festive mood,” he added. Shashi Bhushan Singh’s mother came all the way from Jharkhand to celebrate Chhath with her daughter’s family. “She expects a surprise regarding our arrangements every time she comes here for this occasion,” smiled Singh. At Baisakhi Abasan, in neighbouring Salt Lake, residents had expanded a water tank that had been built temporarily to soak bricks at a construction site. “I had been eyeing that tub ever since Chhath was drawing near,” smiled Shambhu Nath Jha, a resident who took the initiative to increase the size of the tank so that the vratis (those undertaking the vrat) would stay suitable distanced. Thus the 10x7.5ft tank became almost double in size. In other years, Jha travels to Sarada Ghat, in Bagbazar. “But it is very crowded and parking is a headache. We cannot even get space to place our dala of offerings on the bank,” he said. The area near the tank was illuminated with bulbs and halogen lamps, and a music system played devotional songs. “The atmosphere was exactly like that on the river bank in other years.” To make the arrangement fool-proof for every believer, he added the 10 litres of holy Ganga water he had carried back from Hardwar in March to the tank. Rain had threatened to play spoilsport on the final morning, November 21. “But thankfully, the shower stopped at 5.40am, with sunrise another 15 minutes away,” recalled Jha. Both groups in Salt Lake and New Town are thinking of continuing with the practice even if there is no infection threat next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Calcutta||Twenty-three minutes saved by 650m-long Majerhat bridge||Twenty-three minutes, saved by a 650m-long bridge. The difference between two car rides from Taratala to Esplanade — one via the Bailey bridge in Alipore on Thursday and the other via the Majerhat (Jai Hind) bridge on Friday — was 23 minutes. The Telegraph took the car rides through the morning rush. The wait at the signals at the busy intersections was almost the same on both days, barring a few extra minutes at the Bailey bridge because of the passage of a freight train. Friday Taratala to Esplanade via the Majerhat bridge (around 8km): 10am to 10.42am ⚫Taratala to the Majerhat bridge: 5 minutes Traffic movement was reasonably slow on the Taratala flyover because police stopped cars whenever the tail of vehicles on the Majerhat bridge grew long ⚫The Majerhat bridge to Ekbalpore: 11 minutes The Mominpore-bound flank of the bridge had bumper-to-bumper traffic. But vehicles kept moving. Occasionally, a phone in an outstretched arm was recording the journey. The load of vehicles on the Taratala-bound flank was much lighter. During the descent towards Mominpore, the cars came to a complete halt for the first time. The snarl got moving within a couple of minutes. For probably the first time in two years, the stretch of Diamond Harbour Road in Mominpore was chock-a-block with traffic. Since a bulk of the traffic on the stretch came from Majerhat, it had remained relatively deserted since the collapse of the bridge. ⚫Ekbalpore to police training school: 10 minutes Of which, around seven minutes were spent at the traffic signals at Ekbalpore and Alipore zoo. ⚫PTS to Fort William: 9 minutes ⚫Fort William to Esplanade: 7 minutes ⚫Total time taken: 42 minutes Thursday Taratala to Esplanade via Bailey bridge (around 9km): 10am to 11.05am ⚫Taratala to Bailey bridge signal: 12 minutes The Taratala flyover saw vehicles moving at a snail’s pace. Ditto on Naliniranjan Avenue, after taking a right turn following the descent from the flyover. ⚫Bailey Bridge to Lalbati: 22 minutes Around 10 minutes were spent at the Bailey bridge level crossing because a freight train was passing through. The rest of the stretch was chock-a-block, too. ⚫Lalbati to Bhabani Bhavan: 5 minutes ⚫Bhabani Bhavan to Race Course: 11 minutes Almost half of which was spent waiting at the DL Khan Road signal ⚫Race Course to Fort William: 6 minutes ⚫Fort William to Esplanade: 9 minutes ⚫Total time taken: 65 minutes||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Calcutta||City air ‘poor’, ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ on Friday||The air quality measured by one of the seven monitoring stations in Calcutta was “severe” on Friday. It was “very poor” at five other stations and “poor” at one. The station on the BT Road campus of Rabindra Bharati University showed the air quality was “severe”. The readings, at 4pm on Friday, were a measure of the average air quality over the past 24 hours. According to the National Air Quality Index, prepared by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), “severe” air quality “affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases”. “Very poor” category can lead to “respiratory illness on prolonged exposure” and “poor” air quality can cause “breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure”. The volume of tiny particles, which can cause a host of respiratory ailments and can be particularly worrying amid the Covid-19 pandemic, was nearly three times the permissible limit. A summary report published by the state pollution control board for Friday showed 163.25 micrograms of PM2.5 was present per cubic metre of air in the city (average of the seven stations). The permissible standard set by the CPCB is 60 for a 24-hour average. The presence of PM10, bigger particles, was measured at 273.99 micrograms per cubic metre of air. The permissible limit is 100. The readings were taken around 4pm. Air quality management specialists said the more the presence of tiny particles in the air, the more is the threat of diseases. “A rise in the inhalation of tiny particles increases health risks during winter,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). “The worry with tiny particles like PM2.5 is that they can penetrate the blood barriers and reach our blood. Once in our blood stream, they hit the organs. Other toxic substances in the air stick to these particles. Which means the particles are also carrying other toxic elements to our blood and organs,” said Roy Chowdhury. Scientists have said that every year the air quality starts worsening in November and reaches its lowest in December and January. This happens because the colder winter air does not rise up quickly and the pollutants remain trapped close to the surface. Low wind velocity is another reason why the polluted air hangs around for a longer duration. Doctors have said poor air quality compromises the lungs and aggravates diseases like asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Also, people with compromised lungs can develop severe complications if they contract Covid-19. “If a person who has Covid-19 is exposed to polluted air, there are more chances of the person developing severe symptoms,” said a respiratory diseases consultant at a city hospital. At 11am on Friday Severe: Rabindra Bharati University (BT Road campus) Very poor: Ballygunge, Bidhannagar, Fort William, Victoria Memorial, Jadavpur Poor: Rabindra Sarobar At 4pm on Friday Severe: Rabindra Bharati University (BT Road campus) Very poor: Ballygunge, Bidhannagar, Fort William, Victoria Memorial Poor: Rabindra Sarobar, Jadavpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Calcutta||Drones to fight New Town fire menace||The New Town authorities have formed a cell that will fly drones over grasslands and empty plots to try and stop people from setting dried grass, shrubs and waste on fire. The drones will act as “eyes” of volunteers and officials of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), who will move around in vehicles and rush, along with police, to sites where fires will be lit. “Trained professionals will fly drones equipped with high-resolution cameras,” an NKDA official said. “We will use multiple drones for aerial surveillance.” Metro had on December 3 reported that dried grass and waste were being set on fire regularly on empty plots and grasslands in New Town, forcing residents to stay indoors and keep their doors and windows shut as dense smoke engulfed blocks. The decision to launch aerial surveillance, as well as a host of other decisions to fight the fire menace, was taken after a meeting between NKDA officials and representatives of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board. An NKDA official who attended the meeting said boards stating that setting fire to grass and shrubs is punishable will be put up on grasslands and empty plots as well as public spaces where people frequent like bus stops. “A tractor fitted with a water tanker and a hose will be kept on standby to douse such fires,” the official said. A WhatsApp group has been formed where residents can post information about grasslands on fire. People can also call up the NKDA helpline. A number of grasslands in the New Town area attract a variety of birds for their proximity to marshes and water bodies. A joint study by the forest department and Hidco has confirmed the presence of 28 species on small patches of green along either flank of the Major Arterial Road. The birds that have been recorded include the Acorbian Cuckoo, Yellow Wagtail, Black-tailed Godwit and the Red-wattled Lapwing. An NKDA official said a grassland near Eco Urban Village, which attracts quite a few birds, had been burnt down. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they were committed to preventing such fires and catching those who were lighting fires. “Despite our best attempts to find out why the fires are being lit, we have not come across anything concrete. Theories range from people trying to warm themselves to driving out snakes…. We are going to do all we can to stop this,” said Sen. Debanjana Das, an atmospheric scientist with George Mason University in the US, said burning of grasslands had far-reaching effects as pollutants PM2.5 and PM10 were released in the air. New Town does not have an air quality monitoring station and there is no way to measure the impact of the fires on air. The air quality index in neighbouring Salt Lake, which has a monitoring station, was 309 on Friday, which is considered “very poor”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Calcutta||India ‘lost’ time in Covid fight||India lost crucial time in tackling Covid-19 as the government got distracted by the migrant workers’ crisis that resulted from a hurriedly called lockdown, a former Union health secretary said at a session of Infocom, an initiative of ABP, which publishes The Telegraph. J.V.R. Prasada Rao said people should have got notice of the impending lockdown. He pointed out that the Centre and states should have accepted community transmission of the coronavirus and taken proper measures. That would have helped reduce the number of infections. The online discussion on Friday also focussed on collaborations among countries and organisations to produce Covid vaccines. Heidi J. Larson, a professor at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said that though the process of preparing vaccines had been accelerated, scientific processes had not been compromised. Larson and Rao were in conversation with cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar, who spoke about “contrasting experiences” in the response to the pandemic. “We have Southeast Asia that put up very gallantly. We have the rest of the world that seems to have been caught completely off guard,” he said. “It is believed that if all the viruses of the world were put together, they would weigh less than 2 gram. But even then the (corona)virus has put 65 million people of the world in misery,” he said. Highlights from the talk: Rao said India lost the opportunity to control Covid-19 because of the migrant workers’ crisis. “The prolonged lockdown that was imposed was necessary but... people should have got a little more notice that the lockdown was coming,” Rao said. As a result, he said, the country “got into problems that are not directly related to Covid, but associated with Covid, like the huge migration problem”. “The government’s attention went into tackling the migration problem rather than the Covid problem at some point of time. I think that is where we lost the opportunity to control it at a relatively lower level,” Rao said. Migrant workers had no option but to walk long distances to reach home from the states they had been working in. Several had died during the trudge. Rao felt that had the Centre and states accepted the reality of community transmission of Covid-19 and tailored their strategies, the number of infections could have been reduced. “When it moved from a concentrated epidemic to a community transmission, there should have been greater acceptance of that reality by both the Union government as well as state governments. It is always better to accept and then own it, than denying it and going forward,” he said. “I think that is where we made a tactical error. They could have said ‘yes it is already out in the community and we should be more careful’. The strategy needed to shift from screening and testing to a more open testing policy. There could have been voluntary testing. There should have been a paradigm shift in the approach in the months of May and June. That would have probably reduced the number of infections,” added Rao. Larson said the vaccines that were being developed had gone through the rigour of scientific processes and their safety was not compromised. “Absolute rigour has been followed when it came to processes of safety. The other pieces of the process have been shortened. We have new technologies that we did not have before. We were able to characterise the virus faster. We had funds for emergency research. That was a tremendous boon for allowing things to happen quickly,” Larson said, when asked by Sarkar on concerns about the safety of vaccines developed so fast. “We have not seen these vaccines long enough to know some of the potential long-term rare events, but that is true with any new vaccine,” she added. Larson commended the collaboration among countries and organisations to develop vaccines against Covid-19. “We could not have been this far without the global collaborations. The Chinese vaccine has trials in Indonesia and Brazil. The AstraZeneca vaccine has trials in multiple countries,” she said. Larson added that the Pfizer Inc vaccine, approved for use in the UK, was actually made in Belgium. “The UK approved a vaccine that is made in Belgium. The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine was made in Belgium and BioNTech is a German company. It is not the one the UK were expecting to approve, which is the Oxford one. We should celebrate this international scientific collaboration,” she added. Rao said administering Covid vaccines in India should be a teamwork of the Centre and the states. “There are certain things that the Centre needs to make clear. Which are the vaccines that are going to be selected? If a vaccine that has to be stored at - 70 degrees Celsius, will it work for India? What would be the price of a vaccine? These are issues that have to be worked out at the central level,” Rao said. But he added that the implementation and identifying the priority groups should be left to the states. “You cannot sit in Delhi and dictate. Which are the groups that need to be vaccinated, which are the priority groups, how are you going to identify the priority groups? These must be left to the states,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Calcutta||Accountant who lost his job falls  to death||A 63-year-old man who police said lost his job during the lockdown died after falling from the roof of his four-storey building on Golf Club Road early on Friday. Police said Soumitra Sen, who worked in the accounts section of a private firm, killed himself. No suicide note has been found, officers at Jadavpur police station said. Sen was found lying with critical injuries in front of the building where he stayed — P/45 Golf Club Road — around 3am on Friday. He was taken to Baghajatin State General Hospital, from where he was referred to a private hospital in Dhakuria. He was declared dead on arrival at the private hospital. “The deceased person’s family and neighbours said he had been upset over the past few months. He was an accountant at a small firm, which closed down during the lockdown. He had been jobless since,” said a police officer. Sen is survived by his homemaker wife and a daughter, who is a student, the police said. Metro could not speak to Sen’s family. The police have started a case of unnatural death. There have been multiple cases of suicide by people who were hit hard financially during the lockdown. Many organisations closed down during the period and others sacked employees to cut costs. Many organisations have changed the nature of their business and started afresh. A few months ago, a couple who ran a business of app cabs and had purchased mul-tiple cars with bank loans committed suicide at their rented apartment in the Charu Market area. Their business had suffered losses during the lockdown and they had failed to pay their EMIs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Calcutta||School bus owners appeal for payment||A section of school bus owners visited Delhi Public School Ruby Park on Friday and handed over a letter to the vice-principal urging guardians to pay at least 50 per cent of the monthly bus fees so they could pull through during the pandemic. The owners who had gathered at the school requested the authorities to collect half the amount that it would charge guardians on account of bus fees and hand it over to them so they could pay their drivers, helpers and attendants. Next week, they will visit another school in south Calcutta with a similar request. There are around 4,000 school bus operators in Calcutta and its adjoining areas, who have outsourced the service to contractors or agencies. DPS Ruby Park has hired 45 buses, for Rs 75,000 per bus per month, to ferry their students. Bus owners said they had last received payments from the school authorities in July; since then they have not got a penny. “The schools are now shut. The bus operators have placed their appeal with us because of the difficulty they are facing. We will definitely request the guardians,” said Indrani Chattopadhayay, the vice-principal of DPS Ruby Park. “Beyond this there is nothing much we can do about it. It’s not in our hands.” Many schools like DPS Ruby Park have outsourced transportation of students to private bus operators, who have to arrange for the vehicles that carry an emblem of the school on them. A few schools have their own buses. But they, too, hire buses because their own vehicles are too few compared with the number of students. The schools collect transportation fees from guardians and pay a monthly amount to the operators, varying between Rs 60,000 to Rs 80,000 per bus. Bus owners pay monthly salaries to their staff from the monthly amount they receive from the schools. Some owners also have to pay EMIs. With the educational institutions shut, almost all schools have stopped paying the bus owners. As their income has dried up, the owners have decided to visit schools and urge the management to find a way so they get at least a part of the stipulated amounts. In October, Calcutta High Court had ordered that private schools in Bengal, including those run by the Church, to waive 20 per cent of their tuition fees between April 2020 and a month after the schools resume in-person classes and 20 per cent of the session fees. The schools were barred from charging for facilities such as labs, sports and craft that students are not using during the pandemic. In November, the Supreme Court had declined to interfere with the high court’s order on waiver. “There was no clear instruction in the high court order on transportation fees. It is not clear whether bus service was part of the facilities that schools have been barred from charging,” said Himadri Ganguly, of the West Bengal Contract Carriage Owners and Operators Association. “We have filed a special petition with the court to clarify on this. But no date has yet been assigned for hearing.” School bus operators had earlier appealed to chief minister Mamata Banerjee for waiving fines for late renewal of fitness certificates and doing away with mandatory taxes because they are unable to pay after remaining out of business for almost seven months amid the pandemic. School bus owners said that with campuses shut, their vehicles had been idling in garages. They said it was discriminatory on the state government’s part to offer sops to private bus and minibus operators and ignore them in the process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Calcutta||Teachers shine on virtual stage||No one expected the serious-looking teacher in a necktie, who sang the soulful Mila jo tu from the film Marjawa, to reappear minutes later in jeans, shades and a cap turned backwards and dance hip hop to a Hritik Roshan number! “But then it‘s Children‘s Day and I wanted to surprise the students,” smiled Purnendu Chakraborty, chemistry teacher of St Francis Xavier school. He and several other teachers performed on campus but the students enjoyed virtually, from home. “I like singing and have sung for the students before but year is like no other and I thought the students deserved something extra. So the physical education teacher Soubarna Ghoshal and I got a mutual friend to teach us the simplest possible steps to a medley of Ghungroo and Muqabla muqabla remix,” said Chakraborty. In response the students flooded the comments section on the Facebook and YouTube page where the video was uploaded with the word “OP”. “I had to ask them what that meant. Turns out it‘s PUBG lingo for ‘outstanding performance‘,” laughed the teacher. Suman Chakraborty (Bengali teacher) and Chandni Chatterjee (math and science teacher) sang Ooo lala pagla hawa and Ruk jana nahin, a trio of plus-two section teachers danced to Itni si hasi and there were collages shared with pictures of students as well as slides highlighting the contribution of Jawaharlal Nehru, on whose birth anniversary Children‘s Day is celebrated. Nikhil Biswas, head of the English department, compered the show. Sunil Kumar Bhattacharyya, the Bengali teacher better known as “SKB sir‘ flew the audience to the western frontier with his rendition of Yaari hai iman mera, that too dressed in a Pathan suit and pagdi. “I‘ve borrowed my costume from our officiating principal, Anil Srivastava! He tied the pagdi and even helped me with the pronunciation of the Hindi song,” said the teacher who plays several instruments and sings Manna De songs on stage. Another entertaining show was a group dance by junior teachers, led by Rahul Mojumder. “We danced to the song Brazil by Vengaboyz, which had came out when we were in school ourselves,” he smiled. “We are also happy we could screen this show — not from home but — from school. At least the kids got a glimpse of the school they miss so much. I may not be technically correct at dance but I performed from the heart to entertain them.” The school’s bona fide dance teacher Atreyee Sengupta was very encouraging. “If I deserve 6 on 10 the others deserve a perfect 10! This is not their subject but they are such sports to have danced anyway,” smiled the lady who performed a solo number and a duet with math teacher Camellia Chakraborty. The school‘s secretary and administrator, Ajay Chopra, praised for the teachers for their effort and the students for co-operating with the online education system so smoothly for so many months. “Most schools have given Children‘s Day a skip this year but your teachers wanted to ensure you your due celebrations,” Chopra said. “On this one day you get to see a completely different side of your teachers and missing it would have been a disappointment. So even if you couldn’t come to school, we entered your homes to celebrate Children’s Day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Business||UltraTech Cement shares closes with over 4% gain||Shares of UltraTech Cement on Friday closed with an over 4 per cent gain after the firm announced an investment plan worth Rs 5,477 crore. The stock, which zoomed 6.25 per cent to a one-year high of Rs 5,198.30 during the day on the BSE, later closed at Rs 5,092.90, a gain of 4.10 per cent. On the NSE, it gained 4.01 per cent to settle at Rs 5,089.80. The country’s largest cement maker on Thursday announced a Rs 5,477-crore investment to add 12.8 million tonnes (mt) capacity, taking its overall output to over 136 mt per annum. In a statement, the company said its board in a meeting approved capacity expansion to the tune of 12.8 mt per annum with a mix of brown-field and green-field expansion. Upon completion of the latest round of expansion, UltraTech’s capacity will grow to 136.25 mt per annum, reinforcing its position as the third-largest cement company in the world, outside of China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
05-12-2020||Business|| Uday Shankar named president-elect of Ficci for 2020-21||Media executive Uday Shankar has been named as the president-elect of industry chamber Ficci for 2020-21. Shankar will be succeeding Sangita Reddy, president of Ficci and joint managing director, Apollo Hospitals Group, during Ficci’s 93rd annual general meeting scheduled to be held on December 11, 12 and 14, 2020. “Shankar is the president of The Walt Disney Company for Asia Pacific and the chairman of Star and Disney India. “He is the first-ever media and entertainment executive in India to lead a national industry chamber such as Ficci, which is India’s oldest industry body,” the chamber said on Friday. The Walt Disney Company had recently said Shankar will step down from his role with effect from December 31. After quitting, Shankar will pursue entrepreneurial interests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
05-12-2020||Business||RBI to review guidelines on credit default swaps (CDS) ||The RBI on Friday said it will review the guidelines on credit default swaps (CDS) to facilitate the development of the credit derivatives market. A derivative is a product whose value is derived from the underlying assets. This can be stocks, commodities or currency and even interest rates. An over-the-counter derivative is that which is traded between two parties without going through an exchange or other intermediaries. A CDS is an OTC derivative in which a protection seller commits to compensate the protection buyer for any loss resulting from a credit event with respect to a reference entity or an obligation and in return, the latter makes periodic payments to the protection seller until the maturity of the contract or the credit event, whichever is earlier. “It has been decided to review the extant guidelines on CDS and issue draft directions for public comments shortly,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said. He added that the revised directions are expected to facilitate the development of credit derivatives market and a liquid and vibrant market for corporate bonds, especially for low-rated issuers. The RBI also announced draft norms for market-makers or entities who provide bid and offer prices to users in order to provide liquidity to the market. Here, the central bank said that the board of directors or equivalent forum of the market-maker should approve written policies which define the overall framework within which the derivative business shall be conducted and the related risks managed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
05-12-2020||Business||CCI to commence study on private equity investments in India||Fair trade regulator CCI will shortly commence a study on private equity (PE) investments in the country to look at various aspects, including whether PE investors’ rights in invested companies could lead to decisions that can impact competition. Ashok Kumar Gupta, chairman of the the Competition Commission of India (CCI), on Friday said that in the current year, PE investments have surpassed strategic investments in the country due to the pandemic situation. According to Gupta, a new trend has emerged where FDI and other foreign investments have been overtaken by PE investments. The regulator has been examining sub-10 per cent investments in target enterprises by PE investors where they have a board seat. As many of these investments are in multiple firms of the same industry, the issue of common ownership by minority shareholders across firms and its impact on competition needs to be understood, Gupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
05-12-2020||Business||Number of Indian unicorns can increase to 52 in next two years||The number of Indian unicorns — start-ups valued at $1 billion and above — could increase to 52 in the next two years. The country at present has a little over 30 unicorns. “The start-up ecosystem, which started with one unicorn in 2012, has grown to 30 unicorns by now and we foresee that we will be able to create about 52 unicorns by 2022. This gives assurance and hope that in times to come India would actually become a software product nation and give a much-needed leadership to the rest of the world,” Onkar Rai, director-general of Software Technology Parks of India, said at Infocom 2020, the flagship event of ABP Group. Data from Venture Intelligence show there are 33 unicorns in the country across segments. The largest unicorn in terms of valuation is Paytm estimated at around $16 billion, while Byju’s is valued at $10.8 billion. A key trend in the start-up segment this year is the continuous rise in the number of unicorns in India despite the pandemic. Six start-ups have crossed the $1-billion valuation this year. The rise in the number of large start-ups could also give a fillip to the software products market in India, which is at present a fraction of the global industry. This is unlike the outsourcing market where the country has a 56 per cent share globally. “In terms of software products, we are still at infancy. We have about $10-billion revenue in the software product market in India whereas world over the market stands at $520 billion which is expected to grow to $1 trillion by 2025. “A national policy on software products has already come out in 2019 and we want to take the software product industry in India to be somewhere between $70-80 billion by 2025,” Rai said. He added that STPI is collaborating with the Union ministry of electronics and information technology, state governments, academia and industry leaders for its centre of excellence initiative focussing on the access to mentor pool, seed capital, market access, laboratory and standards for the benefit of the start-ups. Rai said during the lockdown, the demand for made-in-India products and technology services has gone up, resulting in a growth of the digital profile of the country. “As the world is moving towards industry 4.0, the focus is on software and IT products. We are trying to build on talent and cost arbitrage and capitalise on the indigenous demand,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
05-12-2020||Business||Jharkhand govt to accept Centre GST compensation formula||The Jharkhand government has finally decided to accept the Centre’s compensation formula to meet the GST cess shortfall. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon told The Telegraph: “We have decided to accept the first option.” Other states, including Bengal and Chhattisgarh, also did the same, he added. The state had certain issues relating to the principal loan amount and its interest that needed to be sorted out,  he had said on Thursday, adding he could not do it as he had to be hospitalised after he tested positive for Covid-19. “We decided to choose the first option as both the principal and interest are to be paid by the GST Council (out of the GST compensation cess),” Oraon said, adding the state would not be burdened with paying the interest on the loan amount. “Our decision is being conveyed to the Centre,” he said when asked if the state had already informed the Centre about its willingness to accept the first option of the compensation package.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
05-12-2020||Business||Shaktikanta Das defends penalties against HDFC Bank||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday justified the stern action taken against HDFC Bank, saying a lender cannot put thousands of customers under difficulty and that there is a need to maintain people’s confidence in digital banking. He also disclosed that the RBI is examining the outage at State Bank of India’s Yono app on Thursday, though it is too early to say whether any action will be taken against the country’s largest bank. On Thursday, the banking regulator had barred HDFC Bank from launching new digital banking initiatives and onboarding fresh credit card customers as it cracked down on various service outages at the country’s most valuable lender over the last two years. The RBI action led to questions on whether it was taking a harsh measure against a bank while usually it imposes monetary penalty for any deficiencies by such entities. Replying to a question on the action taken, Das asked banks to beef up their legacy systems and invest more in infrastructure. Das also defended the RBI’s decisions to write-off bonds and shares of lenders during rescues of Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank as legal ones taken in depositors’ interest. Das said there cannot be a fixed template while dealing with cases of stress experienced by banks and working out solutions. “The actions we take are in the best interest of the depositors and taken in compliance with legal provisions and regulatory guidelines,” he said. He added that the RBI is “not indifferent to any segment of the economy or financial markets”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
05-12-2020||Business||RTGS to be available at all times||The RBI on Friday took more steps to make the payment ecosystem more efficient and push digital transactions in the country. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das announced that real time gross settlement (RTGS) — an electronic fund transfer system  used for large value transactions — will be made available round-the-clock within the next few days. In December 2019, the National Electronic Funds Transfer (NEFT) system was made available on a 24x7x365 basis. At present, RTGS is available to customers from 7am to 6pm on all working days of a week, except the second and fourth Saturdays of every month. In another move, the RBI has enhanced the limit for contactless card transactions and e-mandates for recurring transactions through cards and UPI from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 from January 1. Contactless cards use near-field communication (NFC) technology and enable customers to make payments at terminals without swiping the card. Friday’s relaxation will mean customers need not enter PIN for transactions of up to Rs 5,000 if they are using a contactless card. It may be recalled that in January this year, the RBI had told banks that they have to give card holders the facility of enabling or disabling their cards for various use like online or physical facility and it also give users the facility of setting transaction limits within the overall card limit Contactless card transactions and e-mandates on cards (and UPI) for recurring transactions have enhanced customer convenience in general while benefitting from increased use of technology, the RBI said. It added that these are also well-suited to make payments in a safe and secure manner, especially during the current pandemic In the last few months, there has been an exponential growth in contactless digital payments. This is because consumers are increasingly choosing to pay in a safe and hygienic way for their day to day needs. Mastercard welcomes the RBI’s decision to increase the limit from Rs 2000 to Rs 5000 without entering a PIN on contactless transactions through NFC cards…The RBI’s decision will further encourage consumers to use digital payments over cash and expedite India’s cash-to-digital journey’’, Vikas Saraogi, Vice President, Merchant Acceptance, South Asia, Mastercard said. In order to deepen financial inclusion and protect customers by promoting financial literacy, a community led participatory approach through Centres for Financial Literacy (CFL) was implemented by the RBI through select banks and non-governmental organisations as a pilot project in 2017. It is now proposed to expand the reach of the CFLs from 100 blocks currently to every block in the country in a phased manner by March 2024, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
05-12-2020||Business||RBI announces stricter NBFC audit rules ||The RBI is stepping up its scrutiny of non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) and urban co-operative banks (UCBs), particularly the larger ones. The central bank on Friday announced a host of steps in this direction that included the strengthening of their audit systems and framing a dividend distribution policy. The banking regulator also announced plans to bring in a scale-based regulatory framework for the NBFCs. In audit, the RBI announced the introduction of risk-based internal audit in large UCBs and NBFCs and the harmonisation of guidelines on the appointment of statutory auditors for commercial banks, UCBs and NBFCs to improve the quality of financial reporting. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said that a review of the way NBFCs were functioning was needed because of their growing significance and rising inter-linkages with other segments in the financial system. “There is, therefore, a need to review the regulatory framework in line with the changing risk profile of NBFCs. It is felt that a scale-based regulatory approach linked to the systemic risk contribution of NBFCs could be the way forward,” the RBI said while adding that it will carry out consultations with stakeholders before finalising such a regulatory framework. The RBI is also set to bring out guidelines for dividend distribution by NBFCs. Unlike banks, currently there are no guidelines in place with regard to the distribution of dividends by these entities. In a separate move, the regulator reiterated that banks cannot give dividends from their profit for this fiscal. Regional rural banks (RRBs) have now been allowed to access the RBI’s liquidity window. RRBs are currently not permitted to tap the liquidity windows of the RBI as well as the call money market. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is stepping up its scrutiny of non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) and urban cooperative banks, particularly the large ones. The central bank on Friday announced a host of steps in this direction, including strengthening of their audit systems and framing a dividend distribution policy. The regulator also announced plans to bring in a scale-based regulatory framework for the non-banks. RBI governor Shakikanta Das said its supervisory focus has been on improving the governance functions in these entities. As part of this process, the RBI announced the introduction of Risk based Internal Audit (RBIA) in large UCBs and NBFCs and harmonisation of guidelines on appointment of statutory auditors for commercial banks, UCBs and NBFCs to improve the quality of financial reporting In view of the economic shock caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the RBI on Friday asked scheduled commercial banks and co-operative banks not to make any dividends for the financial year ended March 2020. The RBI said it is imperative that banks continue to conserve capital to support the economy and absorb losses, if any. In another step that widened the borrowing option of  regional rural banks (RRBs), the RBI allowed them to access its liquidity window. RRBs are currently not permitted to tap the liquidity windows of the RBI as well as the call money market. These banks can now participate in the call money market both as borrowers and lenders. They can also tap the repo and reverse repo windows of the RBI and also get access to the Marginal Standing Facility (MSF) wherein entities can borrow emergency funds from the RBI at a rate which is higher than the repo rate. This now stands at 4.25 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
05-12-2020||Business||Inflation forces RBI to keep policy interest rates unchanged ||The Reserve Bank of India once again chose to leave its key policy interest rates unchanged because of elevated inflation but persisted with an accommodative policy without devising any new measures or instruments to soak up the excess liquidity sloshing around in the system. “The monetary policy committee decided to maintain status quo on the policy rate and continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary — at least during the current financial year and into the next— to revive growth on a durable basis and mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the economy,” the RBI said in a statement. Since the pandemic hit the economy in March, the RBI has cut the repo rate by 115 basis points. The repo rate, at which banks borrow short-term money from the RBI, will remain at 4 per cent. The reverse repo, at which they park excess funds with the central bank, will stay pegged at 3.35 per cent. The RBI acknowledged the need to manage the surge in domestic liquidity arising from strong foreign capital flows. “Surges of capital flows have flooded into India. The RBI has been taking measures to dampen volatility and enable orderly evolution of the exchange rate... the injections of liquidity through forex interventions are being sterilised by absorptions through the reverse repo,” Das said. The pressure to soak up liquidity would probably explain why the policy makers chose not to tinker with the reverse repo rate; a cut may dissuade banks from parking excess funds with the RBI which could potentially destabilise bond yields. Surplus liquidity of more than Rs 5 lakh crore has driven down interest rates for short-term government bonds and corporate commercial paper, with some instruments being issued below the repo and reverse repo. However, the policymakers — who have stayed pat on interest rates since May 22 — revised their outlook for the pandemic-ravaged economy by forecasting a slightly less pessimistic contraction of 7.5 per cent this fiscal. Back in October, it had projected a contraction of 9.5 per cent. The central bank’s wise men had said in their November bulletin that the economic revival would start sooner in the third quarter. They have now backed up that forecast with a number: they expect to see a 0.1 per cent growth in the third quarter ending December 31 and 0.7 per cent in the fourth quarter ending March 31. For the first half of the next fiscal, growth has been projected in a wide range of 6.5 per cent to 21.9 per cent. But inflation remains the big worry as the outlook “had turned adverse relative to expectations in the last two months”. Retail inflation in the third quarter has been projected at 6.8 per cent, down from 7.61 per cent now — a six-year high. At the October review, the policy makers had expected inflation to cool because of a base effect. The statement said inflation in the fourth quarter would taper down to 5.8 per cent, just below its tolerance limit of 6 per cent on the upside of its policy mandate. Inflation in the first half of next year will remain sticky with the forecast set at a range between 4.6 and 5.2 per cent. Equity benchmarks led by rate sensitive stocks rallied to record highs on Friday. Breaching the 45000-mark for the first time, the Sensex surged 446.90 points, or 1 per cent, to finish at 45079.55. Intraday, it touched a lifetime peak of 45148.28. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched a new high of 13280.05 during the session, before finishing 124.65 points or 0.95 per cent higher at 13258.55 —  its record closing high. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said she was not worried about the current high level of inflation as it is seasonal in nature.  “Rise in prices in commodities are largely seasonal.  The government is very frequently looking at changes and taking conscious calls for imports, and sorting out logistical issues. The blip in inflation will ease out. I don’t see food item inflation continuing,” she said at a media event. Outgoing Ficci president Sangita Reddy said: “There has been a substantial upgrade to the overall growth forecast for the second half of the current fiscal. This is encouraging but given the stress the economy had faced, we anticipate policy support, both from the RBI and the government, will be required well into the next year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
05-12-2020||India||Modi to lay foundation stone for new Parliament Building on December 10||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone on December 10 for a new Parliament building and the construction is expected to be completed by 2022 at an estimated cost of Rs 971 crore, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Saturday. "The existing temple of democracy is completing 100 years... It is a matter of pride for our countrymen that the new one will be built by our own people as a prime example of Aatmanirbhar Bharat," Birla said here announcing details of the new proposed building. "The new building will showcase the cultural diversity of the country. Hopefully, in the 75th year of independence (2022), Parliament session will be held in the new building," he said. Birla said the new building will be earthquake resistant and 2000 people will be directly involved in the construction of the new building and 9,000 indirectly. He said as many as 1,224 MPs can sit together in the building, while a new office complex for all MPs of both the houses would be built at the site of the existing Shram Shakti Bhawan. The existing Parliament building will be conserved as it is an archaeological asset of the country, Birla said. The existing building is a British era building, designed by Edwin Lutyens and Herbert Baker who were responsible for planning and construction of New Delhi. The Foundation Stone of the existing Parliament House was laid on February 12, 1921 and the construction took six years and cost Rs 83 lakh at that time. The opening ceremony was performed on January 18, 1927 by the then Governor-General of India, Lord Irwin. The new building will have an area of 64,500 square metres and is being built at an estimated cost of Rs 971 crore, Birla said. He said the outlook of the new building will be similar to the existing one. "There will be a basement, ground, first and second floors in the new building and its height will be same as the old building so that both should are in symmetry," he said. The Lok Sabha Speaker said the invitation will be extended to all political parties. While some would attend physically and others would attend virtually, Birla said, while adding that the ground laying ceremony at 1 pm on December 10 would follow all Covid-related guidelines. As per rules, the speaker of the lower house of parliament is also the custodian of the parliament building. Sufficient steps have been taken to control air and noise pollution during the construction work for the new parliament building, which will have separate offices for all MPs and those will be equipped with the latest digital interfaces as a step towards creating 'paperless offices'. The new building will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India's democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space. In the new building, the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for the upper house members. This has been done keeping in mind the future increase in the number of members for the two houses. At present, Lok Sabha has a sanctioned strength of 543 members and Rajya Sabha of 245. In September this year, Tata Projects Limited won the bid to construct the new parliament building at a cost of Rs 861.90 crore. The new building will be constructed close to the existing one under the Central Vista redevelopment project. The existing Parliament House building will be suitably retro-fitted to provide more functional spaces for parliamentary events, to ensure its usage along with the new building. The existing building is a massive circular edifice of 560 feet in diameter. The Parliament House Estate is enclosed by an ornamental red sandstone wall or iron grills with iron gates that can be closed when occasions demand. The building has twelve gates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-509
05-12-2020||India||Farmers adopt ‘maun vrat’, seek ‘yes or no’ answer from govt ||The government proposed another meeting on December 9 with representatives of protesting farmers as the fifth round of talks held on Saturday ended in a deadlock with participating farmers opting to observe “maun vrat (vow of silence)” while seeking a clear “yes or no” answer to their demand of repealing the three farm laws. Sources said the team of ministers who were holding the talks sought some time from the farmers’ unions to present a concrete proposal after further consultations within the government. Hence, the December 9 date for the next round of negotiations. The agriculture ministry later tweeted that the fifth round of talks had ended. Union leaders said they do not want anything less than the complete repeal of the laws, which they claim were  meant to end the mandi and minimum support price procurement systems for the benefits of corporates. During the meeting, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar also appealed to the union leaders to send back the elderly, women and children to their homes from protest sites. Thousands of farmers have been protesting on the borders of the national capital since November 26, seeking a repeal of the three farm laws enacted in September. As their meeting with three Union ministers, including Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash, continued for more than four hours, farmer leaders told the government to reply in “black and white” whether it would repeal the laws or not. Gurlabh Singh Mahal, legal advisor to Punjab Kisan Union, said the farmer leaders wanted the government to answer in “yes or no” and decided to go on a “maun vrat” after the government did not reply to their pinpointed demand. Some farmer leaders present at the meeting put a finger on their lips and held a paper with the words “Yes or No” written on it. During a break earlier in the day, the farmers' group decided to have their own food and tea, as they did on Thursday during the fourth round of talks. At the beginning of the fifth round of talks here at Vigyan Bhawan _ it began at 2.30pm _ Union agriculture minister Tomar told a group of 40 representatives of various farmer unions that the government was committed to cordial talks and welcomed all positive feedback on the new farm laws, sources said. Later, minister of state for commerce Som Parkash, an MP from Punjab, addressed the leaders in Punjabi and said the government understood their sentiments. "We are ready to address all your concerns with an open mind," a source quoted Parkash as telling the union leaders. But a member of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said farmers would walk out of the meeting if the three farm laws were not withdrawn. Farmer leader Jagmohan Singh Patiala, speaking from Singhu border, said farmers from across the country had decided to attend the meeting as one. “It will be one stage, one morcha and one voice,” he said. In his opening remarks, Tomar, who is leading the talks for the Centre, said the government had no intention of hurting farmers' sentiments. The agriculture minister welcomed feedback on the three farm laws, while agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal summarised the proceedings of the previous four rounds of talks with farmer unions during the meeting, sources said. The two sides are believed to have discussed contentious issues like provision of dispute resolution and registration of traders in proposed private mandis under the new laws. Ahead of the meeting, Tomar and Goyal, along with senior Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Amit Shah, had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to deliberate over proposals likely to be made to the agitating groups. Modi’s decision to hold deliberations with Union ministers, who have so far been the face of the Centre's efforts to end the farmers' agitation, signifies the importance the Prime Minister has attached to defuse the crisis, sources said. On Thursday, talks between the Union ministers and a representative group of thousands of agitating farmers had failed to yield any resolution, as the union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of new farm laws despite the government offering to "discuss and consider with an open mind" some key points of concern raised by farmers in the three new laws. Farmers on Friday announced a 'Bharat Bandh' on December 8 and threatened to intensify their agitation and block more roads leading to the national capital if the government does not accept their demands. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of a minimum support price (MSP) and scrap the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has maintained the MSP and mandi systems would continue and would be rather further improved and strengthened. Undeterred by the winter chill, thousands of farmers have stayed put at various border points of Delhi for the past nine days as part of their protest against the Centre's farm laws. Before the start of the meeting, an All India Kisan Sabha functionary said only repealing of the new farm laws will end the stalemate. “At this juncture, we have transport unions, retail businesses and other associated groups who have shown solidarity with us. Our movement is not just about farmers,” AIKS finance secretary Krishna Prasad said. Outside the meeting venue, employees of the Indian Tourist Transporters Association (ITTA), which has supplied vehicles for the transit movement of the protesting farmers, had gathered with a banner which read, “We support farmers”, and shouted slogans backing the peasants' agitation. ”I belong to a farmer's family. I can relate to their fears. We had farmland at Mahipalpur and now you see T-3 terminal out there. We are supporting the protesting farmers in their cause,” IITA president Satish Sehrawat told PTI. He said the association is providing transportation facility to the farmers since their first meeting. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) state general secretary Onkar Singh Agaul said: “Our demand remains the same that the government should withdraw all three farm laws. We want MSP to be guaranteed through law”. He also sought scrapping of the electricity amendment law and an ordinance on stubble burning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||Punjab sportspersons to return their awards on Sunday||Several former sportspersons from Punjab including Padma Shri and Arjuna awardees left for Delhi today to return their awards in support of the farmers' protest against the Centre's three agriculture reform laws. They are on their way to join the farmers camping at the national capital's Singhu border before returning their awards to the president on Sunday. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been camping at five Delhi gateways for the past nine days to press their demand for a repeal of the recently enacted farm laws. "We have left for Delhi today and will join the farmers' protest," said former wrestler Kartar Singh, who is a Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee. "Many former players like Sajjan Singh Cheema who could not join us because of health or other issues have given their sports awards to us," he said. The sportspersons said they have sought time from President Ram Nath Kovind to return the awards. "If we are not allotted a time to meet the president, we will place our awards outside the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Sunday," said former hockey player Rajbir Kaur. Other former sportspersons who are headed to the national capital are Dhyan Chand awardee hockey Olympian Gurmail Singh, Arjuna awardee Kabaddi player Hardeep Singh, and Arjuna awardee weightlifter Tara Singh. On Friday, former national boxing coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu, during whose tenure India won its maiden Olympic medal in the sport, Padma Shri boxer Kaur Singh and Arjuna awardee boxer Jaipal Singh had announced that they would return their awards. Enacted in September, the three farm laws are anticipated to bring "reforms" in the agriculture sector by removing middlemen and allowing farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their crop. The government is holding talks with farmers, who have called for a 'Bharat Bandh' on December 8 and threatened to occupy toll plazas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||Plea in SC seeks uniform  RT-PCR test cost||A plea in the Supreme Court, filed on Saturday, sought a direction to the Centre to make sure refunds are paid for ‘exorbitant’ amounts charged by hospitals and private labs to conduct Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests in detecting Covid-19. Filed by lawyer and BJP leader Ajay Agrawal on his pending PIL, the interim plea seeks to fix a uniform rate of Rs 400 for the testing countrywide, as has been done by Odisha. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, on November 24, had issued notice to the Union Health Ministry on Agrawal's PIL and had sought its response within two weeks. The fresh plea said that when hospitals and laboratories were charging Rs 4,500 for the test, the actual cost, including that of the testing kit, was between Rs 800 to Rs 1,200, and even now, "exorbitant rates" are being charged in various states when the total cost incurred is about Rs 200 only. “This exorbitant over and above amount charged from poor and innocent people of this country needs to be refunded immediately as it is not only unrealistic and unreasonable but shocking,” the plea said. “"In a country like India where crores of people are living Below Poverty Line and the country's GDP has gone down to minus 23.9 per cent (-23.09 per cent) during the lockdown period, and therefore, this overcharged amount be refunded to the affected people forthwith,” it added. “The exorbitant money taken from the people is nothing but extortion and the responsible persons be punished and the excess amount be refunded at the earliest,” the plea further said. The plea cited the example of Odisha, saying that the state had fixed the rate after analysing and examining all aspects. “For the last several months these private labs and hospitals were looting the poor people of this country. Like in Delhi the notification was issued on 18.6.2020 fixing the maximum rate Rs 2400 and the cost of the kit and other things used in the test has gone down in the month of April-May itself, at the rate which is available at present,” Agarwal said in the application. While issuing the notice, the top court had said that the PIL would be heard with another pending plea of Sachin Jain pertaining to the cost of treatment for Covid-19. “There is no other cost as the machines used for the RT-PCR test are already there with the laboratories as they conduct a large number of tests. And the matter is concerned with 135 crore citizen of the country as everybody is worried about the coronavirus and forced to get their test done at this exorbitant price,” the PIL noted. It alleged that the owners of the private laboratories and hospitals are using the calamity into opportunities for minting crores and crores of rupees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||Left parties back farmers' Bharat Bandh call||The Left parties on Saturday extended their support to the nationwide strike called by farmers' organisations on December 8. The Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), Revolutionary Socialist Party and All India Forward Bloc made the announcement in a joint statement. "The Left parties extend their solidarity with and support to the ongoing massive agitation by Kisan organisations from all over the country against the new Agri laws. The Left parties extend their support to the call given by them for a Bharat Bandh on December 8," the statement said. "The Left parties condemn the RSS/BJP's malicious campaign, on preposterous charges, against the struggle of our annadatas to safeguard Indian agriculture and the country's food security," it said. The statement also said that the Left parties support the farmers demand the scrapping of the three agri laws and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. "The Left parties appeal to all other political parties and forces who stand with the farmers cause and have demanded the repeal of these laws to extend their support and cooperation to the December 8 bandh call," it said. Hardening their position, agitating farmers on Friday announced a 'Bharat Bandh' on December 8 and said they would occupy toll plazas on that day if their demands for repealing the agri-marketing laws are not met. Talks between farmer leaders and Union ministers have turned out to be futile so far. The farmers have rejected the Centre's proposal of amending the laws and have instead demanded that a special session of parliament be called to repeal the laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||Covid: Haryana health minister, who received a shot of Covaxin, tests positive||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij tweeted on Saturday that he tested positive for Covid-19, days after being administered with a shot of Covaxin. He has been admitted to the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantt, he said. "I have been tested Corona positive. I am admitted in Civil Hospital Ambala Cantt. All those who have come in close contact to me are advised to get themselves tested for corona (sic)," the 67-year-old, who is also the state home minister, tweeted on Saturday. Vij had volunteered to be the first person to receive a dose of the Covaxin during its third phase of human trials, which began in Haryana on November 20. The Union health ministry, however, said Covaxin is a two-dose anti-coronavirus vaccine and Vij had received just one. “The antibodies against the infection build up in a human being only after a specific number of days pass after the second dose of the vaccine is taken. This is a two-dose vaccine. The minister in question has taken only one dose of the vaccine,” it said. The minister, too, said antibodies start to develop after administration of the second dose, which is given 28 days after the first shot, and there is no protection during this period. “I was told that antibodies start to develop after the second dose, which is administered after 28 days of getting the first shot. And full antibodies are developed 14 days after the second dose is given. So, the complete cycle takes 42 days. In between there is no protection,” he told PTI. Covaxin is being indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech, which has collaborated with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In Bengal, urban development minister Firhad Hakim became the first volunteer to be administered with a dose of Covaxin. Earlier, the vaccine makers said that the Phase III trials of Covaxin will involve 26,000 volunteers across 25 centres in India, making it the largest clinical trial conducted for a Covid-19 vaccine in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||'Nothing but hypocrisy', BJP attacks Canada in stringent terms||The BJP on Saturday slammed Canada's stand on farmers' protests in India as "nothing but hypocrisy", saying it is a strident critic of minimum support price and other agricultural policies at the WTO, and often questions India's domestic agricultural measures, including food and livelihood security. "It (Canada) also opposes import restrictions to protect India's farmers. The questions posed by Canada to India regarding India's agri policies in WTO are evidence of the fact that Canada has a scarce interest in the genuine well-being of Indian farmers and agriculture producers," BJP's foreign affairs department in-charge Vijay Chauthaiwale tweeted. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had recently backed the agitating farmers in India, saying his country will always be there to defend the rights of peaceful protests. He had expressed concern over the situation. Reacting strongly, India on Friday summoned Canadian High Commissioner Nadir Patel and told him that the comments made by Trudeau and others in his cabinet on the protests were an "unacceptable interference" in the country's internal affairs and these actions, if continued, will have a "seriously damaging" impact on bilateral ties. In a series of tweets tagging Trudeau and Patel, Chauthaiwale said, "Canada's criticism of India on farmer's issues is nothing but hypocrisy. Canada is strident critic of MSP and other agriculture policies at the WTO, and often questions India's domestic agriculture measures including food and livelihood security." Noting that Canada is a member of the Cairns Group of agri exporters, he said the body's objective in WTO negotiations is to seek increased market access in countries like India. It also seeks reduction in the agri subsidies provided to domestic producers, even if such subsidies are subsistence-level, he said. "It also opposes import restrictions to protect India's farmers. The questions posed by Canada to India regarding India's agri policies in WTO are evidence of the fact that Canada has scarce interest in the genuine well-being of Indian farmers and agriculture producers," the BJP leader said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given topmost priority to enhance farmers' income by increasing minimum support price, giving better access to technology and providing adequate insurance cover for agri products against natural calamities, he said, adding that "Unfortunately, Canada has refused to acknowledge it".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||India's Covid tally goes past 96 lakh ||India's COVID-19 caseload rose to 96.08 lakh with 36,652 new cases in a day, while 90,58,822 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national recovery rate to 94.28 per cent on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 96,08,211 and the death toll climbed to 1,39,700 with the coronavirus claiming 512 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.45 per cent. There are 4,09,689 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 4.26 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 14,58,85,512 samples have been tested up to December 4 with 11,57,763 samples being tested on Friday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20. The 512 new fatalities include 127 from Maharashtra, 73 from Delhi, 52 from Bengal, 29 each from Uttar Pradesh and Kerala, 20 from Punjab, 19 from Haryana, 15 from Chhattisgarh and 13 from Karnataka. A total of 1,39,700 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 47,599 from Maharashtra followed by 11,834 from Karnataka, 11,762 from Tamil Nadu, 9,497 from Delhi, 8,628 from West Bengal, 7,877 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,020 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,882 from Punjab and 4,049 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||Bhupesh Baghel stresses on the importance of 'discussion' for the smooth functioning of a democracy ||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday stressed on the importance of “discussion” for the smooth functioning of a democracy while referring to the three farm bills, brought in by the Narendra Modi government, that have triggered farmers’ protests in different parts of the country. “Discussions are quintessential for the smooth functioning of any democratic nation throughout the globe. They aid in problem-solving, better policy formulation and ensure participation in the policy making process,” said Baghel. “When we formulate policies without discussion, then its fate turns out to be the same as agricultural bills passed by the central government,” he added. Baghel was addressing a Leadership Keynote session of the 19th edition of Infocom, an initiative of ABP, which publishes The Telegraph, and gave the example of how lack of discussions over the farm bills resulted in criticism against the new provisions that the Modi regime has brought in the garb of reforms in the agriculture sector. The Chhattisgarh chief minister appreciated the ABP group’s endeavour in “constantly encouraging the practice of holding healthy discussions”. In his address, titled “Chhattisgarh in the new normal”, at eastern India’s biggest ICT conclave, Baghel dwelt elaborately on how the Indian economy was heading towards a recession and then contrasted how Chhattisgarh managed to buck the trend. “This (Union) government has brought us down to a stagnant minus GDP growth rate of 23.9 per cent from the pre-existing GDP growth rate of 8 per cent. “This has never happened even after so many years of Independence. Today the Indian economy has entered into the dark phase of recession,” Baghel said. He added that he was pained to see that adequate measures weren’t taken by the central government even after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s warning that the country was heading towards a recession. According to Baghel, the plight of an average Indian citizen today proves that India’s economy has been badly affected due to cumulative effect of multiple central policies. “The upset farmers have reached Delhi, labourers are unemployed and agitated, and middle-class citizens are losing their jobs. Unemployment and inflation are constantly increasing and there are no signs of peace prevailing in our borders,” the chief minister added. Even amid such despair, Chhattisgarh has managed to keep its economy stable because of “pre-planning, visionary decisions, strong will power and positive attitude”, he said. In his speech Baghel mentioned that since his government came to power on December 17, 2018, it had worked for the development of the rural and agrarian economy. Waiving off agricultural loans worth Rs 9,000 crore within an hour of forming the government was one among many such steps. “Chhattisgarh is the only state in India to procure paddy at the price of Rs 2,500 per quintal,” he said, adding that the state government has introduced the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana, under which the state government is transferring Rs 5,750 crore directly into the bank accounts of 19 lakh farmers. “The biggest factor which contributed towards Chhattisgarh’s stable state of economy amid Covid-19, was the amount that was provided by the state government to the farmers,” Baghel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||BJP tonga rally in former Hurriyat leader Geelani’s hometown||The BJP on Tuesday organised a unique tonga (horse-drawn carriage) rally in separatist stronghold and Hurriyat hawk Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s hometown Sopore, the apparent theatrics giving more ammunition to the Opposition to claim that the Jammu and Kashmir administration was going out of its way to help the national party. The rally saw the participation of a handful of BJP activists who had many more security men guarding them while ordinary residents mostly stayed away. The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which has joined the fray for the ongoing District Development Elections, claims that non-BJP candidates are being locked in the name of security to prevent them from campaigning while the BJP candidates have a free run. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti recently said these elections have become a joke on democracy as the candidates were being arrested or stopped from campaigning. The government and the Union Territory election body have denied the charges. Adnan Ashraf, spokesman for People’s Conference which is a part of the alliance, said the BJP rally reinforces their belief that the administration was going all out to help the national party. “Security is a big variable in Kashmir, although it may not be so outside. It shows that the administration is bothered only about the security of one side which is the BJP,” Ashraf told The Telegraph. The BJP men, led by its Jammu and Kashmir general secretary Vibodh Gupta, campaigned for the party candidate for DDC elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||Committee recommends night curfew in run-up to New Year in Karnataka||The Karnataka government is set to restrain New Year’s Eve celebrations in public places for the first time in recent memory citing a report that recommended stringent restrictions since a Covid-19 second wave was likely early next year. Thousands of revellers who might be waiting to hit popular streets such as MG Road and Brigade Road might have to wait until next year with the government and its disaster management authority bent on limiting public gatherings. However, chief minister B.S. Yeddyurappa on Friday ruled out going forward with the health ministry’s technical advisory committee’s recommendation to impose night curfew during the run-up to the New Year’s Eve. The committee, comprising top officials of the department of health and family welfare, had in its report recommended night curfew between 8pm and 5am from December 26 to January 1. “As of now, there are no plans to impose night curfew,” Yeddyurappa told reporters here on Friday. This meant that pubs and restaurants would function with 50 per cent seating capacity, as prescribed by the authorities when they were allowed to reopen in September. Health minister K. Sudhakar favoured restrictions, but said it was up to the chief minister to take a call on the committee’s recommendations. “New Year is not a festival for Indians,” said the minister who was with the Congress until last year. “There is no meaning in celebrations when there is loss of lives and livelihoods in the society. It is meaningless to celebrate New Year at this juncture,” he said, adding the next 45 days would be crucial in containing the pandemic. “Going by the example of other countries, the second wave occurred between 45 and 90 days of the first wave receding to a near-normal level,” Sudhakar said after a meeting with the technical advisory committee. Karnataka has witnessed a steady decline in the Covid-19 cases since October. From over 10,070 cases and 130 deaths on October 1, the daily count has shrunk to 1,446 on Thursday when 13 deaths were reported in the state. Revenue minister R. Ashok told reporters on Friday that he was among the ministers who suggested cancelling all public events for New Year’s Eve but had no issues with pubs and restaurants staying open. “But bars and pubs can go ahead with their business. The city corporation commissioner has already intimated them to maintain social distancing by allowing only half the capacity,” he said. “We have instructed the police commissioner and the city corporation commissioner to ensure only pass holders gain access to the pubs and bars on New Year’s Eve,” he said alluding to the measures to restrict numbers. “People can celebrate at home with their family and friends, but please do not come out to the streets,” urged the minister. “We have celebrated New Year’s Eve all these years. So nothing is going to happen if we skip for one year since it will help contain the spread of Covid-19,” Ashok said, adding that revellers should exercise caution and follow the safety guidelines. A. George, partner of a popular pub in upscale Indiranagar, one of the major party hubs, said they were yet to receive any fresh guidelines from the authorities. “But ultimately it is up to the people to follow the guidelines and help us and the authorities,” said George.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||Former poll chiefs flag NRI voting challenges||The Election Commission has written to the Union law ministry to extend the postal ballot facility to non-resident Indian voters, and the foreign ministry has indicated its readiness to implement the proposal whenever it’s cleared. Two former chief election commissioners, however, told The Telegraph there were several in-principle and practical challenges, from speed of postal delivery, embassy manpower and possible influence by foreign employers to enforcement of the code of conduct and parity with internal migrants. Online registration for overseas voters — which allows them to vote in their home constituencies in India even if they ordinarily live abroad — began in 2012. Of the 25,606 overseas voters who came home to vote in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, 25,091 were from Kerala, with Kozhikode and Malappuram districts leading the way. A bill to amend the Representation of the People Act and allow NRIs to nominate proxies to cast their votes lapsed in 2019. However, the Election Commission’s November 27 letter told the Centre that a mere change in the Conduct of Election Rules, 1971, would be enough to extend the Electronically Transferable Postal Ballot System (ETPBS) to NRIs. It said an amendment to the act was necessary only to extend the right of proxy voting to new categories of people like NRIs. In the letter, the poll panel said it had received several requests for postal voting rights from Indians abroad, and was “technically and administratively” ready to implement the system during the upcoming Assembly polls in Assam, Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala. “With the successful execution of ETPBS in case of service voters, the commission is now confident that the said facility can also be extended to the overseas electors,” the letter said. The required changes to the rules include designating a diplomatic or consular representative as an officer in whose presence an NRI voter would sign a declaration form and receive the postal ballot paper. Under the ETPBS, the designated officer can download the form only once from an Election Commission portal for a particular voter, using a one-time password received by the voter. The voter then fills in the form in private, puts the ballot paper inside a small envelope and seals it. This is then put inside a larger, bar-coded envelope and sent by speed post. Asked whether the ministry of external affairs (MEA) was ready to carry out the poll panel proposal, ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a news conference on Thursday: “Whenever a decision is taken on EC’s proposal, the MEA is completely prepared to implement it.” However, implementation of the proposal would be challenging, former chief election commissioner O.P. Rawat said. “For the ETPBS, we currently have an agreement with India Post to deliver it within six days from all locations within India. The EC would need to have a system to receive the ETPBS from NRIs within a timeframe,” he said. “During my term, in 2017, we had a meeting with the MEA on whether embassies could be used for polling. They said they did not have enough staff for this.” Rawat added: “Many Indian labourers’ passports are kept by their employers abroad. The EC must have thought about the risk that these labourers can be arm-twisted to influence their voting preference by the employer…. We had commissioned the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing to develop a software for secure online voting, but that is not yet developed.” Another former chief election commissioner, S.Y. Quraishi, said that questions remained on how the poll panel would enforce the model code of conduct in the NRIs’ countries of residence. “In India, a candidate can’t give a cup of tea to a voter. But we can’t stop a liquor party in London or New York. Also, we can’t have two standards. Internal migrants will demand the same right as migrants to other countries,” he said. “That number may be so large that it would require a huge exercise by the EC.” The poll panel’s letter to the law ministry was silent on the additional safeguards required for overseas voters. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury wrote to chief election commissioner Sunil Arora on Friday demanding consultations with all political parties before NRIs are allowed to vote from their countries of residence. The CPM has consistently backed NRIs’ right to vote in Indian elections from their countries of residence. In his letter, Yechury raised the question of “how to protect the secrecy and integrity of the ballot”. “The current reported proposal of the ECI has never been discussed at an all-party consultation as is the normal practice and a well-established precedent,” Yechury wrote. “It is clear that none of the alternatives which were part of the study of the expert group commissioned by the ECI in 2015 to draw up a concrete proposal could come up with a foolproof arrangement. “Clearly, the issue is how to protect the secrecy and integrity of the ballot which will be received by the individual elector. The fact that these voters are working in conditions which are not immune from external influences, including their foreign employers, is the most worrying factor.” In a reply to the Lok Sabha in February, the external affairs ministry had said that 1.36 crore Indian citizens lived abroad, two-thirds of them in the Gulf countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||Expelled BJD MLA in custody in  fraud case||Expelled Biju Janata Dal MLA Pradeep Panigrahi, who was arrested in connection with a fraud case, was sent to judicial custody for 14 days after his bail petition was rejected by the sub-divisional judicial magistrate, Bhubaneswar, on Thursday night. Panigrahi will be lodged in Jharpada special jail. Panigrahi, a former minister who was once the blue-eyed boy of chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who had put him in charge of his own constituency Hinjili in Ganjam, earned the wrath of the BJD leadership after raising questions about the government’s Covid management in Ganjam. The crime branch of Odisha police on Thursday arrested Panigrahi in connection with a fraud case. A release issued by the crime branch said that Panigrahi had collected money on behalf of one Akash Kumar Pathak by making false promise of providing jobs to people in a Tata company. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also decided to question Panigrahi on his accumulation of properties. Akash is the son of suspended Indian Forest Service officer Abhay Kant Pathak, who is facing charges of accumulating property worth crores beyond his known sources of income. Both father and son were arrested recently and are currently being interrogated by vigilance officials who have taken them on a three-day remand. Akash was arrested ahead of his marriage with Panigrahi’s daughter that was scheduled for December 11. Akash has been accused of making money by cheating youths in the name of offering them jobs in a Tata company. Akash and his father came under the vigilance department scanner after they hired chartered flights several times during the coronavirus pandemic. Panigrahi was expelled from the party soon after the arrest of Pathaks. According to the crime branch release, Panigrahi has been arrested in a case of impersonation, cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and other cyber offences committed by Akash, who posed as the managing director in-charge of Tata Motors passenger car division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||Congress questions Kovind refusal to meet CMs to discuss farm laws||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday suggested that President Ram Nath Kovind might be “under some compulsion” that had led him to deny Congress chief ministers an audience to discuss the new farm laws that have triggered a nationwide agitation. “Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh sought an appointment from the President to submit his views on the situation arising out of the three farm laws but wasn’t given time,” Gehlot tweeted. “Then all four Congress chief ministers sought time to place our views on the farm bills but the President must have been under some compulsion that he did not give time.” It’s unusual for the President not to meet a chief minister on a formal request. Official engagements do continue even when the Centre is locked in a political confrontation with the states and rival parties, although Presidents rarely intervene in such situations. Kovind has met Opposition delegations in the past, including one that requested him to deny his assent to the new farm bills. Unlike some of his predecessors, for instance Pranab Mukherjee, Kovind has largely desisted from commenting on issues agitating the nation. He has, for instance, avoided expressing his views on the protests against the new citizenship matrix, the miseries caused by the lockdown, or the police’s burning of the Hathras victim’s body, allegedly without her family’s consent. Rashtrapati Bhavan had conveyed to Amarinder that the laws passed in Punjab (to nullify the effects of the three new national farm laws) were still pending with the governor and there was therefore no point meeting the President at this stage. Amarinder had protested, arguing he had wanted to tell the President about the crisis developing over the Centre’s new farm laws and the possible problems arising out of the agitation and the suspension of goods and passenger trains in Punjab. Gehlot tweeted: “The central government didn’t pay heed to the farmers’ demands, which have triggered a nationwide movement. Had conversations continued with the government in a democratic spirit, such a situation would not have developed. “The common people too would not have been inconvenienced because of the road blockades. The Centre should withdraw the farm laws without delay and tender an apology for the misconduct with the farmers.” The Congress, which wants the three farm laws repealed, has refused to scale down its stand. “This is a battle for the livelihood of crores of people, not only the farmers,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said at a party event on Friday. “Big grocery stores are being opened by corporate houses in every city and the jobs of small retailers will be finished by these people. The government has hatched a conspiracy to hand over agriculture trade to five-six big corporate players. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders are lying on the MSP (minimum support price) and the mandi (wholesale market) system and are trying to trick the farmers into accepting this new regime that will ruin their lives.” The farmers want a legal guarantee saying no one can buy their produce below the MSP, as is the rule at mandis. But the government has so far not conceded the demand while arguing that the farmers’ fears about the new farm laws forcing them to sell below the MSP are unfounded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||Plea against farm law protest in Supreme Court||A petition filed in the Supreme Court on Friday sought immediate removal of the protesting farmers from Delhi’s borders, saying their continued presence would cause “havoc” by spreading Covid infections. Petitioner Rishabh Sharma, a Delhi University law student, also cited the hardships the border siege was inflicting on the public. “Lives of lakhs of people protesting at Delhi’s borders (are) at immediate threat since the virus is very contagious and if by chance this coronavirus disease takes the shape of community spread, it will cause havoc in the country,” the petition said. It sought the court’s “immediate intervention” and “appropriate direction for restricting mass gathering of people at any place”. Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh since November 26, protesting against three farm laws that the Centre bulldozed through Parliament in September. “This protest is further blocking the roads for all the emergency/ medical services” at a time Delhi’s Covid cases are rising and outstation patients are looking to use the capital’s hospital facilities, the petition said. It said Delhi police had on November 27 allowed the protesters to gather peacefully at a ground in the Burari locality but they were still blockading Delhi’s borders. The petition cited the recent apex court judgment in the Shaheen Bagh case that said protests cannot be allowed to block public roads and that an indefinite number of people cannot assemble wherever they choose. It also cited another apex court judgment — Himat Lal K. Shah vs Commissioner of Police, Ahmedabad & Anr, 1973 — that had observed: “The social interest promoted by untrammelled exercise of freedom of utterance and assembly in public street must yield to social interest which prohibition and regulation of speech are designed to protect. But there is a constitutional difference between reasonable regulation and arbitrary exclusion.” The petition argued that the government was “not in a position to remove these protesters as they are huge in number”, and that “this protest is causing lot of trouble to the citizens of India”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||Delhi HC quashes JNU ads for quota violation||Delhi High Court has rapped the JNU administration for violating the national reservation policy in faculty recruitment, prompting the university teachers’ association to castigate the NDA government for failing to act on its complaints on the matter. Justice Jyoti Singh on November 17 quashed the advertisements for two JNU posts whose reservation status had been altered following the introduction of the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) quota last year. The teachers’ association obtained a copy of the judgment on Thursday. It had come out during the hearing that a 2017 JNU roster for forthcoming recruitments had reserved 87 posts for the Scheduled Castes (15 per cent quota) and Scheduled Tribes (7.5 per cent), which was revised to 56 in a 2019 roster. This suggests that the bulk of the 10 per cent EWS posts were taken out of the SC and ST quotas instead of from the general category. The petition had been filed jointly by Pradeep Shinde, an assistant professor with JNU’s Centre for Informal Sector and Labour Studies, and another assistant professor from the Centre for Asian Studies whose name couldn’t be ascertained. Both posts had originally been advertised in 2016 but the process was scrapped in 2018 amid a debate over whether reservation should be implemented institution-wise (as before) or department-wise (which would reduce the reserved seats). Fresh advertisements were issued in 2019 after the issue was resolved in favour of institution-wise calculation, and after the EWS quota had been introduced. Shinde, an SC, could not apply as the university had changed the reservation status of the advertised post of associate professor in labour studies from SC to ST. The other teacher, an ST, could not apply as the advertised post of professor at his centre had been changed from ST to unreserved. Under a roster universities followed till 2019, every 4th post was reserved for the Other Backward Classes or OBCs (27 per cent quota) while every 7th and 13th posts were reserved for the SCs and STs, respectively. Subsequently, every 10th seat should have been reserved for the EWS quota, with little clash with the other reserved categories. However, the petitioners’ counsel Akhil Sibal presented the 2017 and 2019 JNU rosters in court, showing how the SC and ST categories had lost 31 posts. He argued that under the rules, any backlog — advertised posts that remained unfilled — should continue to retain their reservation status. Monica Arora, JNU’s counsel, argued that incorporating the EWS quota had caused a shift in the “reservation points” (numerical positions) of a few reserved posts but claimed that SC and ST posts had not been exchanged with other posts or de-reserved. “The burden to rebut and prove that the reservation rosters were correctly recast was on the university, which in my view it has failed to discharge,” the judgment said. “Mere statements and denials that there has been no de-reservation or exchange of reservation points would not be enough for the university to rebut the data/tables placed on record by the petitioners.” While quashing the advertisements for the two posts, the court did not give any ruling on the alterations in the reservation status of these or the 29 other SC and ST posts. “Take a relook at the issue of roster if so required,” the court told the JNU administration. Shinde said the petitioners planned to move a higher court to get the alterations in reservation status reversed. The JNU teachers’ association (JNUTA) had over the past couple of years written half-a-dozen letters to the education ministry alleging violations of the reservation policy, and other recruitment rules, by vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar. On Thursday, it slammed the government for its inaction. “The high court order not only vindicates the JNUTA’s position but also implicates not just the JNU VC but the ministry of education as well,” the association said in a statement.Emails to the education ministry and the VC seeking their reactions have brought no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||Police scuffle with farmers in Odisha ||A minor scuffle broke out between the farmers and the police on Thursday here when the former tried to march towards the Odisha Assembly protesting against the new central farm laws. Police used iron barricades to stop them. The protest rally was organised to extend support to thousands of farmers in New Delhi who have been demanding repeal of the acts and justice for farmers. State convenor of the All India Kishan Sangharsha Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), Suresh Panigrahi said, “It’s a question of survival for farmers. Thousands of farmers are protesting against the central farm laws. We are organising protest rallies across the state to support the agitating farmers in Delhi.” Panigrahi said: “The Centre is resorting to all kind of tactics to weaken the farmers’ movement. They are trying to divide the farmers’ unity. They will not be successful. Many of us have already left for Delhi to join the strike and the Delhi Challo call given by the farmer leaders. Many more will leave for Delhi soon. The agitation across the state will continue till the Centre accepts the demands of farmers, AIKSCC.” According to the decision of the state unit of AIKSCC, a statewide agitation will be held on December 5 against Modi government’s anti-farmer laws. “Agitation will be organised at Bhubaneswar, Sambalpur and Berhampur on December 10,” said Panigrahi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||Editors Guild expresses concern over farm law protest coverage||The Editors Guild of India on Friday expressed concern over the news coverage of the farmers’ protest, saying certain sections of the media were trying to delegitimise it by labelling the protesters “Khalistanis” and “anti-nationals” without proof. This goes against the tenets of responsible and ethical journalism, and such actions compromise the credibility of the media, the Guild said in a statement. “The Editors Guild of India is concerned about the news coverage of the farmers’ protest in the national capital, wherein certain sections of the media have been labelling them as ‘Khalistanis’, ‘anti-nationals’, and other such terms to delegitimise the protests without any evidence or proof,” the Guild said. It advised media organisations to “display fairness, objectivity and balance in reporting farmers’ protests, without displaying partisanship against those who are exercising their constitutional rights to express themselves. Media should not be complicit to any narrative that derogates dissent stereotypes to protesters based on their attire and ethnicity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||PM fuels early Covid vaccine hopes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the Covid vaccine could be ready for rollout in a few weeks but made no commitment on how it would be priced or who would foot the bill for the vaccination. The Prime Minister confined himself to saying the Centre was holding discussions with the state governments about its pricing, which would be done keeping in mind public health. Addressing an all-party meeting convened to discuss the preparations for the vaccine and its distribution, Modi, often accused of weakening the country’s federal structure with his style of governance by fiat, was more collaborative. He said the state governments were being consulted on selecting the priority groups for the vaccination, creating the cold chains for distribution and the vaccine cost. According to Modi, eight potential vaccines are at various stages of trial in the country. They include the three indigenous ones. Experts have said India would not have to wait long now. “The sense is that the vaccine will be ready in the next few weeks. The moment scientists give the green light, the vaccination campaign will be launched in India,” Modi said. On who would be the first to be vaccinated, the Prime Minister said that on the basis of suggestions received from state governments, priority would be given to healthcare and frontline workers, besides the elderly with underlying health issues. He said a COWIN app was being created to map the delivery of the vaccine, and urged everyone present to help fight any rumours that might be spread about the vaccine. While detailing the preparations for the vaccine to be rolled out, he stressed the need for people to keep their guard up and continue wearing masks and maintaining physical distance. Although many of the Opposition parties made a case for vaccinating people free of cost, as with the immunisation campaign against polio and small pox, the government made no commitment. Adhir Chowdhury of the Congress told reporters later that the government had been unable to provide a road map for vaccinating the public, especially the poor. The DMK’s T.R. Baalu tried to bring up the farmers’ protests but was cut short by parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, who asked him to stick to the subject. When Baalu persisted, others claimed, his microphone was remotely muted during the meeting, held in the virtual mode. According to Jay Galla of the TDP, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan informed the MPs that a national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid had been formed to plan and execute the vaccination programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||RJD to launch agitation on farm laws||The Rashtriya Janata Dal on Friday invoked Mahatma Gandhi against the controversial farm laws and geared up to spearhead a vigorous agitation in Bihar. The party will begin with a daylong dharna in front of the Gandhi statue at the Gandhi Maidan in Patna from Saturday. The party has appealed to all organisations related to agriculture and farmers to join the agitation. The RJD asserted the three new farm laws were “the biggest attack on the thoughts and principles of Mahatma Gandhi, who considered villages, agriculture and farmers as foundation of our country. Therefore we are starting with a sit-in protest under the leadership of our leader Tejashwi  Yadav at the Gandhi murti (statue) in Gandhi Maidan”. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav pointed out that it was the Champaran Satyagraha that turned Gandhi into Gandhi that we all know. “Gandhiji protested against the compulsory indigo farming and the atrocities on farmers in Champaran. A similar situation has arisen today. The farmers will have to work like labourers, but their rights and honour will be taken away from them due to the new farm laws,” Tejashwi said. Gandhi had visited Patna on April 10, 1917. He went to Muzaffarpur on the same evening to enquire about the grievances of farmers forced by the British to cultivate indigo on a fixed portion of their land (3 out of every 20 cottahs of land, also known as the Tinkathia system). Gandhi stayed at Muzaffarpur for three days and then proceeded to Motihari in East Champaran to get a firsthand account of the situation. He launched a satyagraha, which culminated in the abolition of the Tinkathia system of indigo farming. It also gave the weapon of non-violent agitation to the country that brought a new vigour to the freedom movement. The farmers across the country, including a large number of them at Delhi, are at present protesting the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act brought by the central government earlier this year. They fear that these laws will end the MSP (minimum support price) system, make them dependent on the private agrimarketing companies, and leave them at the mercy of big players in the field. Tejashwi said the current BJP-led government at the Centre has conspired to privatise everything and it was the turn of agriculture now. “I appeal to the farmers and their organisations to come out on the streets against these black laws in agriculture and strengthen the ongoing agitation against them. The present and future of farming and farmers are at stake. Farmers of Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and other states are angry with the present government. It did not even consult the farmers before bringing these laws,” he added. The RJD leader also pointed out that the repeal of the APMC Act by chief minister Nitish Kumar in Bihar in 2006 has harmed the farmers so much that they have been forced to become migrant labourers. “The farmers in Bihar do not get adequate price for their produce. The procurement of paddy this season has not started. The farmers here have been forced to leave agriculture and become migrant labourers,” Tejashwi said. Around 70 per cent of the population in Bihar is dependent on agriculture and allied activities. Over 93 per cent farmers in the state are either marginal (having less than 2.5 acres of land) or small farmers (having less than 5 acres of land). Meanwhile, the CPI-ML has decided to block the movement of vehicles and trains in the state on Saturday to protest against the new farm laws. It has also announced that an indefinite satyagraha and traffic blockade will be held in Bihar if the laws are not repealed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||BJP makes huge gains in Hyderabad polls but loses Gadkari hometurf Nagpur||The BJP on Friday made huge gains in the Hyderabad civic polls, rising from minnow to serious competitor on the back of a polarising campaign, but suffered a blow in the Maharashtra legislative council elections where it lost from stronghold Nagpur. By late evening, with results in 149 of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s 150 seats declared, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) had won 55 while the BJP tally was 48, ahead of the 44 picked up by Asasuddin Owaisi’s AIMIM. The Congress had won 2. In the previous polls in 2016, the TRS had won 99 seats, Owaisi’s party 44 and the BJP just 4, which means the BJP’s gains have come at the ruling party’s expense. The improved showing is significant for the BJP, for Hyderabad accounts for 24 of Telangana’s 120 Assembly seats — of which the BJP holds just 2 — and 4 Lok Sabha constituencies. Hyderabad has a large Muslim population, and the BJP had run a high-decibel campaign targeting Owaisi to gain a foothold in a southern state it had little presence in. Among the campaigners were home minister Amit Shah, party chief J.P. Nadda and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Some BJP leaders posted self-congratulatory tweets addressing “Bhagyanagar”. Adityanath had said that if the BJP won, it would rename Hyderabad as “Bhagyanagar” – apparently after the Bhagyalakshmi temple near Char Minar. However, in Maharashtra, the BJP won just 1 of the 6 legislative council seats that were up for grabs. The ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress combine won 4 while 1 seat went to an Independent. The real jolt was the BJP losing the Nagpur “graduate constituency”, a stronghold where all its top state leaders had campaigned. Seven of the council’s members are elected by graduates from the state’s seven divisions, of which one is Nagpur, made up of six districts. The results are a setback for the BJP’s efforts, led by former chief minister and now leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, to topple the Uddhav Thackeray government. Nagpur city is the home turf of senior Union minister Nitin Gadkari as well as Fadnavis, apart from being the headquarters of the RSS. The Congress has won Nagpur, whose previous winners included Gadkari and Fadnavis’s father Gangadhar Rao Fadnavis. The BJP also lost the Pune graduate constituency while wresting the Dhule local body constituency from the Congress on the back of defection by the previous incumbent. Apart from 30 members elected by the MLAs, the council has members elected by geographical constituencies of graduates, teachers and local bodies apart from 12 nominated members. In public, BJP leaders tried to ignore the Maharashtra results and celebrate the Hyderabad performance. “Well done Bhagyanagar....!!!!! Great going team @BJP4Telangana. You made a mark,” BJP general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh had tweeted in the morning as the initial trends put the BJP on top. “#GHMC elections outcome, BJP’s d only alternative to TRS misrule. Our resolve to herald change in Telangana is further strengthened by today’s results,” Telangana BJP leader P. Murlidhar Rao later tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||Ramesh Pokhariyal tells IIT Bhubaneswar students to chase their dreams||Union minister of education Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank on Friday urged all the graduating students of IIT Bhubaneswar to strive hard to accomplish their dreams despite the enormous challenges they were likely to face in the times to come. He also urged them to do their best to make the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan successful. Addressing students on the 9th Convocation of IIT Bhubaneswar through video conferencing, he said: “The Education Policy (NEP-2020) will go a long way in instilling the future of the new students which will pave the way for holistic and multidisciplinary education. Students should strive hard to rise to the occasion of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. The education ministry is promoting a culture of research, innovation and entrepreneurship in Indian education system.” The Union minister asked students never to forget the contribution of their alma mater — IIT Bhubaneswar — which has helped them excel through innovative teaching, learning and mentoring that has put them on the path of success. “I must compliment the institute for the outstanding wellness, teaching excellence and research aura the institute has created,” he said. He also hailed IIT Bhubaneswar for facilitating the cream of global class education through several innovations during the pandemic and serving as a role model which the nation can be proud of. The minister inaugurated Student Activity Centre (SAC), the Play Courts, and the School of Humanities, Social Sciences and Management (SHSSM) of IIT Bhubaneswar. Speaking on the occasion, Union minister of state for education, Sanjay Dhotre said: “I am sure the students will contribute by way of innovations and research by fulfilling the dream of our Prime Minister’s visionary program: “Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan” by being self-reliant leading to creation of employment opportunities inside the nation.” Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Bhubaneswar, Rajendra Prasad Singh, expressed confidence that students of the institute will be the torch bearers of nation building and pave the way for the creation of a modern and decisive India. Director, IIT Bhubaneswar, Prof. R.V. Raja Kumar pointed out how the institute has achieved successes in all of its innovative endeavours including running the academics by holding timely classes. Conducting comprehensive exams and live convocation online has been successful. “It is a matter of double celebration with the 9th Convocation Ceremony and Inauguration of state of the art Educational Landscapes at IIT Bhubaneswar which will add to the quality education of the students thereby creating a global class infrastructure at the Institute,” he said. On this occasion, the IIT presented degrees to 35 PhD, 141 MTech 70 MSc and 200 BTech students. The President of India Gold Medal was awarded to Aditya Pal of the Computer Science and Engineering, Director’s Gold Medal was awarded to Sanket Dey Chowdhury of the School of Infrastructure and Souvick Chakraborty of Physics domain from the School of Basic Sciences for best academic performance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
05-12-2020||India||India warns Canada over farm law protest comments||The external affairs ministry on Friday summoned Canadian high commissioner Nadir Patel and handed over a demarche warning that bilateral ties would be seriously damaged if the Prime Minister and ministers of his country continued to comment on the farmers’ protests in India. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had picked up the cudgels for the farmers – particularly their right to peaceful protest -- in a message to the Sikh community of Canada on Gurupurab on Monday. Later on Friday, asked for a reaction at a news conference in Canada, Trudeau said: “Canada will always stand up for the right for peaceful protest anywhere around the world and we are pleased to see moves toward de-escalation and dialogue.” Asked further if he was worried about damaging bilateral relations, Trudeau said: “Canada will always stand up for the right for peaceful protest and for human rights around the world.” New Delhi, too, has in the past commented on internal matters of other countries, especially on basic human rights, which allowed India to punch way above its weight in the comity of nations even before it became a strong economy. These include apartheid in South Africa, the atrocities in the erstwhile East Pakistan that resulted in the Indian intervention that helped create Bangladesh, the constitution-making process in Nepal when India sought seven amendments, and more recently the Citizenship (Amendment) Act to fast-track citizenship for select minorities from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. Besides Trudeau, several other Canadian public figures had expressed concern at the bid to clamp down on the protests. Trudeau’s cabinet has five ministers with roots in Punjab. People with roots in Punjab account for about half the Indo-Canadian population. On Friday, the Indian external affairs ministry said in a statement: “Such actions, if continued, would have a seriously damaging impact on ties between India and Canada. These comments have encouraged gatherings of extremist activities in front of our high commission and consulates in Canada that raise issues of safety and security. We expect the Canadian government to ensure the fullest security of Indian diplomatic personnel and its political leaders to refrain from pronouncements that legitimise extremist activism.” More than the protests, the efforts last week to stop the farmers from proceeding towards Delhi had caught attention abroad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
05-12-2020||India||Farmers call for country-wide hartal on December 8||The protesting farmers have announced a road map towards stepping up their agitation with a call for a country-wide hartal on December 8, unhopeful of a breakthrough at Saturday’s scheduled meeting with the government over the contentious farm laws. The farmers have also lined up sit-ins at toll plazas from a yet-to-be decided date to prevent the collection of toll. The steps were announced on Friday after a meeting of the various farmers’ collectives participating in the protest at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana on G.T. Karnal Road. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who spoke to groups of protesting farmers over the phone, is expected to launch a state-wide agitation on December 7 against the new farm laws and hold a mega rally in Calcutta on December 10. The Bengal Congress will support Tuesday’s hartal. “The farmer friends have called for a nationwide strike on December 8. We will support the strike in Bengal and participate in it,” Bengal Congress chief Adhir Chowdhury said. The All India Kisan Sabha has vowed to make the strike a success in Bengal. “We have cancelled the sit-in demonstration in front of the Gandhi statue in Calcutta on December 8. The call for the strike has been given by our national leadership; we will make it successful in Bengal,” said Amal Halder, a Kisan Sabha leader associated with the CPM. The sit-ins at toll plazas will be a repeat of what Punjabs’ farmers have carried out in the state since October 1. They let vehicles through but would not allow toll collection on the national highways. On Friday, the farmers again made it clear that there would be no going back on their demand for the repeal of the three new farm laws and the withdrawal of an electricity bill that proposes to reduce subsidies and privatise power distribution. Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan said the government, after trying to divide the farmers, was now seeking to wear them down with meetings. The longer the government is dragging the issue, the more traction the protests are getting, he added. While Punjab has taken the lead, Haryana has joined in full force over the past week. Now, with the panchayat elections over in Rajasthan, farmers from there too will start moving towards Delhi, he said. Although the Centre says it is willing to listen to the farmers with an open mind, Delhi police have sent a notice to former Lok Sabha MP and All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) general secretary Hannan Mollah for participating in a protest on Parliament Street on September 25 against the farm laws. The AIKS called it an attempt to intimidate farmers and union leaders. Mollah has participated in the two rounds of talks held with the government this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
05-12-2020||India||Ram temple trust cash theft charge levied by former BJP MP ||Ram Vilas Vedanti, a sadhu from Ayodhya and former BJP MP, has joined Dharam Das, mahant of Nirvani Ani Akhara, in alleging that the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust was mismanaging the funds meant for construction of the Ram temple. “All is not well in the trust, which was formed by the central government early this year for the construction of Ram temple. The present members of the trust are involved in financial embezzlement,” Vedanti told reporters in Ayodhya on Thursday. “This was the reason that they didn’t give me and (Dharam) Das any space in the trust. Former VHP president Ashok Singhal had included me in the Ramjanmabhoomi Nyas, which was active before the Supreme Court’s verdict. But my presence was ignored in the formation of the new trust,” he added. Das was one of the parties in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid case, in which the Supreme Court had given its verdict in November last year in favour of the Hindu side and asked the central government to form a new trust for the proposed temple. The apex court had also asked the state government to give an alternative five acres of land to the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board. Das had written to the Union home ministry on November 13 threatening that he would move the Supreme Court unless some sadhus of Ayodhya were made members of the trust within two months. Das had also alleged embezzlement of funds in the trust. Only one sadhu from Ayodhya — VHP leader and Maniram Chhaoni mahant Nrityagopal Das, who headed the now-defunct Ramjanmabhoomi Nyas — is part of the trust. Das claims his predecessor Baba Abhiram Das alias Abhinandan Mishra, a mahant of Hanumangarhi temple, had surreptitiously installed the idol on the night of December 22, 1949, setting off far-reaching events. Das said on Thursday, “The trust is more interested in financial embezzlement than in construction of the temple. We will try to remove those members of the trust who are working with bad intentions. We will not let them live in Ayodhya.” “I am waiting for the home ministry’s reply and taking legal views to move the Supreme Court,” he added. A trust member said on the condition of anonymity, “Some sadhus are unhappy because they didn’t get space in the trust. All the names were decided by the home ministry only. We can add them in some sub-committees in future after a discussion with the Centre.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
05-12-2020||India||Militants fire at Valley poll candidate ||Suspected militants shot at and injured a District Development Council election candidate from a party widely called the “BJP’s B team” in the first election-related militancy violence in Kashmir. The suspected militants shot at Anees ul Islam, who is contesting the polls as Apni Party candidate in Sagam village of South Kashmir’s Kokernag. The party was created last year in the aftermath of the abrogation of Article 370 as an alternative to traditional pro-India parties in Kashmir. Official sources said the candidate was moving without security. The incident has triggered panic as many non-BJP candidates are campaigning without security. They claim that the government was putting hurdles in their campaigning to scuttle their chance of win while the BJP candidates have a free run. A police spokesman said Anees received minor injuries to hand and thigh. “The injured was immediately evacuated to a nearby hospital where his condition is stated to be stable,” he said. The spokesman said the candidate was instructed to get a personal escort for campaigning, which “he did not take”. “All the candidates (fighting elections) have already been instructed to inform us before going out for campaigning (so that proper security arrangements are made). The information regarding his movement was neither conveyed to the PCR (police control room) nor to the police station concerned,” he said. Doctors said Anees had bullet injuries in his hand and buttocks, suggesting the assailants did not aim to kill him. Parties from People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which is fighting for the restoration of Article 370 and is bitterly opposed to Apni Party, condemned the attack. The attack took place as the third phase of DDC elections was underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
05-12-2020||India||Language push will be end of IITs: Director||IIT Delhi director Ramgopal Rao has said that teaching entire BTech programmes in local languages would mean the “beginning of end for IITs”, describing this as his “personal opinion”. His comment came in a Facebook post on Wednesday at a time the Centre is pushing for the teaching of technical subjects in the “mother tongue”. Rao said that some first-semester BTech courses can be taught in local languages, and students weak in English provided extra support to improve their proficiency in that language. “Offering entire BTech programmes in local languages would mean language will become a criterion in our faculty selections. This will be the beginning of end for IITs,” Rao wrote. Rao, who was taught in the Telugu medium till Class XII, wrote that every vernacular-medium student must have the opportunity to take the JEE Main and JEE Advanced in their mother tongue. “Once these students, who have had their schooling in local languages, enter IITs, we must have ‘study help’ groups which will help these students to migrate to English over a period of time,” he wrote. “The earlier these students become conversant in English, the better it will be for them. We are producing global technocrats, not technocrats for Tamil Nadu, Andhra, etc. “We are also dealing with a huge aspirational generation. We must not confine their aspirations by tying them to one language or one mode of Instruction.” Late last month, the education ministry had said the IITs and the NITs would offer BTech courses in the “mother tongue” too from 2021. Several IIT teachers and officials have suggested off the record that such a move would damage these premier tech schools’ brand image. They have also cited problems relating to infrastructure, teacher training and the students’ career opportunities. A committee set up in 2011 by the technical education regulator too had advised against the teaching of engineering in the regional languages, citing the lack of material, terminology and teacher training. “IIT education involves integration of a lot of research and open study materials,” Rao wrote. “Offering complete BTech and master’s courses in local languages will deprive the students of a vast amount of resource material available in English. As said, by translating a few books (in)to English, the problem can’t be solved.” He suggested that some first semester courses in “specific IITs” can be offered in at least one local language, depending on the students’ choice. At IIT Delhi, for example, this can be Hindi, he suggested. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal set up a task force on Wednesday to prepare a road map on the teaching of technical courses in the mother tongue. The task force, headed by higher education secretary Amit Khare, will submit a report in a month. “Shri Pokhriyal said that the meeting today is a step in the direction towards achieving Prime Minister’s vision that student may pursue the professional courses such as medicine, engineering, law, etc in their mother tongue,” a government media release said. Rao advocated freeing institutions from bureaucratic control. “Let’s free up our educational institutions from bureaucratic controls and let’s create competition among them by also providing them autonomy. Autonomy and competition need to go hand in hand,” he said. “Let’s convert our institutions to multi-disciplinary institutions and let’s challenge them to solve problems of the society. There is so much of talent in our institutions, which is all getting wasted,” he wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
05-12-2020||West Bengal||MLA murder: Mukul Roy named in supplementary charge sheet||BJP national vice president Mukul Roy has been named in a supplementary charge sheet filed by the West Bengal CID in connection with the murder of TMC MLA from Krishnaganj, Satyajit Biswas, sources said. The supplementary charge sheet was filed in a court in Nadia district on Saturday afternoon, they said. "Roy's active involvement, primarily as a conspirator in the killing of Biswas was found during the investigation," they said. CID sleuths had, earlier, questioned the BJP leader in this connection. However, the state agency did not name him in its first charge sheet filed in May last year. When contacted, Roy rubbished the charges and said that he had never believed in politics of violence. "At least 45 cases are pending against me. I do not believe in politics of violence and never indulge in such things. I challenge Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is also the police minister to say in the public that I have such kind of taste. "I was not involved in such things when I was with her party and not even now when I am a member of another political party," Roy told news agency PTI. CID sleuths had also named BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar in another supplementary chargesheet filed in September this year in connection with the case. Biswas, the state's ruling party MLA, was shot dead during a Saraswati Puja programme in Nadia district in February 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
05-12-2020||West Bengal||State plea for north Bengal trains||A senior state bureaucrat has written to the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR), requesting immediate resumption of intercity express trains in north Bengal that were stopped amid the pandemic-induced lockdown. On December 2, Rajesh Kumar Sinha, secretary of state transport department, sent the letter to NFR general manager, saying that commercial activities were slowly progressing towards normality in the region, and trade bodies had repeatedly appealed for the resumption of local train services. “The Federation of Chamber of Commerce and Industry, North Bengal, requested the state government to take necessary steps for resumption of the intercity express train services in north Bengal, as the economic activities across north Bengal are gradually becoming normal. In this connection, I am to request you to let us know the views of the railway authority at the earliest for taking further necessary action from our end,” Sinha’s letter reads. In Calcutta and some other parts of south Bengal, the railways have resumed suburban passenger services from November 11 and non-suburban local passenger trains from December 2. Traders are keeping their fingers crossed. “Traders of this region are largely dependent on Siliguri. The Centre has already relaxed the lockdown in different sectors to encourage economic activities. If local passenger and express trains are restored, it will benefit the traders spread across north Bengal,” said Biswajit Das, the secretary of the Federation of Chamber of Commerce and Industry. “We appreciate that the state has immediately responded after receiving our appeal. We hope the railways make a decision now,” Das added. Before the outbreak of the pandemic, around 2.5 lakh passengers used to travel in these trains every day, said sources. Without them, commuters have to spend more time, money and effort to reach their destinations. According to sources, over 80 pairs of passenger trains and another 60 pairs of DEMU rakes run in north Bengal. While some are routed through the Dooars and several districts, there are local trains to destinations in lower Assam and Katihar in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
05-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal tea belt wage hike chant grows louder||The state’s delay in fixing minimum wages and lack of a tripartite wage agreement for annual increment have prompted Bengal tea workers to demand an immediate revision in their wages. In all, around three lakh workers serve in the tea industry. Apart from them, around 10,000-odd staff and sub-staff who work in the industry have also demanded revision of their salaries. “The workers have pointed out that had there been a three-year agreement (for increment) in 2017 (when the last agreement expired), it would have ended in 2020. They want a new agreement in force after tripartite talks unless the minimum wage rate is fixed,” said Alok Chakraborty, the president of Intuc–affiliated National Union of Plantation Workers. The demand has come as a fresh poser for Trinamul ahead of Bengal elections due in less than six months. That the demand is gaining ground in the tea belt has been perceived by Trinamul leaders. State labour minister and party leader Moloy Ghatak, who was in Alipurduar district on Friday, asserted in a public meeting organised by the party that the state would soon take appropriate steps in this regard. “We want to assure the tea workers and their families that the state government will take all steps during next couple of months for revision of wage rates,” said Ghatak at the meeting. Like its political contenders, Trinamul too is eyeing the Assembly seats of north Bengal, among which results of some 15 seats are decided by the tea population. A senior tea trade union leader based in the Dooars said it was necessary for the state government to take the initiative and see that the wage rate is revised ahead of Bengal elections. “Mamata Banerjee is trying to woo the tea population by expediting the implementation of the tea worker housing scheme but wage revision is an equally important issue,” he said. In the tea industry, wage rate is determined on the basis of tripartite talks and agreement signed for a period of three years. The last wage agreement was signed in 2015 (with retrospective effect from April 1, 2014) and expired on March 31, 2017. In 2015, the state also formed a committee of stakeholders and government officials to recommend the minimum wage rate to the government, which was a longstanding demand of the industry. In 2017, a tea worker used to earn Rs 132.50 a day. However, as no decision was reached on minimum wage, the demand to revise wage rate was raised, and eventually the state announced two interim hikes in 2018. Unlike earlier years, no agreement was signed this time. Also, as the state started supplying food grain at subsidised rates to tea workers and planters could make some savings from it, it was agreed that an amount would be added to the daily wage rate as a cash component of the ration. In all, the daily wage rate increased to Rs 176 in October 2018. The rate is the same even now, in 2020-end. Now that two years have passed after the last revision and no decision has been reached on the minimum wage, the workers want another hike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
05-12-2020||West Bengal||Elephant dead in western Dooars, finger at live wire||A wild elephant that strayed into the plantation of a tea estate in western Dooars was found dead on Friday morning, with electrocution suspected as the cause. Though autopsy report is awaited, it seems the elephant died after touching a power cable dangling from an electric pole in the garden. Foresters recovered the carcass and accused the tea garden management of carelessness. The carcass was discovered by some residents of Haldibari tea estate near Banarhat and under Dhupguri lock of Jalpaiguri district. They informed the manager-level personnel who in turn informed foresters. Soon, a team from the wildlife squad in Binnaguri went to the spot. The area was cordoned off and an excavator pressed to remove the elephant carcass amid hundreds of curious onlookers. “We have found a live wire dangling nearby and suspect that the elephant came in contact with it. The management should be more careful as power cables pass through the garden and a snapped wire can lead to human and animal deaths or injuries. We are waiting for the elephant’s post-mortem report,” said a forester. A team from WBSEDCL also visited the site. An inquiry and necessary repairs would be done, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
05-12-2020||West Bengal||Collapsed building in Malda gets political hue||The “disappearance” of a primary school building in Malda town turned into a political issue within 24 hours of the matter coming to light. While former minister and Trinamul leader Krishnendu Choudhury, whose party office is near the school, reiterated that the building collapsed on its own because of lack of proper maintenance, parties in the Opposition suspect the hand of real estate developers behind the building being reduced to rubble overnight. On Thursday morning, residents saw the building of the state-aided primary school in Kalitala area reduced to a pile of debris. The school, closed since March like others amid the pandemic, has 40 students and two teachers. An official of the district education department visited the spot and filed a complaint with the police, seeking a probe. On Friday, Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, a state BJP leader, went to the site and spoke to residents. “We fail to understand how a school building can turn into rubble overnight. The residents with whom I spoke fumbled, which raised our suspicions. In Malda, the highhandedness of some real estate developers is nothing new. Even water bodies have been rampantly filled to raise buildings. The administration and the police should come out clearly on how the school building vanished,” said Sreerupa. Left leaders of the district also sought a proper inquiry. Ambar Mitra, the district CPM secretary, said the school was there for the past 51 years and that even if the building was old, why were no steps taken for its repair by the district education department. “There is information that the district inspector of primary schools (Suniti Sapui) who filed a police complaint on Thursday is trying to underplay the issue now. It would be his mistake if he thinks that the issue will subside,” he said. Sapui denied to comment on the issue on Friday. Trinamul’s Choudhury, however, said that the building had collapsed on its own. “Even the polling booth in the school was shifted a few years ago because the building was dilapidated,” the former minister said. Malda district magistrate Rajarshi Mitra said they asked for all official records of the school and were waiting for the police report too. “If it is found that the building did not collapse on its own but was dismantled, the administration will take appropriate steps,” said Mitra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
05-12-2020||West Bengal||Duare Sarkar steps up to reduce crowds at camps||The Bengal government has taken the ongoing Duare Sarkar programme literally on the doorsteps of beneficiaries in many south Bengal districts through grassroots workers to reduce crowding at camps in view of Covid-19. Workers of ASHA (accredited social health activists), members of women self-help groups and panchayat level employees at East Burdwan, Birbhum and Bankura have been asked to visit homes to distribute application forms for a slew of government schemes under the Duare Sarkar programme, and help people fill them up too. Sources said the decision to distribute forms on doorsteps was taken as it was found that people had to queue up twice, first to collect forms and then submit filled-up ones. An official said apart from reducing crowds at camps, the move will also speed up the applications process. The effort is significant as a Duare Sarkar camp had to be suspended at Barasat in North 24-Parganas on Friday because of huge crowding, not advisable amid the pandemic. “Efforts are on to distribute forms at homes to avoid big queues at camps amid the pandemic. It will help in faster clearance of forms at the camps too,” said a senior district official in Birbhum. The state government’s two-month Duare Sarkar, launched on December 1, aims to host over 13,000 camps across Bengal to include left-out beneficiaries under its flagship schemes. Nearly 10 lakh people have attended 750 camps in first three days. Most beneficiaries had queued up to find out about the free health insurance or Swasthya Sathi scheme. “We have already fielded our ASHA workers to visit households and distribute forms. As most people want to enrol themselves under Swasthya Sathi scheme, we have provided field workers with enough forms,” said Enaur Rahaman, the East Burdwan district magistrate. An ASHA worker who went to distribute forms in a village on Burdwan outskirts said: “The move has been welcomed by people as they no longer need to stand in long queues to collect forms. We are also helping many to fill up forms.” In an effort to decentralise the form distribution process, ration dealers have also been roped in the process in districts such Birbhum and Bankura. Ration dealers have been asked to keep forms for the Khadya Sathi scheme and distribute them to those who need it. “As the goal of Duare Sarkar is to cover everyone under government schemes, distribution of forms on the doorstep will help people to visit camps only to submit filled-up applications. In the case of Khadya Sathi scheme, people can submit their forms at ration shops,” said Vijay Bharti, the Birbhum district magistrate. “We are also trying to organise additional camps where the turnout is huge,” Bharti added. The effort is also being carried out in Jungle Mahal districts such as Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram where many people have very little idea about government schemes. “ASHA workers are visiting households in remote areas of our district with forms and helping people to fill them up,” said Bankura district magistrate S. Arun Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
05-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata’s task for Suvendu’s dad||Mamata Banerjee on Friday urged her party’s Contai MP Sisir Adhikari, who is  Suvendu Adhikari’s father, to weed out those allegedly engaged in anti-party activities. At Mamata’s virtual internal party meeting with the top tier of the leadership, district unit chiefs, MPs and MLAs, sources said she gave a lot of importance to the Contai MP. Earlier, there were speculations on whether the 79-year-old MP, who is also a party vice-president and its East Midnapore chief, would attend the meeting, given Trinamul’s growing distance from his son. But not only did Adhikari Senior attend the meeting, he also came across as “amicable and amenable”. “In her inimitable style, she (Mamata) entrusted Sisirda with the task of getting rid of those involved in anti-party activities in East Midnapore. This was to everyone’s surprise, including Sisirda’s. But he responded with enthusiasm,” said a minister, adding that Mamata did not take the Nandigram MLA’s name. “She mentioned places like Nandigram, Haldia, Contai, Nandakumar and Ramnagar. She asked Sisirda to work with (Trinamul state president Subrata) Bakshi to ensure loyalists are posted as replacements,” the minister added. The patriarch of the Adhikari clan, a Rajya Sabha member said, has apparently kept a distance from his 49-year-old son’s activities in recent times and has been responding favourably to every outreach from Trinamul. “Sisirda is almost as inscrutable as Suvendu. But he seems earnest in his assertions that he does not want his son to leave the party,” said the Rajya Sabha member. At the meeting, Mamata also stressed the need for an “upright backbone” and the importance of courage against the BJP’s “manipulative” politics. “They (the BJP) are at it again, with their manipulative politics, misusing (central probe) agencies to scare people. Those who cannot overcome their fears are free to leave. For every such departure, we will bring up one lakh others…. I need people with an upright backbone,” she was quoted as saying. Mamata also said she had four generations of leadership prepared to lead the state long after her generation. Getting emotal, she said some “within” were looking forward to her death. “What can I say… some from within want to see me dead so that they can attain the post. What can I do? My death is not in my hands, but in the hands of god,” a source quoted her as saying. The source said that on hearing this, Bakshi “broke down”. “Bakshi got really emotional, he was almost inconsolable…. He kept saying she needs to live a long, healthy life, for the sake of Bengal. She calmed him down,” he said. Clarity on the Nandigram MLA’s political future remained elusive. He is likely to clear his stand over a news meet on Sunday. But a source close to the Nandigram MLA said that irrespective of what was being said publicly, the state government and the party are “clearly trying to give dada (Suvendu Adhikari) the message that they want him to stay”. He cited instances such as the transfer of IPS officer Sunil Kumar Yadav, against whom Adhikari allegedly had grievances, from the post of East Midnapore SP on Friday. Yadav was replaced by Praween Prakash. Also, last month, IAS officer Vibhu Goel, whom the former minister “likes”, was brought in as the district magistrate of East Midnapore. A south Bengal MLA said Adhikari would be in Calcutta for a slew of meetings with key loyalists on Friday and might meet a senior BJP leader too. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
05-12-2020||West Bengal||Keep going till laws go: Mamata to farmers||Mamata Banerjee on Friday sent a Trinamul delegation to the massive farmer agitation underway at Delhi-Haryana’s Singhu border, and spoke to farmers over phone to laud their movement against the Centre’s farm laws, urging them not to retreat till the “anti-people” laws are revoked. Her party’s Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien, who went to the Singhu border, spent four hours interacting with groups of farmers. O’Brien also used his phone to connect them to Mamata for interactions. “Do not retreat, do not withdraw your agitation till they repeal these anti-people, anti-farmer laws,” she urged protesters on phone. Referring to her own 26-day hunger strike during the Singur anti-land acquisition movement — which began on this day, 14 years ago — Mamata told farmers she was aware of their sentiments. “Your movement is our movement, it is India’s movement, a movement of all its people. Any help you need from us, from Bengal, just name it…. We are also beginning our own programmes in support of your movement. If you want, we can send our people to join you there,” said Mamata during one of the calls on the speaker phone. On Saturday, she is likely to interact with the Badal family and others in the senior leadership of the Shiromani Akali Dal of Punjab. The Punjab-based party had, till the controversial farm laws were passed, been a BJP ally for decades. Supporting the movement, Mamata has instructed her party to carry out a slew of events this month, including a three-day dharna at the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road in Calcutta, which she would attend. “So many laws they (the BJP-led Centre) made or changed, forcefully. They think they can get away with anything… with selling off the entire nation. We do not want to let (Prime Minister Narendra) Modiji sell off the nation. A country cannot go on like this,” she told protesters on phone. Mamata thanked farmers for stepping up, asserting they were on the verge of making history. “It is imperative for all of us to work together to protect India. The India of farmers, the India of workers, the India of the youth, the India of mothers and sisters…. Your movement has unconditional support from us. It is destined to succeed,” she said, to cheers from the protesters. Sources in her party said the chief minister sees in the issue and protests, an opportunity to politically corner the BJP and its government in the Centre after the Covid-19 pandemic brought the nationwide protests against the citizenship matrix to a grinding halt. “She senses the possibility of a historic retreat by the BJP in this case, which she believes would be pivotal not only in national politics but also Bengal, with months left before the crucial Assembly polls,” said a Trinamul MP. Earlier in the day, she also tweeted a statement of support with the hashtag #StandWithFarmers, and reminded people of her 26-day hunger strike 14 years ago starting on December 4 against forcible acquisition of farmland. “14 years ago on 4 Dec 2006, I began my 26 day hunger strike in Kolkata demanding that agricultural land cannot be forcefully acquired,” she posted, expressing her “solidarity with all farmers who are protesting against draconian farm bills passed without consultation by Centre #StandWithFarmers”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
05-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata to hold rallies against farm laws||Mamata Banerjee will hold a “mega rally” in Calcutta on December 10 and other programmes across Bengal to protest against the Narendra Modi government’s new farm laws and hold amendment to the Essential Commodities Act responsible for recent rise in the price of potato. The Bengal chief minister met her senior colleagues in the Trinamul Congress on Friday to draw up a roadmap on how to make the farm laws an issue in the state at a time the Centre seemed to be clearly on the backfoot because of the continuing protest by farmers on the borders of New Delhi. “After deliberations (in Trinamul), it was decided that the focus of the protests in Bengal would be on amendment to the Essential Commodities Act. Didi herself will launch the state-wide agitation from Midnapore on December 7. She also plans to hold rallies in Bongaon on December 9, in addition to a mega rally in Calcutta on December 10,” said a Trinamul leader. The fact that the amendment to the Essential Commodities Act would be the main point of the movement was clear on Friday morning when Trinamul MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar held the changes responsible for spiralling prices of potato and onion. Sources close to the chief minister have said it is a tactful move to identify the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act to build up the agitation as it has relevance in case of Bengal and people — even non-farming community — can understand its impact. A senior agriculture department officer said the state government had lost two important tools to contain prices because of the amendment. First, it can no longer conduct raids against hoarding of essential commodities like potatoes. Second, the government cannot curb movement of the commodities to other states. “The result was visible from October. Price of potato reached an all time high of Rs 45 a kg in retail markets. As common people felt the immediate pinch of the new farm laws, the chief minister is trying to use it to connect with them,” said the official. The sources also said Mamata was likely to point out during her rallies that the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act did not offer any benefit to the farmers while it left common people in trouble by encouraging the black marketeers. “For example, farmers had sold potato at Rs 10 to Rs 12 a kg in February-March this year. But common people had to buy the produce at Rs 45 in October-November after the new farm laws were introduced. So, only a section of traders and hoarders got the benefit of the new acts,” said a source. The Trinamul leadership, said multiple sources, is of the view that a series of rallies on the issue of rise in the prices of essential commodities would help them create a mood against the farm laws in Bengal, which has not yet witnessed any major protest till now. A source in Trinamul said the party was aware the two other laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act — did not hold much relevance in Bengal, where the established rules of agri business are a bit different. “The farmers of Haryana and Punjab are opposing the laws as they apprehend that the Centre might withdraw the system of offering minimum support price (MSP) for their produce citing that they have been offered a bigger market. But these two laws have little impact in Bengal as farmers in the state are neither dependent on mandis to sell their produce nor are they heavily dependent on the government’s procurement system,” said an official in the agriculture department. According to sources, only about 40 lakh tons of rice out of a total production of about 165 lakh tons are procured by government agencies annually. “So, roughly less than 25 per cent of the 72 lakh farmers can sell off their produce to the government securing MSP. As the majority of farmers, particularly small and marginal farmers, are dependent on the open market to sell their produce, these laws don’t have that much impact in Bengal,” said a source. As rice is the staple food in Bengal and the consumption requirement (158 lakh ton annually) is close to its annual production, farmers can get an average price for their produce throughout the year. “This is the reason why Bengal is historically not dependent on the mandi system to sell their produce to the government,” said an official who handled the responsibility of agriculture and food and supplies departments for years during the Left Front rule. And the law to allow contract farming has also little impact in the state as it was already allowed here a few years ago after farmers’ organisations were allowed to sign contracts with private investors. “Once we can build an opinion against the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, it would help to launch a bigger movement against the Modi government,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
05-12-2020||North East||Positive start to IIT Guwahati placements||The ongoing pandemic has “not” affected the virtual placement drive at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Guwahati, with leading companies making 486 offers to its students till Wednesday. The placement drive began on December 1 in a completely virtual mode and will continue till December 15. The exercise has attracted close to 128 companies such as Google, Microsoft, Goldman Sachs, Qualcomm, Texas Instruments, Adobe, Quadaye, Oracle, Walmart, Bajaj, American Express, Uber, Accenture Japan and MTX, among others. The opening day saw 69 placement offers but it went up to 486 till Wednesday, including the 133 pre-placement offers (PPOs), with a highest domestic salary package of Rs 70 lakh per annum compared to Rs 52 lakh last year. In addition, there were four international offers at the end of the second day, prompting IIT Guwahati director T.G. Sitharam to state that the Covid-19 pandemic has not affected placements. “I am delighted to share that the placements have started off on a very positive note at IIT Guwahati. The pandemic has not affected placements, due to the efforts of the placements cell to actively engage with companies and training the students for virtual placements. The institute has left no stone unturned in making the placements season 2020-2021 a very positive experience for both the students and the employers. We are thankful to all the recruiters,” Sitharam said in a message to The Telegraph. Despite the pandemic situation, the number of PPOs offered this year is equivalent to that of 2019 which shows that the overall placement scenario has not been affected and the institute hoped the overall placement statistics improves compared to last year, an official said. Altogether 692 students were placed out of 1,060 in 2019. This year about 1,100 students have registered for placements. Job offers have been made in profiles such as software development engineer, member technical staff, hardware, machine learning, data science, business analyst, quant, core engineering (automobile), analyst, product designer, graphic designer, among others. The placement drive is centrally coordinated from the IIT Guwahati campus with all the recruiters from various companies and eligible students taking part virtually from different locations of the country. “Students were given training on the virtual platform in advance for an efficient and smooth process. Although the students are not physically present on the campus, the entire placement process is being executed in a similar manner to that of the physical mode done in previous years,” a statement said. Prof. Abhishek Kumar, head, Centre for Career Development, said the institute has ensured that “we take every effort to make the placements season a success”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
05-12-2020||Opinion||Historical fiction: Thanksgiving and racial injustice||Thanksgiving was celebrated on November 26 this year. A tradition involving family gatherings was marked this year by six feet of distance and zoom calls with grandma. Historically, the day is a celebration of the English settlers getting together with the Native Americans and establishing the Plymouth colony — now Plymouth, Massachusetts — in 1621, culminating in a feast. The truth behind the history is much more dire and, for many, Thanksgiving is a symbol of oppression and racial injustice. An existing viewpoint is that the first Thanksgiving feast was marked by the massacre of a local Native tribe. The day is constantly espoused in history books as one where settlers and natives lived and worked together in harmony but many historic accounts prove that the truth is far from it. The holiday wasn’t made official until 1863, when President Abraham Lincoln declared it so as a kind of thank you for the Civil War victories in Vicksburg, Mississippi and Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. Today, Thanksgiving is celebrated for its historical context, but more as a day to get together with family and get to eat a lot of food. Traditionally, there is always an NFL game on this day as well. Moreover, Thanksgiving is always on a Thursday and Black Friday follows right after. No matter how it is celebrated, it is important to see the day from the perspective of the Native American community as well. Every Thanksgiving since 1970, the United American Indians of New England gather in Plymouth to mark a National Day of Mourning. A statement on the organization’s website said, “Participants in National Day of Mourning honor Native ancestors and the struggles of Native peoples to survive today. It is a day of remembrance and spiritual connection as well as a protest of the racism and oppression which Native Americans continue to experience.” Go digital This year, Covid-19 has led to a drastic reduction in brick-and-mortar retail sales and a giant uptick in online shopping. Now with Black Friday and holidays just around the corner, e-commerce is having its moment. “This Thanksgiving period, shoppers are interested in two things — getting a good deal on items and feeling safe — and this is driving significant changes in how they approach the season,” according to a spokesperson from Deloitte. This year, some giant stores such as Target and Home Depot had record sales numbers in person on essential items such as toilet paper, food and home tools. While revenue fell for department stores like Macy’s and Nordstrom, JCPenney filed for bankruptcy. Macy’s offered e-commerce shopping to their customers but it was not enough to make up for the lost revenue. But athletic brands such as Peloton and Lululemon have actually benefited from the pandemic as people turn to at-home workouts. Analysts are recommending all stores to rethink their digital strategy because many consumers who are forced to conduct online shopping may well choose to stick by it after the pandemic. Both Walmart and Target said they are anticipating increased need for people to fulfil online orders and to ready items for kerbside and in-store pickup this holiday season. Shrunk splendour Every year the Macy’s Thanksgiving parade is a much anticipated day marked by extravagant floats, parades and celebrity appearances. It is the largest parade in the world and has been held since 1924 with masses of crowds gathering on the sidelines. This year was much different — the parade went virtual, to be viewed on TV only. As a result of being televised, it had a 75 per cent reduction in the number of participants. Those who were present had to follow protocols of social distancing and wear masks. Instead of high school marching bands travelling in from across the country, the parade invited a handful of local marching bands and performers from other parades that have been challenged to adapt owing to the pandemic. This year the activity and performances were confined to Herald Square in Midtown Manhattan instead of the usual 2.5 mile parade walk. The parade’s large character balloons, typically anchored by 80 to 100 trained handlers and a vehicle, were anchored by five specially-rigged vehicles to cut down on human presence. Jump the queue New York is the city that is truly always adapting. Why should a pandemic be any different? New Yorkers are used to waiting in long lines whether for broadway tickets, Saturday Night Live, the latest dessert craze and now Covid testing. Lengthy lines just to get a test done exist in every city and New Yorkers have found a way to avoid it — by hiring someone to wait for them. This can be achieved through the popular TaskRabbit app, usually used to hire freelance help for handyman services such as moving or building furniture. However, a TikTok video went viral detailing how the app is being used for this. On the app you can search for ‘wait in line’ and your nearest CityMD urgent care location, and select a nearby tasker. You leave instructions to have the worker call once they’re at the front of the line, and then the patient switches spots with them. The video has now been deleted, but those who saw it remarked on the ethical aspect of having someone (albeit by paying them some $20) wait in line for you at the risk of exposure to Covid-19. Some others argue that during this pandemic where unemployment is on the rise, it is giving people something to do with a chance to make some money. Footnote With millions of Americans out of jobs owing to Covid-19, money and spending is tight for a lot of people. An unfortunate victim of this are charities struggling to obtain donations under these circumstances. December is always the biggest month for donating, and Giving Tuesday, an annual day for charitable giving on the first Tuesday after Thanksgiving, essentially kicks off the season each year. Charities are also having trouble finding volunteers because of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
05-12-2020||Opinion||Sleeping beauty: Mandatory siesta for Goans||Goa and Bengal are separated, as the crow flies, by a distance of over two thousand kilometres. But metaphorical bridges have been known for their ability to bridge great distances. What unites Goa and Bengal, in a manner of speaking, is — no, not football but — their love for the afternoon nap. What the bhaat-ghum is to the average Bengali, the beloved siesta is for the aam Goan. Hearteningly, pleasure has now turned political. Goa goes to the hustings in two years’ time, and the leader of the Goa Forward Party, Vijai Sardesai — he is a chief ministerial aspirant — has pledged to make the siesta mandatory within stipulated hours every day. Naysayers have dismissed Mr Sardesai poll pledge as a not-so-subtle attempt to pander to identity politics: Goan culture, after all, takes its susegad — an ethical principle that shuns a frenetic life for a slower, quieter way of living — quite seriously. But then there is nothing parochial about the susegad that has the siesta embossed in its heart. In fact, evidence suggests that a life located between the laid-back and the indolent, one that emphasizes the importance of leisure, is a truly global phenomenon. The short, post-lunch nap spans a geographical and cultural arc that includes the Mediterranean, parts of Europe, and Asia. Afternoons bring Italians the promise of the riposo; busy-as-bees Britons and Americans replenish their energies with the help of the power nap; Indian yoga, too, acknowledges the virtues of vamkukshi: lying on the left side to aid digestion after a nap. The other lie that Mr Sardesai has nailed — inadvertently — concerns modernity’s sneer at leisure. The industrial revolution had led to an enduring rupture between leisure and productivity. Evaluation of societies increasingly became centred on the quantum of labour and hours of work, leading to a concomitant, cultural demonization of activities — sleep was among them — associated with leisure and recreation. This resulted in the perpetuation of the myth of leisure being unproductive even though there are anecdotes to suggest that some of humanity’s greatest triumphs were registered by geniuses in a state of repose. Archimedes apparently had his ‘Eureka’ moment in a bath; gravity might have eluded mankind if Isaac Newton had not been idling under an apple tree. Post-modernity’s rediscovery of siesta must be welcomed. Already, several nations have discovered that quality of work is inversely proportional to working hours. Thus France and the Netherlands have been at work, reducing the average time employees spend at their jobs. The importance of the pursuit of sleep and rest cannot be underestimated at a time when a global pandemic has led to the collapse of the walls between work and home, bringing with it severe physiological and psychological challenges. There is a strong case for India, where the labour ministry proposed to raise daily work hours to 12 from 8, to be lulled into brief, therapeutic spells of siesta. India’s next Eureka moment could well come from Goa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
05-12-2020||Opinion||New hope: UK approves Pfizer vaccine||Sir — At a time when the whole world is traumatized by the pandemic — social isolation, continued lockdown and death of nearly 1.5 million people are just some of the things that are on people’s minds — humanity has perhaps got the best piece of news in almost a year: the United Kingdom has become the first country to approve a fully-tested Covid-19 vaccine (“In a world first, UK approves Pfizer vaccine”, Dec 3). The vaccine developed jointly by pharmaceutical company, Pfizer, based in the United States of America and the German firm, BioNTech, took only 10 months to go from concept to reality, although the time taken to develop something like it usually spans 10 years — even vaccines for measles and polio took a very long time. But the threat that Covid-19 posed to mankind must have spurred researchers on — they were engaged in a frantic race against time, routinely working round the clock and weekends. The continued loss of lives and livelihoods must also have pushed them harder. The speed of research also highlights the fact that governments and other stakeholders have indeed accorded the highest priority to fighting the coronavirus. Significantly, unlike China and Russia which authorized the use of some vaccines without waiting for the results of phase-3 trials, the Pfizer-BioNTech project has reportedly not skipped any necessary step and its findings were opened to independent verification. Incidentally, while many countries booked millions of doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, India continues to look at the Oxford-AstraZeneca shots along with some other indigenous candidates as its choice against the pandemic. The silver lining is that the phase-3 trial of India-made Covaxin has already been launched in the country with authorities getting encouraging responses. Nonetheless, vaccine roll-outs will usher in a new set of challenges. Any unexpected medical problems during drug administration should be accepted as an unavoidable part of vaccine science. It would be important to identify the source of the adverse result objectively and address the problem. This should be done in order to safeguard the faith of citizens in clinical trials as well as to encourage them to continue participation in the process. On all these complex issues, governments, regulators and vaccine makers must recognize the significance of effective communication with the people. In India, all levels of authorities must work together professionally to ensure even distribution of the vaccine. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — It is good news that Britain has become the first country in the West to have endorsed a Covid-19 vaccine, developed by Pfizer-BioNTech. The vaccine has been reported to have shown 95 per cent efficacy in preventing Covid-19. India, however, must wait until one of its indigenous trials shows encouraging results or the Oxford-AstraZeneca group comes up with a proper vaccine. Meanwhile, the news that the United Kingdom has approved the use of the Pfizer vaccine has caught the attention of many privileged Indians. There are reports that travel agents have already begun receiving enquiries about the conditions for travelling to the UK in the hope of getting shots of the Pfizer vaccine. While this is hilarious on the one hand, on the other, it bares the grim reality that only the affluent sections of society have the privilege of even making such plans. Healthcare should be equally accessible to all. The Indian government should keep this mind whenever a vaccine is available here. Ayesha Ganguly,New Delhi Name game Sir — The decision of the Maharashtra government to rename residential areas in the state that have caste-based names must be welcomed. This move could go a long way in uprooting entrenched prejudices against communities that do not belong to the so-called upper classes. All governments seem to have a penchant for the ‘name game’ — renaming places without any other aim in mind but garnering the votes of the majority community. Maharashtra’s idea — it could help promote social harmony — should serve as a model for other states too. Sangeeta Pal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
05-12-2020||Opinion||Down Under thunder||The first book I read from cover to cover was written by an Australian. His name was Keith Miller, and he was the greatest all-round cricketer his country has produced. After he retired from the game in 1956, Miller published a sporting autobiography, called Cricket Crossfire, which was reprinted by an Indian publisher who managed to send some copies to the town in the Himalayan foothills where I grew up. A full decade after Miller had quit playing cricket, what may have been the last copy of his book circulating in India was bought by my father in a store in Dehradun’s Rajpur Road and handed over to me. When I read Cricket Crossfire as a boy, two things struck me: first, Miller’s ambivalent feelings about his captain, Don Bradman, and, second, the affection that Miller displayed towards India and Indians. The author acknowledged that Bradman was the greatest cricketer of his age, yet he felt that as a person, Bradman was single-minded and even selfish. The Indians he played against, however, Miller warmed to both as sportsmen and as human beings. I seem to remember, from a distance of more than half a century, that Miller’s book contained brief but fond portraits of Mushtaq Ali, C.S. Nayudu, Vinoo Mankad and Vijay Merchant. I must have read Cricket Crossfire in 1967 or 1968. It was around the same time that I began reading Jack Fingleton’s articles in the now defunct Sport & Pastime magazine, published out of what was then called Madras by what is still Kasturi & Sons. Fingleton had played with (and under) Bradman a decade before Miller did; and, as I was to discover later through a reading of his books, he too held Bradman to be both the greatest cricketer of his time and a not particularly likeable character. Around the time I first read Miller and Fingleton, I also first heard Australian voices coming into my house. In the late 1960s, there were no televisions in Indian homes, so cricket-mad lads like myself had to follow the game in print and on the radio. I suppose I might have heard snatches of the 1967-68 Indian tour of Australia (when we lost four-nil), although I have much clearer memories of the following winter when the West Indies toured Down Under. I was supporting the visitors who were led by a cricketer even greater than the Don, Garfield Sobers. So I was disappointed by their three-one loss to the hosts in the Tests, although this was tempered by the always engaging commentary on ABC, as represented by the effervescent Alan McGilvray and the wise and reflective Lindsay Hassett. Winters in Dehradun were freezing cold, and it took an effort of the will to get up at five am of a morning in December or January, to huddle next to our Philips set, the volume turned low so as not to wake up the rest of the household, the teeth chattering and the feet shaking, partly due to the chill but mostly due to the excitement of what was being described to me by McGilvray and Hassett and their colleagues. All through the 1970s, my winters were joyously filled with tours of Australia by England, the West Indies, Pakistan and India, heard live as the matches were played, and read about with leisure in the next day’s newspaper and in the sports magazines that came into our house (although Sport & Pastime died in the late Sixties, Sportsweek of Bombay had arrived to fill its place). As I grew older and began to buy books myself, I also read the works of the aforementioned Jack Fingleton and of Ray Robinson, who, while he had not played the game at the same level as Miller or Fingleton, had a greater sense of style. The favourite Australians of my boyhood and youth were cricket writers and cricket commentators. I was already into my twenties when I saw Australian cricketers for the first time in the flesh, in a Test match played in Bangalore in 1979. However, this was a side depleted by the cheque-book by Kerry Packer. The 1980s passed without my seeing Australians play Test cricket, which was probably just as well, for although a compromise with Packer had been forged, even a full-strength team was not particularly competitive in that decade. Fortunately, in the 1990s and the 2000s top-class Australian sides did play several Tests in the city I now called home, Bangalore, and for these contests I was always present at the ground, soaking in the batsmanship of Ponting and the Waugh brothers, the bowling of McGrath and Warne, and the wicket-keeping of Healy and Gilchrist. Drawing on a lifetime of reading about, listening to, and watching cricketers from that country, I present for debate an all-time Australian Test eleven. This, in batting order, reads: 1. Victor Trumper 2. Arthur Morris 3. Don Bradman 4. Steve Smith 5. Allan Border 6. Keith Miller 7. Adam Gilchrist 8. Shane Warne 9. Dennis Lillee 10. Bill O’Reilly 11. Glenn McGrath. I suspect the most controversial choices would be of the openers. What is known as ‘recency bias’ might lead many cricket fans to choose Mark Taylor and Matthew Hayden, whose prolific run-scoring has been captured for posterity by television and can be viewed again and again on YouTube. However, Trumper occupies a special place in Australian cricketing memory and folklore, as witness the writings on him of (among others) Jack Fingleton and Gideon Haigh. Like Trumper, Arthur Morris was a magnificent attacking batsman whose mastery of spin and pace alike is abundantly attested to by his team-mates and opponents. In my eleven, at any rate, Morris gets the nod ahead of his fellow left-handers, Taylor and Hayden. Let me seek some more controversy. Who shall captain this eleven? While Bradman is the obvious choice, I would myself go for Allan Border. The Don led sides so staggeringly gifted in all departments that they would have won anyway. On the other hand, Border guided Australia out of one of its worst periods in cricket history. He was, by all accounts, far better at nurturing young players and building team spirit. In a fantasy contest between this team and a West Indian All-Time Eleven led by Frank Worrell, I would trust Border over Bradman any day. Let me end this tribute to Australian cricketers by quoting an Englishman. This is John Arlott, himself the least parochial of cricket writers. After the 1948 tour of England, Arlott wrote a short but very perceptive essay on the way the Australians played cricket. The essay began with a set of questions: “Why are the Australian cricketers different? Why is a Test match against Australia different from a Test match against any other country? And why do we feel that it is different?” Arlott went on to describe matches he had read about or watched, in which some special characteristics of Australian cricketers were manifested. Arlott ended his essay by saying that, whenever an English team played in an Ashes Test, it was “faced with Australian batting, bowling, fielding, captaincy — and ‘Australianism’. ‘Australianism’ means single-minded determination to win — to win within the laws but, if necessary, to the last limit within them. It means that where the ‘impossible’ is within the realm of what the human body can do, there are Australians who believe that they can do it — and who have succeeded often enough to make us wonder if anything is impossible to them. It means that they have never lost a match — particularly a Test match — until the last run is scored or their last wicket has fallen”. This was written from the perspective of an Englishman. Yet it entirely resonates with Indians who have watched their own team play Australians at cricket. The Test series that is soon to begin Down Under shall surely provide further confirmation of the truth in Arlott’s remarks from seventy years ago. Ramachandra Guha’s The Commonwealth of Cricket has just been published. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Steel City to have a Covid-19 vaccine storage facility soon||Within a week of Prime Minister Narendra Modi laying down the roadmap for the Covid-19 vaccine in India during his meeting with the chief ministers of various states, the health authority of Singhbhum district, have sprung into action. They are now converting a godown into a massive vaccine storage facility in Steel City. Located at the Old Civil Surgeon office premise, on Dhalbhum Road in Sakchi, this facility will be having a walk-in cooler and a walk-in fridge. “We are setting up a storage facility as per the instruction and guidelines of the Union Health Ministry. The facility will be up by the end of December,” said district civil surgeon, Rajendra Nath Jha while talking to The Telegraph Online. He maintained that the vaccine for Covid-19 will be available anytime in January 2021. Hence the government of India has instructed all of them to have a storage facility with a cold chain maintenance system ready by the end of the month so when the vaccine consignment reaches Jamshedpur, then they don’t face any problem. When asked about the capacity of the storage facility stated that he couldn’t comment on the same as the size of the vaccine’s vial has not been specified. “We are converting a godown measuring 20 ft by 10 ft at the old civil surgeon office premises into the storage facility. It will have a walk-in cooler and walk-in fridge in it. It aims to stock the vaccine needed for the entire East Singhbhum district,” said the civil surgeon. Interestingly, at a time when the district health officials are gearing up for a vaccination drive against Covid-19, the number of cases is continuing to drop. On Friday, samples of 2,378 suspected Covid patients were examined in the Jamshedpur, of which only 19 tested positive. With 19 new cases, the total number of Covid cases in East Singhbhum district rose to 16,886. Meanwhile, a 62-year-old woman, a resident of Kadma area died of Covid-19 at RIMS on Friday night. The deceased was earlier admitted at the MGM Medical College Hospital’s Covid ward from where she had been referred to RIMS on Sunday. With her death, the total number of Covid-19 deaths has shot up to 372. The localities from where 19 new cases of Covid-19 have been reported from Bistupur, Bagbera, Govindpur, Sonari, Kadma Mango, and Baridih. Despite the number of Covid-19 cases declining, the district administration has tightened its noose on the people not wearing masks or flouting social distancing rules. Those breaking the rules are being slapped a penalty of Rs 500. There is also a blanket ban on marriage procession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi IAS officer Ranendra Kumar wins literary award||IAS officer Ranendra Kumar, who is more popular as a Hindi writer, will receive the Sri Lal Shukla Smriti IFFCO Sahitya Samman this year for his contribution to literature. Ranendra (60), who uses his initial as a writer, will receive, besides a citation and a memento, a cheque for Rs 11 lakh as the 10th recipient of the prestigious award, instituted in 2011, at a function in Delhi on January 31 next year. “Ranendra has chosen tribal life as the theme of his writings and deeply observed social, economic and cultural changes the tribal society underwent in this age of globalisation,” the selection committee observed in a release issued on Saturday. Besides a number of collections of poems and short stories, Ranendra has edited a four-part Jharkhand Encyclopedia and has three novels to his credit. While his first novel, Gungi Rulai ka Chorus, was published in 1988, the second, Global Gaon Ke Devta, was published by Bharatiya Gyanpeeth in 2006. His third novel, Gayab Hota Desh, was published by Penguin Books in 2014. “Thank you, thank all,” said Ranendra when the Telegraph Online contacted him on Saturday. He said he would go to Delhi to receive the award personally. This, however, is not the only award he has won. Ranendra won the J C Joshi Smriti Janpriya Lekhak Samman in 2010 for his novel, Global Gaon ke Devta, the Banarasi Prasad Bhojpuri Samman in 2013, the newly instituted Vimla Devi Smriti Samman and the Banmali Katha Samman in 2019. “Ranendra is one of those rare non-tribal writers who took immense interest to understand tribal issues and express them in his writings,” said Mahadev Toppo, another well-known Hindi writer. As director of Ranchi’s Ram Dayal Munda Tribal Research Institute, Ranendra also organised events to give a platform to deserving tribal writers and artists from across the country, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Left parties, Congress stage protest across state against farm laws||The left parties and social outfits affiliated to them in the state held candlelight and torch processions in different districts and block headquarters on Saturday evening as a prelude to their upcoming state-wide chakka jam on December 10. The state-wide strike is against the new farm laws introduced by the union government which has triggered nationwide protests demanding for its rollback. In Ranchi, members of CPI, CPM, CPI (M-L), Marxists Coordination Committee (MCC) staged a dharna at Albert Ekka Chowk in the evening and similar processions were held across the state, they claimed. Dubbing the farm laws as anti-farmer, the protestors rented slogans of revocation of the laws. CPI’s district secretary Sukanth Lohra said that they will continue to fight till the ‘black laws’ are withdrawn. “The union government has forced lakhs of farmers in the country to come out on streets to fight for their survival. The recent laws are pro-capitalists and farmers are waging a war this time for their existence. We stand in solidarity with their fight and have planned different protest programmes throughout this week in the run-up to our state-wide chakka jam on December 10,” said Lohra. CPI-M state secretary Prakash Viplav has called everyone to oppose the new farm laws in the interest of the nation. “The new laws are in no way pro-farmers. The continued deadlock in negotiations between the union government and protesting farmers in Delhi is testimony to the fact that farmers are unhappy. If the union government was serious towards farmers’ interest, they would have promptly agreed to all the demands made by the farmers,” he said. Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC), part of the ruling coalition government in Jharkhand, too separately held state-wide dharna programme across all the 24 districts on Saturday morning on this issue. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said that their party has held several agitation programmes both nationally and in the state ever since these laws were ‘unconstitutionally’ passed by the parliament. “In Jharkhand, we held several protest marches and demonstration over the last two months, demanding for its rollback. Today’s dharna was in continuation of our ongoing agitation. Congress has always fought for farmers and their rights and our stir will continue till they are taken back,” said Oraon, adding that while the union government through its new farm laws were trying to phase out minimum support prices (MSP), their regime in Jharkhand has, for the first time, provisioned on-spot 50% payment to farmers in lieu of their paddy sale to encourage more farmers turnout at the government procurement centre to get legitimate MSP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Gumla woman killed on suspicion of practising witchcraft||A woman on Friday was axed to death on suspicion of her practising witchcraft, at Koinara village under Sadar police station in Gumla district, which is around 120 kilometres from the state capital. The victim, in her 60s, was found lying in a pool of her own blood late on Friday night, by locals, who alerted the police. She was identified as Karmi Oraon, officer in-charge of Sadar police station in Gumla, Vimal Kumar told reporters. He informed that the deceased’s son Vir Oraon has lodged an FIR against a local, Feku Oraon, and two other unnamed persons for killing her mother on charges of practising witchcraft. “We are probing his charges and trying to trace the accused,” Kumar said. He added that family members of a youth in the village, who died last month, accused Karmi of doing black magic on him. Tension prevailed between both the families since then. “As per information so far, accused Feku happens to be the brother of the youth who died last month due to some ailments. He is at large,” the officer said. According to information, the woman had gone to the village pond on Friday evening to take a bath and wash clothes, but did not return till night.  Her son, who works as a labourer, along with other villagers began searching for her and discovered the body near the waterbody. She was found with a wound on her head, caused by an axe, that led to her death on the spot, police said. Murders related to black magic or grounds of suspicion of its practice are common in Jharkhand. According to state police data, around 123 people, including women were killed on charges of witch-hunting and sorcery between 2016 and 2019 alone. While the state has put in place a law titled Prevention of Witch (daain) Practices Act, 2001, a few years back to curb the menace but it has remained ineffective owing to minimal penalty. As per the Act, anyone who harms or brands a person by identifying them as a witch is liable to face action amounting to a fine of Rs 1,000-2,000 or imprisonment of three months to one year or both.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Over 60 per cent seats, meant for the poor in private schools, go abegging||Around 60 per cent seats reserved by law for underprivileged children in private unaided schools were left unused in the last academic year (2019-20) in seven Jharkhand districts, including Ranchi, the state education department has revealed in reply to Right to Information (RTI) query. On Saturday, Association for Parivartan of Nation, the NGO that filed the RTI application, released details of the findings pertaining to seven districts, namely Ranchi, West Singbhum, East Singbhum, Bokaro, Godda, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Garhwa. “The seven districts have 184 schools with 3,541 seats in all. Of the 3,548 applications received from families of underprivileged children [under Section 12 (1) (c) of Right to Education Act] only 1,471 was approved. As a result, 2015 seats remained vacant, which is 60 per cent, and this after 10 years of this significant act coming into force,” said Hasan Al-Banna, president of the NGO. In Ranchi, 74 per cent seats were vacant. “As many as 1,679 applications were filed for admission under RTE of which only 188 were approved. This means out of 713 seats, 525 remained vacant,” said Kareem Ansari, a member of the outfit. Similarly, in East Singhbhum 820 out of 1,651 seats remained vacant while in West Singhbhum 102 remained unused out of 189 seats. Out of 608 seats in Bokaro, 418 remained vacant. Garhwa, Seraikela and Godda had 55, 112 and 38 vacant seats out of 158, 153 and 69 seats respectively. “Interestingly, the government received more applications than the number of seats. For the 3,383 seats available in private schools, 3,578 applications were filed. However, the government rejected 62% of these applications. Many eligible families who had pinned their hopes on securing admission for their family were sorely disappointed to find that their applications were rejected without reason,” said Hasan. Section 12(1)(c) of RTE clearly spells out that private schools shall admit in class 1 (or pre-primary) at least 25% children belonging to weaker sections and disadvantaged groups in the neighbourhood and provide free and compulsory education till its completion. The data also revealed that among districts, Ranchi is the worst performing with 89% of applications rejected. Godda and Bokara had more than 50%  applications rejected and more than half the seats vacant. Of the data available, East and West Singhbhum are the best performings. But several districts had a suspiciously low number of private schools registered or do not provide any information. Giving an example of a parent, Hasan said, “One Fauziya Perween of Ranchi, whom we interacted with, said they had filled the online application for their son Umar Farooque's admission in Class 1 in a private school on the website dseranchi.com. But despite giving all required documents their son did not get admission. No one gave any substantial reasons for the rejection.” Hasan wondered why the percentage of rejected applications was so high? “The high rate of rejection costs many underprivileged and deserving children their right to education and possibly their chance at a better future.” Sneha Shahdeo, another member of the outfit said, “This trend is being witnessed at the national level too where private schools are becoming highly hierarchical and segregated. We urge the state government to immediately initiate a transparent application process before the next academic year 2021-22.” On his part, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said that during a review of the district education department on December 1, he had asked officials to set up help desks at all private schools and the district collectorate to ensure grievances of applicants were addressed so that enrolments under RTE could be increased ahead of the next academic year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Centre grants Rs 2.5 lakh to former international cyclist||The central government has granted Rs 2.5 lakh to former international cyclist Swaran Singh, who is currently working as a security guard at Vijaya Homes, a residential complex in Baridih township of the steel city. He received the money three days back. The 70-year-old Singh, who lives alone at a slum in Baridih, represented the country in the 1970 Asian Games in Bangkok. Former Jharkhand Cycling Association (JCA) secretary Satbir Singh Sahota said the Centre has granted monetary assistance to Singh on the request from the Cycling Federation of India (CFI). “The central government acted on a mail sent by us to the CFI, which took up the matter with Sports Authority of India (SAI). The money has already been credited to Singh’s bank account,” he informed. Singh said he was extremely thankful to the central government for the financial aid. “I am very thankful to the government as well as the CFI for understanding my problems. It is a timely aid which will somewhat help me meet some urgent expenses, including medical issues of my ailing daughter,” the former cyclist added. Singh earns a salary of Rs 10,000 out of which Rs 2,500 is paid towards rent. After taking voluntary retirement from Tata Steel, Singh started a transport business but incurred loss and had to sell shares of his ancestral house in Birsanagar to sustain his family which includes his wife, two daughters and a son. According to him, the government should always come forward to help struggling sportspersons by providing them jobs and financial aid. “I am also thankful to the sports fraternity of Jamshedpur for helping me out. Cyclists from the US and Punjab have also assisted me financially,” Singh said. Cyclists from the steel city have helped Singh by pooling in Rs 55,000 which was handed over to him in May. Moreover, Randhir Singh, an ex-national cyclist who lives in Baridih-based Vijaya Homes, generated around Rs 20,000 through his friends and well-wishers, also chipped in with aid. Two ex-Loyalians, who live in Canada, also helped Singh with Rs 1 lakh. Amar Singh, an Arjuna awardee and a former manager with Tata Steel sports wing, generated an amount of Rs 1 lakh through contributions from ex-Haryana cyclists Pyara Singh and Amarjit Singh earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Weathermen hint at a further drop in minimum readings||Jharkhand is expected to get colder in the coming days with the clear and crisp weather leading to a further drop in minimum readings in the next 48-hours, weathermen indicated on Saturday. Several areas of the state, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Daltonganj, have already been witnessing a fall in minimum readings due to the northwesterly wind flow. Most parts of the state saw clear skies and low humidity levels on Saturday, both conducive to lower mercury readings. Similar conditions are expected to prevail for at least the next 72 hours before the temperature moves northward due to the return of easterly winds around December 9, which will occur as a result of an approaching western disturbance. Ranchi on Saturday recorded 11 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal. Bokaro too recorded mercury readings of around 11 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal. The mercury nosedived to 10 degree Celsius at Kanke on the outskirts of Ranchi on Saturday. Daltonganj recorded a minimum temperature of 10.9 degrees on Saturday, one notch below normal. Jamshedpur witnessed minimum readings of 13 degrees Celsius. The minimum readings plummeted to around 11 degrees Celsius in Dumka and its adjoining areas in Santhal Pargana region on Saturday. Night temperatures hovered between 11-12 degrees Celsius in Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, Simdega, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. "The Celsius is dipping because of north-westerly winds which usually leads to plummeting night readings," said Abhishek Anand, Deputy Director of  Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He said that the chill would last for another 72 hours at least due to the dominating north-westerly winds. After that, the wind pattern is expected to change to easterly, which will bring moisture into the atmosphere, he explained. The forecast also ruled out the possibility of cloud formation owing to local effects and systems over the Bay of Bengal for at least the next three days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Palamau does a count of frontline health workers ||The Palamau administration has started preparing a list of frontline workers, doctors, nurses and other such personnel, following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement that a Covid-19 vaccine may arrive in the country within a “few weeks”. The administration is keen on getting on getting frontline health workers vaccinated first as per the directives of the Centre. Deputy Commissioner of Palamau Shashi Ranjan said, “We have with us a list of 9,372 frontline workers who carried out the tough task of fighting the coronavirus from its beginning, and during its peak as well. We have asked private hospitals and health institutes in our district to give us their lists of frontline workers. We expect the total count to be well within 12,000 to 13,000.” “No frontline worker will be left out of the list,” the DC guaranteed. He also explained that Palamau district reproductive child health officer Dr Anil Kumar Singh has been instructed to keep cold chain, cold box, deep freezers, ice land refrigerators and vaccine carriers ready and functional to receive and store Covid-19 vaccines when they arrive. Singh said, “Palamau district has a total of 14 cold chains.There is one cold chain each at the 10 community health centres. Apart from these 10 cold chains, there is one cold chain each at Daltonganj, urban area, Haidernagar and at Kishunpur.” The functionality of these cold chains is being overseen by the National Cold Chain Management Information System, under the Union health ministry. On the other hand, the number of vaccinators in the district is around 125, with a fleet of 165 ANMs ( auxiliary nursing midwife). “Immunisation and vaccination are just two things. There is a thin wall between the two. Immunisation of children can’t be stopped even when Covid-19 vaccination will be underway,” Singh explained. According to sources, the Palamau district, in its cold chains, stores 1,50,000 doses of polio vaccines, and when the bulk of Covid-19 vaccines arrives, maintenance will be taken care of. “We hold 1,50,000 doses of the polio vaccine. We will make space for Coronavirus vaccines as well,” the child health officer said. “We have chalked out a huge plan for January 17 when the country as well as our district will be observing the National Immunisation Day. There will be a massive drive to immunise our children across the district on the day,” the DC said. Asked if the district has sufficient auto-disable syringes, Singh said, “We expect more to come with the coronavirus vaccines. A disposable syringe is useless for all purposes after it is used once.” On the issue of cold chains, deep freezers and other such equipment getting damaged due to fluctuating electricity supply, Singh informed, “In our lingo it is called sickness rate of these tools. The national average is 2 per cent. However, in Palamau the sickness rate is 1.3 per cent. We remain really alert regarding machinery not becoming sick for fault in electricity supply.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19 vaccine: State readies storage, distribution logistics||The state government in Jharkhand started preparing for distributing and transporting a Covid-vaccine once it is made available, which the Centre claimed should be within weeks. In the first step, the Hemant Soren government has identified around 1 lakh health workers, employed in private and public sectors, for the vaccination programme, officials from the health department said on Saturday. In adherence to the directive from the Union ministry of health, frontline workers in Jharkhand, especially those working in the health sector, would be provided with the vaccine on priority, said state National Health Mission (NHM) director Ravi Shankar Shukla. “We have already started the process of preparing for the distribution of the vaccine across the state. All steps will be taken in accordance with the directives we get from the ministry,” said Shukla, adding that Jharkhand has the experience of vaccinating around 1 crore individuals over a couple of months and the facilities have improved since the last vaccination drive was conducted in the tribal state. While cold chain infrastructure in the state was adequate for routine immunisation, an increased demand for Covid-19 vaccine may require additional facilities and extra effort, a highly placed source in the health department said. As per figures with the health department, Jharkhand has one state vaccine store, two regional vaccine stores, 24 district vaccine stories and at least 247 sub-district cold chain points. Besides, the government is establishing a new regional vaccine store in East Singhbhum, which would help run immunisation programmes against the Covid-19 virus. A document of the state health department highlighted that the government had identified at least 30 new cold chain points for storage and distribution of a Covid-19 vaccine. The Centre has also assured the state a supply of additional ice lined refrigerators (ILR) for the purpose of vaccination, sources said. The availability of cold storage and transportation of the vaccine in vehicles that can maintain a below freezing point temperature are crucial as most of Covid-19 vaccines are said to be effective only at sub-zero temperatures. Jharkhand has also completed state level training of trainers in collaboration with the National Cold Chain and Vaccine Management Resource Centre (NCCVMRC) on cold chain management for the vaccination process. Currently, the training is going on at the district level. Besides, at least 21 of 24 districts in the state have conducted district task force (DTF) meetings to plan the immunisation process. The government has conducted two rounds of Indian public standard health (IPHS) survey and the result of the third round in expected by the middle of December, health officials said. Three vaccines are in various stages of clinical trials in India and experts believe that a Covid-19 vaccine could be ready in a few weeks, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday during a virtual all-party meeting. While Jharkhand is among the states where Covid-19 cases gradually dropped after peaking in September, it still reported more than 1 lakh cases of infection. The number of active cases in the state has dropped significantly this month, but the government may still have to deal with high demand for the vaccine, even in the interiors, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Fresh Covid cases outnumber recoveries for second consecutive day in Jharkhand||Fresh cases of Covid-19 infection outnumbered recoveries for the second consecutive day in Jharkhand on Friday, causing a minor drop in the Covid recovery rate and a rise in the number of active cases across the state as well as in Ranchi, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 219 fresh cases of infection, including 94 from Ranchi alone, surfaced in the state on Friday. On the other hand, as many as 206 patients recovered from the lethal infection on the day. After Friday's test results, the number of active cases in Jharkhand stood at 1938, while that in Ranchi was put at 764 by the NHM. The number of active cases also increased in East Singhbhum and Dhanbad as both the districts reported fewer recoveries than fresh cases on the day. East Singhbhum reported 19 cases against 17 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 24 cases against 10 recoveries on the day. There were 298 active cases in East Singhbhum by the end of Friday. As per government data, Ranchi and East Singhbhum account for more than half of the active cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand. At least four districts –Latehar, Saraikela, Simdega and Lohardaga– did not report even a single case of infection on Friday, while as many as 14 districts saw a single-digit-spike in cases. Meanwhile, one more Covid-19 patient, a resident of Ranchi, breathed his last on the day. Friday's findings take the Covid toll in Ranchi alone to 201 and that in Jharkhand to 978. The government on Friday tested swab samples of 21977 people and around 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the state has collected swab samples of over 43 lakh people and tested 42.92 lakh of them. The Covid tally in Jharkhand by Friday night was 109990. As per government data, the recovery rate in the state was 97.34 per cent, while the mortality rate was 0.88 per cent. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.33 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 440.82 days against the national average of 208.12 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro General Hospital’s sanitation workers go on indefinite strike||The contract workers who are serving as sweepers, cleaners and others in Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) have gone on an indefinite strike demanding to restore the ESI facility for them, which was suspended due to non-payment of the contractor for the past four months. The negotiation talks initiated by BGH management failed to pacify the issue. The protestors on Friday staged a demonstration in front of the office of executive director (ED) of BGH under the banner of Jai Jharkhand Majdoor Samaj (JJMS). JJMS is a wing of ruling party Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM). However, the issue has bagged political colour as JMM city president, Mantu Yadav with cadres holding party flags also sat on the dharna. The strike of sweepers has however affected cleanliness in the BGH as garbage and medical wastes were not removed in many wards. BGH sources said that there were about 200 patients admitted in different wards while 14 positive patients are in Covid ward and critical care unit. BGH run by Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) is a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) and a dedicated Covid-19 Care Centre. The workers were agitated since the past few months as their contractors are not paying them ESI, provident funds, Earned Leave (EL) and bonuses. Things worsened on Thursday when a sweeper Gopal Dome who is ailing from kidney disease is facing difficulty in getting better treatment due to lack of ESI. JJMS general secretary B K Choudhary said, “Without ESI how will Dome afford the costly treatment.” “We have given several reminders to BGH management to restore the ESI facility, but the officials never paid heed to it. Dome is not the only sufferer. Wife of another worker K Karmakar is also sick and cannot afford a better treatment in absence of ESI. Our demand is that BGH provides treatment to these patients as because of their ignorance ESI has not been paid by the contractor,” he added. Yadav also said, “This state is under JMM rule. JMM cannot tolerate the exploitation of workers. Even after knowing that the contractor has not renewed or paid for ESI and other benefits of workers, how did the BGH management pay and clear the contractor’s bill. There is something wrong. If anything happens to Dome due to lack of treatment, BGH management should remain ready to provide a job to dependents.” Patients are facing difficulty with waste littered everywhere. BGH management said the things are under control as they are using other manpower in removing wastes from the ward. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “Efforts are laid to pacify the issue soon”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
