06-12-2020||Calcutta||Veteran actor Monu Mukherjee passes away ||Veteran Bengali actor Monu Mukherjee passed away on Sunday at Calcutta, after suffering a cardiac arrest, his family members said. He was 90 at the time of his death. Starting his career with Mrinal Sen’s Nil Akasher Niche (1958), the actor earned recognition with his role of Machhli Baba in Satyajit Ray’s Joy Baba Felunath, and that in Ganashatru. He had also received critical appreciation for his acting prowess in children's fantasy film Patalghar. “Saddened at the passing away of veteran theatre and film actor Manu Mukherjee. We conferred on him the Lifetime Achievement Award at the Tele-Samman Awards 2015. My condolences to his family, colleagues and admirers,” Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, mourning his demise. West Bengal Motion Pictures Artists Forum, of which Mukherjee was an active member, also condoled his death. Actor Saswata Chatterjee took to social media to condole his death. “Tributes.. Rest in peace, Monu Jethu,” he wrote, along with a picture. “Veteran actor Monu Mukherjee passes away. He was 90,” wrote actor Rudranil Ghosh on social media. “Extraordinary comfort, perfect dimension, great sense of humor in front of the camera. And such respect for work. Goodbye Manuda. We shared so much work together, so many memories,” actor Atanu Ghosh wrote on Facebook, posting an image of the both. Mukherjee is survived by his wife and two daughters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
06-12-2020||Calcutta||Evening Mass in Catholic churches||This Christmas Eve, there will be no Midnight Mass in the Roman Catholic churches under the archdiocese of Calcutta. Instead there will be an Evening Mass that should end by 9pm, Archbishop Thomas D’Souza said in a circular issued to priests on Saturday. “The celebrations of Christmas this year will be simpler as well as poor-oriented. There will be no Midnight Holy Mass this year on 24th December (Thursday) 2020. Instead an Evening Mass will be celebrated on 24th December 2020, which should end latest by 9pm that day and the Church should remain closed until the following morning. Parish priests and priests-in-charge are requested to get this organised accordingly,” Archbishop D’Souza said in the circular. There are 65 churches under the archdiocese of Calcutta, including the Church of Christ the King in Park Circus, St Thomas’ Church in Middleton Row, St Ignatius Church in Kidderpore, Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary and St Teresa’s Church. “We have taken this decision as a precaution against the pandemic and to avoid crowds. We do not know how the situation will be this year because usually there is a huge crowd for the Midnight Mass,” Archbishop D’Souza told Metro. The Archbishop said that on Christmas, too, there would be more than one Mass in some of the churches to spread out the crowd. “We cannot allow a crowd. So, with more Mass, more people can come to the church but not all together,” Archbishop D’Souza said. There will not be more than 50 or 60 people in a gathering, depending on the capacity of the church, the archbishop said. In October, a circular issued by the Archbishop to the Roman Catholic churches allowed 10 to 50 people for services, prayer and Holy Mass, depending on the size of the church. The circular issued on Saturday said: “On 25th December 2020 (Friday), Holy Mass will be celebrated in the parish churches and other chapels, observing the required standard operating procedures (SOP) strictly.” In the circular, the Archbishop has also referred to the poor. “The poor are the worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The generosity shown by all so far is commendable. Let us remember the poor very specially again at Christmas. I exhort the Parish Priests and their Parish Council, Associations and Action Groups to organise collection of funds, and distribute rations or clothes or other needs to the poor in the parishes. This will help us to make Christmas very relevant too,” Archbishop D’Souza has said. “The Midnight Mass is a traditional practice and very popular. The churches are usually filled to capacity every year. But this year everything will be over by 9pm,” said Father Dominic Gomes, vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta. The December 26 gathering of priests and religious leaders usually held at Archbishop’s House has been cancelled. The Christmas gathering of Diocesan seminarians will not be held this year, the circular says. “On 31st December 2020 (Thursday): Parishes will organise Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament for an hour or longer in the evening to thank the Lord for the year 2020,”the circular says. The Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India is going ahead with the Christmas Eve Midnight Mass in its churches. “We will have it but taking all necessary precautions,” said John Ghosh, the secretary of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India. There are about 30 churches in the Calcutta diocese, including St Paul’s Cathedral, St Thomas’ Church Free School Street, St James’ Church. But not all 30 have the Midnight Mass. A giraffe calf, born late last month at Alipore zoo, let out in front of visitors for the first time on Saturday morning. The male calf did a few rounds of the enclosure in between cosying up to his mother, Lakshmi. The calf, born on November 27, stands 4.5ft tall and weighs around 70kg, said a zoo official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
06-12-2020||Calcutta||Mukti Joddhas and their families from Bangladesh for Vijay Diwas||A team of Mukti Joddhas and their families from Bangladesh will be part of this year’s Vijay Diwas celebrations in Calcutta along with several serving officers from the Bangladesh’s armed forces like every year. But the celebrations this time will be a muted affair. Vijay Diwas is celebrated on December 16 to commemorate India’s victory over Pakistan in the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971. The Eastern Command has been traditionally celebrating Vijay Diwas as a mark of respect to the fallen heroes of the Indian armed forces and the Mukti Joddhas of Bangladesh, who had made the victory possible. Both India and Bangladesh celebrate Vijay Diwas simultaneously and, every year, reciprocal visits by delegations from both countries, consisting of military personnel, political leadership and war veterans, are usually conducted. This year, the Vijay Diwas celebrations by the Eastern Command in Calcutta would be a low-key affair with the pandemic playing a spoil sport and the coronavirus imposing certain restrictions. There will be no military tattoo, which used to be one of the biggest draws, at the Royal Calcutta Turf Club grounds and even the interface with the civilians and the army would be cut down in a break away from the annual convention. Almost all the celebrations would be held inside Fort William and a whole range of safety measures would be in place to restrict footfall and spread the traditional events over a larger area in the open. There won’t be any helicopter fight display, horse show or the customary military band concert at the Prinsep Ghat this time. Usually, the celebration would start a few days ahead of the Vijay Diwas and continue for a few more days after. This year, the celebrations have been scheduled for two days — on December 14 and December 16. The golden jubilee celebrations of Vijay Diwas is slated to be held next year and the Eastern Command of the Indian Army had initially drawn up an elaborate plan to mark the run-up. But with the pandemic-induced restrictions the celebrations have been scuttled. Calcuttans walk from Sealdah to the SN Banerjee-Chowringhee Road crossing in Esplanade on Saturday afternoon in solidarity with farmers protesting on the Delhi-Haryana border for 10 days now. The 1,200-strong rally included a large number of Calcuttans with roots in Punjab. The rallyists demanded the repeal of three new farm laws that farmers feel will leave them at the mercy of oligarchs and a bill that proposes to reduce electricity subsidies and privatise power distribution. “We want the Centre to repeal the three farm laws and withdraw the electricity bill,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the general secretary of Behala Gurdwara, who was at the rally. The protest, organised by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee with the support of Behala Gurdwara, charitable organisation IHA Foundation and others, started from Sealdah at 2.30pm and reached Dorina crossing at 4.30pm. They burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
06-12-2020||Calcutta||IIM  Calcutta teachers rue ‘decline’||As many as 60 of 76 teachers of IIM Calcutta have written to the Union education ministry, raising “certain grave concerns” about the “decline in academic and research environment” and “systematic undermining” of the academic council, the principal academic body. The letter written on behalf of IIM Calcutta Faculty Association had been addressed to Union education secretary Amit Khare as the institute’s director and board of governors have allegedly “ignored or brushed aside” the concerns raised by the teachers. The teachers wrote: “We have reasons to believe that the board is also contemplating imposition of restrictions on the freedom of expression of faculty….“Left with no internal recourse, we are compelled to reach out to the ministry and seek your urgent intervention to help arrest the decline of IIM Calcutta.” The Telegraph had reported on June 24 that 51 teachers had signed and sent a letter to the board pointing out what they termed “deficiencies in the current administration” and had spoken about “absence of plurality of views on the campus”. “Since the situation has worsened since June, the letter has been written to the ministry on December 2,’’ a teacher told Metro on Saturday. Elaborating the issue of “decline in academic environment” the letter says, the student-teacher ratio at IIM Calcutta has worsened significantly over the past two years and the country’s oldest IIM today has 20-30 full-time faculty members, fewer than IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) or IIM Bangalore (IIM-B). IIM-C has more students in its two-year MBA programme, compared to both IIM-A and IIM-B, said a teacher. Reflecting on the poor research environment, the letter mentions, the research funding has come down and post-doctoral research fellowships have been discontinued. “Internal funding for research projects and international conferences ... are discouraged to augment the annual surplus,” says the letter. The signatories to the letter have referred to the systematic undermining of the academic council to explain what they have called “violations of due processes and “established norms”. According to the teachers, the academic council (AC) — recognised in the IIM Act as one of the three authorities (the board and the director, being the other two) — has been “systematically undermined in terms of both its powers and function”. Director Anju Seth was squarely blamed for undermining the role of the acad-emic council since taking charge. “The director, as the chairperson of the academic council, sets the agenda, dictates decisions and controls the minutes, disregarding the views of the majority of the members of the council. Consequently, minutes take longer to be ratified and do not truly reflect the discussion or decisions in the academic council,” the letter says. Seth took over as IIM Calcutta’s first woman director in 2018. Repeated calls to her phone went unanswered. She did not respond to text messages till late Saturday evening. Ashok Banerjee, a former dean and a teacher at IIM-C, who is a signatory to the letter said: “We hope that the ministry will look into the grave concerns....” The teachers have also alleged that digital infrastructure for online teaching during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown have been “denied to faculty and students of IIM-C”. The teachers had earlier raised this issue in a letter to the chairman of the institute’s board, Shrikrishna Kulkarni in early September when the institute decided to recall students of MBA executive programme so they could use the campus infrastructure to attend online classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
06-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta mall theft ‘gang’ on cop radar||Police suspect a group of three who were involved in robbing a kids’ store at Mani Square to be the same one that stole a customer’s wallet in a South City departmental store last month. In both thefts, the group — two men and a woman — was wearing masks and at least in one of the stores the men were wearing caps. Some cops feel the three are foreigners and used the same modus operandi — of allegedly stealing while pretending to see Indian currency notes — in both shopping mall thefts that happened in the last week of November. Photographs of the three suspects have been obtained from CCTV footage from the malls and circulated across all city police stations. At Mani Square, the trio had entered a kids’ store and two of them had introduced themselves as a couple, the police said. The third had gone to the cash counter and started talking to the staff, asking about Indian currency notes. “He had claimed he didn’t know much about Indian currency notes. On a pretext of checking a few notes, he accessed the cash box and started fiddling with the notes. He had then started a conversation about Mahatma Gandhi seeing his picture on the notes,” said an investigating officer. Before the staff realised anything, the “couple”, followed by their friend, allegedly started walking out of the store without buying anything. A few minutes later the staff found Rs 40,000 missing from the cash box, the police said. A case has been started with the Phoolbagan police station. A similar operation was carried out to rob a woman at South City Mall a day later, the cops said. A group of three — two men and a woman — had started a conversation with the shopper in a departmental store and coaxed her into showing them Indian currency notes. A little later, the woman had reported to the store that her wallet containing Rs 14,000 had disappeared. A theft case has been reported with Jadavpur police station. “In both the cases, they pretended to have no knowledge about Indian currency and wanted to see the notes that bore Mahatma Gandhi’s pictures,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Senior officers said the three appeared to be of foreign origin. A search for the group has been launched. The police are yet to find any digital imprint left by them because they did not buy anything, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
06-12-2020||Calcutta||Tallah bridge finger at railway||Work on erecting six of the 18 piers of the new Tallah bridge, which will come up between train tracks, is yet to start because the railways has not provided the necessary approval for the use of its land, PWD officials have said. The foundation of four of the remaining 12 pillars has already been laid. A railway official denied any “deliberate delay” in issuing the clearance. “Several minute details need to be checked and it usually takes some time. This is the thumb rule for any rail over bridge (the Tallah bridge will be one such),” the official said. The old Tallah bridge, which was a crucial link between Calcutta and the northern fringes, was pulled down a few months ago because it had worn out so much that engineers feared the structure could collapse any moment. A General Arrangement Drawing (GAD), outlining how the piers will come up on railway land to hold a deck slab atop the tracks, was prepared after several rounds of inspection of the site by representatives of the railways and the PWD between July and August. After a consensus was reached over how things would shape up, the PWD submitted a detailed scheme to the railways in September seeking approval. The assumption was that since railway officials involved in the project had been aware of how the railway land would be utilised for the Tallah bridge, the approval would come within a few weeks. Nearly three months on, the approval is yet to reach the state government. As a result engineers at the site are unable to plan the construction of the six pillars. The bridge will be constructed over seven pairs of railway tracks. “Six of the 18 piers of the bridge will be constructed between the tracks. Since the land belongs to the railways, work on the piers cannot start without its consent,” a PWD official said. “We have had several rounds of joint inspection before the GAD was drawn up and the scheme was submitted to the chief bridge engineer of the railways.” The Majerhat bridge, too, had faced a hurdle when the railways sent back the GAD to the state government for further scrutiny by structural experts. The move had allegedly delayed the completion of the project. On Thursday, while inaugurating the Majerhat bridge, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she didn’t blame the railway officers but their bosses for the delay. “It is not that I am against the railways. I have been a railways minister and know the rules. I am not blaming the officers or the department. I will blame the leaders who pull the strings from Delhi,” Mamata said. The 750-metre-long Tallah bridge will have six piers at the Shyambazar-end and another six at the Dunlop-end. In the middle, six pillars on railway land will support the 200-metre-long deck slab over train tracks. On Thursday, engineers said work on laying the foundation was over for three out of the six piers at the Shyambazar-end and one of the piers at the Dunlop-end. The foundation of each of these piers is at a depth of nearly 45 metres below the surface. “We handed over the site to L&T (which will build the bridge) in July. The Tallah bridge will be completed within 18 months of the handover. Despite the challenges, the deadline will be met,” a state government official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
06-12-2020||Calcutta||Four arrested for teen gang rape in New Town||Four men were arrested for allegedly gang raping a 17-year-old girl in a field opposite the headquarters of the Border Security Force’s South Bengal Frontier in New Town on Friday night. The girl had gone to the field — where youngsters gather to play games — with a friend. The four men, in their 20s, had been stalking them, police said. “Two men pinned the friend down and the other two took the girl behind some tall grass and raped her.” This was around 9.30pm, cops said. A police patrol team heard the girl’s cries and rescued her. She was taken to the Eco Park police station where she lodged a complaint. The four were later arrested on the basis of her complaint. “The arrested men are unemployed and do odd jobs in their locality,” the police said. All the four have been charged under various sections of the IPC, including 376D (gang rape), 342 (wrongful confinement), and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. If proven guilty the men can be sent to jail for life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
06-12-2020||Business||Two public sector banks to get new heads||The Banks Board Bureau (BBB), the headhunter for state-owned banks and financial institutions, on Saturday recommended S. Ramann and Shivendra Tomar for the posts of chairman and managing director and managing director of Sidbi and IFCI, respectively. The members of the Banks Board Bureau interviewed 20 candidates on December 4 and 5 for the vacancy of chairman and managing director (CMD) of Small Industries Development Bank of India (Sidbi), the BBB said in a statement. “Keeping in view their performance in the interview and their overall experience, the bureau recommends S. Ramann for the position,” it said. Ramann, a 1991-batch Indian Audit & Accounts Service officer, is currently CEO of National E-Governance Services Limited (NeSL), India’s first Information Utility. The Bureau has recommended Shivendra Tomar for the post of MD and CEO of IFCI. Tomar is now the managing director of IFCI Venture Capital Funds, a subsidiary of IFCI. As many as five candidates appeared for the position of the managing director of IFCI. BBB is headed by B.P. Sharma, former department of personnel and training secretary. The government in 2016 had approved the constitution of BBB as a body of eminent professionals and officials to make recommendations for appointment of whole-time directors as well as non-executive chairpersons of public sector banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
06-12-2020||Business||Jharkhand to get Rs 1689cr to bridge gap in GST revenue||Jharkhand will get Rs 1,689 crore through a special borrowing window to meet the GST implementation shortfall after it accepted the first borrowing option to bridge the gap in the Goods and Services Tax revenue receipts. “All the 28 states and three Union Territories with legislature have decided to go for option 1 to meet the revenue shortfall arising out of the GST implementation. Jharkhand, the only remaining state, has now communicated its acceptance of option 1. All the three Union Territories with Legislative Assembly that are members of the GST Council have already decided in favour of option 1,” the finance ministry said in a statement. The ministry said the state has been given “permission to raise an additional Rs 1,765 crore through borrowings also issued to Jharkhand”. The Centre has set up the window to borrow on behalf of the states the shortfall arising out of the GST implementation. The window has been operationalised since October 23 and the Centre has borrowed an amount of Rs 30,000 crore so far in five instalments. Jharkhand will receive funds raised through the window from the next round of borrowing on December 7. That day the Centre will borrow Rs 6,000 crore for all states and three UTs. The states who opt for the special window also get permission from the Centre to borrow 0.5 per cent of their respective gross states domestic product (GSDP) from the markets. As such, Jharkhand has been given permission to borrow an additional amount of Rs 1,765 crore. Under the terms of Option 1, besides getting the facility of a special window for borrowings to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, the states are entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) out of the 2 per cent additional borrowings permitted by the Government of India, under Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan on May 17, 2020. This is over and above the special window of Rs 1.1 lakh crore. Recently, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Bengal also accepted the Centre’s proposal after much opposition. In all, 27 states and three Union Territories have accepted Option 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
06-12-2020||Business||Pilot unions oppose bid for Air India||Air India employees are divided over their participation in the divestment process of the cash-strapped national carrier. While a section of the employees, led by the top management of Air India, plans to bid for the Maharaja, two pilot unions have jointly opposed the move. The last date for submitting the expressions of interest is December 14. Two Air India pilot unions have asked its members not to be part of the employee  consortium to bid for the airline. The Indian Commercial Pilots’ Association (IPCA) and the Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) pointed to a letter by Air India’s commercial director, Meenakshi Malik, asking the airline’s employees to submit documents and contribute Rs 100,000 each towards acquiring a 51 per cent of the company. The Telegraph has a copy of both the letters. In a letter to the team members of Air India, Malik said, “The ownership of the company is what we are bidding for and, thus, we are negotiating with our financial partner so that our employee-management consortium will collectively own and control 51 per cent (that is majority) of our airline. The financial partner will hold the balance 49 per cent of the company,” she said. “In order to acquire this 51 per cent of the company... each of us will have to make a contribution of no more Rs 1,00,000 to bid for the company... Until we cross Stage 1 (EOI stage), no monies are needed to be collected from the employees,” Malik said. Malik did not respond to several attempts made to get her version. However, the pilots’ unions opposing the move asked its members not to acknowledge Malik’s letter until the issue of pay cuts and withholding of 25 per cent arrear is cleared by the top management. “All pilots are advised not to acknowledge or participate in the process initiated by the management official till the disproportionate 70 per cent pay cut for pilots vis-à-vis Air India’s top management officials (10 per cent) is addressed,” the unions said. “Also, there is no clarity on the payment of the illegally withheld 25 per cent arrears due to the pilots to date while we approach the deadline of December 14 for the submission of bids for Air India,” they added. While other major airlines in India have revised the pay cut for its pilots, Air India being a PSU is yet to address the ordeal faced by us. We would like to once again reiterate NOT TO take any part in the process of employee bids in the strategic sale initiated by the top management official till further communication from us,” they added. “Broadly, the project itself entails participating in a bid process along with all the other participants who wish to take charge and ownership of AI and its assets. If the media reports are true, we will be bidding against, presumably, some of the largest corporate houses in India who will be just as keen and interested in the airline and bid,” Mallik said. After extending the EoI deadline multiple times, the government has substantially eased the sale terms for the national carrier in favour of prospective acquirers. An inter-ministerial panel headed by home minister Amit Shah had last month cleared a proposal to sell Air India on the basis of enterprise value instead of the previous equity and pre-fixed debt value. The change in the sale terms allows bidders to value Air India’s debt instead of the government’s fixed amount. According to the revised criteria, prospective bidders will also have to offer 15 per cent of the value as cash to the airline, while the remaining 85 per cent will remain as debt with Air India. The government in January this year restarted the divestment process and invited bids for selling 100 per cent of its equity in the state-owned airline, including Air India’s 100 per cent shareholding in Air India Express Ltd, which is the international budget arm and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
06-12-2020||Business||Bengal FM Amit Mitra banks on old normal||Bengal finance and industries minister Amit Mitra on Saturday said he expects businesses to return to 90 per cent of their pre-Covid mode of operations, but expressed concern about structural challenges to the economy and inadequate central government initiative in spurring demand. “My considered view is unless some new viruses appear and again we need to go back to social distancing and wearing masks, we will return to 90 per cent of how businesses were done before the pandemic struck. By and large I am hoping this is a blip and that blip will create its own dynamics but is not something that we can call completely a new normal,” Mitra said. He was speaking at the valedictory session of Infocom 2020, the flagship event of ABP Group. The event this year is themed “The Next Normal” in the context of the pandemic. “This is not a new normal. It may be an upgraded normal where people may be using virtual conferences rather than travelling across the world all the time. But it is certainly not something that will be abundant. We can have a virtual lounge today. But it is not the same as having a real lounge where you exchange ideas and challenge each other and watch each other’s body language,” he said. Mitra said that certain activities and businesses such as manufacturing and tourism cannot shift to virtual. Mitra feels critical board meetings cannot meaningfully take place without key board members meeting in person. “Can the boardroom environment be reproduced for complex decisions, big ticket changes?” Mitra asked. He said the minute a vaccine is available and things become normal, the unorganised sector will go back to their pre-covid mode of working. However, structural issues in the economy are yet to be addressed, according to Mitra. He said for seven quarters before Covid 19, GDP growth was on a decline, clocking a growth of only 3.1 per cent in the January-March quarter. He said that demonetisation and a hasty introduction of GST had its impact but more granular studies are needed. “I am really disappointed that when Covid hit, what should have triggered in the mind of the government of India is a great depression is about to happen. In the first quarter, GDP shrank 23.9 percent and the second quarter was also negative, which means we are now in recession. That was known when the lockdown was imposed,” Mitra said. He added that the Centre should have taken a cue from neoclassical Keynesian synthesis and stepped up spending to stimulate demand. Economies such as the US and Japan had significantly increased their spending and in the UK there was a furlough of 80 per cent of the salary being paid by the government if not called to work. “In India, the Keynesian multiplier works out to be a figure of 4. This means if we spend Rs 100 from the government, particularly in capital expenditure and consumer activities, you will get a 4 time benefit from that,” Mitra said. The minister also pointed to the low attrition rates in the IT sector in Bengal as a key differentiator compared with  Bangalore and Hyderabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
06-12-2020||India||Opposition parties pledge support to Bharat Bandh||Several parties, including the Congress, TRS, DMK and AAP, joined others in the Opposition on Sunday to extend support to protesting farmers in their call for a nationwide strike on December 8 against the three new central farm laws. On Saturday, the Trinamul Congress, RJD and the Left parties, besides a joint platform of 10 central trade unions, also backed the farmers’ protests. Former Union agriculture minister and NCP Chief Sharad Pawar warned the Centre that if the situation persists, the stir would spread nationwide and everyone would stand by the protesting farmers. “I hope wisdom dawns on the government and it takes cognisance to resolve the issue. If this stalemate continues, the protest will not be limited to Delhi, but people from nook and corner of the country will stand by the protesting farmers,” NCP leader Sharad Pawar said. The Congress on Sunday extended its “whole-hearted support” to the Bharat Bandh, saying it will hold demonstrations on the day at all district and state headquarters to back the protesters. Addressing the press at the AICC headquarters in New Delhi on Sunday, party spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “All our district headquarters and Pradesh headquarters will participate in this bandh. They will hold demonstrations and ensure that the bandh is successful.” TRS President and Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhara Rao said all his party leaders will support the bandh and ensure its success. He also said the farmers were protesting legally and recalled his party’s opposition to the laws before they were enacted in September. The DMK-led Opposition bloc in Tamil Nadu also extended support to the strike, saying the farmers' demand for repealing legislation was "totally justified." DMK Chief M K Stalin had led a state-wide protest on Saturday against the farm laws. In a statement, Stalin, TNCC chief KS Alagiri, MDMK founder Vaiko and Left leaders, among other DMK allies, said the ongoing protest outside Delhi by farmers was growing every day and drawing global attention. The grouping appealed to farmer unions, traders' bodies, government employees' associations, labour unions and others in the state to extend "grand support" to the bandh and make it a success on Tuesday. Actor Kamal Hassan-led Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) also announced its support for the farmers. AAP President and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “The Aam Aadmi Party fully supports the Bharat Bandh' call made by farmers on December 8. AAP workers across the country will support it peacefully. There is an appeal to all countrymen that everyone should support the farmers and participate in it.” The ruling TMC in Bengal had on Saturday extended "moral support" to the December 8 nationwide strike and said it would stage sit-ins in various areas for three days. “There will be moral support from the party, as we are in wholehearted agreement on the issues... But, because as a party our position is anti-bandh, we won’t be out on the streets to enforce one,” Trinamul MP Sudip Bandhopadhyay said. The Left parties -- Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), Revolutionary Socialist Party and All India Forward Bloc -- had announced their support in a joint statement. In Patna, Opposition parties led by RJD's Tejashwi Yadav had on Saturday protested against the farmers' bill. The joint forum of trade unions that has supported the farmers' stir includes Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) and Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC). The Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, a farmers' body, said it will join the "non-violent" protest on Tuesday. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for 11 days against the new farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||Farmers ask one and all to join Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh||Farmers camping at Singhu border protesting the Centre's new agri laws on Sunday sought maximum participation from all quarters in Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh amid reports that a number of Opposition parties, including the Congress and the Left, have come out in solidarity with them. Farmer leaders said over 250 farmers from Gujarat would be coming to the national capital to join the stir. They welcomed the support extended by a number of political parties and called upon all others to come forward and support the bandh. "This agitation is not only of Punjab farmers but is of the entire nation. We are going to strengthen our agitation and it has already spread across the nation. Since the government was not able to deal with us properly, we gave a call for Bharat Bandh. During yesterday's (Friday) meeting, even the ministers were upset with our call for Bharat bandh," farmer leader Baldev Singh Yadav said at a press conference. "We have announced a Bharat Bandh on December 8, which will start in the morning and continue till evening. During which, shops and businesses will remain shut. Ambulances and emergency work will be exempted from the bandh. Also, 250 farmers from Gujarat will be coming to Delhi to join the protest," he added. Yadav also appealed to everyone to make sure that the Bharat Bandh remained peaceful. "We won't let anyone turn it violent and would take strict action against them. We request everyone to be part of the bandh," he said. The Congress on Sunday expressed its "whole-hearted" support to the 'Bharat Bandh' called on December 8 by farmer unions. Addressing the media at the AICC headquarters here, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, "I would also like to announce that the Congress party extends its whole-hearted support to the Bharat Bandh on December 8." Former party chief Rahul Gandhi, through tractor rallies, signature campaigns and 'Kisan sammelans' has been raising the party's voice in support of the farmers, he said. "All our district headquarters and Pradesh headquarters will participate in this bandh. They will hold demonstrations and ensure that the bandh is successful," Khera said. Among the other parties that have come out in support of the bandh are Trinamul, RJD, TRS, DMK and AAP. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new farm laws stayed put on the borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh as they threatened to intensify their agitation and block more roads leading to the national capital if the government did not accept their demands. Swaraj India party president Yogendra Yadav said, "We have always stood firm on our stand. We have always demanded that the government take back all the three farm laws. We have not changed our stand. We are firm on it". "Many organisations from Maharashtra and other states are also supporting the Bharat Bandh. Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan will witness closure of all mandis but weddings would be exempted from the bandh. Many political parties have extended their support to us and we urge everyone to participate in the bandh," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||Bank unions extend support to protesting farmers||Multiple bank unions have extended their support to the farmers protesting against the three new agri-marketing laws that were recently passed by the Centre, and urged the government to find a solution on the issue at the earliest. The All India Bank Employees' Association (AIBEA) in a statement requested the government to come forward and resolve the issues and the demands of the farmers in theis, as well as the nation’s, interest. Officer unions All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), All India Bank Officers' Association (AIBOA) and Indian National Bank Officers' Congress (INBOC), too, have asked the Centre to initiate a substantial dialogue to resolve the impasse by referring the bills to a select committee by a special Presidential Order. Farmers say that the three new farm laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 -- would result in the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the ‘mercy’ of industrialists. The government, however, portrays them as major reforms in the farming sector that will remove the middlemen and enable agriculturists to sell their products anywhere in the country. “Our nation needs peace and main stakeholders of the nation should not be made to suffer, as the agriculture sector alone performed positively in the COVID-19 pandemic, which reflects the inherent strength of the sector,” the three unions said in a joint statement. Farmers constitute 80 per cent of the customer base of the public sector banks, regional rural banks, co-operative banks and old generation private banks and thus are major stakeholders of India's banking system, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||Cylinder blast in Mumbai building injures 16||At least 16 people were injured in a fire incident that followed a gas cylinder blast at a four-storeyed building in Mumbai’s Lalbaug area on Sunday morning, officials said. According to a fire personnel, four out of these sixteen people, including a minor, are in a critical condition as they sustained 70 to 95 per cent burn injuries. The blaze erupted around 7.20 am on the second floor of Sarabhai building in Ganesh Galli locality, he said. “There was a cylinder blast after gas leakage. The wall of a room collapsed after the blast,” Kishori Pednekar, the Mayor of Mumbai, told PTI. “I personally visited the spot. The condition of a minor girl is stated to be critical and she is referred to Masina Hospital (at Byculla in south Mumbai),” she added. The cylinder blast resulted in a fire in the building premises, which in turn injured 16, a fire official said. He added that the injured persons were admitted to the  KEM Hospital and Global Hospital in Parel area, as well as other medical facilities. It was a 'level-one' (minor) fire. Two water tankers were rushed to the spot and the blaze was brought under control by around 7.50 am, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India|| Congress pledges ‘whole-hearted support’ to Bharat Bandh call||The Congress on Sunday extended its “whole-hearted support” to the Bharat Bandh called by agitating farmers on December 8 against the three central agri-marketing laws, and said it will hold demonstrations on the day at all district and state headquarters to back the protesters. The leaders of tens of thousands of farmers, who are sitting in the borders of Delhi against the laws, have announced a nationwide strike on Tuesday, saying it would be implemented with full force. Addressing the press at the AICC headquarters in New Delhi on Sunday, party spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “I would also like to announce that the Congress party extends its whole-hearted support to the Bharat Bandh on December 8.” Former party chief Rahul Gandhi, through tractor rallies, signature campaigns and Kisaan rallies, has been raising the party's voice in support of the farmers, he said. “All our district headquarters and Pradesh headquarters will participate in this bandh. They will hold demonstrations and ensure that the bandh is successful,” Khera announced. “The entire world is witnessing the plight of our farmers. The entire world is seeing the horrible sight of farmers sitting outside the capital in the middle of the night in winters waiting for the government to listen to them,” he said. The spokesperson hit out at the Centre for bringing in the new laws and asked why it hurried so much in enacting them. “In the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government in June surreptitiously brings ordinances, what was the hurry, the entire country was focussed on the fallout of Covid-19, the economic, social, health fallout, but the government was busy surreptitiously bringing ordinances to help its industrialist-corporate friends,” he alleged. “Where was the need to bring these legislations so fast, you suspended the opposition parties from Parliament? You did not follow parliamentary procedure and hurried through the passing of the bills, why was the hurry,” he asked. Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws and went on a 'maun vrat' seeking a clear 'yes or no' reply, forcing the Centre to call for another meeting on December 9 to resolve the deadlock. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||Aurangabad bus conductors to have body cameras ||Maharashtra’s Aurangabad city will soon see its bus conductors and ticket inspectors equipped with body cameras, in a bid to keep tab on the behaviour of passengers and other such activities during commute, an official said. This follows the complaint of some women conductors of the state-run buses, who alleged misbehaviour with them during duty hours. “Acting on it, the Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation has decided to install body cameras in the front pockets of shirts of the conductors and inspectors of its buses to record the activities in the vehicles during their duty,” an official of the corporation said in a statement on Saturday. “The cameras will help in the real-time examination of tickets and to keep an eye on other activities in the buses,” he explained. The ASCDCL administration has also deployed former defence servicemen as line inspectors, who will check tickets of passengers and their behaviour, the official said. These officials will also ensure safety of the passengers and give their feedback to the authorities, he added. The corporation has a fleet of 100 buses, out of which 29 are being run on 12 different routes in the city at the moment, providing service to around 5,000 passengers in a day, another official said. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation's employees have been hired as drivers and conductors of these buses, he said. During the lockdown period, these civic-run buses were used to transport Covid-19 patients. The ASCDCL resumed its services for daily passengers last month, he added. The ASCDCL has been formed by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation to implement smart city projects and is headed by Commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||Vaccine: days after UK approval, Pfizer India seeks DCGI nod||Pfizer India has become the first pharmaceutical firm to seek from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) an emergency use authorisation for its COVID-19 vaccine in the country, after its parent company secured such clearance in the UK and Bahrain. The firm, in its application submitted to the drug regulator, has sought permission to import the vaccine for sale and distribution in the country, besides waiver of clinical trials on Indian population in accordance with the special provisions under the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, official sources said. "Pfizer India has submitted an application on December 4 to the DCGI seeking emergency use authorization (EUA) for its COVID-19 vaccine in India," a source said. "The firm has submitted the EUA application in Form CT-18 for grant of permission to import and market Pfizer-BioNTech's COVID-19 mRNA vaccine BNT162b2 in the country," the source said, citing the application. The UK on Wednesday became the first country to approve the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against COVID-19, with the UK regulator Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) granting a temporary authorisation for its emergency use. The British regulator said the jab, which claims to offer up to 95 per cent protection against COVID-19, is safe for roll-out. Bahrain on Friday also announced that it has granted an EUA for the two-dose vaccine made by Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech. The pharma company has already applied to the US FDA seeking EUA for the vaccine. The extreme low temperature of minus 70 degrees Celsius required for storing the vaccine poses a big challenge for its delivery in a country like India, especially in its smaller towns and rural areas where maintaining such cold chain facilities would be very difficult, top government officials have said. When contacted, Pfizer said it remains committed to engaging with the Government of India and explore opportunities to make this vaccine available for use in the country. "During this pandemic phase, Pfizer will supply this vaccine only through government contracts based on agreements with respective government authorities and following regulatory authorisation or approval," the global pharma major said in a statement. Five vaccines are in advanced phases of clinical trials in India with the Serum Institute of India conducting phase-3 trial of the Oxford-Astrazeneca COVID-19 vaccine, while the indigenously developed vaccine by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR has already started the phase-3 clinical trial. Drug firm Zydus Cadila has received the approval from the DCGI to start the phase-3 clinical trials of the indigenously-developed anti-coronavirus vaccine. Dr Reddy's Laboratories and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) have announced that they commenced adaptive phase 2 and 3 clinical trials for COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India, Also, Biological E. Ltd has started early phase 1 and 2 human trials of its COVID-19 vaccine candidate. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||India records over 36,000 cases in 24 hours||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 96.44 lakh with 36,011 new cases in a day, while 91,00,792 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national recovery rate to 94.37 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 96,44,222 and the death toll climbed to 1,40,182 with the coronavirus claiming 482 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.45 per cent. There are 4,03,248 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 4.18 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 14,69,86,575 samples have been tested up to December 5 with 11,01,063 samples being tested on Saturday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||Farmer protest: Song-dance ban at Tikri border||Anyone found singing, dancing or drinking at the farmer protest sites will be identified as an intruder sent to defame the agitation and handed over to the police, farmer leaders said on Saturday. Speaker after speaker who addressed the farmers gathered at the Tikri border between Ghaziabad and Delhi alleged a “conspiracy” to paint the protesters as violent, “non-serious” or paid agitators, and stressed the need to stay vigilant and defeat these efforts. “There is no place for entertainment here. We are gathered here to fight a long battle against the anti-farmer central government,” Hari Krishna, a farmer leader from Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh, said. “Those who are dancing, singing, drinking or playing recorded music from their tractors are not part of the protests. They need to leave the place immediately or we will hand them over to the police.” Hari Krishna said those who wanted to sing bhajans or gurbanis could do so while sitting at one place, but nobody would be allowed to create a racket. “We are aware that some anti-farmer people and groups are trying to prove that the protesters against the new farm laws are not farmers,” said Kirat Singh, who had come from a village in Haryana. “They want to prove that we are non-serious and antisocial. But we know their tricks and want to send a clear message to those conspirators that we will defeat them.” Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had alleged that “unwanted eleme nts” had joined the protesters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||Show respect: lesson taught in Punjabi||Punjabi music and film star Diljit Dosanjh’s rejoinders in Punjabi to Bollywood enfant terrible Kangana Ranaut over her disparaging comments on the farmers’ agitation have broken the Internet and are shaping up to become a cultural phenomenon. Public spats between film personalities are not uncommon but tweets in a language spoken by only 3 per cent Indians going viral in the country is rare. Dosanjh’s tweets have become a rage, with several translations offered online. They have inspired memes such as: “Whole of South Indian Twitter rushing to learn Punjabi in a day because of Diljit Dosanjh; Central government has been trying to get us to learn Hindi for 70 years.” Dosanjh’s retort of “gallan na ghuma (don’t change the topic)” has already become a standard response to Right-wing trolls, for whom Ranaut has been a rallying point because of her outbursts against the Opposition. Amandeep Sandhu, author and chronicler of Punjab’s history, explained the appeal of Dosanjh’s ripostes to Ranaut, who had targeted two elderly women, one protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the other against the new farm laws. “The influence of Punjab on food, cinema and music is so deep that it is easy to catch up with the language, especially when it is written in the Roman script. Everyone is happy to see the humbling of somebody who looked like the representative of the middle class — struggled to achieve fame, won national awards, and established herself as a great actress — but now speaks like a paid troll,” Sandhu said. “He did not curse, but just kept prodding and was squarely focused on what Ranaut had said about the old lady.” Ranaut had on November 27 tweeted the pictures of Bilkis, the 82-year-old face of last winter’s Shaheen Bagh agitation against the new citizenship regime, and an elderly woman from the farmers’ protest. The actress suggested they were the same person — a protester for hire. In a tweet she later deleted, Ranaut wrote: “Ha ha ha she is the same dadi who featured in Time magazine for being the most powerful Indian…. And she is available in 100 rupees. Pakistani journo’s have hijacked international PR for India in an embarrassing way. We need our own people to speak for us internationally.” On Wednesday, Dosanjh posted the first of a series of tweets in Punjabi, written in the Roman script, questioning the defamation of the protesters. He tweeted a BBC video of the second woman that identified her as Mohinder Kaur and in which she explained why she opposed the new farm laws. “Look at this proof @KanganaTeam. A person shouldn’t be so blind. She (Ranaut) keeps on saying anything,” Dosanjh wrote. Ranaut called Dosanjh a “pet” and a “bootlicker” of Karan Johar, a filmmaker she has berated as the “flag-bearer” of nepotism in Bollywood. She accused Dosanjh of misleading the farmers, being party to unspecified bloodshed, and “defending those who caused Delhi riots” — an insinuation, echoed by the Right wing and the police, that protesters like Bilkis had plotted the February riots that killed 53 people, 40 of them Muslims. “You think these people (protesting farmers) want violence? You bring up violence on every topic, what do you want? They’re equivalent to god for us. You never learnt how to talk with respect. Punjabis will teach you how to talk to your elders,” Dosanjh hit back. “Bring it on, you ill-minded rude person,” he said in another tweet. “I was talking about a mother whose picture you put calling her a Rs 100 daily wager. Did you hear her reply or should I send again? Don’t  twist the topic, don’t run away. Your connections may work in Bollywood, not with Punjabis.” Dosanjh’s reminders that Punjab is not Bollywood and his questioning of the way in which even elderly women have become fair game for political defamation have led to many Punjabi celebrities — including those like Mika Singh who have backed Ranaut in the past — speaking out against the actress. Bollywood remained silent except for the usual suspects such as Swara Bhaskar, Taapsee Pannu and Richa Chadha. “Diljit has spoken on behalf of many in the industry who can’t. He could do so because he has the moral conviction to speak against what is wrong,” film critic and author Ziya Us Salam told this newspaper. “Also, he does not have the high stakes that the Khans or Karan Johar have. He has taken the bull by its horns…. He was smart to speak in Punjabi — which is addressed to the farmers — and often writing  something in Hindi or English to keep the attention of others.” Dosanjh’s salvo has compelled the BJP — which found itself at the receiving end of the Punjabi rage provoked by Ranaut — to distance itself from her. Party spokesperson and Punjab politician R.P. Singh tweeted on Friday night: “@KanganaTeam I respect you for your courage & acting but I will not accept anyone disrespecting or demeaning my mother. You must make a public apology for doing so. #MohinderKaur.” Ranaut tweeted a statement on Friday night claiming she had promoted agro-forestry and calling the new farm laws “revolutionary”. “I am with my farmers and people of Punjab hold special place in my heart…. My request to farmers across the nation is don’t let any communists/ Khalistani tukde gangs hijack your protests,” she said. The actress has been slapped with a legal notice from the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee for her tweets against the farmers’ agitation. Dosanjh visited the protest site at Singhu on the Delhi-Haryana border on Saturday evening and addressed the protesting farmers in Punjabi and Hindi. “I’m saying it in Hindi too, sir, so you don’t have to Google it. Nothing besides (issues of) the farmers is being spoken about here,” he said. “May the issue not be diverted. May the government agree to whatever the farmers want. Everyone is sitting here peacefully; no talk of bloodshed (here). Many things happen on Twitter; everyone takes you in circles. But I fold my hands and pray to you, the national media, please show it that we are sitting here peacefully.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-509
06-12-2020||India||Highway is new home, with friendly neighbours ||Tents pitched on tractors, people busy chopping vegetables to get meals ready, solar panels to charge mobile phones, medical camps and even hookahs — once a thoroughfare teeming with traffic, Delhi’s Tikri border resembles a pind (village) now. “This is going to be our home in the near future as it is going to be a long fight. We are here to stay,” says Gurunam Singh, 50, who came from Punjab’s Mansa district. Since they arrived at the Delhi gateway nine days ago, the farmers have been preparing langar every day to feed over 5,000 people, including locals and visitors. Doctors have set up medical camps to tend to farmers braving the winter chill. Gurunam, who set out from home on November 26, complained of chest pain soon after he arrived at the Tikri border and was referred to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital here. After he was discharged from the hospital, he chose to stay back with other protesters. “We are from Punjab, we spread love wherever we go. Neither coronavirus nor winter can stop us from fighting our battle,” said Gurunam. Over 500 tractors are lined up along the road. Many have posters with messages like “No farmer, no food, no GDP, no future”. Honey, a second-year BA student who discontinued his online classes to join the protest, is busy making one such poster. It reads: “We are farmers, not terrorists”. “I am a farmer’s son. If today I don’t fight for the farming community’s rights, what is the point of such an education?” he asks. Some good samaritans have set up solar panels so that the farmers can charge their mobile phones. Others are providing water, soap, dry fruits and mosquito repellents. Temporary toilets have also been set up at the Tikri border. Acknowledging the support, the farmers said people have not just opened their doors to them but also their hearts. Sandeep Sharma, who runs a small workshop in the area, has laid out pipes to ensure farmers have enough water for bathing and washing clothes. “These farmers are our guests. They are our backbone,” Sharma said. “We would consider ourselves fortunate if we are able to help them today.” “Within a week, we have developed a close relationship with them. When they have breakfast or lunch, they insist we join them,” he added. Krishnan, who supplies medical oxygen, has extended an electricity connection via his shop to the farmers for charging their mobile phones. Two brothers who are doctors in Chandigarh have set up a free medical camp at the Singhu border with the help of friends. Sukhwinder Singh Brar and Ramanjit Singh Brar have stored medicines in two cars. “Most people are coming with complaints of hypertension, joint pain, diarrhoea, constipation,” said Sukhwinder. A team of 10-15 people are working at the camp, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-509
06-12-2020||India||Gehlot: Amit Shah met Congress rebels ||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday created ripples in political circles by claiming that a fresh operation to topple his government was about to begin. Speaking at a Congress function through a videoconference in Jaipur, Gehlot not only talked about Rajasthan but also said the BJP was planning to pull down the Maharashtra government as well. The chief minister had accused the BJP of a similar conspiracy a few months ago when his government was teetering on the brink but the crisis blew over as rebel deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot returned to the party fold along with his supporting MLAs. On Saturday, Gehlot did not offer any proof but said even Union home minister Amit Shah and petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan had during the failed operation last time met some Congress MLAs. “It was a one-hour meeting. The MLAs themselves told me. They were shocked to see Amit Shah there. He bragged about pulling down five governments and asserted that even the sixth, in Rajasthan, will be toppled. He asked the MLAs to have patience,” Gehlot said. Arguing that the involvement of Shah in such sinister operations was shocking, he recalled how great personalities such as Sardar Patel had occupied the office of Union home minister in the past. Gehlot is clearly not ready to delink the BJP and the central government from the Congress rebellion as he reiterated on Saturday that the conspiracy was foiled by effective political management. He said: “Ajay Maken was a witness to the entire drama. The government survived because we swiftly acted against rebels.” Maken, who is now general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan, was also present at Saturday’s meeting. Gehlot’s fresh salvo indicates the trust deficit between the Pilot group and the state government. The allegation of a meeting of the rebels with Shah clearly indicates the plot was not restricted to party’s internal affair. The chief minister might have raised this bogey again as the rebels were promised rehabilitation at the time of reconciliation and he is not amenable to the idea. The BJP reacted angrily to the chief minister’s charge, saying he was disturbed because of his own inability to run the government and the party successfully. BJP leader Gulab Chand Kataria said: “Gehlot is worried about the internal frictions. Assurances were made to the rebels and they are not being fulfilled. This dissatisfaction is bound to trigger another explosion.” BJP state president Satish Punia said: “It is unfortunate that the chief minister has taken the name of Amit Shah without providing any evidence. This is irresponsible, against political morality.” Gehlot had repeatedly named Shah and other BJP leaders during that crisis some months ago but he has claimed for the first time that the home minister personally met Congress MLAs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-509
06-12-2020||India||Hunt for name takes Centre to RSS lab||“Hitler admirer”, “promoter of communalism”, “Hindu supremacist”, “Godse’s friend”…. A resume bursting with diabolic qualifications has been sprung on the Centre after it decided to name a new campus at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology in Kerala after M.S. Golwalkar, the late RSS chief. Science and technology minister Harsh Vardhan had on Friday announced that the new campus in Thiruvananthapuram would be named “Shri Guriji Madhav Sadashiv Golwalkar National Centre for Complex Disease in Cancer and Viral Infection”. On Saturday, the CPM and the Congress, the principal political players in Kerala and sworn enemies, spoke in one voice, albeit without coordination, against the decision. The expression of outrage was not confined to blind opposition. An alternative name has been suggested — that of a 19th-century bacteriologist and social reformer who overcame caste-based prejudices. Chief minister and CPM leader Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday wrote to the Union health minister: “I request you to reconsider the decision, if it has already been taken, or not to contemplate such a decision, if already not taken.” Vijayan suggested that the new campus be named after an Indian scientist of international repute. “This will keep up the reputation of the institution and help avoid controversies in the public domain,” he wrote. “The institute is a premier research institution and has been above political divides.” Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who is locked in a bitter feud with Vijayan over multiple controversies, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi objecting to the new campus being named after Golwalkar. “Rajiv Gandhi was a great leader who laid the foundation for the country’s progress in science and technology. We can never agree with the decision to give an RSS leader’s name for the second campus named after him (Rajiv),” a statement issued by Chennithala’s office quoted the Congress leader as saying in the letter. The letter demanded that the second campus too be named after Rajiv. “An organisation that stands for communal hatred, fascism and intolerance, RSS is an organisation that is accused of fomenting several communal riots in India,” Chennithala wrote. “It is ridiculous to give the name of a man who once headed such an organisation to a centre of science. This will only help in the growth of communalism. What was Golwalkar’s contribution to science for the campus to be named after him?” Congress politician and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “What is MSG’s (Golwalkar) contribution to science other than promoting the disease of communalism?... Must GoI (government of India) memorialise a bigoted Hitler-admirer who in a 1966 speech to VHP asserted the supremacy of religion over science?” Tharoor suggested the campus be named after P. Palpu, a bacteriologist and social reformer born in Thiruvananthapuram in 1863. An expert in serum therapy and tropical medicine, Palpu was director of the Vaccine Institute and Fellow of the Royal Institute of Public Health. “This forward-looking scientist and medical practitioner would be far more appropriate than an obscurantist ideologue of no scientific achievement and no discernible contribution to public health,” Tharoor said. “It’s an insult to Thiruvananthapuram and it should be resisted.” CPM politburo member M.A. Baby accused the government of a “mischievous move to create communal polarisation in Kerala”. “Naming an institution in Kerala after this Hindu supremacist who laid the foundation for communal polarisation is a deliberate move to provoke,” Baby wrote in a Facebook post. “It is to insult and humiliate our state, which is the land of leaders of cultural renaissance and secular progressive ideals.” Baby added: “Golwalkar was a close friend of Nathuram Vinayak Godse who killed Gandhiji. Golwalkar was arrested on February 4, 1948, in connection with the Gandhi murder case. He got bail after being in jail for six months. “He was the one who gave the lead in spreading communal hatred in India as the chief of RSS when Gandhiji was shot dead. It was during his leadership between 1940 and 1970 that the RSS carried out the biggest communal riots in India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-509
06-12-2020||India||VIP curse afflicts Covid vaccine trials||A Haryana minister’s tweet two weeks ago and a Union health ministry message on Saturday identifying him as a recipient of a candidate Covid-19 vaccine has puzzled experts who described them as possibly irresponsible statements or breaches in clinical trial protocols. Haryana health and home minister Anil Vij had tweeted that he would receive on November 20 a dose of Covaxin, a home-grown candidate vaccine from Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, stirring surprise as protocols disallow recipients from knowing whether they are receiving a vaccine or a placebo. Vij announced on Saturday — again via Twitter — that he had tested positive for Covid-19, prompting the social media platform users to speculate about the vaccine’s efficacy and the health ministry to circulate a message saying the minister had taken “only one dose of the vaccine”. “The antibodies against the infection build up only after a specific number of days pass after the second dose is taken. Since this is a two-dose vaccine. (The) minister in question has taken only one dose of the vaccine,” the ministry said in a message circulated to reporters. Researchers feel the episode illustrates how desires by India’s VIPs to associate themselves with the high-profile Covid-19 vaccine trials can sometimes raise questions about the integrity of the trial protocols. Medical experts said there was nothing surprising about a volunteer in the clinical trial developing Covid-19 but could not explain how the minister and the health ministry had claimed he had received the vaccine. The clinical trial is aimed at assessing the protective efficacy of the candidate vaccine through what experts call a double-blind, placebo-controlled randomised study in which roughly half of about 26,000 volunteers receive the candidate vaccine while the rest get the placebo. “In a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, neither the trial investigators at the site nor the recipients know who is getting the vaccine and who is getting the placebo,” said Santanu Tripathi, a senior clinical pharmacologist in Calcutta who is familiar with trial protocols but was not associated with this trial. The protocols thus raise the question how minister Vij knew he would receive the vaccine and not the placebo. Experts say it is possible that Vij did not know but assumed that he would receive the vaccine and tweeted about it without understanding its implications. “Sometimes, trial participants develop the misconception that they would receive the vaccine and not the dummy placebo,” Tripathi told The Telegraph. “But this represents a failure of the mandatory informed-consent process ahead of the trial which is supposed to clearly convey to participants that they have an equal chance of receiving either the vaccine or the placebo.” A senior doctor associated with the clinical trial said the doctors at the trial site were themselves unaware of who had received the vaccine and who the placebo. Asked why Vij had tweeted that he had received the vaccine, the doctor said: “Ask the minister.” The health ministry did not respond to queries asking how it had claimed that Vij had received a vaccine dose. Under standard protocols for multi-centred clinical trials, the randomisation codes that assign the vaccine vials to certain volunteers and the placebo vials to others are maintained at a central site coordinating the trials and are not shared with the trial sites. “No one at the trial site knows who’s getting the vaccine,” the experts said. Bharat Biotech issued a statement on Saturday underlining that the trial was a “double-blind study” where the volunteers have a 50 per cent chance of receiving either the vaccine or the placebo. Health researchers say the minister’s infection could be easily explained through multiple mechanisms. No candidate vaccine is expected to be 100 per cent effective. The most promising Covid-19 vaccines so far have shown protective efficacies of about 95 per cent, implying 5 per cent remain unprotected. Had Vij received the vaccine, he may have been among the smaller proportion of volunteers expected to develop the infection. Had he received the placebo, he may have been among the larger proportion of volunteers expected to develop the infection. A clinical trial specialist said that any participant who has been told whether they had received a vaccine or a placebo should not be included in the final data analysis of the trial. Politicians in some states have offered to “inaugurate” the trials. In Karnataka, health minister K. Sudhakar graced the inauguration. In Bengal, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar inaugurated the trial while minister Firhad Hakim joined as a volunteer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-509
06-12-2020||India||British MPs build wider campaign on farm laws ||Thirty-five British MPs have opened a new and wider flank on the farmers’ protest, going beyond Canadian concerns and raising questions about the “impact” of the farm laws. The MPs, several of them with Indian roots, have urged the UK government to speak up for Indian farmers’ right to protest peacefully as well as against the three new farm laws. They have also underscored that 92 per cent of UK Sikhs have ties to farmland in India. The UN too has supported the farmers’ right to protest. Responding to a question on the protests in India, Stephane Dujarric, spokesperson for the UN Secretary-General, said: “As to the question of India, what I would say to you is what I’ve said to others when raising these issues is that people have a right to demonstrate peacefully, and authorities need to let them do so.” India had sharply criticised Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for backing the farmers’ right to protest, issued a demarche and warned of damage to bilateral ties. But New Delhi has fallen silent since late Friday night after Trudeau maintained: “Canada will always stand up for the right for peaceful protest anywhere around the world.” A media report has suggested that external affairs minister S. Jaishankar has decided not to participate in the next meeting of a Canada-led group of foreign ministers, scheduled on Monday, to evolve a common strategy against the pandemic. The purported reason for the no-show decision is scheduling problems, but it is being linked to the strain in ties with Canada. Jaishankar had last December cancelled a meeting with a US Congressional delegation after it refused to exclude the Indian American Congresswoman, Pramila Jayapal, from the interaction. Jayapal had moved a bipartisan resolution in the House of Representatives criticising the Kashmir clampdown. What the UK parliamentarians are demanding goes beyond what their Canadian counterparts had sought and got Trudeau to do. The concern in Canada related mainly to the Indian government’s use of force against the farmers, and Trudeau’s statements defended the right to protest peacefully. On the two occasions Trudeau has spoken publicly on the issue over the past week, he has not mentioned the contents of the three laws. In the UK, parliamentarians from across the political spectrum have written to the secretary of state for foreign, Commonwealth and development affairs, Dominic Raab, requesting him to call an urgent meeting with the 35 signatories to discuss the “deteriorating situation in the Punjab and its relationship with the Centre”. The letter has called for “representations to be made by yourself to your Indian counterpart about the impact on British Sikhs and Punjabis with longstanding links to land and farming in India”. Explaining the reasons for seeking this intervention, Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi — whose letterhead the joint letter bears — has tweeted: “Many constituents, especially those emanating from the Punjab, have contacted MPs to express solidarity with the farmers.... Dozens of MPs duly deliberated and signed a cross-party letter, seeking justice for the peacefully protesting farmers.” The letter makes it clear that these British MPs had been monitoring the protests in Punjab even before the farmers moved towards Delhi last week. They have written to both Raab and the Indian high commission in London over the past month about the new laws’ impact on farmers and those dependent on farming in India. The letter also refers to an ongoing survey by the Sikh Council UK that shows that 92 per cent of UK Sikhs have ties to agricultural land in India and 84 per cent are personally concerned about the impact of the new laws. Various groups in London have planned protests outside the Indian high commission on Sunday in solidarity with the farmers protesting on Delhi’s borders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-509
06-12-2020||India||Farmers go into silent mode with telling placards||Farmers’ representatives gave the government the silent treatment on Saturday as they saw the talks to break the stalemate go round in circles for the third time this week. Done talking, the farmer leaders sealed their lips and held up small placards with just “Yes or No” written on them, asking the government whether it would repeal the three laws. This silent protest lasted about an hour after which the three ministers — Narendra Singh Tomar (agriculture), Piyush Goyal (food) and Som Prakash (minister of state for commerce) — left the room, apparently to talk to the decision-makers in the government. They returned to seek more time yet again. Already prepared for the long haul, the farmer leaders accepted the request but said they would not only continue their agitation but go ahead with the countrywide hartal on Tuesday. They reaffirmed that they would not settle for anything less than the repeal of the three new farm laws besides the withdrawal of the electricity bill that proposes to reduce subsidies and privatise power distribution. During the day’s talks, the government had again offered amendments to the three laws, showing willingness to concede more than what was suggested earlier. But the farmer union leaders argued that cosmetic changes would not alter the character of the laws. “No amendment, only withdrawal/ repeal,” was the refrain, with the farmers’ representatives underlining that the farmers had not sought these laws and that these had been thrust on them. Briefing reporters after the meeting at Vigyan Bhavan, Tomar appealed to the protesting farmers to send the elderly, women and children back home keeping in mind the cold winter. This point had been raised during the meeting, too. The farmers are said to have told the ministers that if they gave it in writing that the laws would be repealed, the protesters would clear out without delay. Tomar said the government had sought a few firm suggestions from the farmers but had not received them. Farmer leaders countered this saying they had several times given their objections to the new laws in writing to the government. “We have only one demand, and we are clear about that,” a farmer leader said.With the sowing season over, the farmers are prepared to have their patience tested. They feel empowered by the support they have been receiving from the public despite the inconvenience caused by the road blocks. They are also keenly aware that the Narendra Modi government would not yield easily and is buying time to explore the possibility of sowing dissension within their ranks to weaken the movement, or to provoke them into violence to de-legitimise the agitation. The next round of talks has been scheduled for Wednesday morning, but the farmers are not holding their breath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-509
06-12-2020||India||UGC extends PhD theses deadline ||Research scholars who were required to submit their theses in June 2020 should be given time till June 2021, the University Grants Commission has told the universities citing the constraints the students faced because of the pandemic. Research scholars receive fellowships for five years and must submit their theses by the end of the sixth year, although they can do so anytime after the third year. With the pandemic closing the universities — most are closed even now — the UGC had in April asked the institutions to give these research scholars time till December to hand in their theses. A notification from UGC secretary Rajnish Jain on Thursday asked the varsities to grant them another six-month extension. Some research scholars have demanded the same extension for all the existing batches, since they all had been hampered in their work by the Covid-induced closure of universities. For instance, they said, those who completed their fifth year in June 2020 should have their thesis submission deadline extended from June 2021 to June 2022, and that the UGC should clearly state this right now. “Otherwise, some of the universities may restrict the students who completed their fifth year in 2020 to their normal sixth-year option instead of giving them an extra year,” Abhishek Nandan, a PhD student from Hyderabad Central University, said. The research scholars who completed five years in June 2020 should get an extra year’s fellowship, said Parichay, a PhD student from Pondicherry University. He said many students had planned to submit their theses at the end of the fifth year and it was “not their fault that they could not do so”. “Since the Covid crisis has ensured they will need additional time to complete their work, they should receive the fellowship for that additional period,” he said. Asked by The Telegraph, Jain declined comment on this demand. Lokendra Pratap, a PhD student at JNU, said he had last month received his fellowship dues for July, August and September but “many others haven’t”. Students of central universities protested outside the UGC office on Friday demanding immediate release of their fellowship arrears. A UGC notification on Saturday said the October dues had been released earlier in the day. “The funds have been released from our side. The students will get it by today or tomorrow. The disbursal of the November dues is under process,” Jain said. Told that some students were still to receive their pre-October dues, Jain said: “Let them write to us; we’ll check and clear it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-509
06-12-2020||India||BJP, Congress teams in Pari village in Odisha ||Politics over the alleged kidnapping and murder of a five-year old girl from Odisha’s Nayagarh district intensified with the BJP and Congress teams meeting the parents of the girl in their  village, Jadupur, on Saturday. While the BJP team was led by its national spokesperson Sambit Patra, the Congress team was led by Odisha in charge A. Chella Kumar. The BJP team met the deceased’s parents in the morning while the Congress team met them in the afternoon. On the other hand, the ruling Biju Janata Dal has asked the Opposition not to politicise the murder case. After meeting the parents, Patra said: “Everyone in their village knows who has killed Pari. They understand the ground realities. As long as minister Arun Sahoo does not resign there will be pressure on the police. The BJD should suspend Sahoo from the party.” On the charge of doing politics over the issue, he said: “I am not doing politics. I am here to meet the family as a citizen of Odisha seeking justice for Pari. All should be united to give justice to Pari. Our fight will continue till justice is given to the family and the accused involved in the heinous crime are punished. Even after five months of her death no arrests have been made. It’s because of political pressure only.” Patra also held a meeting at Nayagarh with the local BJP leadership and discussed how best to ensure justice to the parents of the deceased. The Nayagarh Assembly constituency is a part of the Puri Lok Sabha constituency from where Patra had contested the last general elections in 2019. Patra had already met the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and briefed it about the issue. The NCPCR has summoned both the Nayagarh SP and Collector on the issue. Minister Sahoo who hails from Nayagarh, has been accused of shielding the person involved in the crime. The perpetrator of the crime is known to be a supporter of Sahoo. After meeting Pari’s parents, senior Congress leader and in charge of Odisha Congress, A. Chella Kumar said, “Our intention is very clear. We have demanded a court monitored SIT probe. Whoever the culprit should be brought within the ambit of law and punished. Its not the only case of a girl missing. More than 5,288 minor girls have gone missing in the country in the last four year. We don’t prefer a CBI probe. We have seen what the CBI has done in the case of the death of a girl in Rayagada.” However, BJD’s spokesperson Lelin Kumar Mohanty said, “No political party should indulge in politics over Pari’s death case. SIT is doing its job” In another development, the Special Investigation Team constituted by the Odisha government to probe Pari’s murder detained the prime accused Babuli Nayak in the case for interrogation and also raided his three-storeyed house. “The State government and DG have assigned me the duty. I know my responsibilities. The SIT was constituted only four days back. Give me two weeks time to crack the case. Please wait,” said SIT chief Arun Bothra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-509
06-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC ‘moral support’ to farmers’ bandh on December 8||Trinamul on Saturday offered its “moral” support to the nationwide strike on December 8 against the Centre’s farm laws after the party’s senior leaders met the Shiromani Akali Dal here. Trinamul MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay said: “There will be moral support from the party, as we are in wholehearted agreement on the issues... But, because as a party our position is anti-bandh, we won’t be out on the streets to enforce one.” “Many events are lined up to back the movement, including protest marches in every block and ward of the state and a three-day dharna in Calcutta, which she (Mamata Banerjee) would participate in, starting December 8,” he added. “Her message is clear...relentless agitations across the country till the laws are repealed. Nothing less.” Bandyopadhyay, his Rajya Sabha counterpart Derek O’Brien and state labour minister Moloy Ghatak hosted a six-member Shiromani Akali Dal delegation, led by senior vice-president Prem Singh Chandumajra, at Trinamul Bhavan. “It began with farmers, but now it is a movement of all. From our beloved chief minister of Bengal Mamata Banerjee, to Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, everyone is sympathetic...,” said Chandumajra. Left-backed protests The Bengal unit of the Left-backed All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) held protests across the state on Saturday against the farm bills. “We ended a three-day event on Saturday. We blocked roads on Thursday and Friday as well. We won’t settle for anything less than revoking the laws,” Amal Halder, state convener of the AIKSCC, said. The rally in Calcutta was joined by people from other outfits including the Joint Forum Against NRC, a common platform of organisations protesting against the new citizenship matrix. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
06-12-2020||West Bengal||Active Covid cases dip for 40 days on trot||Bengal on Saturday reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the 40th consecutive day since Dashami on October 26, with 3,207 recoveries, 3,175 new infections and 49 deaths in 24 hours till 9am. Over the 40 days, active cases fell from 37,190 to 23,964, with nearly 1.57 lakh recoveries compared to 1.45 lakh new infections, which a minister called “exemplary at this stage”. Its caseload of over 4.99 lakh infections has 4.67 lakh recoveries and 8,677 deaths. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.73 and recovery rate 93.47 per cent. “In what is a significant improvement, the mortality rate for infected males fell to less than 2 (to 1.99 per cent). That, for infected females, is 1.32 now. Before this 40-day period of turnaround, the rate for males was 2.09, and 1.45 for females,” said the minister. But it is still behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Of the 49 deaths reported on Saturday, 14 were from the city. The total toll includes 7,268 or 83.8 per cent comorbid deaths. The recovery rate, currently in an unbroken spell of rise for 44 consecutive days, rose to a new high of 93.47. The national rate now is 94.33 per cent. “We are looking to end the year with less than 23,000 active cases and a recovery rate of over 95. We are on track to achieve both, at the moment,” said the minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November has shown that the court’s instructions were effective. “There might be similar instructions for the Christmas-New Year spell of festivities,” said the minister. On Saturday, the state reported 44,389 tests, taking the total past 60.91 lakh, at 67,685 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.2 per cent now. The state reported 25.27 per cent occupancy in the 13,538 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.08 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
06-12-2020||West Bengal||Saradha group owner Sudipta Sen accuses politicians of taking cash||Sudipta Sen, owner of the Saradha group and main accused in the chit fund scam, sent a “prisoner’s petition” to the offices of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee with names of many politicians, including rebel Trinamul leader Suvendu Adhikari, alleging that they took money from him. Sen’s letter, dated December 1, 2020, has been submitted to jail officials, said sources.  Behind bars for seven years, Sen apart from Suvendu Adhikari, took the names of Congress’s Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, CPM’s Sujan Chakraborty and Biman Bose, and BJP’s Mukul Roy. The petition says: “Respected Sir and respected Madam, I Sudipta Sen owner and director of Saradha Group of companies want to say that there are many influential persons, who have taken huge financial and….(illegible) from me... They include Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury (6cr), Sujan Chakraborty (9cr), Mukul Roy huge amount of money I cannot remember, Subhendu Adhikari (6cr), Biman Bose (2cr) and some other politicians of CPIM, BJP, Congress and TMC…” The petition also requests CBI and police action. BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy, who was with Trinamul in 2013 when the Saradha scam broke, called Sen’s statement concocted. “This person is in the custody of state police…I feel the entire thing has been made up.” CPM MLA Chakraborty and state Congress chief Chowdhury separately accused the TMC and said that the ruling party was afraid of the Left-Congress alliance. Chakraborty added that it was “hilarious”  that a person in jail for seven years was coming up with names. Suvendu did not respond to the paper’s calls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
06-12-2020||West Bengal||Bullets, bombs fly in TMC-BJP clash||Political rivalry between the Trinamul and the BJP took a violent turn in West Burdwan’s Barabani on Saturday when supporters of both the sides fought a pitched battle in which bullets were fired and bombs hurled. Six supporters of the saffron camp were injured, including one who suffered a bullet wound. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, who rushed to the Durgapur hospital to meet BJP worker Kalicharan Das who received a bullet wound, demanded President’s rule in Bengal saying: “The state has plunged into lawlessness.” Vijayvargiya also promised a statewide agitation. Ever since the BJP won the Asansol Lok Sabha seat in 2014, both sides have been at loggerheads in a region dominated by coal and sand mafia. On Saturday morning, around 200 BJP activists assembled at Jamgram village in Barabani to take part in BJP’s statewide “Aar Noi Anyay (No More Injustice)” programme, aimed to take on the Mamata Banerjee government’s “Duare Sarkar” (Government on Doorsteps). Aar Noi Anyay is an outreach of the BJP to reach out to more than a crore families with a leaflet highlighting “corruption and lawlessness in Trinamul regime”. “We had plans to carry out our programme peacefully, but Trinamul goons attacked us,” said BJP West Burdwan district chief Lakshman Ghorui. According to him, trouble started around 11am when he reached Jamgram. Suddenly a barrage of stones was hurled at BJP supporters, followed by a volley of crude bombs, Ghorui alleged, adding Trinamul supporters also opened fire. “We called police but they remained silent spectators,” alleged Ghorui. “Kalicharan Das, a BJP activist, received a bullet wound on the chest and is in a hospital in Durgapur.” Sources said BJP workers also retaliated after a while. As both the sides kept attacking each other for over 30 minutes, a large contingent of police led by ACP (West) Manav Singla brought the situation under control. “Investigations are on. No arrests have been made as of now,” said Singla. Trinamul’s Barabani MLA Bidhan Upadhaya blamed the BJP for creating an atmosphere of terror in Bengal. “The incident is a result of BJP’s infighting. We are not involved,” said. Trinamul leader and minister Moloy Ghatak also echoed Upadhaya. Saturday’s incident left the district administration worried as the clash took place at a time when chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit the region on December 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
06-12-2020||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Trinamul bid to get Buddhists on board||Some leaders of a fledgling apolitical umbrella organisation of Buddhists said in the presence of senior Trinamul leaders on Saturday that they would stand by Mamata Banerjee in the state polls. The move, party insiders said, is an attempt to consolidate support for Trinamul from among the community. Around 14 lakh Buddhists reside in north Bengal and their support can help any political party earn an extra edge in a closely contested election. On Saturday, over 5,000 Buddhists, including monks, took out a rally in Siliguri, which ended in Baghajatin Park with a public meeting. The event was hosted by West Bengal Buddhist Cell with help from the refugee cell of Trinamul. A Trinamul leader said some leaders of the refugee cell of the party were instrumental in creating this new platform for Buddhists. “Mamata Banerjee and her government have done a lot for us. She introduced monthly pensions for our lamas (monks), constituted development boards for many hill communities for development among the poor, including Buddhists (who belong to many of these hill communities), and is working for the development of the hills. We want her to be the chief minister again and assert our support to her through this meeting,” said Nima Wangdi, a coordinator of the cell. State ministers Gautam Deb, Aroop Biswas, Rabindranath Ghosh and Binoy Krishna Burman were present. They lauded the decision made by members of the community and criticised what they termed the BJP’s aggressive politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
06-12-2020||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung meeting today after years||Bimal Gurung of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha is likely to address his first public meeting after three-and-a-half years at the Indira Gandhi Maidan here off NH31 on Sunday, while the BJP has lined up a protest march to Uttarkanya, the branch of the state secretariat, on Monday. Gurung, who resurfaced in Calcutta on October 21 this year, is likely to elaborate on his decision to sever ties with the BJP and support Mamata Banerjee. “We are expecting a turnout of over a lakh,” said a leader of the Gurung faction. Roshan Giri, general-secretary of Gurung camp of the Morcha, visited the ground on Saturday to check arrangements and told the media that they would “raise the demand for Gorkhaland till our last breath”. Rival Binay Tamang camp, which had planned a public meeting at Jamuni in Tukvar of Darjeeling on Sunday to celebrate its youth wing foundation day, postponed it to Monday, spokesperson Keshav Raj Pokhrel saying “public safety comes first”, possibly over fears of clashes between rival factions though both now support Trinamul. On Monday, the BJP’s “Uttarkanya Abhijan” will protest the alleged lack of infrastructure development in north Bengal. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh, youth front chief Soumitra Khan and others are likely to attend the event along with elected representatives. “Both are important political events. While the public meeting will give an indication about the support that Bimal Gurung has in the region right now, the protest march of BJP is the first major political activity of the party in north Bengal in months,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
06-12-2020||West Bengal||CID files fresh charges on Mukul Roy in MLA murder||The CID on Saturday filed a supplementary chargesheet against BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy before the Ranaghat additional chief judicial magistrate, accusing Roy of conspiracy and murder of Trinamul’s Krishnaganj MLA Satyajit Biswas. Biswas was shot dead near his home on February 9 last year. Roy’s lawyers termed the chargesheet “illegal” as the additional district and sessions judge had earlier issued curbs on any fresh investigation against him. Roy was questioned by the CID in March. Calcutta High Court granted Roy anticipatory bail. In September, the CID also filed a similar chargesheet against BJP’s Ranaghat MP Jagannath Sarkar in the case. Five persons, including Roy, were named in the FIR lodged by Trinamul activist Milan Ghosh. On May 8 last year, the CID filed the first chargesheet with no charges levelled against Roy and Sarkar. Based on it, the additional chief judicial magistrate, Ranaghat, on June 14 discharged them of allegations, which prompted the complainant to file a revision application for further investigation to examine their role. On December 16, the ADSJ set aside the ACJM’s order and allowed a partial investigation restricting any fresh probe against the BJP leaders. Members of the BJP’s legal team alleged that despite the categorical curbs on any further investigation, the CID continued the probe to implicate its party leaders. “While setting aside the ACJM’s order (discharging the allegation), the ADSJ categorically restricted the scope of further investigation in the wake of the revision application. But the CID purposefully ignored it, violating the court order. We will move high court to quash this illegal chargesheet,” said Roy’s counsel Suman Roy. Roy said: “I am not bothered since I have absolute faith in the judiciary.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
06-12-2020||West Bengal||Sisir weeds out son Suvendu's ‘loyalists’||Trinamul Congress’s East Midnapore unit on Saturday began a crackdown on office-bearers said to be close to the rebellious Suvendu Adhikari as a couple of block presidents, including Nandigram’s, were removed by the party’s district chief Sisir Adhikari — Suvendu’s father. The move came a day after Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee entrusted Sisir, the 79-year-old Contai MP and a party vice-president, with the responsibility of replacing office-bearers of the party whom she accused of being engaged in anti-party activities. Trinamul sources said though a list of five leaders had been drawn up, the names of two, Nandigram block president Meghnad Pal and Bhagabanpur-II block president Manab Padua, were announced on Saturday. Sources said early on Saturday phone calls went out from Sisir to Pal and Padua, informing them that they would be replaced. The development came on a day sources said poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC — hired by Trinamul for Bengal elections — asked several party leaders to address news meets to clarify their allegiance to Mamata or Suvendu. Among those who held news meets were town president Biswanath Mahapatra, Nandakumar block president Sukumar Bera, Egra-II president Swarat Khara and Haldia coordinator Anandamay Adhikari. Anandamay said he felt “insulted” that I-PAC asked him to come clean. “These are attempts at widening the divide between Suvendu and Didi,” he said. Suvendu loyalists said they were being made “scapegoats”. “Dada (Suvendu) is still Nandigram MLA, general secretary of the party, part of its seven-member apex steering committee…. We are paying a price for fulfiling our roles and for being seen around him. This isn’t right,” said Pal. “I have done nothing wrong, nor have I liaised outside the party,” he added. Padua virtually echoed him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
06-12-2020||North East||Power team in Northeast to review hydel plans  ||A Union power ministry delegation has taken stock of  hydel projects being implemented in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh, the three-day visit raising eyebrows as it came in wake of  last Sunday’s report in a Chinese media about a “large” hydropower project coming up on the Yarlung Zangbo (which is known as the Brahmaputra in India). There was widespread concern in both the downstream states over the reported development in China. Multiple sources associated with the power sector in the two states told The Telegraph that the visit was long overdue and they came to know about it a week ago. Led by power ministry secretary Sanjeev Nandan Sahai, the team reached Dibrugarh on Thursday from where it visited Changlang in Arunachal Pradesh to  take stock of micro and mini hydel projects. On Friday,  the delegation went to check the progress of the NHPC Limited-executed 2000MW Lower Subansiri hydro power project on the Assam-Arunachal border on Friday. After a review of the ongoing construction activities at the Subansiri project, NHPC assured to commission the project by 2022, an official statement said on Saturday. The statement is significant because work on the much delayed Subansiri project resumed in 2019 after being stalled since 2011 December over safety concerns. “Work started after National Green Tribunal gave its nod last year after we addressed all safety measures,” one of them said. Friday evening saw Sahai and his team participate in a  high-level meeting  in Itanagar with the Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu. Besides Sahai, joint secretary (hydropower) Tanmay Kumar were present in the meeting with Khandu along with CMD NHPC AK Singh, CMD PowerGrid K Sreekant and CMD NEEPCO VK Singh. On Saturday, Sahai  flew to West Kameng district to see the progress of the 600MW Kameng hydroelectric project executed by the North Eastern Eletric Power Corporaton Limited (NEEPCO) and is likely to be commissioned by January. The timing of the visit has, however, raised eyebrows. One of the sources from Arunachal Pradesh said the visit should not be linked to the Sunday’s report in the Chinese Communist Party-owned Global Times about the neighbouring country building a hydropower project on the Yarlung Zangbo. “The power secretary had been planning to undertake a visit for some time now but could not because of last-minute hitches. We are sure it is going to be a very useful visit because he has got to know the ground situation which helps in taking sound and timely decisions. We are sure it will help expedite the power development projects,” the source said. They said India has already conveyed its concerns to China and to ensure the interests of downstream states were not affected by upstream development activities. A Chinese official has also said they were undertaking only run-of-the-river projects which do not need diversion and that development of downstream projects on the  Yarlung Zangbo  “is still in the stage of preliminary planning and demonstration”. The meeting in Itanagar between Sahai and Khandu discussed about the 2000MW Lower Siang HEP, 600MW Kameng HEP and proposed dams in Siang and Dibang rivers, winning the confidence of the affected people, awarding  good rehabilitation packages, developing small hydropower projects in the state for it would have minimal environmental impact, could be completed in lesser time and involve lesser cost. To harness the potential of small dams, the meeting felt that it must be supported by robust infrastructure of transmission lines. Arunachal Pradesh is considered the power house of Indiam having the potential to generate 58000 MW but most of the proposals have got stuck because of  the “14 to 16 clearances” a power developer has to obtain from various departments and agencies. Sources said only the Kameng project is nearing completion while the NHPC’s 2880 MW Dibang project has obtained clearance. ‘ There are about 20 micro and mini hydel projects being executed by the Arunachal government but a lot still needs to be done. We hope the high level visit will expedite things ” one of the source said. Sources also said India needs to harness the power potential so any activity upstream cannot hamper us “ It will be in our interest. We can always use the first user clause to challenge any activity that affects downstream areas. Nobody can divert or shut the flow of water,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
06-12-2020||North East||Sedition charge against Assam charity trust||Ajmal Foundation, a registered public charitable trust in Assam, has been slapped with sedition charge for receiving funds allegedly from foreign agencies linked to terror groups, an allegation that the organisation has decided to challenge legally. Dispur police here on Friday registered an FIR filed by Right-wing leader Satya Ranjan Borah against the Hojai-based foundation based on a report of the Legal Rights Observatory (LRO), which had on Friday tweeted, “FIR filed against body run by Badruddin Ajmal for receiving funds from foreign ‘terror financiers’. The complaint, lodged by right-wing leader Satya Ranjan Borah in Guwahati on Friday based on the report LRO, a legal rights body.” LRO is said to be linked to the RSS. ACP Himangshu Das told The Telegraph that a case under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 1204A (sedition) and 420 (cheating) read with Section 13 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) has been lodged against the foundation allegedly for receiving funds from foreign agencies linked to terror groups and misusing the money. “The FIR was filed on Friday,” Das said. The development assumes significance because All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) chief Badruddin Ajmal is a joint managing trustee of the foundation formed in 2005. The FIR comes just ahead of the two-phase Bodoland Territorial Council polls on December 7 and 10 that the AIUDF and Congress are fighting in alliance to check the BJP. The two parties are also in talks for an alliance in the 2021 Assembly polls, something that can upset the ruling BJP’s applecart. However, the foundation has decided to file counter FIRs against both Borah and the LRO. “We are discussing the case with our lawyers but we will be filing the FIRs by Sunday for defaming the foundation and misleading the public against us. The FIRs could be filed either in Guwahati or Hojai where the foundation is based,” foundation director Dr Khasrul Islam told this newspaper. According to Islam, the charitable trust has been working in the fields of modern education, skill development & employment generation, women empowerment, poverty alleviation, relief & rehabilitation, and environmental awareness & health aid programmes. The organisation runs as many as 97 educational and skill development institutions, four hospitals and six orphanages. The foundation’s activities also include running a free coaching institute and offering scholarship to the poor but meritorious students. So far, 2,720 students supported by it have become graduates in various streams, including medical, engineering, lawyers and chartered accountants. On the charges levelled against the foundation, Islam said it was ready for any probe because all its transactions and activities were transparent and legal. “The foundation was formed in 2005 and started receiving foreign funds from 2011. All these funding pass scrutiny in the countries where the donors are based and in India,” Islam said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
06-12-2020||Opinion||Yeh mera deewanapan hai||What would I know about my world? You tell me. It would be an audacity most unforgivable for me to tell you I know. Worse still that I may know better. Who am I? What would I know? Tell me. Tell me things that I need to know, and what I no longer need to know. You know. What am I to know? I feed the earth. I plough it. I seed it. I give it nutrient. Then I wait for the rain. Or the pump. It needs watering. It needs nursing. It needs taking care. Then I wait. And I look at what has come from all of that feeding and watering and nursing and caring. Then I return to it and reap what there is to reap. Sometimes it is a handful, sometimes there isn’t enough to fill a palm. Or two. And then I try to provide for the body what those hands are attached to, and have given. In the best manner possible, at the best price it is possible to fetch. But what would I know about all of this? You know best. Hum kis khet ki mooli hain? There’s no mooli like you. I hope you got that, Mooliji. This business of ours, where did you arrive at our business from? I wonder sometimes. You are not a farmer. You neither have land nor till it. Right? You peddled retail stuff, on platforms, or such places, right? Right. You are a retail person. Buy. Sell. At a profit. A commodity is a commodity. It comes and it goes. And it leaves you a profit. Dhandho! What would you understand, you stock market charlatan? You think money grows on crops? For you it perhaps does. Which is why you are here. Looking for an opportunity. Looking for dhandho. You were right, you spoke that one truth among the million lies you daily speak. You have commerce in your veins. If you had blood where commerce is, you would probably have understood what it means to do what we do. We don’t sow coins and reap rupees; you do that perhaps, or want to do. We sow our labour and reap love. But how are you to understand, you who have commerce in your veins and not blood. (Are you, by the way, so blood-thirsty because your veins lack for blood? Just asking. Never mind. Don’t set your cops after me, please, because I know what your judges will do after your cops have done what they have been commanded to do. I was just joking, don’t take me seriously. We are ordinary folks. We walk the spaces, we sprinkle random stuff on whim, we till and toil because what else is there to do, time needs to be occupied, you see, not everybody can bear the burdens of being VishwaGuru, and one day, voila, these things spring up. And the fields all get crowded, and so we clear them. And as a consequence of clearing the fields, we  get this thing called a crop. Which feeds. And which, before it feeds, has a price. How this happens, how are we to know? You know best. What we have is merely the whim of passing time, an unmindful result of walking the fields and doing whatever follows the walking. It’s all very easy. A walk in the park. Isn’t that what they say for things that are easy? Why don’t you come walk in the park with us, VishwaGuruji? Come get a sense of how it is to walk in the park. Get a feel of the park when it is bereft, and when it gets voluptuous with the gifts of walking in the park, and all that happens in between? Between the barrenness and the fulsomeness? Do you know what happens? You would know. Because you think we don’t. Someone should. Come then. Tell us. We do not know how this happens, this harvest of gold, what we call kanak, or gold. We think it’s what feeds us, you think it’s what feeds coffers. You know better. You are commerce. We are blood. But who are we? Order me, oh reverend sire Oh master of many degrees I’ll even attest, promise by fire That potatoes grow on trees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
06-12-2020||Opinion||The case of Ulysses||Reading Ulysses through this pandemic, I learnt that it found its first readers during the previous one. The Spanish flu began spreading through the world in February 1918 and had run its deathly course by the spring of 1920. The Little Review began serializing Ulysses in March 1918 till it was forced to stop in 1920, midway through the novel, because of a prosecution for obscenity. The thirteenth episode was the unlucky instalment; the prosecution was brought because it contained descriptions of characters masturbating. I haven’t got to that chapter yet. I’ve been stuck on the tenth chapter for a week now, the one that begins with a Jesuit priest giving a schoolboy a letter to post. Having read just under a third of the novel in the course of a month, I can truthfully say that it has been the oddest reading experience of my life. Joyce claimed he had stuffed the text with enough allusions to keep professors busy for generations so I imagine I’m reading the novel as he would have liked me to, with explanatory apparatus. This is, as any sane reader knows, ridiculous for fiction. Reading Ulysses is like reading a densely footnoted book... with the footnotes left out. Like many people who want bragging rights to this Everest of the fictional world, I’ve tried to scale Ulysses before and never got past base camp, otherwise known as the first chapter. The main character in that chapter is a young, impoverished, would-be poet who doesn’t like bathing called Stephen Dedalus so I assumed for years that he was the novel’s central protagonist. It shames me to admit that I’ve only just discovered that Ulysses’s Ulysses is Leopold Bloom. How did people read Ulysses before the internet? My method is to first read a chapter in the paper book in a state of general bafflement. I then re-read it in an online version, clicking through the hyperlinked annotations embedded in it to understand the maddening range of references. Finally, I wear my earphones and listen to the audiobook, where the chapter is dramatized by animated Irish voices, complete with street sounds, lapping waves and noises off, which bring the novel to life like an old-fashioned radio play. It’s this last ‘reading’, where I give myself up to the soundtrack of a story that I already know, that makes it all worthwhile. I know, life’s too short, but Covid has slowed it down enough to make reading Ulysses seem possible. Not, of course, to read it as Joyce’s contemporaries read it; they were real mountaineers, climbing Everest without oxygen or mapped routes to the summit. No, my storming of Ulysses is done with teams of online Sherpas and gigabytes of digital explanation. That said, it is a magnificent novel. The thing that surprises me most about it is that it is a young(ish) colonial’s novel. It was published in 1922, the year southern Ireland went from being a colony to becoming the Irish Free State, a self-governing dominion of the British Empire. Ulysses’s colonial setting is familiar to the Indian reader: there are viceroys and colonial policemen and patronizing Englishmen, and rude names for those Englishmen: Sassenach, Saxon, ‘stranger’, also ‘paleface’. The very first chapter lets you know that the Irish are used to subjection, that Ireland is an old, very tightly held, colonial possession. The novel begins with Stephen Dedalus living with a friend on Dublin’s seashore, in a fortified gun tower built by William Pitt (the Younger) to defend Britain against France’s naval gunships during the Napoleonic Wars. The mad, allusive ambition of the novel seems part of the colonial’s determination to inhale Western high culture whole, from the Bible to Hamlet, from Homer to Shakespeare, from Aristotle to Aquinas, and make it do his bidding, and, what’s more, to do this better than any writer from the imperial metropolis could. Apart from being an eccentric guide to the Western canon, Ulysses is also a Dublin street-finder. It is the greatest pedestrian novel ever written; its main characters literally walk the reader through their stories. It is also English literature’s great municipal novel, naming and inhabiting Dublin’s offices, its pubs, its butcher’s shops, its tobacconists, its newspaper offices, its cemeteries and churches and lanes as if they were durable wonders of the ancient world. It works the city’s transient notables into its story as if they were household-name immortals. This is remarkable given that the Dublin Joyce writes about is not one of the great cultural capitals of the Western world. It isn’t London or Paris or Berlin or New York. The cohort of great Irish writers who would make the city a name to reckon with were, for the most part, Joyce’s contemporaries. And yet he writes of Dublin as if it were the navel of the world. It is this matter-of-fact memorialization of Dublin, the way he makes the reader live this geography through the helter-skelter consciousness of its characters, that pulls you in. It is commonplace to speak of being immersed in a novel; with Ulysses, it’s more like drowning in it. I feel I know more about Molly Bloom’s adulterous life (her assignations, her underclothes, the tan shoes of her lover), about her cuckolded husband and latter-day Odysseus, Leopold Bloom, about Stephen Dedalus’s awful bathing habits and the geography of Dublin at the turn of the 20th century, than I have known of any set of characters in any place, at any time. I know that the feeling will fade, that it is, in part, a function of how hard I’ve worked at reading the novel, but it is a singular business, this sense of being wholly possessed by a foreign place in another time. The most remarkable achievement of Ulysses is Leopold Bloom, the Jewish man at the heart of its story. By some definitions, Bloom isn’t, strictly speaking, a Jew. His mother was an Irish Catholic and Bloom was formally baptized. It was his father, a lapsed Jew, who taught him the rudiments of his abandoned faith. As Joyce walks Bloom through Dublin, his pedestrian Odysseus becomes the Wandering Jew. For a turn-of-the-century Irish writer raised by Jesuits to cast his Everyman in the image of a kind, cuckolded Jew was an act of visionary empathy and daring. In that time of Irish nationalism and anti-Semitic bigotry, Joyce turned Homer’s travelling hero into a Jew. In a stroke of synthesizing genius, he fused the Hellenic and the Hebraic, the two source cultures of the modern West, into a single body. Hitler tore them apart less than twenty years later. Joyce’s great Modernist peers — Yeats, Eliot, Pound, Lawrence — were either racist or anti-Semitic or both at once. Joyce was exceptional. We should read Ulysses to remind ourselves that genius can come from goodness. We should read it, as all novels should be read (even great ones), for pleasure. And given the abyss that opened soon after its publication, we should read it with foreboding. 02/02/2022 will be the hundredth anniversary of Ulysses’s publication as a finished novel. Even at the rate at which I’m going, I should be done by then. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
06-12-2020||Opinion||Priya Shakti: tackling invisible foes||Comics are not always comic, but they can still be unputdownable. In the land of powerful female deities, it seems apt that the first female Indian superhero should steal teenage hearts away. Priya, a gang rape survivor who becomes a superhero in the first work, Priya’s Shakti, in 2014, is a girl-next-door from rural India, distinctly unlike Wonder Woman or even Supergirl with her super powers. The brainchild of the New York-based technology expert and documentary film-maker, Ram Devineni, Priya has had four adventures so far, with the latest one situated in a world attacked by an invisible enemy, Covid-19. What is unique about this superhero is that her powers are kindness and courage, gained through painful experiences that mirror those of thousands of Indian women. Beginning with a touch of mythology, Priya’s narrative develops, as her creator says, along the central idea in many ancient Indian tales: the need to overcome one’s own fears. So Priya overcomes her fear and gains as her friend the flying tiger, Sahas, who carries her through the air to help women who are frightened and exploited, whether raped, trafficked or mutilated by acid attacks. Priya’s success — she is called the “gender equality champion” by United Nations Women — springs from a unique combination of magical illustrations portraying Indian scenes with realistic situations in which sexually damaged women find themselves. There is no moralistic tone; teenagers hate that. The comic book form is accompanied by an augmented reality app and Priya’s Mask, in which the superhero fights Covid, has a short animation film. Here, too, the theme is of compassion, courage, understanding and, significantly, cooperation. It is a lonely little girl, Meena, whom Priya picks up on Sahas to fly over Jodhpur, Meena’s city, so she can see how much her mother, a Covid nurse, is doing for her patients. Meena also catches glimpses of her equally lonely friends, all forbidden to go to school or play together. This adventure is a reminder of children’s suffering from loneliness and confusion during the pandemic: they need far more attention and care. Even more pointed is Priya’s decision to join forces with Jiya or the Burka Avenger, the female superhero from Pakistan, to convey the message that Covid-19 must be defeated by acting together, ignoring national boundaries precisely in the manner of the virus, as much as by masks and hand hygiene. That Priya should shift her attention, even for one chapter in her story, to the effects of the pandemic on children and ways to fight it, suggests that her appeal as a gender warrior is powerful enough to make messages about other frightening situations effective too. But the achievement of the comic book series lies in its attempt to give voice to Indian women, and to urge them towards overcoming their own fears. The outcome hinted at is not utopia, but an imaginable gender-equal Indian society||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
06-12-2020||Opinion||Why the farmers' protest is like no other||Some observers are comparing the ongoing farmers’ protests with the anti-corruption movement led by Anna Hazare during the Manmohan Singh regime. But there are fundamental differences between the two, making such a comparison odious. While there were always tell-tale signs of organized corporate backing for Hazare’s movement, it has now been established that the RSS-BJP also backed these forces. While some of the key players of that movement, such Kiran Bedi and Ramdev, turned out to be representatives of the Bharatiya Janata Party, another founder member of India Against Corruption which led the stir, Prashant Bhushan, recently confirmed the involvement of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. With Arvind Kejriwal launching his party, there was little doubt that the Hazare show was a camouflaged political initiative, not a people’s movement. But this is a genuine farmers’ movement with no political backing, driven solely by the interests of the farming community. Although the BJP has alleged Congress conspiracy and some farmers’ unions do have leftist links but their motive is not political. A section of the Congress is imagining its role by pointing out the passionate backing of the farmers’ cause by the Punjab chief minister, Amarinder Singh, and Rahul Gandhi’s tractor rally which set the stage for this movement. But the farmers movement has evolved on the strength of farmers and has so far brooked no political interference. There is no Hazare-like figure leading the movement, and the control is firmly in the hands of a broad-based collective leadership. Last, but not the least, this movement is not propped up by the powerful corporate lobby. It is, on the contrary, against this lobby. Any comparison is thus preposterous. The stunning performance of the BJP in the Hyderabad local body polls has elated party boss, JP Nadda. Leaders close to him said that even though this was a municipal corporation, the results have given the party chief more joy than the Bihar assembly polls. Barring Karnataka, the BJP has not been able to make meaningful inroads in any other southern state. Nadda believes the Hyderabad performance would help the party spread its wings not just in Telangana but also Andhra Pradesh and send out a message to neighbouring Tamil Nadu and even Kerala. “Those who branded BJP as a party of the north must take note,” tweeted the Hyderabad election in-charge, Bhupender Yadav. The Bihar and Hyderabad performances have finally helped Nadda emerge out of the shadow of his predecessor and the home minister, Amit Shah. When the results were declared, Shah congratulated Nadda and his team. Many in party corridors are wondering whether Shah made a mistake by quitting the post of the party boss and joining the government. After all, besides the prime minister, the second man who gets credit and even prominence on posters is the party chief. Shah is missing all this since he joined the government. On Wednesday, the Punjab CM, Captain Amarinder Singh, called his Delhi counterpart, Arvind Kejriwal, a “sneaky little fellow” for notifying the The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020. The ordinance is now one of the farm Acts ostensibly aimed at promoting trade in agricultural products outside State-regulated Agricultural Produce Market Committees — a step that farmer activists say will make the APMCs redundant and expose peasants to the vagaries and speculation in the private grain market. Singh’s outburst was part of a spat initiated by the Aam Aadmi Party which called him a “BJP CM” after he appealed to farmers to lift the blockades of highways and go to a designated protest site in Delhi. Since then, both sides have issued statements slamming each other almost everyday, in an attempt to shore up their pro-farmer credentials in Punjab where Congress rules and AAP is the primary Opposition. The upcoming Bodoland Territorial Council polls in Assam has seen Covid-19 safety protocols being thrown to the winds. Padyatras, bike rallies, bicycle rallies and massive poll rallies have become a routine, giving one the feeling that the pandemic is over. All leading contenders are equally responsible for the violations but it is the state health minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, who has attracted most attention and flak for not practising what he has been preaching. He has urged the masses not to lower their guard against Covid-19 because the second wave of infection, expected during the winter, could be even more severe. Yet, Sarma has been seen dancing on stage, among voters or riding without a helmet or sitting on the bonnet of an open jeep to connect with the masses. Such has been the defiance of the political class, that the Supreme Court hearing a suo motu case on Covid-19 management had to ask the Assam government to submit an affidavit on how it plans to manage electioneering for the  assembly polls early next year. Not without reason. Assam is among the worst-affected states with over 2.13 lakh infections and over 980 deaths. Worried Covid warriors hoped the death wish of the political class does not extract a heavy price from the masses. Campaigning for the high-stakes BTC polls has had its moments — at times literally reduced to a cat-and-mouse game between the BJP and the Bodoland People’s Front, an ally in the state but not in the BTC. If Himanta Biswa Sarma accused the BPF of letting loose cats everywhere, alluding to the contractor raj, senior BPF leader, Chandan Brahma, countered by describing the BJP as a mouse out to devour the BPF which they will protect by remaining alert just like a cat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
06-12-2020||Opinion||Kitne farmer thhe?||There are stereotypes and there are stereotypes. The voracious businessman, the politician spewing platitudes, the soldier driven by patriotism alone. The stereotype of the Indian farmer is someone of lean frame, in scant attire, sickle in hand or plough. And though we incantate from birth “India is an agrarian economy”, that stereotype holds sway and one doesn’t quite associate the farmer with might. According to Census 2011, India has 118 million farmers. At the time of announcement of the PM-Kisan scheme in 2018, the Centre had budgeted for 145 million farmer families. Just in case you are fuzzy with your millions — the population of Bangladesh is around 160 million, of the United Kingdom 66.8 million, of Canada 38 million. The number of protesting farmers descending on Delhi all through last week would be hundreds of thousands. And at the heart of the protest, three farm laws pushed out by Parliament through a hurried voice vote despite some allies and many in Opposition begging to differ. Rozi picture But numbers don’t always spell might, especially not outside Parliament. In any case, one does not associate the farmer with might. With grain certainly and toil and land, but not might. Instead, the word farmer brings to mind suicides and images of bleeding feet with the skin peeling off. Most of the protesting farmers are from Punjab and Haryana; major wheat-producing states both. Wheat that goes into a roti. Roti that makes the world go round. India ranks low down in the Global Peace Index — it is in the 139th place in a list of 163 countries — but it is among the top four food producing countries of the world. It is among the 15 leading exporters of agricultural products in the world. Also, agriculture is the primary source of livelihood for about 58 per cent of our population. All of it comes to a lot of roti and rozi. Might and the right Nevertheless, one does not associate the farmer with might. He or she is more of an extension of the soil, elemental. And that’s why it seems all the more incongruous the decision to field the defence minister to lead talks, the need to resort to offence --- first trying to block them out, then trying to jail them, then labelling them Maoists and Khalistanis. All this despite the pledge of “intentions pure as Gangajal”. No matter what the final outcome, the four rounds of failed talks, the three farmer deaths in Delhi’s harsh winter and the length of protest are things that won't be forgotten in a hurry. Hereafter, farmers will be associated with some might and the government might want to be associated with a little less.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tribal groups block roads, trains to demand Sarna code||Members of various tribal bodies took to the streets and blocked railway tracks across Jharkhand on Sunday, threatening to resort to violent protests if the NDA government at the Centre does not give its nod to the Sarna religion code resolution passed by the Hemant Soren-led government in Jharkhand. Tribals, under the banner of three major organisations -- Central Sarna Committee, All India Tribal Development Council and Adivasi Sengel Abhiyan – blocked railway tracks at Gangaghat railway station under Angada block disrupting movements of trains in crucial Muri-Ranchi section. The protestors also staged protests at Irgaon station on the Ranchi-Lohardaga section. The tribal outfits also disrupted vehicular movement on various national highways and state highways. The protestors blocked roads at entry points of national highways in the state. Central Sarna Committee president Phulchand Tirkey said, “We have been demanding a separate Sarna code since several decades, and the state has also approved it. We will resort to violent protests if the Centre delays the process from here.” On November 11, the Jharkhand Assembly unanimously passed a resolution seeking the inclusion of Sarna as a separate religion in the upcoming 2021 Census. The resolution passed during a special one-day Assembly session, has been sent to the Centre for approval. Opposition parties gave a proposal demanding a discussion on the resolution, which State Assembly Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato accepted and later the Bill was passed in the House. Even on Saturday, various tribal outfits took out processions with torches in support of the Sarna code to try and expedite the process by the Centre. Sarna code has been a long-pending demand of the tribal community in Jharkhand. Several hundred members of the tribal community from Jharkhand staged a protest at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi on February 18 demanding a separate Sarna Code in the 2021 census. Sarna followers are nature worshippers who do not consider themselves Hindus and have been fighting for a separate religious identity in India for decades. Lakhs of tribesmen who were born in Sarna-following families got converted to Christianity over the past century after the advent of the missionaries, claim tribal gurus. These tribesmen have also been at loggerheads with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) for tagged as Hindus by the saffron outfit. In 2014, thousands of Sarna followers handed over a memorandum to then Union minister P Chidambaram and demanded recognition of Sarna as a separate religion. The crusaders back then had also staged a protest at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi, but their pleas went unheeded. In 2015, about 30,000 tribesmen held a nationwide campaign for the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||State Cong tells party men to get ready for Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh||Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) directed its cadres in the state on Sunday to get ready for Tuesday’s Bharat Band and stand in solidarity with lakhs of farmers who are protesting across Delhi borders since November 26 against the new farm laws. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon directed party workers to come out on the streets with full vigour to make the bandh successful. In a communiqué to workers, he directed, “The party stands with the farmers and their rights and hence everyone is mandated to make the bandh a grand success for everyone’s collective demand of the rollback of the new farm laws. “Despite the harsh winter and police atrocities against protesters, lakhs of farmers have gathered at the national capital to fight for the cause. Congress, which has always worked for farmers and their causes, should also rise to the occasion by making the bandh a success.” After the fifth round of talks on Saturday between farmers' leaders and the Centre failed to break the ice, farmers’ unions announced a Bharat Bandh to iterate their demand of repealing the new laws. Nationally, Congress, TRS and Left parties have already extended support to the Tuesday’s bandh. Congress, which is part of the state’s ruling coalition government along with JMM and RJD, has already held several independent demonstrations and agitations in Jharkhand against the new laws since September. On Saturday, too, the party held a dharna in Ranchi demanding their rollback. Simultaneously, Left parties and social entities backed by them are also running campaigns against the farm laws daily. On December 10, Left announced a statewide bandh claiming to have the backing of all three parties of the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad demands resumption of train to Alleppey||The residents of Dhanbad and particularly patients visiting the Christian Medical College and Hospital at Vellore are facing a lot of difficulty due to the delay in the restoration services of Dhanbad Alappuzha Express. The Dhanbad Alappuzha Express runs between Dhanbad and Alappuzha through Katpadi (Vellore). Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Rajesh Kumar Gupta said, “We demand immediate restoration of the train as the health care facilities of towns like Dhanbad are largely dependent on the facilities of the south Indian cities including Chennai (Apollo Hospital Chennai) and Vellore (Christian Medical College and Hospital).” “Recent reports of Covid-19 tests of the patients carried out at the railway station and particularly the report of last four-five days indicated zero positive cases and thus it indicates the lessening of the Covid-19 crisis, so I do not think that there is much risk involved in the restoration of the train,” stated Gupta. “The resumption of Dhanbad Alappuzha Express, on the other hand, will prove as life-saving for hundreds of patients of the economically backward section of the society who are suffering due to the suspension of the train services since the lockdown,” said Gupta, who is also the member of Divisional Railway Users Consultative Committee of Dhanbad. He added that they also demand the restoration of all local passenger trains so that the people can have some relief. Echoing sentiments, Pintu Kumar Singh, district president of Janata Dal (U) and member of Zonal Railway Users Consultative Committee, said, “The restoration of Howrah Mumbai Mail since December 1 has provided much-needed relief to patients travelling to Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai. Now, we hope that the railway board will also give permission for the restoration of Dhanbad Alappuzha Express by the end of the month.” “I had raised the issue with the top railway officials on several occasions and they have assured restoration of train services by December end,” informed Singh. Notably, the six bogeys of the rack of Dhanbad Alappuzha Express have already been prepared at coach depot of Dhanbad Railway Station. The Dhanbad Railway Division is only awaiting the nod of the division to restore the train and sending repeated reminders to East Central Railway Headquarters at Hajipur in this regard. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway, Akhilesh Kumar Pandey said, “We have raised the issue or restoration of Dhanbad Alappuzha Express with East Central Railway authorities on Sunday also but since there is no notification by the railway board, we can’t run the train immediately. We will run the train as soon as the railway board’s nod comes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Another team of mahouts from Bengal reaches Chandil ||About a fortnight after a 14-member team of Mahouts arrived from Bengal’s Bankura district to Chandil, for removing a menacing herd of wild elephants from there, another team reached the same area on Saturday evening. A second herd of 25 elephants reached the human habitats near the Chandil forest range, due to which the Forest Department had to call in the elephant drivers. The total number of migratory elephants in the area has increased to 48. The forest department was also determined to tackle the menace caused by the elephants effectively, as local drivers have stopped working after their leader was killed by one of the mammals near Balidih village near the Bengal border on November 20. Chandil forest ranger Ashok Kumar said there are three herds of 48 elephants at the moment, which are anchored near the human habitats in Nimdih and Ichagarh blocks under the Chandil forest range in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district about 45 kms away from Jamshedpur. “Earlier in the third week of November, there was a single herd of five elephants, which was moving close to the human habitats of Balidih and Dhunaburu villages. But later the number of elephants in the herd swelled to 17, after a dozen more wild mammals joined them. The situation got worse as a herd of 25 elephants, inclusive of five calves, has come from Chaibasa jungle to Ichagarh and are damaging paddy crops as well as houses,” Kumar told The Telegraph Online. He added that apart from these two groups, another herd of six elephants have joined in, likely from the Tamar jungle. “The herd of 25 elephants has been causing damage to the crops and houses since the past one week, leading us to engage the Mahouts from Bankura to drive it away toward Kharsawan so that it may return to the Chaibasa jungle,” Kumar said. However, according to him, despite much efforts the mahouts could not drive them away. “This was the reason that we had to call in another team of mahouts from Bankura,” he added. Kumar informed that the 14-member team arrived soon after their request on Saturday evening, and were sent to Ichagarh, where they have started working jointly with the other team to drive away the mammals on Sunday morning. The forest ranger said that unlike the locals, mahouts from Bankura were brave and could work effectively. He revealed that during the day, the Bankura team uses firecrackers and at night, they resort to ‘mashals’ (lanterns) to drive the animals away. On the other hand, the locals tend to drive away elephants from a distance and use just firecrackers for their work. Kumar, while giving details about the largest herd, said that out of the five calves, one is very small and that was the reason the group was not moving fast. “Elephants tend to keep pace with the small calf's movement irrespective of the pressure mounted on them.  But still both the teams from Bengal have started the work as moving them from the Chandil forest area is our first priority,” the ranger said. Kumar further told that after this group goes, the mahouts will work on driving away the herd of 17 elephants, and subsequently the smallest one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Wild elephants damage crops in Nepura village of Dhanbad||Two adult elephants separated from a herd of 20, damaged a huge amount of crop lying in the stackyard (granary) in Nepura village of Lukaiya Panchayat under Tundi block during the wee hours of Sunday. Nimai Mandal, a farmer who owned the stackyard said, “The residents of our village are living in a continuous state of fear due to elephant attacks. We came to know about the incident in the morning when we were informed about the damaged boundary wall of the stackyard and found crop worth more than Rs 20,000 lying damaged.” “We informed the forest department officials in the morning about the elephant causing damage but the process of providing the compensation is too lengthy and frustrating,” charged Mandal. Dhanbad divisional forest officer, Bimal Lakra said, “Our team, equipped with a vehicle, of more than a dozen torchmen are on the job in the area tracking the movement of the two elephants which are roaming in Tundi since the last ten days after reaching here from Nirsa.” “Our main focus is to restrict the activity of the elephants in deep forests and avoid human-elephant contact,” said Lakra and added that the elephants reached here from Jamtara. “The elephants in herd generally have a social kind of behaviour and rarely interfere in the villages but once separated they behave in a bit unpredictable manner,” said Lakra and added that tracking the movement of such elephants separated the herd is also a little difficult. “Our team deployed in the area is in contact with the local villagers and rushes to site as it gets information and drives away the elephant to the forest areas,” said Lakra. “We are also advising people not to obstruct in the movement of the elephants as generally, they walk during the night and take rest in the day time. We have also created some conducive situation in the deep forests of Tundi to ensure that the tuskers remain confined to the forest only and do not stray away towards the human habitation,” said Lakra and added that they have developed two check-dams in Tundi last year ahead of monsoon to ensure that the elephants get enough water for their consumption in the forest itself. “Sometimes the herd reaches to the villages to find water in the ponds but the presence of sufficient water in the forest will help to avoid their movement towards villages,” explained Lakra. Regarding the compensation, he said that it will be provided soon after submission of the form by the victim farmer and the verification of the claim made by our team. Notably, one of the elephants also attacked Ravilal Marandi, a 71-year-old farmer in Laghata area of Nirsa block on November 6 causing serious injury to him while he was on a morning walk near the outskirts of the village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders stage protest against holding tax imposition||Traders of Jharia are up in arms against holding tax imposition by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in Jharia circle. A meeting of Jharia residents was held on Sunday under the banner of Koylanchal Nagrik Manch during which they expressed protest against the imposition of same tax by different civic bodies including Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) and Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC). Talking to the Telegraph Online on Sunday, President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce, Amit Sahu alias Dipu Sahu who is also a founder of Jharia Chamber of Commerce said, “We have met different people’s representatives including Jharia MLA Purnima Singh; Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha; Dhanbad MP PN Singh over the issue of exorbitant demand of holding tax during last month but to no avail as only two days ago, a team of DMC carried out measurement of Dharamshala for the imposition of holding tax.” “Nowhere in the country, have two civic bodies applied the same tax but here in Jharia we are being forced to pay the same tax to different bodies,” said Sahu. Echoing sentiments, former councillor of ward number 37 of Jharia, Anup Sao said, “The difference between the holding tax rate of JMADA and DMC is huge as the DMC holding tax is more than five times the holding tax which is hitherto charged by JMADA.” “At a time when the income of everyone including the traders to servicemen have been badly affected due to retrenchment or recession such a huge tax will only compound the existing problem of the common people,” added Sao. “We want the Jamshedpur Model to the implemented in Dhanbad where instead of charging tax from the common people Tata Steel pays the tax to the Jamshedpur Utility Services Company,” said Sao. He also said as people in Jharia are compelled to face the brunt of the worst pollution in the country due to the reckless mining being carried out in various open cast mines of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), the holding tax should also be contributed by BCCL in Jharia like the same is paid by Tata Steel in Jamshedpur. “On the one hand, the facilities are being withdrawn from Jharia in the name of being located in the fire area while on the other hand new taxes are being imposed,” said a furniture trader, Rajkumar Agarwal and cited the example of RSP College, a lone degree college of the town which has been shifted from Jharia to distant Belgarhia area of Baliapur block in the name of underground fire beneath the college ground in Jharia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi to activate 5 e-waste collection points on Monday||Residents of the state capital will no longer be saddled with old, non-functional laptops and mobiles as five e-waste disposal centres will be operational in Ranchi from Monday, thanks to Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC). RMC deputy municipal commissioner Sanjay Yadav said the e-waste collection points are at Nagababa Khatal, Harmu, Morabadi, Kantatoli and Khelgaon. “All the collection points are set up at mini garbage transfer stations of the areas. They will become functional from Monday. We will collect both e-waste as well as other domestic hazardous waste there,” he said, adding the move was aimed at streamlining the waste disposal mechanism in Ranchi. Yadav said that under the solid waste management rules 2016, all wastes have to be segregated under biodegradable and non-biodegradable categories for effective disposal and to prevent environmental hazards. “This apart, there are e-waste management rules of 2016 which mandates scientific disposal of electronic waste that we generate. So, we are now working towards streamlining all kinds of waste collection and their scientific disposal,” he said. From next month, RMC is planning to introduce a radio frequency-enabled identification (RFID)-based door-to-door collection system. The civic body is in the process of roping in a specialised agency from Rajasthan to execute the plan. “Soon, we are going to sign an MoU in this regard after which we will make a formal announcement. Under the new system, we will be able to track on a real-time basis, the status of household garbage collection every day. In Ranchi, there are about 2 lakh households where we will roll out the technology-enabled waste collection,” he said. Yadav said RMC was exploring expert agencies for disposal of collected e-waste items. “Initially, we will only start collection of e-junk and gradually we will tie-up with an agency to ensure its effective disposal,” he said. According to RMC estimates, Ranchi generates around 4,000-tonne e-waste every year. “The figures could be more given the rise in use of technology in everyone’s lives,” said another official. E-waste is an emerging environmental concern nationally. In Jharkhand, Tata Steel, with the help of its own utility firm, JUSCO, set up an e-waste centre in Jamshedpur in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant's Netarhat trip put off after copter snag ||Chief Minister Hemant Soren had to cancel his trip to Netarhat School in Latehar on Sunday owing to technical snags in the helicopter which was supposed to fly him there, the CM informed in a tweet from his official Twitter handle. As per the CM’s schedule shared by the CMO, Hemant’s visit to the school was aimed at reviewing the infrastructure. Speculations were rife that the government would announce new schemes to improve the quality of education in the historic school and bring it on the international map. Hemant, while felicitating the toppers of class 10 and 12 board exams recently, had said that Netarhat School has produced over 2000 IAS officers, and Jharkhand takes pride in having an institution of such high stature. Admissions in Netarhat School is done through special entrance exams. On December 5, around 2700 students appeared for an entrance exam in class 6 of the reputed school in 25 centres across the state. So far, the school was under Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) and Bihar Board during the days of united Bihar-Jharkhand. However, the students of this school will be able to appear for CBSE exams 2021 onwards. During a visit to Netarhat School back in November, Hemant had said that the school already has the reputation of producing some of the best IAS officers, scientists, engineers and doctors serving the country. Now, it was time to give the school an international identity, he added. “The government will provide all possible support to take the school to new heights,” Hemant had said. Built in 1954, the school is spread over 460 acres of land, which makes it one of the largest schools in India in terms of area covered. “Another trip to Netarhat School will be planned soon,” the CM wrote in his tweet on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jayant Sinha appeals to develop Hazaribagh as innovation park cum knowledge city||Former union minister of state for civil aviation and Hazaribagh MP Jayant Sinha on Sunday wrote to chief minister Hemant Soren requesting him to develop education hub Hazaribagh as innovation park cum knowledge city. Identifying a 50-acre plot situated between Hazaribagh Medical College and Vinoba Bhave University, he said the land was best suited for it as it was currently lying unused. Sinha said after formation of Jharkhand, Hazaribagh got developed as an educational hub with large numbers of students from different cities coming here to pursue various degrees, postgraduates and professional courses available here. Sinha said to give a better shape to the career of these students and time has come to develop Hazaribagh on lines of an innovation park cum knowledge city. "We can give the best infrastructures here to invite companies setting up their units as well as BPOs. This will generate job opportunities here making these students work in their state only putting a check on migration," he said. Sinha said the 50-acre plot is best for this purpose as it is situated between two big institutions namely Vinoba Bhave University and Hazaribagh Medical College. Sinha stated if the state government will work on his suggestion, this will be the first of its kind project anywhere in Jharkhand. Moreover, it will also become an example as well as a role model for other states as well, he added. Sinha said in 2019 general elections, he promised to develop Hazaribagh into a knowledge city and so now he has started taking steps in this regard. “I met the university senior officials a few days ago and discussed with them on this proposal. Discussions with them were very positive,” he said.  Hazaribagh already became an education hub and so it’s time to work on this project, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Archery association to open its doors again||In a boost to archers who missed action in view of the pandemic, the Jharkhand Archery Association is set to resume its operations in February 2021, with already kicking off the required spadework. The institute has earmarked Jamshedpur, Bokaro and Ranchi to hold competitions among the sub-junior, junior and senior categories. The authority discussed the resumption of events and other issues in a meeting chaired bhai Association President and Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda at JRD Tata Sports Complex earlier this week. Munda has also held the role of the president of Archery Association of India (AAI), apart from being the state chief minister. Seraikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association secretary Suman Chandra Mohanty, who was present at the meeting, said they were seriously looking to resume competitions from February next year. “We are awaiting the state government’s Covid-related guidelines for resuming our programmes. We are told that the government would allow an assembly of 200, including players and officials, for a competition. The guidelines will be announced soon,” Mohanty said. Keeping in mind the criteria related to the guidelines, the authorities have decided to hold competitions for sub-junior, junior and senior separately at different venues, Mohanty, who is also the  joint secretary of AAI, said. “We have earmarked Jamshedpur, Bokaro and Ranchi for the state level championships. These venues would separately play host to the three competitions,” he explained. Earlier, the state championships involving sub-junior, junior and senior sections were held at a single venue and on the same dates. The official said that discussions regarding the spread of the sport across Jharkhand and channelising the skills of players were also held in the meeting. “Presently, archery is conducted in 15 districts but we intend to take the sport to rest of the nine districts, including Latehar,” he said. Separate officials will be appointed at the districts and data would be prepared of all the archers to give shape to the endeavour of the state archery outfit. Archers have found themselves deprived of activity ever since the activities were withheld due to the pandemic in March, and the association says it is important to bring them into action. “A sizable section of our archers are out of action for months now. In archery or any other sport, practice is key. By conducting state competitions the archers will find ample opportunity to try and fit into their groove once again,” an official of the Jharkhand Archery Association said. “The events will also pep up their confidence level and prepare them for other competitions to be conducted next year. The pandemic has already robbed our archers of a platform to showcase their talent. Covid has had a heavy blow on them,” the official, who wished to be anonymous, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: five districts report zero cases||Out of 24 districts in Jharkhand, at least five did not report any new case of Covid-19 on Saturday, while Ranchi and Dhanbad accounted for more than half of the close-to-200 cases recorded in the state over the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department showed. Of the 196 cases reported on the day, at least 80 were from Ranchi and 24 from Dhanbad. However, recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in both the districts, bringing the count of active cases down. At least 106 Covid patients recovered in Ranchi and 32 recovered in Dhanbad, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). According to government data, 288 patients in Jharkhand recovered from the infection,bringing the count of active cases down at 1,845. Dumka, Giridih, Gumla, Pakur and Koderma did not report even a single fresh case of infection on the day, state department data showed. East Singhbhum reported nine cases against 21 recoveries, while Bokaro reported 24 cases against 18 recoveries. At least 21 of the 24 districts reported a spike of less than 10 in the Covid caseload on the day, according to data. Meanwhile, one more patient, a resident of Ranchi, died of the infection on Saturday, taking the death toll up at 202 in Ranchi alone and that in the state to 979, the NHM further stated in its bulletin. East Singhbhum has reported 353 cases of fatalities triggered by Covid-19 infection so far, making it the highest among all districts. As per government data, at least 745 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by the end of Saturday. The count of active cases in East Singhbhum was 286. Government figures highlight that more than half of the active cases in Jharkhand were saturated in only two districts – Ranchi and East Singhbhum. On Saturday, the government tested swab samples of as many as 23,221 people and a little more than 0.5 per cent of them were found infected. Health workers in the state have so far collected swab samples of 43.35 lakh people and tested around 43.19 lakh of them. While the Covid-19 tally in the state was 1,10,186, at least 1,07,362 patients have recovered from the infection, data shows. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.41 per cent against the national average of 94.30 per cent. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.88 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent, while the doubling rate was 442.34 days. The growth rate in India was 0.32 per cent and the doubling rate was 213.92 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
