07-12-2020||Calcutta||Time to go beyond curriculum||Sushila Birla Girls’ School Students of Sushila Birla Girls’ School overcame the fear of pandemic as they recently took part in Daan Utsav like every year. Teachers, students and parents joined hands to serve the underprivileged and thus share the joy of giving just before the festive season. The drive was divided into three phases. In the first phase, a competition was conducted to generate awareness among everyone associated with the school. The second phase consisted of the donation of devices. The school could collect 92 mobile phones, nine tablets, the same number of desktops, 12 laptops, one television set and innumerable accessories, including earphones, headphones, keyboards and mouses. In the last phase, these devices were donated to four organisations — Arogya Sandhan; Kid’s Centre, Gariahat; RISE, Krishnanagar; and Upendra Vidyamandir, Sovabazar — that cater to the educational needs of the underprivileged children. “This year, Daan Utsav was celebrated in a special way. It was all about destroying the digital divide and enabling little children to continue their academic journey uninterrupted. This joyful act of giving is a powerful stimulus as it is empowering in the true sense of the term,” said principal A two-day fest, Shabdd-20, organised by Mahadevi Birla World Academy recently saw students from Calcutta and beyond connecting virtually over debates, fashion quiz, slam poetry, shadow puppetry and other events. Eleven schools, including one from Delhi, took part in a range of live and recorded events that celebrated diversity. The live events included Manthan, a three-round debate, and Metis from Milan, a quiz on fashion. The recorded ones also included a Bengali cookery competition. The guest of honour was Jayashree Mohta, the mentor of the school. The high point was Manthan, the debate. Birla Vidya Niketan, the school from Delhi, and The Heritage School went to the finals of Manthan. The motion for the final was “Satyamev Jayate sounds hollow in contemporary India”. The Delhi school spoke for the motion and won the debate. Entrepreneur Swati Gautam of Calcutta Debating Circle was the moderator. The host school emerged the overall winner in the fest. “This is a very special event. Acceptance is recovery. This fest exhibits the resilience and spirit of the students as they rise above the odds and a pandemic. They have shown how one must always try to rise and never yield,” said principal Anjana Saha. Pratt Memorial School recently celebrated their Founder’s Day with a church service and an online programme. The chief guest was Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Church of North India’s Calcutta Diocese. Like every year, the service was held at St James’ Church in the presence of a handful of teachers. “Students recorded songs from their homes and the Founder’s Day programme was uploaded on YouTube for the rest of the students,” said principal Carolyn Lionel. Twenty-five schools took part in a venture to find out the history of their schools as part of a hands-on project called Magic of My School. It was a pedagogical experiment to explore local history. Students explored the history of their own school by delving into old documents, records and journals, and by examining old artefacts and memories of those, who had been associated with their school for years. The year-long programme was initiated by Bichitra Pathshala, an organisation that has been promoting learning with moving images for a decade. It brings cinema into the classroom to make learning more joyful by organising film festivals and film-making workshops. The culmination of the project was celebrated on a virtual platform recently where those associated with the project or organisation shared their opinion about the importance of such a programme. The day also saw launching of the book, Schools of Kolkata: Weaving Magic in Education, in two volumes. The Volume I, titled The Magic of Kolkata Schools, gives an introduction of the 25 schools that took part in the project and the Volume II, titled From Tole to Tablet, focuses on the factors that formed the education scenario of the city. Bichitra Pathshala secretary Subha Das Mollick edited the book. “It was interesting to watch students taking interests in finding the history of their schools. As part of the project, we went to different schools, conducted workshops where we taught them how to take interviews, do research and the like. It was a gratifying experience for us to interact with students and know their idea of history,” said Mollick. A website named The Magic of My School was also launched on the occasion which bears testimony to the efforts taken by both students and teachers of the participating schools. “There are many takeaways from this project for all of us. One thing that I have learnt from this initiative is the more one knows, the more there is yet to know,” said Bichitra Pathshala president S.V. Raman. A reading challenge organised by the British Council spiced up the homebound lives of young bookworms considerably. Since August, kids of Bengal and Northeast took part in a challenge that required them to finish reading one e-book or listening to an audio version every week for three successive weeks as part of the Reading for Life programme. The challenge aims to motivate children between seven and 12 years to read more and grow as an engaged reader. The British Council had curated a special age-wise reading list for the purpose. The collection was available to the registered participants through the institution’s official website or via an app. The children were also involved in workshops, book reviews and discussions as part of the programme, to sharpen their communication and creative skills. The junior section of Birla High School, Moira Street, organised their annual field trip in a different manner this year. Each class had virtual educational field trips to different places around the globe. The nursery students went on a trip to the San Diego Zoo and Georgia Aquarium located in the US. They got to see an array of animals, birds, and fish and know about their habitat, food habits, and the importance of protecting all animals. A virtual jungle safari was in store for the kindergarten students as they visited the Sunderbans, Ranthambore, Kaziranga and the Gir forest. Students of Class I visited the Alipore Zoological Garden and the Singapore Zoo and students of Class II visited the chocolate museum in Brussels through Google Earth. For the students of classes IV and V, it was virtual trips to Delhi and Rome. “Field trips are an important part of our curriculum. It is an extension of learning and nothing beats the hands-on learning that kids experience when they visit a museum or a zoo. In the present situation, we are trying our best to make use of these virtual field trips for our kids. We use augmented reality and Google Earth for the same,” said Farida Singh, the headmistress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Weddings: video cassettes to digital||He is best known as the man who makes elegant wedding videos for the Gujarati and Marwari communities in Calcutta. Which has made him document the lives of the richest and the most famous. But Naren Goswami’s own life could make a rich Bollywood script, in which Bollywood itself plays a cameo. He has always been a passionate photographer and once, he was also a truck driver, informs Goswami, 72, a charming, gentle man, seated in the well-appointed drawing room of his flat in Keyatala in south Calcutta. Driving a truck took him far away from the “five-star” world he had inherited from his father. Goswami was born to a Gujarati family settled in Bhowanipore in the city. His father was a distributor of Hindi films in eastern India, who had in his bag the successful films  like Kismat (1969), featuring Bishwajeet and Babita and Victoria No. 203 (1972). It was not surprising that the son was drawn to the camera very early. About eight-years-old, Goswami was going around with a Sure-flex, taking pictures of whatever he liked. But not too many, as a child was entitled only to the end bits of a film. “There were only be 12 exposures from one reel,” said Goswami. The analog era had its own economy. By the time he was 13 or 14, and a student of Adarsh Hindi High School in Bhowanipore, he was part of the Photographic Association of Bengal, but yet not as a member as he was underage. He was later awarded lifetime membership of the organisation. At the association, he met several illustrious photographers: Benu Sen, Jyotish Chakraborty and D.S. Nahar. Raghu Rai would drop in. Sen was outstanding with the way he printed the photos, and Nahar would love to focus on rotting things, recalled Goswami. After studying at Umesh Chandra College, he got a taste of filmmaking. His father had invested heavily in Yeh Gulistan Hamara (1972), featuring Dev Anand and Sharmila Tagore, and Goswami spent a considerable time with the cast and crew in 1971 in Assam, where the film was shot. All this would come in handy. Life changed for the Goswami family as several films they had banked on, including Yeh Gulistan Hamara and Zalim (1980), another film they had invested in, sank at the box office. The distribution business stopped. Life hit rock bottom by the end of the 70s. Two things followed. Goswami became a regular visitor to the ISKCON temple in Calcutta, and for years, took several series of pictures of the idols, which is quite a collection. Two, he reinvented his family’s transport business, which, too, had collapsed. Goswami began to drive a truck that belonged to the family, carrying goods to every part of India, bathing in rivers, eating at dhabas. He was already married then, with a young family. His wife would feel scared. This was 1981. There were no cellphones. “But those were the best days of my life,”said Goswami. Only he could not carry his camera with him. Then life changed again, suddenly. In ’83, he took photographs of an engagement ceremony at the ISKCON temple in Calcutta. The photographs were liked so much that he was invited to Delhi to take the pictures of the wedding. “They paid me a fancy price and I took up wedding pictures and videos as my profession,” said Goswami. In the next few years, he became the go-to wedding videographer for the Gujarati and Marwari communities in Calcutta. “Families would even call me to ask about my availability before deciding on the wedding date,” Goswami said. These were the video cassette days. He caught on because his videos were different. At a time when the average wedding video was a crudely put together mishmash of garish stuff, Goswami kept his videos understated and clean. His style was “realistic”, the lighting unintrusive, the editing sleek. His camerawork was fine, he kept away from Hindi film songs mostly and used folk or traditional wedding songs and people looked like people, not a fluorescent version of themselves. “The lettering was special,” laughed his son Ketan, a digital entrepreneur. Goswami would make his son and daughter throw plastic letters on a surface and arrange them as he cleverly shot and edited the process for the title sequence of his videos. His videos were simple and stylish. He also did the wedding photographs. He worked with a team. As his work increased, he began to travel abroad regularly to keep himself upgraded. From the 80s Goswami began to attend Photokina, a trade fair for the photographic industry held in Cologne in Germany, to buy the latest equipment. He has attended the event till 2012. He was one of the first to introduce the DVD format to the Calcutta viewership. He would get the DVDs from the US. “Each cost Rs 3,000 at first,” he said. By the mid-90s, he had switched to the digital camera. By that the weddings, too, had upgraded and were becoming bigger and bigger. “Chefs would be flown in from Europe, flowers from Bangkok. At one wedding a chef was flown in from Japan to make sushis,” he said. Film stars would dance, cricket players would strut. In Calcutta, all this culminated in 1999, when industrialist L.N. Mittal’s son got married here. Goswami was the videographer. He had worked hard to get the job. “I heard that the Mittals were interviewing people. I went to London and met them,” said Goswami. Since then he has shot even bigger weddings. He has also been flown to Thailand, the US and Portugal, among other countries, for destination weddings. “Digital photography makes for very good picture quality,” said Goswami. But something is lost, he admits. “A film roll had 36 exposures, and for a wedding we would use five to 10 rolls,” said Goswami. “A video cassette would hold 120 or 180 minutes of recording. But digital photography just requires another chip. It allows endless photographs. The difference shows.” Digital media has also changed memory and one senses a little hurt in Goswami’s voice here. “People don’t look at wedding videos and photographs these days. Everyone takes pictures and all photographs are exchanged and put up on social media,” he said. “Often they call me as a ritual now.” Goswami is not on social media. And of late some have also said no to him. “Some young couples, wanting cocktail parties and the bachelor parties alongside their weddings, said no to me after seeing how old I was, though their parents had engaged me. The couples felt that they could not be themselves in my presence,” Goswami said. Not that he is planning to retire. Weddings have not stopped during lockdown and neither has his work. Plus he is digitising his older reel and video formats. One of them has a very young Kumaramangalam Birla singing at an event for Dev Anand, with the actor sitting in the front row.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Want back the country where we felt so wanted||A Muslim teacher who grew up in a railway colony remembered being decked out in her mother’s saris during Saraswati Puja. A Parsi author found Calcutta of yesteryears to be more inclusive than an elite US college. A lawyer activist cited several interfaith marriages in her circle in the past, long before “love jihad” was coined. A virtual session on Sunday saw speakers share personal experiences to demonstrate the diversity that makes India. They reminded the need to protect India’s secular and pluralistic fabric, especially in the wake of “divisive forces… threatening to tear apart the cohesive and peaceful co-existence”. “Celebrating Indian Diversity: Stories of Peace, Strength and Hope,” was a collaboration by Calcutta-based NGO Swayam and Know Your Neighbour, a movement to promote communal harmony. That the session was held on December 6, the day when Babri Masjid was demolished in 1992, was significant, organisers said. “December 6, 1992 is a blind spot on the secular fabric of India. We need to learn from mistakes,” said Sabir Ahamed of Know Your Neighbour. “No one group in India can claim to be the original Indian,” said Amrita Dasgupta of Swayam. Ahamed and Dasgupta moderated the session. Philip Vinod Peacock, a priest of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India, remembered growing up as a Christian in a “largely Sikh neighbourhood in Bombay”. “I had Bengali Brahmin friends. We had an Iranian refugee family as a neighbour. We frequented the gurdwara and eagerly waited for the langar there…. That is the kind of nationalism that I long for, not the new nationalism,” said Peacock, a former teacher at Bishop’s College in Calcutta. Anees Wahhab, a former teacher at Loreto House and an anchor for All India Radio, spoke of growing up in Kharagpur. “During Saraswati puja, I wore my mother’s sari. Holi was celebrated by everybody with fervour,” she said. “We want back the country where we felt so wanted.” Author, scholar and women’s rights activist Jael Silliman, 65, talked of growing up as a Baghdadi Jew in Calcutta. Silliman had her first sushi in Class VI. Her class was a mini-globe with Chinese, Italian, Iranian, English and Japanese students. Later, when she went to Wellesley College in Massachusetts, she was surprised to see “Indians at one table, English at another and gays and lesbians at another. “I moved across all the tables because of having grown up in Calcutta…. This cosmopolitan diversity was deeply ingrained in Calcutta psyche,” said Gillman. Sameena Dalwai, professor and assistant director, Centre for Women, Law and Social Change at the Jindal Global Law School, went back to many interfaith marriages in her social circle. One of them was between a Muslim girl and a Hindu Maratha boy. When the relatives of the girls went to see the bride off, they were “scared” to see pictures of “a goddess with her tongue out and a severed head”. But the relationships stayed strong, she said. Shashi Kapoor, an octogenarian volunteer with Swayam, traces her roots to Lahore. Her family shifted to Murshidabad first and then to Calcutta after the Partition. Her family had built a temple in Burrabazar. “A true Hindu would never say ‘don’t eat this or don’t wear this’,” said Kapoor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Two injured in Bypass car crash at night ||A man and a woman were injured when the car they were travelling in hit the median divider on EM Bypass, near Science City, around 2.25am on Sunday. Police said the owner of the car, Bhaskar Singh, 29, a resident of Danesh Sheikh Lane in Howrah, was at the wheel. With him was Ilora Das, 24, a resident of Kestopur. “A preliminary investigation suggests that the vehicle suddenly lost control and rammed into the median divider. The cause of the accident is yet to be ascertained,” said an officer of Calcutta police’s traffic department. The man and the woman were taken to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, from where their families shifted them to a nursing home in Shibpur, the police said. Senior officers in the traffic department said speeding was one of the causes of accidents between 11pm and 6am, a period marked with reduced police vigil on roads. “People tend to speed up on relatively empty roads at night, ignoring the condition of the road surface and the capacity of the vehicle’s engine,” said an officer of the rank of assistant commissioner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||South Point options for parents with dues||South Point school has sent a notice to the parents who have not paid their children’s fees from April to September, or even for earlier months, providing them some “additional recourse” to clear their dues. The notice from the principal says the school may consider additional fee waiver, staggered payment or extension of the deadline for clearing the dues. The notice has been sent to around 250 parents. To avail themselves of the “additional recourse”, the parents have to apply to the school by December 19, mentioning the reasons for non-payment and “the nature of benefit being sought”. The plea will be considered only if the reason for non-payment is “strictly attributable to the pandemic”. “We understand that the present economic situation caused by the pandemic is quite stressful for many persons and for the same reason, you might also be facing difficulties in clearing the entire outstanding amount. It is also possible that you require some more time to clear the dues and are in need of additional waivers,” the notice says. The school has cited a Calcutta High Court order in October, which gave liberty to schools to bar students whose fees would remain unpaid till November 30 from classes. In the same order the court had asked private schools to waive 20 per cent of the tuition fees between April 2020 and one month after the schools would resume on-campus classes. “However, we would like to take utmost care and caution while taking such an extreme step (disallowing students from classes) and would like to provide parents all opportunities to clear the unpaid dues in respect of their child’s school fees,” the notice says. “In order to enable such parents to fully clear their dues, the school may consider providing: 1 additional waiver of fee, or 2. Facility of staggered payment, or 3. Extension of time needed to clear the dues.” The parents’ applications will be evaluated by a committee set up by the school. “The committee will comprise a parent, a teacher and a representative of the finance department of the school,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of the school. The parents who will not make any application by December 19 are required to clear the dues till November by that date. If they fail to make an application or clear their dues, the school “will be constrained to assume that they are no longer interested in continuing their ward’s enrollment and the school may strike off the name of such students from its rolls in terms of the existing rules,” the notice says. “This is an unprecedented step and as a school we also have to keep the interest of the child in mind. We do not want children to suffer because of circumstances not under their control and we also believe that parents will not default without any reason. So instead of being mechanical about it we want to give parents more opportunities to pay,” said Damani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Goods carriers set to  ply on Majerhat bridge ||The newly-built Majerhat bridge will soon be open to loaded trucks and other goods vehicles, which are barred from plying over most flyovers and bridges across Calcutta. Since its inauguration last Thursday, Calcutta police have been keeping heavy and medium goods vehicles away from the Majerhat bridge, christened Jai Hind bridge. On Sunday, senior police officers said they were open to allowing heavy goods vehicles on the bridge after engineers certified that most of the components of the structure were performing according to the expectation. The state government had declared most flyovers and bridges out of bounds for goods vehicles after the collapse of the old Majerhat bridge in September 2018. A committee of engineers set up by the government had inspected the flyovers and bridges and found that most were not strong enough to bear the load of goods vehicles. Senior officials in the PWD said that over the past three days, engineers had been monitoring the performance of the cables of the Majerhat bridge, which hold the deck slab over the railway tracks, and the piers, which transfer the structure’s load to the ground. The study has left the engineers confident that goods vehicles can move over the bridge, built at a cost of Rs 300 crore. “We have observed the performance of the different components of the bridge and the results are satisfactory,” said a PWD official. “We will revisit the bridge on Monday with police and finalise the movement plan for goods vehicles.” The 260-metre-long deck slab of the bridge remains suspended by 84 cables brought from Switzerland. Ahead of the inauguration, a load of 534 tonnes was mounted on the bridge and the engineers were happy with the outcome. The cables that hold the deck slab are now subjected to the load equivalent to 40 per cent of their capacity and the engineers feel there is no immediate challenge to the bridge if goods vehicles are allowed on it. “We will soon come out with a notification regarding the movement of goods vehicles on the Majerhat bridge. The timings will remain the same as followed for thoroughfares of Calcutta,” said Rupesh Kumar, the deputy commissioner of police, traffic. Primarily, it has been decided that goods vehicles of all types that are headed for Thakurpukur or further south will be allowed on the Majerhat bridge from 10pm till early morning. Apart from that, medium and light goods vehicles moving in either direction will be allowed on the bridge between noon and 4pm. Trailers and very heavy goods vehicles from south will never be allowed on the bridge. “Parts of Hide Road, Central Garden Reach Road and Garden Reach Road have been struggling for the last two years, since the collapse of the old bridge, with the additional vehicle load,” said a police officer. “Once goods vehicles are allowed to move down the Majerhat bridge, these roads will get a relief.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Pandemic forces Jadavpur University  to scrap convocation||Jadavpur University will not hold its convocation this year because of Covid-19 and the degree certificates will be distributed on digital platforms, officials of the institute said. The decision to do away with the convocation, usually held on December 24 at the open air theatre on the campus, was taken by the university’s executive council at a meeting held virtually onSunday. “We will not be able to hold the convocation because of the pandemic. We will upload the digital version of the degree certificates on the National Academic Depository so that the students could download them on December 24. The university will issue a notification informing the graduating students about the mechanism,’’ vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said. The depository is a digital database of academic awards provided by the education ministry. “If a recipient wants a hardcopy of the certificate, the university will have it delivered to him or her through courier,” Das said. A member of the council said it had been left to the VC to decide whether a token programme would be held on December 24 and the recipients asked to collect the certificates in a staggered way the same day. “A committee comprising the vice-chancellor and the deans of engineering, science and humanities has been constituted to take a final decision on this issue,’’ said an official. “Health experts are apprehending that the virus could become more virulent during winter. So, we cannot risk any assembly on the campus now,” he said. JU has not charged the graduating students the convocation fee of Rs 500. About 4,000 students have graduated this year. The convocation fee is collected to distribute gowns to the recipients and prepare the laminated degree certificates. An official of Calcutta University said they too, are, planning to avoid the traditional convocation because of the pandemic. “The pandemic is raging even in winter. So, it is unlikely the ceremony will be held in a physical mode. We will decide on the alternative mechanism, soon,” a CU official said. Presidency University is likely to distribute digital degree certificates through the National Academic Depository next year, as it did this year, sources said. It had scrapped the convocation in February amid the buzz that it was reluctant to invite governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to the event. The governor had then faced students’ protests on campuses because of his views on the citizenship matrix.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||New Town fires take a toll on winged residents and guests||The frequent fires on grasslands of New Town mean health hazards for residents. For many winged residents of the grasslands, they mean loss of life, home and food. Dried grass and shrubs are being regularly set on fire on empty plots in New Town and over a dozen fires have been reported in the past few weeks. The grasslands and marshlands in the township and the adjoining Rajarhat are home to a wide variety of birds and an annual winter destination for many migratory birds. Many nests have been burnt because of the frequent fires in grasslands, said birders who frequent the areas. The number of insects and rodents that live in the grasslands, a steady source of food for the birds, has also depleted. Several nests with chicks were burnt on a patch of grassland, popularly known as the Red Munia field, behind the Mother's Wax Museum, opposite Eco Park, on Friday. The day before, there was a huge fire on a grassland near the Owl More, where a lot of birds nest. “There was dense smoke all around and a large patch of grassland was gutted. The nests could not be differentiated from the ashes,” said Arka Sarkar, a birder who has been to the grasslands several times. According to birdwatchers, the grasslands are home to many birds because they provide a steady food supply. The birds include seed eaters like various species of munias and weavers. They are also home to insectivorous birds like Pipit, Lark, Eurasian Wryneck, Siberian Rubythroat and birds of prey which feed on rodents such as Black Shouldered Kite, Indian Spotted Eagle, Common Kestrel and Pied Harrier, among others. Birders fear that the inexorable loss of habitat because of fires would turn away birds for a long time. Souvik Roychoudhury, another New Town-based birdwatcher, recorded two men pouring fuel into a burning fire in a grassland opposite an eatery, near the Shrachi junction. “Adult birds can fly to safety but the young ones cannot escape,” said Roychoudhury. He has shared the video on Facebook. Subhankar Patra, who runs a Facebook birdwatching group called SundayWatch, said that although it was fascinating that birds were still coming in numbers to New Town, whose skyline adds several highrises every year, the fires are dangerous for the birds. “All the birds that come here are losing their habitat, which provides them with shelter and a source of food. After a grassland is burnt, it eventually regrows, but it takes time to have the same diversity as it did before,” said Patra. According to him, the fires like in other places of the state are set by people who want to drive away snakes and reduce vegetation so that they and their livestock can move around freely. Although New Town has almost no farmlands, cattle herders often head to the grasslands to let their cows and buffaloes feed. Metro reported on Saturday that the New Town authorities had formed a cell that would use drones to conduct aerial surveillance over grasslands and empty plots in a bid to stop people from lighting fires.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Covid halts IISER research for 21 days||The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Kolkata, has decided that all research activities will remain suspended for 21 days from Monday because of a rise in the number of Covid cases on the campus, an official of the institute said. The administrative committee of the Kalyani institute had on December 4 discussed the Covid situation with members of the students’ affairs council and decided to suspend research activities. “From December 7 till December 27, the research complex, TRC, AAC Building, library and computer centre will be closed for the students. Faculties are allowed to enter respective offices as usual,” reads a circular issued by the dean of students’ affairs. The circular says the situation will be reviewed on December 18. In-person classes at the institute have been suspended since March as a precaution against Covid. Research has been allowed to resume, in compliance with the Centre’s Unlock guidelines. The institute had recalled students, who are mostly pursuing the MS programme and vacated the campus before the onset of the lockdown, to the campus in October. As for the remaining scholars, a decision will be taken later. “Remaining PhD/IPhD (integrated PhD)/16 MS (master of science) will be notified in due course for their campus entry,” the circular states. The dean of students affairs, Balaram Mukhopadhyay, said they would take stock of the situation every week before taking a call on the next course of action. “Although the circular says the situation will be reviewed on December 18, we will assess the situation each week,”  Mukhopadhyay told Metro. The researchers and other students who are on the campus have been asked to remain confined in their hostels so long research activities will remain suspended. All of them will be tested for Covid. Since the testing facility set up on the IISER campus last month had to be disbanded following a row with students, the institute will use the facility on the campus of the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology in Haringhata. The tech university campus is less than 5 km from the IISER. Two research scholars at the IISER had last month been suspended allegedly because they questioned the institute’s handling of Covid testing on the campus. They had wanted to know why the canteen staff were not being tested for Covid-19. According to the circular, the day scholars who don’t stay in hostels will only be allowed to enter the campus to collect food (if needed) from the canteen. “They are not allowed to enter the hostels or roam around the campus,” the circular says. The IIT Kharagpur campus had remained closed from September 6 to 20 following an increase in the number of Covid cases on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Optional foreign travel rises||Non-essential international travel from Calcutta has started picking up again, although slowly, airlines and tour operators said. People are travelling to the US and the UK to visit family members, while tourists, traders and a few businessmen are travelling to places like Dubai. Destination weddings are taking place, too, and couples who will tie the knots soon are planning their honeymoon in foreign locations. The Covid-19 pandemic had stalled air travel from the end of March to the end of May. Domestic flights resumed after that but international flights were initially not operating. Officials at the Calcutta airport said evacuation flights under the Centre's Vande Bharat scheme started bringing back stranded passengers to the city in July, and in September resumed commercial flights under the air bubble transport scheme. Airlines and tour operators said international travel from Calcutta was not significant when air bubble flights started. But now it is picking up, they said. Jayanti Neogi, a resident of Ganesh Chandra Avenue, is flying on Monday to Boston in the US, via Delhi and Newark, on an Air India flight to visit her son. “She was supposed to visit her son in the summer of 2020 but could not because of the pandemic,” said a family member. Tour operators said they were even having chartered flights from Calcutta, which are having good bookings. On December 15, a chartered flight is scheduled to leave for the Maldives. A consortium of travel agents has hired the 183-seat aircraft from Vistara. One of the agents said the tickets had all sold out. Businessman Shubham Bubna, who is getting married to Prarthana Gupta on December 11, has booked two seats on the flight for their honeymoon. “We had planned to defer our honeymoon till next year. But then I got this package to the Maldives. The rate is almost one third of what it was before the pandemic,” said Bubna. Tour operators said non-essential international travel had been picking up, slowly, since the end of October. “People are tired of staying at home for months and are desperate to travel. We have been getting queries since October and travel has now started,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. Air India’s once-a-week direct flight to London was not having a good response initially. The airline had to reduce the frequency from twice to once a week. The spokesperson for the airline said occupancy had started rising slowly. Calcutta-based structural engineer Moin Bin Moksud recently travelled to the UK and Dubai for business purposes. He returned to the city on Friday. “I have an office in Dubai. Throughout the lockdown and even after that, we were giving online presentations to clients. But now, since flights have resumed, I have travelled to the UK and Dubai,” Moksud said. Airport and airline officials said there were only a handful of business and corporate travellers among passengers going to international destinations. Most are travelling to visit family members and there are some leisure travellers, too. “Quarantine rules are strict in certain countries. Only those people are travelling to those countries who have family members there,” said Kaushik Bhattacharya, the director of the Calcutta airport. “Tourists are travelling to other countries.” “Our direct flights from Delhi to five destinations in the US and eight in the UK are doing well,” said the Air India spokesperson. Airport officials said the twice-a-week Emirates flights between Calcutta and Dubai was having 80 per cent of its business and first class seats booked. The occupancy in the economy class seats is about 70 per cent on an average. The demand for Dubai has also gone up because traders who used to shop from Thailand and Hong Kong are going there, said airlines. Flights to Bangkok and Hong Kong have not been restored||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta schools await parents’ reopen nod ||A consent from the state government to reopen schools may not be enough to resume in-person classes, parents have to feel comfortable about sending their children to school, the heads of several institutions have said. Parents have to be part of the decision-making and they will have to decide whether it is “safe enough” to send their children to school amid the pandemic, a principal said. A day after the ICSE council had on December 2 requested all chief ministers to allow schools to “reopen partially” — for the students of Classes X and XII - from January 4, several schools started thinking how to tackle the issue. A number of school heads said it was a “difficult choice” for parents — many might still be scared to send their children to class and at the same time worried that not doing so would result in the students missing out on practical and “doubt clearing” sessions. “Even if schools reopen and we are allowed to resume in-person classes, we will have to provide an alternative dates for practicals. If we are taking the consent we cannot possibly force them to come to school,” a principal said. At least two heads said online and in-person classes would have to be held simultaneously because not all children might be in a position to go to school while the pandemic is still raging. St James’ School said they would have to take a declaration from parents that their children were fit enough to attend school. Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’, said: “It has to be the parents’ call whether they can send their child to school.” Loreto House said the consent from parents was important because they would have to face the consequences if anything untoward happened. Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House, said the parents’ consent was important because the “responsibility of the child coming to school will largely rest with the parents”. Heritage School, too, will seek parents’ consent before resuming on-campus classes. Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School, said:  “We’d not like children to come to school unless their parents are confident that it is safe for them.” Modern High School for Girls said they would need to know how many students were ready to attend in-person sessions to organise classes. Calcutta Girls’ High School will draw up a roster for students to attend practical classes in batches. An official in the education department said the state government would have to weigh the “pros and cons” of reopening campuses before announcing its stand on the ICSE council’s request. “The government is yet to reopen colleges and universities because there is no certainty that there will be no more surge in coronavirus cases in the state,” the official said. “Any decision on reopening of schools will give rise to the question whether it is right to do so at  a time college and university campuses are still closed…. Also, whatever decision the government takes should apply to all boards,” the official said. Schools also feel that feedback from parents was important for them to prepare for reopening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty hit fresh lifetime highs in opening session||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points and Nifty crossed the 13,300 level to touch their fresh lifetime peaks in early trade on Monday tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, ITC and HUL amid persistent foreign fund inflow. After touching a record intra-day high of 45,245.30, the 30-share BSE index was trading 150.78 points or 0.33 per cent higher at 45,230.33. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 48.35 points or 0.36 per cent up at 13,306.90. It touched its lifetime intra-day peak of 13,310.85 in early trade. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by ITC, ICICI Bank, Bharti Airtel, HUL, UltraTech Cement and Asian Paints. On the other hand, HDFC Bank, Titan, Kotak Bank, HCL Tech and TCS were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 446.90 points or 1 per cent higher at 45,079.55, while Nifty finished 124.65 points or 0.95 per cent higher at 13,258.55 -- its record closing high. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,969.59 crore on a net basis on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. The Reserve Bank's commitment to ensure a broad-based growth by maintaining a dovish tone continued to bode well for equities, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, positive progress on COVID-19 vaccination and increased visibility of fiscal stimulus in the US may continue to attract FPIs into emerging markets including India, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.41 per cent lower at USD 49.05 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||Firms take 5-year digital leap due to pandemic||The demands of Covid-19 on the workplace — on account of employees being forced to work from their homes because of the lockdown — have accelerated the course of digital adaption among companies with as much as 80 per cent of their incremental expenditure in the near term being utilised on this count, a Nasscom report said. The report, titled “Future of Technology Services – Navigating the New Normal”, prepared by McKinsey for Nasscom, said there had been an extensive acceleration in digital adaption by enterprises and that there was a potential increase in outsourcing intensity because  of remote working. The report said digital transformation deals had seen a 30 per cent jump; cloud spending by 80 per cent; along with a  15 per cent rise in customer experience. The outsourcing budget, especially in digital and cloud, is expected to increase in the next 12-18 months as enterprises look to rebalance their technology priorities. These are contributing to the faster than expected recovery for the technology services industry, and top Indian technology service providers have performed better than analyst estimates in the second quarter of 2020-21. A class of operators, referred in the report as Tech Natives and Digital Reinventors, with revenue of over $3 billion, have driven 65 per cent of the about $6 trillion growth in market capitalisation between January and July 2020, highlighting that technology is now core to future business recovery. Nasscom president Debjani Ghosh said “the next 10 years will be different from the past and require all stakeholders to develop strategies and insights to identify new opportunities and mitigate the risks. To ensure faster recovery, companies need to develop a two-part response to the evolving landscape: near term plan of action and long-term strategic rethinking.” “The report suggests that the world has leapfrogged on digital adaption by 3-5 years in the last 9 months. We are seeing an increased emphasis on digitisation across verticals and our analysis shows that 80 per cent-plus of the near-term spending may be driven by Covid-19 resilient digital offerings,” McKinsey & Company Senior Partner and Global Leader (Analytics) Noshir Kaka said. The strategic gameboard has changed tremendously in the last nine months and agile companies have made the most of this by reimagining the way they look at growth (micro verticals, customer segments, geographies etc.) and are re-wiring their operating models for the new normal, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||Health insurance is a viable financial risk mitigation tool||Health insurance as an annual investment tool is gaining prominence among Indians. The ones with health cover benefitted from its coverage during the Covid-19 phase. For the others, the risk of incurring out-of-pocket expenses drove them to the realisation that health insurance is a viable financial risk mitigation tool. As people realise that against a nominal premium, they can save themselves financial liabilities running up to a few lakhs, insurance companies are witnessing a surge in health insurance related inquiries. With changing market dynamics, health insurers are coming up with several coverage options that one must consider before getting themselves a health insurance. Here are the top five options. Super cumulative bonus Health insurance is usually an annual policy. In case one does not make a claim during the policy period, the insurance company offers a reward at the time of renewal by increasing the policy coverage limit by a certain percentage, called the cumulative bonus. Earlier, it used to be 10-15 per cent every policy year but given the medical inflation, these days insurance companies are offering much higher percentages. Let’s understand this with an example. Mr X had opted for a coverage limit of 5 lakh for his health insurance policy and started at an early age. He incurred no claims in the first year, and so earned a super cumulative bonus of 50 per cent on the base amount, thus increasing his coverage up to Rs 7.5 lakh. He did not face any claims in the second year also and so he again received a 50 per cent super cumulative bonus on the original coverage limit, thus increasing it to Rs 10 lakh. This is double of what he had opted for while buying the policy. In the event of claim, his cumulative bonus may get reduced by 10 per cent of the basic sum insured at the subsequent renewal. Recharge option This is a benefit that will help one if they have exhausted the coverage limit of their health insurance policy in the event of a claim. For example, Mr X had opted for a sum insured limit of Rs 5 lakh at the time of buying a policy. He then faced a health emergency and the bill amount from the hospital exceeded the sum insured and amounted to Rs 6 lakh. Here, since his policy offered a recharge benefit, the same got triggered. This benefit is expressed as a percentage. Let’s say for this particular policy, the recharge benefit was 20 per cent. So, once the Rs 5-lakh benefit was exhausted, Mr X got an additional recharge of 20 per cent of Rs 5 lakh, that is Rs 1 lakh without any additional premium. This facility cushioned him when his hospital expenses exceeded his coverage limits. Thus, the client’s claim for Rs 6 lakh gets covered here at no extra cost at point of claim. Reinstatement benefit This is like opting for a back-up insurance within one’s existing insurance plan. This benefit comes at an added cost, but is immensely helpful in case one exhausts all his or her opted coverage amount. For example, Mr X opts for a coverage of Rs 5 lakh and exhausts the policy limit while treating a serious injury from an accident. Later in the year, he gets hospitalised for Dengue, but since he had exhausted his limit, he would have to incur the expenses from his pocket for any further medical treatments. Here, the reinstatement benefit, if already opted/covered at the time of policy inception, is a great boon. With this facility, even after one exhausts the entire sum insured limit, the policy coverage gets restored back to Rs 5 lakh. However, one should check if the same illness is covered and is there’s any waiting period on the reinstatement. Infinite sum insured Sum insured is the health insurance coverage limit that one opts for in his or her health insurance policy. As Mr X chose Rs 5 lakh as his coverage for health insurance, this is his sum insured. Now there are policies in the market where one gets an option to choose an infinite sum insured. For this, one has to first choose a coverage limit according to the per day room rent option which may range from Rs  3,000-Rs 50,000. The policy then offers 100 times of the chosen per day room rent limit as the coverage limit. So, if Mr X chose Rs 10,000 as the per day room rent, the coverage will be up to 100 times, that is up to Rs 10 lakh. However, in this policy the coverage and the claim amount doesn’t end there. If Mr X’s claim amount exceeds beyond the limit of 100 times, then he has to share a certain percentage for the remaining claim amount with his insurance company. This sharing of claim amount is call “co-pay” and it is usually a percentage. A co-payment of 15 per cent, 20 per cent, or 25 per cent may be opted for an infinite sum insured policy, and this co-payment percentage has to be chosen by the insured at the time of policy purchase. Wellness benefits Insurers reward their customers in various ways such as discounted outpatient consultations or treatments, health check-ups and also membership in fitness centres. This additional feature not only encourages customers to lead a healthy lifestyle, but also enables them to monetise the reward points earned by following the wellness regime. This helps one to achieve the twin objectives of good health and an affordable insurance. The writer is MD & CEO, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||Work from home suits introverts more||Startek, an NYSE-listed BPO company, is exploring the possibility of factoring in the personality traits of employees as part of a transition to a hybrid model of both brick-and-mortar offices and work-from-home option. Startek had taken over the operation of Indian BPO firm Aegis in 2018. Speaking at Infocom 2020, the flagship event of ABP group, Mario Baddour, global chief operating officer, Startek Inc, said though firms have implemented a work-from-home model, not every employee is thriving at the home environment. “There is an increase in an awareness of where our team members stand in terms of who is an introvert and who is an extrovert. Based on that we are making assessments on whether these types of employees will continue to work from home or come back to a brick-and-mortar offices as we build the hybrid setup. I think introverts are thriving, they are self learners and like to be at home and we are seeing the performance of that group that we have not seen in the past in a brick-and-mortar environment,” Baddour said while speaking at a session in conversation with Ambarish Dasgupta, senior partner and founder, Intueri Consulting LLP. Baddour said that remote work requires a significant amount of self motivation for individuals accustomed to 8-9 hours of office work, without the social aspects of working in a team and without a manager to prioritise schedules. “Extroverts are struggling a bit and we are helping them cope in that setup,” he said, adding video sessions on coping mechanisms and split shifts with breaks in routine to help employees socialise are among some of the solutions the company is considering. The company is also using technology based solutions available to gauge the mood of the employees throughout the day. “One of the things that we use is a sad face, happy face and neutral face and the employee can click on that in the pop-up screen. This gives us feedback on our different centres and leaders can see the level of mood for each team and each employee and can act on that,” said Baddour. But critics point out that compartmentalisation of employees based on personality may turn out to be effective in the short run, but cannot constitute a sustainable human resource policy. “This could be a kind of implicit and even explicit branding of employees and sending such a signal to the larger workforce will be detrimental. Sensitive people will react in a manner that might even be a productivity debilitating shock,” KR Shyam Sundar, professor at XLRI, Jamshedpur, told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||Mittal wins reprieve in payment to OSPIL||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has stayed a lower court order which had directed ArcelorMittal India Pvt Ltd (AMIPL) to pay Rs 1,308.87 crore to Odisha Slurry Pipeline Infrastructure Ltd (OSPIL) in a matter related to the insolvency case of Essar Steel India Ltd. A bench comprising Justice Bansi Lal Bhat, the acting chairperson of NCLAT, and Justice Anant Bijay Singh granted an ad-interim stay on Friday on the payment which had to be made by December 15, 2020, till the next hearing. The case will be listed “for admission (after notice)” on January 22, 2021. Senior advocate Harish Salve appeared for AMIPL, which was the successful resolution applicant for Essar Steel, and the 60 per cent shareholder of ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India Ltd (AMNS), the present avatar of ESIL. Salve argued that in terms of the impugned order, the appellant has been directed to make the payment of the aforesaid charges as CIRP (corporate insolvency resolution process) costs to an entity which had not claimed it during the CIRP of ESIL or even thereafter. The Ahmedabad bench of NCLT had passed the order in favour of Calcutta-based Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd which litigated the matter. Srei was a creditor to OSPIL and a fund managed by an entity linked to Srei is the majority shareholder of the pipeline company too. A Srei spokesperson said: “Everyone has the right to appeal against a judgment. However, even in the higher court, the final decision is always taken based on the merit of the matter. We are confident that NCLAT shall be appreciating the relevant facts in its proper light during the course of the proceedings.” OSPIL owns a 253-kilometre pipeline connecting an iron ore beneficiation plant at Debuna to a pellet plant at Paradip in Odisha. It is a critical infrastructure to source raw material for Essar Steel, now AMNS India. After OSPIL failed to make the payments to its creditors because of the default in payment by erstwhile Essar Steel, it also faced bankruptcy. AMIPL became the successful resolution applicant of OSPIL by paying Rs 2,350 crore in March this year. Srei has challenged the AMIPL plan and the matter is pending before NCLAT. AMIPL had taken over Essar Steel in December last year by agreeing to pay Rs 42,000 crore to the lenders and then forged a joint venture with Japan’s Nippon Steel. The Srei spokesperson further added: “Srei has always maintained that Essar should have paid the outstanding RTU (right to use) charges to OSPIL. Consequent to Essar’s resolution, the successful resolution applicant ought to have paid the outstanding RTU charges as CIRP cost in terms of its own approved resolution plan. “If the payments were made in a timely manner, OSPIL would have serviced its debts due to its lenders and there would have been no occasion for it to be taken for insolvency as the lenders/shareholders of OSPIL would not have suffered any losses. The NCLT judgment simply recognised this reality in a fair and balanced manner.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||Vivad Se Vishwas: tax amnesty leeway||Entities filing declaration under the direct tax dispute resolution scheme “Vivad Se Vishwas” can revise them till the time tax authorities issue certificate mentioning details of tax arrear and the amount payable, the income tax department has said. Issuing a set of FAQs on “Vivad Se Vishwas” scheme, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) also said the scheme cannot be availed in a case where proceedings are pending before Income Tax Settlement Commission (ITSC) or where writ has been filed against the order of ITSC. The CBDT also clarified that in a case where Mutual Agreement Procedure (MAP) resolution is pending or the assessee has not accepted MAP decision, the related appeal shall be eligible under “Vivad se Vishwas”. “In such case, the declarant will be required to withdraw both MAP application and appeal,” it added. The I-T department also clarified that a taxpayer would be eligible for making declarations in cases where the Authority for Advance Ruling (AAR) has ruled in favour of the taxpayer and the department has filed appeal before the High Court/Supreme Court and the total income of the taxpayer was quantified before AAR. “Yes, the taxpayer is eligible since the income is quantifiable. In such case, since the issue is covered in favour of taxpayer, only 50 per cent of the disputed tax is payable,” the CBDT said. The latest deadline for making payment under the Vivad Se Vishwas scheme is March 31, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||Red flag over Indian start-up status||In perhaps the first warning by a significant start-up curator against “flipping”, a Naukri.com and Zomato investor has said foreign funds are the new East India Company that are colonising successful start-ups in India by transferring ownership overseas to skip Indian regulations and taxes. Internet entrepreneur Sanjeev Bikhchandani says an estimated Rs 17 lakh crore of market cap has been transferred abroad after young Indian start-ups were forced to shift their company domicile overseas by foreign investors promising the funds they need for growth. “Shades of the East India Company type of situation here — Indian market, Indian customers, Indian developers, Indian workforce. However 100% foreign ownership, foreign investors. IP and data transferred overseas. Transfer pricing issues foggy,” he tweeted. “Basically institutionalised transfer of wealth away from India while living off the Indian market and Indian labour somewhat like the days of the Company rule.” Profits from such “global exploitation” of intellectual property (IP) created in India by Indians retained overseas. “Tax to Indian govt on such profits??? Indian investors shut out,” he tweeted. Reached for comments on his tweets, Bikhchandani, whose BSE-listed firm Info Edge (India) owns job search portal naukri.com, matrimony site jeevasathi.com and real estate search engine 99acres.com, said flipping is externalising a company. “You take an Indian start-up and transfer ownership of all its shares to an overseas company that has been usually freshly floated just for this purpose. So now the Indian company becomes a 100 per cent subsidiary of the overseas entity,” he said. All shareholders will own shares in that overseas company, including the founders, employees and current and past investors. This is accompanied by transfer of all IP and data hitherto owned by the Indian company. “All IP developed and all data captured by the Indian entity in the future will also belong to the overseas entity,” he said. “This overseas company is substantially outside of Indian jurisdiction and the influence of Indian regulators.” While foreign funds are most welcome, the government and its regulations must insist that data and the IP belong to the Indian subsidiary and cannot be owned by the overseas entity, particularly in sensitive sectors, he said. Bikhchandani, a Padma awardee whose company also owns stakes in online food delivery outfit Zomato and insurance marketplace policybazaar.com, said if this flipping option was not available, most investors would invest in Indian start-ups regardless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||India is set for a fintech boom over the next 10 years||India is set for a fintech boom over the next 10 years, propped by factors such as its demography, improving digitisation trends, tech savviness and enablers such as Aadhaar or the Unified Payments Interface (UPI). Fintech. which refers to the use of technology in financial services, has witnessed robust growth over the past few years following the extensive use of internet and smartphones. The segment initially offered services such as mobile or DTH recharges or digital wallets. The service bouquet has now extended to lending, insurance and even wealth management. According to a BofA Securities report, the solid growth rate seen so far will sustain over the next decade because of factors such as low per capita (which will grow as the economy recovers), the demographic dividend in the form of more than 400 million millenials, more and more people taking to digitisation, a maturing ecosystem and enablers such as Aadhaar. The brokerage estimates the transaction volume in the digital payment market to grow 3.8 times to around $300 billion in 2024-25 from $80 billion in 2020-21 . Within fintech, in the B2C (business to consumer) segment, there are three categories. The first category comprises close to 25 million of the workforce who fall in the top bracket. Most of them are early adopters and are less price sensitive. The next 25 million workforce are gradually adopting technology and transacting online. Of the rest, there are 200-300 million people who may transition into middle-class and then there are those who rely on direct benefit transfer which are unlikely to be the target market for fintechs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||2-wheelers ride to recovery||The two-wheeler industry seems to be on a steady path of recovery as companies post double-digit growth year-on-year in November preceded by a good show over the past few months. Need for personal mobility in the face of the pandemic has fuelled demand for two-wheelers, a sector that had been adversely affected by several factors since last year such as price hike under the new emission regime, technology change and hike in insurance charges. Leading the charge is Hero MotoCorp Ltd, the world’s largest two-wheeler manufacturer, that sold 5,91,091 two-wheeler units in November 2020, a growth of 14.4 per cent over the corresponding month of the previous year. The company sold more than 14 lakh units in the 32-day period starting from Navratri till Bhai-Duj. Honda, which has the second-largest market share in two-wheelers, saw its total sales grow 9 per cent to 4,33,206 units in November 2020 compared with 3,96,399 units a year ago. Bajaj Auto posted a growth of 12 per cent year-on-year in November at 3,84,993 units against 3,43,446 units in the corresponding month a year ago. Domestic sales were up 7 per cent at 1,88,196 units compared with 1,76,337 units a year ago. Exports has grown 18 per cent. Yamaha Motor India announced that total sales have increased 35 per cent to 53,208 units in November this year compared with 39,406 units  in November 2019. The company has been reporting growth in its sales volumes consecutively over the past four months, following the lifting of the Covid-19 induced lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||Prashant Jhawar pares Usha Martin stake||The Prashant Jhawar family, the aggrieved promoter group of steel wire rope maker Usha Martin Ltd, has offloaded a fresh lot of shares in the open market, widening the gap with the other faction of the family. The company informed the bourses last week that Peterhouse Investments Ltd, based in Guernsey, UK, sold 750,000 shares, paring the family faction’s stake by 0.25 per cent. Peterhouse is a promoter group company linked to Prashant Jhawar. After the latest share sale, the Prashant Jhawar-Basant Jhawar camp’s holding has dipped to around 22 per cent. Sources said this meant that the promoter group headed by Rajiv Jhawar-Brij Jhawar now has a clear margin of around 9 per cent. Prashant Jhawar could not be reached for comment on the latest development. The father-son duo has been paring their stake in UML shortly after the company sold the steel plant to Tata Steel and Basant Jhawar was ousted from the board in March-April 2019. Basant Jhawar, who is credited with setting up the enterprise, was the chairman emeritus of UML. His son Prashant Jhawar, who lives in London, was a director before stepping down in September last year, shortly before the annual general meeting when his reappointment was due to come up. Rajeev Jhawar is the managing director of the company and is firmly in control of the affairs of UML. His father Brij Jhawar, brother of Basant, also stepped down from the board later, leaving only Rajeev as the promoter family representative on the board. Before two sides of the family became embroiled in a very public spat, Prasant-Basant had an edge over the other side, owning about 25.5 per cent of the company with Rajeev-Brij holding around 24.5 per cent. Prashant blamed his cousin’s poor management for UML’s troubles that were exacerbated by a ballooning debt which eventually led to the sale of the steel unit to Tata Steel. While Prashant-Basant periodically sold shares, Rajeev bought from the market to shore up his holding in the company. He is understood to have scooped up 4.8 per cent in UML in the last financial year alone. Entities controlled by him bought shares this fiscal too. The promoter holding in UML stood at 50.66 per cent as on March 31, 2019. Despite one section of the family diluting its position, promoter holding went up to 53.52 per cent as on June 30, 2020. It came down marginally to 52.83 per cent as on September 30, 2020. The widening gap between the two sections of the family, who have fallen out of each other, will shift the balance of power in favour of Rajeev Jhawar further and may come in handy to pass special resolutions at the shareholders’ meeting. Even as the company has turned profitable post debt reduction — billed as one of the successful turnarounds of stressed assets — there are challenges galore before the MD and the company. The Central Bureau of Investigation has filed a First Information Report (FIR) against Rajeev Jhawar, the company and certain other individuals for alleged offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Prior to that the Enforcement Directorate attached land parcels under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in connection with export and domestic sale of iron ore worth Rs 190 crore in contravention of the mining lease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
07-12-2020||India||Centre rushes 3-member medical team to Andhra in wake of mysterious disease||The Centre is rushing a three-member team of medical experts to Eluru in Andhra Pradesh where a mysterious disease has affected nearly 350 people, the Vice President Secretariat said on Monday. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, who hails from Nellore district of Andhra Pradesh, on Monday, spoke with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan after scores of people including children were hospitalised with an undiagnosed illness. A Vice President Secretariat statement said the Union Health Ministry has informed that Dr Jamshed Nayar, an associate professor (emergency medicine) from AIIMS; Dr Avinash Deoshtawar, a virologist from the National Institute of Virology, Pune; and Dr Sanket Kulkarni, the deputy director and a public health expert from the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi, are being sent to Eluru. Those affected complained of dizziness, fainting spells, headache and vomiting. The vice president was also informed that a poison control team from AIIMS had on Sunday discussed the matter with the doctors at Eluru. Of the 347 affected, close to 200 patients have been discharged from hospital after treatment. Most of the patients were in the age group of 20-30 years, while there were about 45 children who were below the age of 12 years. Naidu spoke with the directors of AIIMS at Delhi and Mangalagiri. He was informed that blood samples of the children have been sent to Delhi, the VP secretariat said. Later, Naidu spoke with Harsh Vardhan and urged him to extend all necessary help in diagnosing and providing treatment to the afflicted. The minister assured him that all steps would be taken to find out the cause of the illness once the lab reports are received, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Athletes march towards Rashtrapati Bhavan to return awards, halted midway||Led by two-time Asian Games gold-winning former wrestler Kartar Singh, a few sportspersons from Punjab on Monday marched towards the Rashtrapati Bhavan to return "35 national sports awards" in a show of solidarity with farmers agitating against new agriculture laws but were stopped midway by the police. Kartar, who received the Arjuna award in 1982 and Padma Shri in 1987, was accompanied by Olympic gold-winning former hockey player Gurmail Singh and former women's hockey captain Rajbir Kaur among others. While Gurmail is a 2014 Dhyanchand awardee, Rajbir was bestowed the Arjuna in 1984. "The farmers have always supported us. We felt bad when we saw that our farmer brothers were lathicharged, roads were closed. Farmers are sitting on streets in the bitter cold for their rights," said Kartar, gold medallist in the 1978 and 1986 Asian games. "I am a farmer's son I still do farming despite being IG, Police," he added. The athletes, who reached Delhi on Sunday, began their march from the Press Club of India but were halted near Krishi Bhavan by the police and sent back. "I would like to request the government to repeal the draconian law. When the entire country was shivering for the fear of corona, they passed the bill in both houses and got it passed from the President," Kartar said. "I agree there is a need for change in farm laws but when our children are not happy, the government's priority should be to make them happy...Why is the government forcibly trying to push the farmers into accepting the contentious bill?" he asked. The Indian Olympic Association offered its first comments on the sportspersons' involvement in the protest, urging them to have faith in the government and to treat their national honours and the agitation as "two separate things." "Off late sportspersons are seen to be announcing return of their National Awards as a mark of their support for the recent farmer's issue. National Awards and farmers issue are two separate things," IOA President Narinder Batra and Secretary General Rajeev Mehta said in a joint statement. The marching athletes claimed to have the support of several Arjuna and other national sports awards winners. Earlier, Khel Ratna awardee and India's first Olympic medal-winning boxer Vijender Singh had also threatened to return the honour in support of the protesting farmers. Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are camping at various Delhi border points for over a week, protesting against the new farm laws, which they claim will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporate houses. Farmers' concern is that these laws, aimed at reforming the sector, will eliminate the MSP and mandis that ensure their earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their produce. The government is holding talks with farmers, who have called for a 'Bharat Bandh' on December 8, supported by various political parties. Noted Punjabi poet Surjit Patar announced on Monday that he will return his Padma Shri award in support of farmers who are protesting against the Centre's farm laws. In a statement, Patar said he was pained at the insensitive attitude of the central government towards the demands of farmers who have been protesting peacefully. The 75-year-old said he has decided to return his Padma Shri award with a heavy heart. Patar had received the Padma Shri in 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Centre, Delhi police issue advisories for Bharat Bandh||The Centre on Monday asked all states and Union Territories to tighten security during Tuesday's 'Bharat Bandh' called by the farmer's unions and supported by Opposition parties while asserting that peace and tranquillity must be maintained, officials said. In a countrywide advisory, the Union Home Ministry also said the state governments and UT administrations must ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines issued with regard to health and social distancing are strictly followed. The states and UTs were told that peace and tranquillity must be maintained during the 'Bharat Bandh' and precautionary measures taken so that no untoward incident takes place anywhere in the country, a home ministry official said on Monday. The Delhi Police meanwhile reiterated Centre's stand and said elaborate security arrangements have been made in view of the 'Bharat Bandh' and warned that strict action will be taken against those trying to disrupt the movement of people or "forcefully" shut shops. Eish Singhal, Delhi Police (PRO), said adequate arrangements have been made by the Delhi Police to ensure normal movement of people on roads during 'Bharat Bandh' on Tuesday. "Delhi Police has also issued a traffic advisory for smooth movement of vehicles and commuters. Anybody who tries to disrupt normal movement, life or forcefully closes shops will be strongly dealt with, as per the law," he said. Delhi Police has also appealed to everyone to not disrupt the life of common citizens and residents of Delhi. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police on Monday said the Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri and Jharoda borders are closed, it said. "The National Highway-44 has also been closed on both sides. So those travelling are suggested to take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. Traffic has also been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road," it said. Those travelling towards Noida have been advised to take DND as the Chilla border on the Noida Link road too is closed for traffic, it said. "The Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to farmers' protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid the Noida link road for coming to Delhi and use the DND," the Traffic Police said. The Gazipur border on NH-24 is also closed for traffic from Gaziabad to Delhi. "People are advised to avoid NH-24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/ Bhopra/DND for coming to Delhi," it added. However, the Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers and Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheeler traffic, it said. The Traffic Police said those travelling to Haryana can take the route via Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan or Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi's two borders to protest against the new farm laws, which many farmers say will pave way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws and went on a 'maun vrat' seeking a clear 'yes or no' reply, forcing the Centre to call for another meeting on December 9 to resolve the deadlock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Transporters' union to support Bharat Bandh on Dec 8||Transporters' union AIMTC (All India Motor Transport Congress) on Monday said it will suspend operations in the entire country on Tuesday to support the Bharat Bandh called by agitating farmers. The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) is the apex body of transporters, representing about 95 lakh truckers and other entities. It has already extended its support to the farmer agitation from day one. "Earlier it was decided that the transport fraternity from northern India will participate in the Bharat Bandh, but now it has been resolved in the meeting that transport associations and unions in other parts of the country will join the Bharat Bandh and suspend their operations on December 8, 2020," said AIMTC President Kultaran Singh Atwal. AIMTC in a statement said the decision was taken in a virtual meeting of road transport fraternity of India and it was unanimously decided to extend support to the Bharat Bandh. AIMTC's former President and Chairman of its Core Committee, Bal Malkit Singh said it has been decided to organise peaceful demonstrations and protest rallies at truck terminals in districts. Terming the farm sector as the backbone and life-line of the nation, AIMTC said the leaders of transport associations and unions from almost all 739 districts and talukas in the country also came forward and decided to organise a peaceful demonstration or protest rallies in truck terminal under the banner of AIMTC and later try to give a memorandum to District Collectorate and the Commissioners to resolve the issues of the farmers amicably. "We wholeheartedly support the cause of the farmers and look forward to a peaceful and amicable resolution of their issues raised by the government," the statement said. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting for 11 consecutive days at the borders of the national capital against the Centre's new farm laws. The farmers have expressed apprehension that the laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will provide farmers with better opportunities. It has also accused the opposition parties of misleading farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Air India staff arrested for trying to smuggle gold through Delhi airport||An Air India crew member and a catering staff were arrested by the customs officials for allegedly trying to smuggle into the country gold valuing about Rs 72.46 lakh at the Indira Gandhi International airport in Delhi, an official statement said on Monday. The crew, who had come in a flight from London on Sunday, after seeing the customs officers had secreted the gold in the overhead bin of the aircraft, it said. The officers later apprehended the staff of the catering company - M/s Ambassador Sky Chef - and based on the discussion between the above-said crew of Air India and staff of the catering company recovered four kadas' of gold-coated with silver colour from the aircraft on the identification of the crew, the statement issued by the customs said. The total weight of the recovered gold is 1.667 kg, having tariff value of Rs 72.47 lakh, it said. The gold was seized and both the accused were arrested, according to the statement. Further, both the above said persons admitted their role in smuggling of 1.5 kg of gold on December 3, 2020 from London into India, it said. Thus, these two persons were directly or indirectly involved in the smuggling of gold to the tune of 3.11 kg (1.5 kg on December 3 and 1.667 kg on Sunday), the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Farmers: BJP accuses Opposition of indulging in double standards||The BJP lashed out at the Opposition parties on Monday for coming out against the farm reforms enacted by the Narendra Modi government as it cited their earlier support to many provisions of the new laws to accuse them of "shameful double standards." Senior BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad alleged that a section of farmers has fallen in the grip of a few people with "vested interests" and asserted that the government was working to address their misgivings about the reforms, which have drawn strong protests from a section of cultivators. While appreciating the protesting farmer unions for not associating their stir with political parties, Prasad said the BJP's rivals have jumped into their protest in a bid to save their existence after being repeatedly rejected by people in different elections across the country. He read out from the Congress' manifesto for the 2019 general election to note that it had promises "repeal" of the APMC Act and also said that Rahul Gandhi had asked Congress-ruled states in 2013 to take measures to allow farmers to sell their produce directly. NCP leader Sharad Pawar, who was agriculture minister in the UPA government, had asked states to amend the APMC Act and had even warned them that the Centre will not provide financial assistance in absence of three reforms, Prasad said. When the Modi government has enacted these provisions, all these parties are now opposing them. This exposes their "shameful double standards," he said. Opposition parties, including many regional outfits, on Sunday, came out in strong support of the 'Bharat Bandh' on December 8 called by farmer unions which have been protesting on Delhi's borders for 11 days demanding the repeal of the Centre's new agri-marketing laws. Prominent leaders including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, DMK chief M K Stalin and PAGD chairman Farooq Abdullah also issued a joint statement backing the proposed day-long strike and pressed the Centre to meet the legitimate demands of the protesters. The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Covid vaccine: Serum Institute applies for emergency use authorisation ||Vaccine major Serum Institute of India (SII) on Monday said it has applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation for AstraZeneca-Oxford COVID-19 vaccine in the country. Earlier, the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer became the first company to seek a similar approval from India's drug regulator for Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against COVID-19 in the country, after securing such clearance in the UK and Bahrain. Pune-based SII has collaborated with AstraZeneca and Oxford University for manufacturing the vaccine and is conducting phase-three clinical trials of the Covishield vaccine in India. "As promised, before the end of 2020, @SerumInstIndia has applied for emergency use authorisation for the first made-in-India vaccine, COVISHIELD," Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawala said in a tweet. He further added, "This will save countless lives, and I thank the Government of India and Sri @narendramodi ji for their invaluable support." According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), SII has already manufactured 40 million doses of the vaccine under the at-risk manufacturing and stockpiling license it obtained from the DCGI. Official sources, citing the SII application, said the firm has stated that data from four clinical studies, two in the UK and one each in Brazil and India, shows that Covishield is highly efficacious against symptomatic and most importantly against severe COVID-19 infections. According to sources, this vaccine is logistically feasible for distribution in the country's both urban and rural parts as it can be stored at two to eight degrees celsius. Earlier on November 29, Poonawalla in a virtual press conference had said that the company was in the process of applying in the next two weeks for an emergency use licensure for Covishield.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav detained by police||Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav was today detained by the police after he led a brief sit-in protest in Lucknow even as the administration sealed the road leading to his residence right ahead of his "Kisan Yatra" scheduled in Kannauj district. A little past noon, Mr Yadav, wearing his party's trademark red cap, and along with a bunch of supporters, broke through police barricades placed near his residence on Lucknow's Vikramaditya Marg. Following resistance by the police, he and his supporters squatted in the middle of the road as SP workers raised slogans against the government, reported news agency ANI. Shortly afterwards, he was detained by the police. Earlier, the authorities had informed that the Kisan Yatra had been denied permission, and detained several SP leaders, besides sealing Vikramaditya Marg. The clampdown had been justified citing the Covid-19 protocol in place across the state. "We were informed that people will gather at one spot and launch a procession from there, and I understand that any crowd that remains static for half an hour or an hour, doesn't help anyone, not even the SP President. We had even requested that the programme be dropped," Kannauj district magistrate Rakesh Mishra told NDTV.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Central Vista: SC nod for foundation ceremony, but with riders ||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed the Centre to proceed with the foundation stone-laying ceremony for the Central Vista project on December 10 after the government assured it that no construction or demolition work would commence till the apex court decides the pending pleas on the issue. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar that there would be only foundation stone-laying ceremony, and no construction, demolition or felling of trees would be done for the project as of now. The Central Vista revamp, announced in September last year, envisages a new triangular Parliament building, with seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs, that is to be constructed by August, 2022 when the country will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day. The common Central Secretariat is likely to be built by 2024 under the project against which various pleas have been filed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone on December 10 for the new Parliament building and the construction is expected to be completed by 2022 at an estimated cost of Rs 971 crore, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla had said on December 5. This matter was listed suo moto in view of certain developments. After interacting with the Solicitor General and when the concern of the court was expressed, on instructions, the Solicitor General stated that there will be no construction activity of any nature on the concerned site(s) nor demolition of any structure will be done, including the further trans-location of the tree(s) will be kept in abeyance, until the pronouncement of judgment in all these cases, said the bench. We take that statement on record. In view of the above, we clarify that the authorities would be free to continue with procedural processes without altering the status of the site(s) in question in any manner, including to continue with the scheduled programme of foundation stone-laying on December 10, 2020, the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, said in its order. The top court is seized of pleas which have raised questions over several aspects, including the environmental clearance granted to the project. During the hearing conducted on Monday through video-conferencing, the bench asked Mehta to apprise it within five minutes about the government's view on the issue of construction work for the project. The bench observed that it would not allow construction or demolition till its decision on the pending pleas opposing the project. The top court said however that the Centre can proceed with the requisite paperwork in the meantime. On November 5, the apex court had reserved its verdict on a batch of pleas which have raised questions over the Centre's ambitious Central Vista project, which covers three km stretch from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate in Lutyens' Delhi. Mehta had earlier argued in the top court that the project would "save money" which is paid as rent for housing central government ministries in the national capital. Mehta had submitted that the decision to have a new Parliament building has not been taken in haste and no law or norms have been violated in any manner for the project. The Centre had also said there was no arbitrariness or favouritism in selecting a consultant for the project and the argument that the government could have adopted a better process cannot be a ground to scrap the project. Gujarat-based architecture firm HCP Designs has won the consultancy bid for the project to redevelop the Central Vista. The top court is hearing several pleas on the issue, including the one filed by activist Rajeev Suri, against various permissions given to the project by authorities including the nod to change of land use. Earlier, the apex court had said that any change at the ground level made by authorities for the Central Vista project will be "at their own risk". It had made it clear that the fate of the project, which includes several new government buildings and a new Parliament House, will depend on its decision. The pleas have also challenged the grant of a no-objection certificate by the Central Vista Committee (CVC) and also the environmental clearances for the construction of a new parliament house building. One of the pleas was filed against a Delhi High Court order which had said the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) was not required to apprise it before notifying changes in the Master Plan to allow the Central Vista project. The division bench of the Delhi High Court had on February 28 stayed an order of its single judge bench which had asked the DDA to approach the court before notifying any change in the Master Plan for going forth with the Centre's ambitious project to redevelop the Central Vista. The stay order of the high court on the single-judge bench's February 11 direction had come on the intra-court appeal of the DDA and the Centre. The petitioners before the high court had opposed the Central Vista project on the ground that it involves a change in land use of the green area adjoining Rajpath and Vijay Chowk for building new Parliament and government offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Kejriwal visits Singhu border to review arrangements for protesting farmers||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday visited the Singhu border, where thousands of farmers are protesting against the Centre's new farm laws, and reviewed arrangements made for them by the city government. The visit comes a day after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) extended its support to the ''Bharat Bandh'' called by protesting farmers on December 8. Kejriwal was accompanied by his Cabinet ministers and some party MLAs during the brief visit to the protest venue on the Delhi-Haryana border. "I checked the arrangements. We received a lot of pressure to allow the use of stadiums as temporary prisons but we did not give permission and I feel this helped the movement. Since then our party MLAs and ministers have been involved in ensuring that farmers do not face any discomfort," he said. "We are working like 'sewadaar'. Here I have not come as a chief minister but as a 'sewadaar' to serve the farmers. It is our responsibility to support the farmers. I hope soon a solution is reached," he told reporters. On the bandh called by farmers on Tuesday, the chief minister said, "AAP will participate in the nationwide strike. I hope the whole country joins it peacefully and I appeal to them to join and support the farmers". "I have come to survey the arrangements. The toilets are clean. Water isn't reaching all points so a motor and a pipeline will be placed," he said. "The farmers said they are happy with the arrangements. Our MLA Jarnail Singh spent the night here in support of them. All our volunteers and party members are involved in serving the farmers," Kejriwal added. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws. The Centre's offer to amend the contentious laws failed to cut ice with farmer groups during the fifth round of talks on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Sunny Deol believes BJP will do what's best for farmers||BJP MP and actor Sunny Deol says he believes the government at the Centre always thinks about the betterment of farmers and hopes the party will ensure the right outcome after talks with farmers protesting against the new agricultural laws. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have gathered at various border points of Delhi since November 26 as part of their protest against the BJP-led central government farm laws. The protesting farmers are worried the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement system while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector. Deol on Sunday evening issued a statement on his Twitter handle in Hindi, saying the matter is between the farmers and government, but there are people who are trying to gain something out of the agitation. "I know that many people want to take advantage of the situation and are creating problems. They are not thinking of farmers. They may have their own agenda. "I stand with my party and farmers and will always be with farmers. Our government always thinks of the betterment of farmers and I am sure that the government will ensure the right outcome after holding talks with farmers," the BJP MP from Gurdaspur said in a statement. The 64-year-old actor also distanced himself from Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu's stance on the farmers protest, saying he has nothing to do with the latter's comments. "Deep Sidhu, who was with me during the election has not been with me for a long time and whatever he is speaking, he is saying on his own. I am in no way related to his activities," Deol added. The farmers, who have called for a Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, fear the new farm laws will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. Last week, Deol tested positive for coronavirus and is currently under home quarantine at a farmhouse near Manali in Kullu district and is recovering well. He had undergone a shoulder surgery at Mumbai and was recuperating in Manali.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
07-12-2020||India||Active Covid cases falls below 4 lakh, recoveries surge||India's coronavirus infections rose to 96.77 lakh, while the active caseload fell below 4 lakh and the recoveries surged to 91.39 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 96,77,203 with 32,981 new infections being reported in a day and the death toll rose to 1,40,573 with 391 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 3,96,729 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 4.10 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 91,39,901 pushing the national recovery rate to 94.45 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, 14,77,87,656 samples have been tested up to December 6 with 8,01,081 samples being tested on Sunday. The 391 new fatalities include 69 from Delhi, 46 from West Bengal, 40 from Maharashtra, 28 from Kerala, 24 each from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and 20 from Punjab. A total of 1,40,573 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 47,734 from Maharashtra followed by 11,856 from Karnataka, 11,793 from Tamil Nadu, 9,646 from Delhi, 8,72 from West Bengal, 7,924 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,033 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,916 from Punjab, 4,081 from Gujarat and 3,337 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
07-12-2020||India||'Very dense' fog lowers visibility to 'zero' in parts of Delhi||A thick blanket of fog shrouded the national capital on Monday morning, leading to "zero" visibility in some areas and affecting traffic movement. This is the first time that visibility has dropped to "zero" in the city this winter season. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department, said the Palam weather station recorded zero visibility due to very dense fog at 6:30 am. At the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, moderate fog was recorded which lowered visibility to 300 metres, he said. The visibility should be around 800 metres at the airport for flights to take off, the senior scientist said. Mahesh Palawat, an expert at Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, tweeted, Today, first time Palam Airport Visibility has gone down to zero metres due to dense fog. At 06:30 hours, both runway 28 & 29 are 150 metres. Chances of flight delay. Srivastava said moisture-laden easterly winds and low wind speed led to very dense fog in parts of the city. Delhi is likely to witness moderate fog on Tuesday as well, he said. According to the IMD, very dense fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres, 51 and 200 is dense, 201 and 500 moderate, and 501 and 1,000 shallow. Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 12 degrees Celsius. The mercury is likely to dip with the wind direction changing to westerly-northwesterly. Delhi's air quality was recorded in the upper end of the very poor category on Monday and is likely to improve with the wind speed picking up, according to IMD officials The air quality had turned severe on Saturday with slow wind speed allowing the accumulation of "locally-generated" pollutants. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 394 at 9 am on Monday. The 24-hour average was 389 on Sunday and 404 on Saturday. Air pollution in the neighbouring cities of Ghaziabad (AQI 432), Greater Noida (410), Faridabad (405) and Noida (414) entered the severe zone. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The IMD said the maximum wind speed will be around 15 kmph on Monday, favourable for dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
07-12-2020||India||A fight for the Constitution and all it protects||If Amit Shah blew the dog whistle in the Hyderabad civic polls by promising to liberate the city from the “Nawab and Nizam culture”, a riposte has been winding its way through the lanes and alleys of a panchayat in the Kerala capital. “If you want to know my caste and my faith, they are not attached as a tail to my name but they precede my name. It is sakhavu (comrade).” So goes a voiceover in a 12-second teaser featuring Geetha Nazeer, a CPI member, journalist and author contesting the rural polls in Chemmaruthy, around 40km from the capital city. The three-phased local body elections this time, scheduled to begin on Tuesday and conclude on December 14, are unlike any the southern state has witnessed so far. The unpredictable factor is the BJP, for which Kerala remains the coveted yet distant final frontier. “It is going to be a watershed election in Kerala. Since the 1980s, Kerala has had a two-front system, one led by the CPM and the other led by the Congress. After this election, we will know whether this balance of power will be maintained or not. The favourable factor for the BJP is that it is in power in Delhi. It may not have grown to a level sufficient to replace the CPM or the Congress but these elections will show to what extent the BJP has emerged as a force in Kerala,” said B.R.P. Bhaskar, a political commentator and veteran journalist. “Even if it is a small number, if the BJP is able to break the two-front system, it will change the pattern of the elections in Kerala,” Bhaskar added. Like in Bengal, the Assembly elections in Kerala are just a few months away. Needless to say, all parties have been accused of playing the communal and caste cards, which have reaped electoral dividends in the state in spite of its progressive record on multiple social indices. It is against such a backdrop that the unequivocal declaration of Geetha stands out. Unlikely as it may sound, the contest in Chemmaruthy, whose population was put at 32,444 by the 2011 census, has a few “national” elements. The male voiceover in Geetha’s teaser that gives primacy to political belief over caste and personal faith is borrowed from a 2017 movie, Sakhavu, that sought to shed light on the ideological corrosion in the communist movement. Kerala, as well as the rest of India, has no dearth of explosive film dialogues but other than chest-thumping slogans dripping ultra-nationalism few make it to the electoral platform. Certainly not those that refuse to milk religious sentiments. In 2020 — three years after the film was released — the message that teaser and Geetha seek to convey has added significance because of the “Love Jihad” bogey BJP mascot and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has reinjected into the national discourse. It is not accidental that Yogi also blew his version of the dog whistle in Hyderabad by suggesting that the city be renamed Bhagyanagar. If Geetha’s message is an uncompromising stand against the so-called “Love Jihad”, it resonated in Chemmaruthy for a personal reason, too, although the candidate may never have intended it to be so. Geetha is the daughter of the late N.E. Balaram, the communist ideologue whose Sanskrit was as impeccable as his knowledge of political theory. She had married Nazeer —  son of the late T.A. Majeed, a Muslim minister in the first elected communist government in Kerala —  when the contrived phrase “Love Jihad”  was non-existent. Make no mistake. Geetha is not fighting this election as one that pits ideology against religion. Rather, she is fighting for pluralism. “Whichever caste one belongs, whichever religion one believes in and even for those who do not believe in anything, our Constitution offers protection to all of them. Attempts are now being made to sabotage such a Constitution. We must realise that. We must be aware that they have pushed the country to such a stage that we cannot even choose the food we want to consume,” Geetha told a campaign meeting earlier this week. Geetha told this reporter later: “Unfortunately, the people who adopted intolerance as a winning strategy are at the seat of power at the Centre. Whoever sows the seeds of hatred and animosity in the minds of the people are an enemy to the nation; the British began it and the BJP is following that strategy.” Geetha’s contest also has a bearing on another factor in Indian politics: dynasty. She is the daughter of one of the most respected communists in Kerala but no one can accuse her of taking undue advantage of her family ties. At 64, Geetha is contesting popular elections for the first time. For half-a-century, she played an active role in the party, starting out with student politics and closely associating herself with the women’s wing of the CPI.  It is after such life-long contribution in public life that she has chosen to enter power politics, that too from the lowest rung of democracy. Geetha is well-known in Left circles in Kerala but was unwittingly thrust into the larger limelight a few years ago when she ran into chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan by chance. Vijayan, the Marxist who sports the stern visage of a martinet, broke into an uncharacteristic smile and embraced her. Both hail from Kannur’s Pinarayi village, where the Communist Party’s Kerala unit was born. In an accidental coincidence, Geetha is running for public office at a time the Left is said to be suffering from the ideological corrosion that the movie, Sakhavu, tried to explore. In popular perception, the CPM-led government has been dealt blow after staggering blow by a series of controversies, including a smuggling scandal. Ironically, although few administrations  in recent memory in Kerala have done so much for the people in such a short time, the Vijayan government is facing daunting headwinds as the Assembly elections approach. Perhaps keeping in mind the significant presence of minorities in Kerala, the BJP has so far desisted from playing the polarising card as brazenly as Shah and Yogi did in Hyderabad. The BJP has fielded 105 Muslim candidates in the local body elections,  including two women in Malappuram district, a Muslim-majority district and a stronghold of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). Sreeraj Kaimal, a 40-year old first-time BJP candidate, contesting in another panchayat, said: “People have stopped believing the ‘communal party’ label foisted on the BJP by its rivals. There is a strong change in the attitude among Christians. Even if that does not reflect in election results, this is a positive sign for the party.” However, a voter who spoke to this reporter on condition of anonymity said: “If they don’t have communal agenda, why did they come to a Muslim house like ours and say ‘Don’t think I am a BJP candidate and so you cannot support me’. I felt bad when they spoke to me like that. It is a question of my identity as an Indian citizen.” Bhaskar, the political commentator, said: “When you look at the electoral history of Kerala, it shows the Left Front always had the upper hand in local body elections. In the Parliament election, most of the time it was the Congress and in Assembly, the alternate system has been in place.  But  people are also aware that of the three major forces in Kerala, the only party that has the opportunity to wield power at the Centre is the BJP. This is one advantage for the BJP. The other advantage of the BJP is that the good effect of the Kerala renaissance, which made it a progressive state, is wearing thin. So, even if the BJP does not perform well, it will emerge as a balancing power in several villages. Also, the BJP has campaigned very well.” Nazeem Beegum is an independent journalist based in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
07-12-2020||India||BJP loses election in Varanasi ||University-educated legislative council voters in Varanasi and its neighbourhood have defeated BJP candidates a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid his constituency a visit. The Samajwadi Party has wrested from the BJP both council seats up for grabs from Varanasi — voted on exclusively by teachers and graduates —in the December 1 elections, results announced on Saturday show. Modi had toured Varanasi city and nearby Sarnath on November 30, courting various castes and communities by praying at the Kashi Vishwanath temple and invoking the Ganga, Guru Nanak, Gautam Buddha and Dalit guru Sant Ravidas. At his two public meetings he had defended the new farm bills, accused the Opposition of misleading and instigating the protesting farmers, and asked the crowds whether they were happy with his performance. The BJP-invited audiences had clapped enthusiastically. But the voters of the Varanasi graduates’ constituency and Varanasi teachers’ constituency — representing the intelligentsia of Varanasi and seven neighbouring districts — appear to have been unimpressed. The state’s MLAs elect 38 of the council’s 100 members while the local bodies elect 36. Eight teachers’ constituencies and eight graduates’ constituencies together elect 16 members while the remaining 10 are nominated by the governor. Overall, the BJP gained 3 seats in the December 1 elections, winning 6 of the 11 seats decided, while the Samajwadis won 3, a gain of 1 seat. Independents won the remaining 2. The Samajwadis now hold 53 council seats, with the BJP second at 22. Ashutosh Sinha defeated the BJP’s Kedarnath Singh by 3,850 votes from the Varanasi graduates’ constituency. Lal Bihari Yadav defeated Independent candidate Pramod Kumar Mishra by 936 votes from the teachers’ constituency, pushing the BJP’s Chet Narayan Singh to third. Kedarnath and Chet Narayan had won the last three elections. State BJP politicians dismissed suggestions that Modi was losing his appeal, at least among those with higher education, saying legislative council polls were not a measure of a Prime Minister’s popularity. Modi had during his Varanasi visit taken a cruise on the Ganga and lit earthen lamps at Rajghat to kick off the Dev Deepavali celebrations, held every Kartik Purnima. He later visited Sant Ravidas Ghat and garlanded the poet-saint’s statue. He paid homage to Guru Nanak on his birth anniversary, and visited the Buddhist pilgrimage site of Sarnath to watch a light-and-sound show on the Buddha’s life. Losing BJP candidate Chet Narayan said: “We are reviewing the results before reaching a conclusion on the reasons for the defeats.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
07-12-2020||India||Congress leads parties in support of farmers||The Congress on Sunday backed the farmer unions’ call for a Bharat Bandh on December 8, asking party workers to mobilise support for the agitation against the new farm bills. The chief ministers of Punjab and Rajasthan indicated these Congress-ruled states would ensure the success of the nationwide strike. Parties such as the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS), Shiv Sena, Akali Dal, NCP, DMK, Rashtriya Janata Dal, CPM, CPI, Samajwadi Party and the Trinamul Congress too have expressed support for the farmers’ movement. The Congress central leadership has instructed the state units to hold demonstrations and meetings in every district to garner support for the farmers. “Farmers from Punjab and Haryana are the main producers of wheat and paddy, and they are protesting. If the situation is not resolved soon, we will see farmers across the country joining them,” NCP leader and former Union agriculture minister said. Pawar regretted that the Narendra Modi government had passed the three bills in haste, ignoring the Opposition’s demands for a deeper examination and consultations with the stakeholders through a parliamentary committee. All the farmers’ objections that the government is discussing now had been raised by the Opposition parties but the BJP had bulldozed every hurdle in Parliament. The farmers have now forced the administration to relent by demonstrating their collective strength. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera questioned both the Prime Minister’s intention and wisdom, alleging that every decision of his that had not been envisioned by previous governments had proved disastrous. “The country suffered whenever the Prime Minister took a decision on his personal initiative, be it the demonetisation or these farm laws. The question today is, why are the farmers compelled to sit outside Delhi in protest? What was the (reason for the) haste in bringing these laws in the midst of a pandemic?” Khera said. “How was it decided that these laws are in the interest of the farmers, when the farmers say (these laws) will ruin them?” Khera added: “Now the cat is out of the bag — the agriculture minister (Narendra Tomar) has himself said that the corporate (groups) will get angry if we repeal these laws. We know in whose interest the Prime Minister acted, the farmers know, the world knows. “The conspiratorial attitude of the government was also manifested in the attempts by ministers and BJP leaders to malign the farmers. They were called Khalistani, Pakistani and Chinese agents.” The Congress has also brought the charge of doublespeak against the government, which has been claiming the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act will not be abolished and the new laws will not affect the mandi (wholesale market) system that ensures a minimum support price for farmers. The party has uploaded a video from an event during the recent Bihar elections that shows the Prime Minister purportedly saying: “Nitish Kumarji is present here. He understood how the APMC Act has harmed the farmers and hence he scrapped it very early in his tenure. What Bihar did, the entire country is now traversing the same path.” Bihar abolished the APMC Act and the mandi system in 2006. Various studies have shown how this hurt the state’s farmers. While Bihar has the worst public procurement system now, its farmers’ incomes reduced sharply after the APMC Act was revoked. The Congress has uploaded another video showing farmers in Bihar talking about their plight and praising the system in Punjab and Haryana. munications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Out of 30 lakh metric tonnes of paddy, only 793 metric tonnes procured in Bihar by the government agency. The MSP for paddy is Rs 1,868 but farmers in Bihar had to sell their produce in market for Rs 8,00 per quintal.” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has reaffirmed his support for the agitating farmers, dismissing speculation about a change in his stand under pressure from the Enforcement Directorate. “I don’t care about these ED investigations. The Akali Dal government conducted investigations against me for 13 years; let there be investigations for 13 more years. I stand with the farmers; the whole of Punjab stands united with the farmers,” he said. Amarinder questioned the Centre’s intentions, saying: “The farmers gave 10 days’ notice to the Centre before marching to Delhi. Why did they not start negotiations then?” “The farmers were protesting, sitting on train tracks, for two months in Punjab and my government did not take a single step against them. Why? Because we know they are right, their demands are genuine. Congress-ruled states passed laws against the central laws. We are fully with the farmers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
07-12-2020||India||Outrage at Twitter action||Journalist and human rights activist Salil Tripathi’s Twitter account has been suspended for uploading a “moving, beautiful poem” for his mother about the Babri Masjid demolition, Gujarat and 1947, author Suketu Mehta tweeted on Sunday, the 28th anniversary of the demolition. Tripathi’s poem is titled  My Mother’s Fault. “Salil Tripathi is one of our most important human rights activists. Absolutely unacceptable for @TwitterIndia to suspend his account. India need’s Salil’s voice!” Mehta, who wrote Maximum City, tweeted. Author Salman Rushdie, too, expressed outrage. “This is an outrageous act of censorship against one of the most important advocates of free speech. @Twitter stop it now! @jack what’s going on?” Rushdie tweeted, tagging Twitter boss Jack Dorsey. My Mother’s Fault By Salil Tripathi You marched with other seven-year-old girls, Singing songs of freedom at dawn in rural Gujarat, Believing that would shame the British and they would leave India. Five years later, they did. You smiled, When you first saw Maqbool Fida Husain’s nude sketches of Hindu goddesses, And laughed, When I told you that some people wanted to burn his art. ‘Have those people seen any of our ancient sculptures? Those are far naughtier,’ You said. Your voice broke, On December 6, 1992, As you called me at my office in Singapore, When they destroyed the Babri Masjid. ‘We have just killed Gandhi again,’ you said. We had. Aavu te karaay koi divas (Can anyone do such a thing any time?) You asked, aghast, Staring at the television, As Hindu mobs went, house-to-house, Looking for Muslims to kill, After a train compartment in Godhra burned, Killing 58 Hindus in February 2002. You were right, each time. After reading what I’ve been writing over the years, Some folks have complained that I just don’t get it. I live abroad: what do I know of India? But I knew you; that was enough. And that’s why I turned out this way. (The poem first appeared in Salil Tripathi’s book, Offence: The Hindu Case (2009), published by Seagull Books)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
07-12-2020||India||Farmers' call for bandh unites Opposition||Over a dozen Opposition parties have backed the farmers’ call for a countrywide bandh on Tuesday, while grateful farmer leaders have clarified that no political party would be allowed to use its banners while joining the agitation. The farmer unions have stressed that participation is voluntary and are trying to ensure the bandh remains peaceful, aware that the smallest incident would be blown up by what they call the “godi (lapdog) media” and the government’s army of online trolls. Government supporters have hit back by levelling the charge of hypocrisy against some of the Opposition parties — particularly the Congress and the NCP — alleging they had advocated these same farm reforms when in government. “We welcome the support extended by political parties but we have one condition: they cannot come with their banners,” said Tejinder Singh Virk of the Terai Kisan Union of Uttarakhand. He said that farmers from Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh were picketing the Ghazipur border between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, belying the government’s claim that only one community from a single state was agitating. Eleven parties have issued a joint statement of support for Tuesday’s shutdown call. They are the Congress, NCP, Rashtriya Janata Dal, DMK, Samajwadi Party, CPM, CPI, CPIML Liberation, National Conference, Forward Bloc and the RSP. The Shiv Sena and the Telangana Rashtra Samiti have separately expressed support for the bandh call. Trinamul too is backing the farmers, and a team from the party has visited the protesters at the Singhu border. “These new agri laws passed in Parliament in a brazen anti-democratic manner preventing a structured discussion and voting threaten India’s food security, destroy Indian agriculture and our farmers, lay the basis for the abolishment of MSP and mortgage Indian agriculture and our markets to the caprices of multi-national agri-business corporate and domestic corporate,” the joint statement by 11 parties said. “The central government must adhere to the democratic processes and norms and meet the legitimate demands of our kisans-annadatas.” The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee has urged all traders and commercial establishments to down shutters on Tuesday, while repeatedly underscoring that participation in the bandh is voluntary. Roads will be blocked and the supply of vegetables is expected to be affected on Tuesday. Exceptions will be made only for health and emergency services, besides weddings in north India where this is the marriage season, Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan said. Baldev Singh of the All India Kisan Sabha said violence would not be tolerated during the bandh, and action would be taken against those who use force. About Saturday’s talks with the government — the fifth since the three farm bills were passed — Shiv Kumar Sharma “Kakaji” of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh said: “We are still engaged with the process because we don’t want a breakdown of conversation.” BJP national secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh dug out newspaper reports from April 2008 that described how farmers were protesting a ban on private purchase of wheat. “The very same farmers of Haryana & Punjab demanding private firms operation. Then why is this Bandh on Dec 8. Who is doing it..? #FarmersWithModi,” Santosh tweeted. An August 2010 letter from then agriculture minister Sharad Pawar is also circulating on various social media platforms. The letter advocates amendments to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act to encourage the private sector to provide alternative and competitive marketing channels in the overall interest of the farmers. Pawar came in for special attention from the Right wing on Sunday because of his statement that the government should take the farmers’ protest seriously or it could spread to other parts of the country. Pawar, who is on record saying the bills were well-intentioned, has questioned the haste in which they were passed without discussion. He had participated in a day’s fast in September in solidarity with the Rajya Sabha MPs who had been suspended for disrupting proceedings after their demand for a proper counting of votes during the passage of the bills was rejected. The government’s critics contended that Pawar alone could not be accused of doing somersaults — he had for company none other than Narendra Modi. They highlighted how Modi had as Gujarat chief minister stalled a switch to the GST before becoming its most ardent advocate as Prime Minister, even organising a midnight session of Parliament for its rollout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
07-12-2020||India||Pfizer's Covid vaccine fine print||Pfizer has signalled its desire to introduce its Covid-19 vaccine in India but asserted that the product would be available only through the government under its global policy to refrain from private sales during the current pandemic phase. The US-based pharmaceutical company has sought from India’s drug regulatory agency an emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the vaccine that has shown 95 per cent efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19 and was approved last week for public use by UK regulators. Pfizer’s application to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the regulatory agency, is the first EUA submission for a Covid-19 vaccine in India and implies a potential addition to the bouquet of vaccines that the Indian government hopes to use in its vaccination campaign. But the application comes amid uncertainty over whether the government will procure the Pfizer vaccine — if the CDSCO grants EUA approval — with some health officials having indicated that the Pfizer vaccine would be hard to use in India because of its ultra-low-temperature requirements: minus 70°C during transport. Without government procurement, the vaccine will not be available for public use in India because Pfizer is currently selling only to governments. “During this pandemic phase, Pfizer will supply this vaccine only through government contracts based on agreements with respective government authorities and following regulatory authorisation or approval,” a Pfizer spokesperson told The Telegraph. Pfizer has offered to help in distribution through specially designed temperature-controlled “thermal shippers”, in which the vaccines can be maintained at minus 70°C for 10 days unopened. Once the shipper is opened, and if it’s being used for temporary storage at a vaccination centre, the vaccine can be used for 30 days with re-icing every five days, the company said. The vaccine can be stored for five days at temperatures between 2°C and 8°C in the standard refrigeration units available in hospitals across India. A senior health policy adviser to the government told this newspaper on Sunday that the Pfizer vaccine appeared “difficult to accommodate” given India’s public health infrastructure and the low temperature requirement. “The EUA is an independent regulatory decision -– any company can file for EUA,” the official said. The company declined to specify the likely cost of the vaccine for India or how many vaccine doses it could offer India in the early months of 2021. A company spokesperson also declined comment on a report from a health organisation in the US that Pfizer’s vaccine would cost about $19.50 per dose. Pfizer and its collaborator BioNTech, a Germany-based biotechnology company, have said they have a production capacity of 50 million doses during 2020 and 1.3 billion doses during 2021. But Pfizer already has orders from several countries, including Australia, Canada, the European Union, Japan, Peru, Qatar, the UK and the US. The Union health ministry had earlier this year indicated that wanted to vaccinate around 250 million people from priority groups such as healthcare workers and other vulnerable people, with 500 million vaccine doses, by July 2021 and was looking at all possible candidate vaccines. A vaccine from AstraZeneca-Oxford manufactured in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India is expected to become the second to seek EUA approval. A Serum official has indicated that the company would apply for EUA later this month, citing clinical trial results from Brazil and the UK. India is also evaluating three other vaccines through clinical trials -– two home-grown candidate vaccines and Russia’s Sputnik V. “Between Serum and the two home-grown candidate vaccines, all of which we expect will work with variable efficacy, India will have about 800 million doses in 2021,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School for Biosciences at Ashoka University. “Supply will not be a problem.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
07-12-2020||India||Cops cite Covid to stall Babri march||Delhi police on Sunday stalled a march to mark the anniversary of the Babri Masjid demolition, citing the ban on public gatherings in Covid season. Civil society group Lok Raj Sanghatan (LRS) — and its predecessor, the Committee for People’s Empowerment — has been organising the march along with other groups and political parties every year since 1993. The marchers condemn the 1992 vandalism in Ayodhya and demand punishment for those involved. Sunday’s march from Mandi House to Jantar Mantar Road was to start at 10.30am. S.Q.R. Ilyas, president of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind’s Welfare Party of India (WPI) — one of the participants — told The Telegraph the police asked the marchers to disperse as soon as they started gathering at the Mandi House roundabout. “The police said we had been denied permission, to which I told them that peaceful protests are our right. As they had blocked our path, we decided to conduct the programme there itself and some speeches were made,” he said. “Around 10.45am, while I was speaking, a large number of police personnel came towards us, took away the mic from me and asked all of us to sit in a police van. There were some 500 of us, so they took 30 people inside the van and asked the rest to leave.” Ilyas said that those detained at Mandir Marg police station included WPI leader Mohammed Arif, LRS president Raghavan Srinivasan and secretary Birju Nayak, and Communist Ghadar Party of India spokesperson Prakash Rao. They were released around 4.45pm. Ilyas himself was not detained. Ilyas’s son Umar Khalid, a human rights activist and former JNU student leader, is in prison facing trial under terrorism charges for organising protests against the new citizenship regime that the police blame for the communal riots here in February. Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal told this newspaper: “The denial of permission had been intimated well in advance. They were requested to follow the Covid guidelines, which they did not and were hence detained.” Asked whether any charges had been filed, he said if they had, it would be disclosed later. Last month, former CPM parliamentarian and current general secretary of the party-backed All India Kisan Sabha, Hannan Mollah, was booked for a protest against the new farm regime on the charge of violating the restrictions against gatherings. The sections applied can bring a jail term of up to seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
07-12-2020||India||Banaras Hindu University dharna for hostel reopening ||Some 250 students of Banaras Hindu University have been on a dharna in front of the vice-chancellor’s campus residence since Saturday evening, demanding the hostels and libraries be reopened immediately. The university had suspended classes in March and closed the hostels in early April because of the pandemicinduced lockdown. While most boarders vacated their hostels and rented rooms outside, some stayed back, cooking meals inside their rooms and scaling the boundary walls of their hostels to buy essentials. A few girls too stayed back in their hostel, where a small gate was kept open. Nearly 50 women students have joined the protest on the lawns of VC Rakesh Bhatnagar’s quarters. The students planned to spend Sunday night in the open too, amid the cold. “We are trying to solve the problems of the students,” chief proctor O.P. Rai said. “Locking the gates of the hostels doesn’t mean the inmates are locked inside (their rooms). The gates were locked to prevent the entry of outsiders, keeping in mind the pandemic.” Santosh Tripathi, a protesting student, said: “The VC doesn’t want to open the hostels and sent his subordinates to persuade us to suspend our dharna. The proctor said a committee would be formed soon to decide when the hostels and libraries would be reopened.” He added: “The VC has formed committees twice in the past two months for the same purpose. We don’t need a third committee. We expect good intentions from the VC.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
07-12-2020||West Bengal||Adhikary kin stays away from Mamata rally in Midnapore||Amid speculations over rebel TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari's next move, his politically influential family gave Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's rally in their stronghold on Monday a miss, prompting her to accuse the BJP of trying to break her party by using "moneybags". Adhikari recently quit as a minister and said it was difficult for him to work with the TMC leadership. A series of talks with interlocutors appointed by Banerjee failed to pacify the leader. Not just Suvendu, but the entire Adhikari family, father Sisir Adhikari and brothers Dibyendu and Soumendu, were conspicuous by their absence. Sisir and Dibyendu Adhikari are TMC MPs from Tamluk and Kanthi Lok Sabha seats and Soumendu is an MLA from East Midnapore. Their loyalists also largely stayed away from the rally. "All TMC MLAs of West Midnapore are present here today. I want to tell those who spread canards against TMC leaders that we are the most honest party. We are not like the BJP which is using its moneybags to dislodge opposition-run governments in states and trying to break opposition parties," Banerjee told the rally. Calling the TMC "a hard nut to crack" that will not surrender before the saffron party, Banerjee, without naming anyone, said she would also not give in to attempts to "blackmail and bargain" her party ahead of the polls. "Those who are corrupt are now joining the BJP. CPI(M) goons now have switched sides and are working as cadres of the BJP," she alleged. Banerjee had recently issued a stern warning to those indulging in anti-party activities and asked TMC leaders in touch with the opposition to quit the ruling party instead of weakening it. The rally at the Midnapore College Ground was held at a time when the rift between the TMC and Suvendu Adhikari has widened. After the failed talks, the TMC had said the rapprochement efforts were a "closed chapter". Adhikari last week organised a rally without the TMC banners and flags at Garbeta in West Midnapore district. The Adhikari family wields influence over at least 40 -45 assembly seats in West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram, parts of Birbhum -- mainly in the Junglemahal region and areas in minority-dominated Murshidabad. Elections to the 294-member Bengal Assembly are likely to be held in April-May next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
07-12-2020||West Bengal||2 held with gold bars weighing 1.4kg in South Dinajpur||Acting on a tip-off, police in Gangarampur, South Dinajpur, seized gold bars worth Rs 75 lakh on Saturday, and arrested two persons. “We had information that two persons are illegally carrying gold bars to smuggle it to some other state. Accordingly, we intercepted an SUV at Chowpathi area,” said a police officer. The police searched the vehicle and the duo to recover 12 gold bars weighing 1.4kg. The two arrested are from Mangalpur of Balurghat. On Sunday, both were produced at a court in Gangarampur, which sent them to police custody for 12 days. “We need to find out how they got the gold bars and where they were supposed to deliver the consignment,” the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
07-12-2020||West Bengal||CPM leader Susanta Ghosh returns to Garbeta after nine years||CPM leader Susanta Ghosh returned home at Garbeta in West Midnapore on Sunday after nine years to a rousing welcome by party cadres and villagers. After the Trinamul Congress rode to power in 2011, the former minister was named in the Benachapra skeleton case and arrested. After being jailed for several months, Susanta was granted bail by the Supreme Court on February 3, 2012. The court had granted him bail on the condition that he would not be able to enter his home district of West Midnapore. However, riding a recent Supreme Court order, Susanta on Sunday first returned to Salbani, from where he led a huge rally to Chandrakona, where he was felicitated by party cadres and local leaders at the party office. Addressing a rally in Chandrakona, Susanta said Trinamul had framed him in a false case as part of its political conspiracy. People will give a fitting reply to the conspiracy, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
07-12-2020||West Bengal||Kidnap finger at job con||A man from village Bindol barely 20km from here was abducted from his office by some unidentified youths on Saturday afternoon. His family members, who filed a complaint at Raiganj police station on Saturday evening, said abductors called up for ransom. Police suspect financial dealings might be the reason for the abduction of Bashu Das, 32, who runs the customer service point (CSP) of a nationalised bank in Bindol under Raiganj block of North Dinajpur. A source said Bashu had taken cash from some youths while promising them jobs through a private agency in Calcutta, but the jobs had not materialised. Bashu’s wife Manisha said her husband was working at his office near their home when the family heard shouts. “As we rushed out, we saw around 10 men dragging my husband to an SUV,” she said. Manisha said that she and her in-laws tried to prevent the youths but failed. Bashu was thrust into the SUV that sped away. Some other residents had also come out of homes and shops. Ajay Burman, an eyewitness, said: “Some of the youths told us to stay away or face consequences.” A video clip of the kidnap suspected to be shot on camera phone surfaced on social media, showing youths forcing a man into an SUV. The Das family received a ransom call from abductors, a source said, but the sum of money was not specified. “The family was told that the youth is safe but also asked to start arranging money without saying how much. Abductors hinted they would make further calls,” said the source. Suraj Thapa, the inspector-in-charge, said probe had started. “We are checking out video footage to identify the youths and the vehicle. Preliminary findings indicate the incident is a fallout of financial dealings,” said Thapa. A police source added: "It seems the youths promised jobs were mounting pressure on Bashu for cash refund.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
07-12-2020||West Bengal||Birbhum villagers to join coal mine survey team||The Birbhum district administration will form a special committee of local residents from various communities to accompany surveyors in the social impact assessment of the Deocha Pachami coal mine project to ensure that the venture, which recently ran into villager protests, proceeds smoothly. Sources said the decision was taken after survey work for the mega coal mine project — to identify landowners eligible for compensation — stopped with villagers in Saluka village of Mohammedbazar protesting the alleged omission of some families by the surveyors. “We are forming a team of 25 villagers from various communities to help communicate with the survey team and avoid misunderstandings. People will communicate in their own language, including Ol Chiki in tribal pockets, to inform villagers about the motive of the survey,” said Birbhum district magistrate Vijay Bharti. The surveying agency has mostly Hindi-speaking professionals, so language became a barrier. On November 30, some villagers from Saluka and adjoining villages stopped the survey, accusing team members of having land records that were not updated. This, villagers said, left many people outside the survey’s purview. The Bhumi Raksha Committee, formed to protect the rights of villagers and ensure proper compensation for all, halted the survey and said the process would be allowed only once a fresh list was prepared. District officials said many landholders had not updated their records for decades, leaving some people outside the official data that the survey team had. To overcome this hurdle, the administration has started approaching local block level land department offices to update land-related data. “Many landowners have land recorded in the name of their father or grandfather. So far the survey was carried out based on those names. But we have told local officials to update land records as soon as possible,” said a senior official. Now, the administration will mark houses with more than one owner to ensure they are not left out of the survey. District magistrate Bharti explained the process: “We have no problem with those families whose land records are yet to be updated. Suppose there are four families on a plot and land is recorded in the father’s name, we will refer to the plot number and A, B, C and D (as subdivisions). This means the plot number now has four owners.” The Deocha-Pachami coal block spread is over 11,222 acres with coal reserves of around 2.2 billion tonnes in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar. The coal block is so vast that it can generate jobs for at least 1.5 lakh people, sources said. The coal mine will cover around 123 mouzas of Mohammedbazar where mostly tribal residents live. There are pockets with substantial numbers of Muslims too. The social impact survey for the coal mine, touted as a dream project of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, has a year-end deadline and the administration wants to complete the process unhindered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
07-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP show of strength in Siliguri on Monday||Led by state and national leaders, hundreds of BJP supporters will take part in a protest march here on Monday. Named Uttarkanya Abhiyan — a march to the branch secretariat of the state government on Siliguri’s southern end — this will be the BJP’s first major political activity in the region in recent months. “People across the state will see an important political event in Siliguri on Monday. Many important state leaders will lead the rally and we will make our presence felt again,” said Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, a state vice-president of BJP’s Kishan Morcha. Party sources said national general secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, state party chief Dilip Ghosh, national vice-president Mukul Roy and state general secretary Sayantan Basu will attend the march. “It has been decided to bring in Tejasvi Surya as the event would be held under the banner of our youth front. He is likely to reach Siliguri on Monday morning,” a party leader said. Tejasvi is the BJP MP of Bangalore South and the all-India president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. Sources said party leaders in north Bengal districts have been asked to bring in supporters for the rally. Political analysts said that the BJP wants to reassert its strength through this event in north Bengal where it seeks to win 50 of 54 Assembly seats. “Also, there have been new developments, such as the departure of the Bimal Gurung faction as an ally and announcements by various community organisations backing Mamata Banerjee,” said an observer. Monday’s Uttarkanya Abhiyan appears to be the start of political activities in north Bengal till the state elections, he pointed out. The march has also put the police and the administration on alert. Barricades have been readied and additional police forces brought in from other districts, said sources. Congress march The state Congress will also organise a march in Raiganj, an erstwhile bastion of the party, on Monday. “Pradesh Congress Committee president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury will attend the rally that will move through different streets of the town. Many prominent leaders will take part in the march,” said Pabitra Chanda, a district Congress leader. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
07-12-2020||West Bengal|| 4 arrests after TMC-BJP clash in West Burdwan||The police on Sunday have arrested four persons in connection with Saturday’s clash between the BJP and Trinamul following the saffron camp's rally in West Burdwan’s Barabani on Saturday that snowballed into a pitched battle where bombs and bullets flew, and motorbikes were set ablaze. Sources said the four arrested include two each from the BJP and Trinamul. “We have received complaints from both BJP and Trinamul and so far have arrested four persons in connection with the trouble. Investigations are on and more arrests will be made. The situation in Barabani is under control and we have deployed policemen in the area,” said Biswajit Mahato, deputy commissioner of police (west). On Saturday, six BJP supporters were injured, including Kalicharan Das who suffered a bullet wound on his chest and was rushed to a Durgapur hospital during the clash that broke out between the Bengal ruling party and the saffron camp during the BJP’s rally on their Ar Noi Annay (No more injustice) campaign at Jamgram in Barabani block. Doctors at the hospital in Durgapur said the bullet lodged between Das’s heart and abdomen on the left side of his chest could not be removed surgically yet because of his present health status. “We have kept him under observation with medical support. We will try to remove the bullet on Monday,” said a doctor. BJP state secretary and party observer here Raju Banerjee said if attacks on their party activists keep happening they would strike back. “People will uproot Trinamul from the state within a few months (in the elections). If they (Trinamul workers) continue with such violence and attack our party workers we will retaliate,” said Banerjee. Banerjee held two rallies in Durgapur and Asansol on Sunday as part of BJP’s Ar Noi Annay programme, which is pitted against the ruling party’s Duare Sarkar. He later visited Barabani where the clash occurred. Trinamul denied the charges. “The BJP has realised it won’t come to power in Bengal and is frustrated. They are creating trouble on their own and blaming us for publicity. People will oust them from the state,” said Jitendra Kumar Tiwari, Trinamul president in West Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
07-12-2020||West Bengal||Tribal protest disrupts trains across north Bengal||Thousands from the tribal community walked up to a number of railway stations in the northern and southern parts of Bengal on Sunday to block the tracks and demand Sarna to be recognised as their religion by the Centre ahead of the census survey across the country next year. The rail roko disrupted trains across north Bengal and left thousands, including Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung and government job examinees, stranded. Traffic snapped in some highways as tribal protesters blocked them. In north Bengal, tracks were blocked at Adina station of Malda district and Dalkhola station of neighbouring North Dinajpur districts. For over three hours, trains could not move through these stations on the principal route that connects the region and the Northeast with the rest of the country. “Census will be conducted across India next year. We want our religion code to be recognised ahead of this exercise. So far, we have not been classified as members of a separate religious identity and it is time now that an appropriate decision is made in this regard,” said Durga Murmu, a representative of the Jharkhand Disom Party. Organisations such as Adivasi Sengel Abhiyan, All India Majhi Pargana Mandowa and other tribal groups joined the movement. In south Bengal, Kantadih station along Purulia-Asansol route, Jhankipahari station of Bankura along Purulia-Bankura route, Nalhati station and NH14 in Dubrajpur of Birbhum were affected, said sources. The protests disrupted services of at least six long-distance passenger trains in north Bengal, which include trains bound for New Jalpaiguri, New Alipurduar, Delhi and Calcutta. These trains halted in various stations. “Also, around 15 goods or parcel trains got stranded. Security persons were deployed in all locations to monitor the situation. Things became normal in the afternoon,” said an official of Northeast Frontier Railway. The rail roko caused hundreds of youths who had taken trains to Siliguri to miss reaching exam centres for the West Bengal State Public Service Commission clerk recruitment test. The state government requested the commission to give them a second chance. “GOWB has requested PSC to give an early second opportunity to examinees who have missed the Clerkship Part 2 examination 2019 at Siliguri today because of an unforeseen rail blockade today, whereupon PSF has agreed to do so for those examinees who missed the chance today,” the state home department mentioned in a tweet. The blockade also left Gurung stranded for a few hours. Gurung, who had boarded a train from Calcutta on Saturday to reach Siliguri, got stuck at Azamnagar Road, a station in neighbouring Bihar. He hired a car to reach Siliguri to speak at the public meeting. The Sarna demand, political observers said, gained ground because last month, neighbouring Jharkhand government passed a special resolution in the Assembly on the Sarna religious code. “Through the resolution, a special column in the 2021 census has been sought for Sarna followers who worship nature. Jharkhand’s move has bolstered the confidence of Bengal’s tribal population,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
07-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP signal to pro-CAA camp||BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said on Sunday that the Centre might implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act from next month to confer citizenship on a large section of refugees living in Bengal. “Most probably, from January, the process of providing citizenship would begin,” he told journalists here amid increasing discontent within certain sections deemed pro-BJP over the delay in the law’s implementation. “The Centre has honest intentions on the citizenship issue and introduced the act to help the religiously persecuted people (although only from India’s Muslim-majority neighbours) take refuge in our country. But the Trinamul Congress and some other parties have been misleading the people,” said Vijayvargiya. Members of the Matua community — deemed to have sided with the BJP in the general election last year — welcomed the announcement. “This is a great move. The Matuas have been eagerly waiting for its implementation and a permanent settlement of their citizenship issue for a long time,” said the BJP’s Bongaon MP and All India Matua Mahasangha chief Santanu Thakur. Nadda visit Sources in the BJP said its national president J.P. Nadda would arrive in Calcutta on December 9, instead of December 8. Nadda would participate in an outreach programme in the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency represented by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. He will also visit the Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha constituency represented by her nephew, Abhishek Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
07-12-2020||West Bengal||5 lakh Covid cases, 23,894 active ones||Bengal on Sunday logged a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 41st consecutive day, with a fall of 13,296 since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 to 23,894 now. Also, Bengal’s recovery rate is 93.51 now, in an unbroken spell of rise for 45 consecutive days, since 87.44 recorded October 22, and inching closer to the national rate of 94.43 per cent. Taken together, the data show that much of the damage from the rapid spike in infections before Durga Puja has been undone. The state on Sunday reported 3,167 recoveries, 3,143 new infections and 46 deaths. Ten of the deaths were reported from Calcutta. Bengal’s total Covid-19 cases — 264 days since the first was detected on March 17 — went past 5 lakh to touch nearly 5.03 lakh, but the number includes 4.7 lakh recoveries and 8,723 deaths. The latest 50,000 cases were detected in 15 days, 4.5 lakh cases being reported on November 21. Prior to this, the state had logged its first 5,000 cases on May 30, 10,000 on June 12, 50,000 on July 23, 1 lakh on August 11, 2 lakh on September 13, 3 lakh on October 13, 3.5 lakh on October 26 and 4 lakh on November 7. “Yes, the total (caseload) is over 5 lakh now, but one must always remember it includes 4.7 lakh recoveries (and 8,723 deaths),” said a minister. “Also, the latest 50,000 infections took 15 days, compared to 14 and 12 days just before this.” In the 41 days since Dashami, Bengal recorded over 1.6 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.49 lakh cases found. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent overcrowding and worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The number of infections during festivals in October-November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. Similar instructions are likely during Christmas. However, the state’s mortality rate is 1.73, still behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Of the total toll in Bengal, 7,307 deaths, or 83.8 per cent, have been attributed to comorbidities. With 44,186 tests on Sunday, the state’s total test count went past 61.35 lakh, at 68,176 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.2 per cent. The state reported 24.88 per cent occupancy in the 13,538 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.11 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
07-12-2020||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung raps BJP, stands by Gorkhaland demand||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung, in his first public address on Sunday after three-and-a-half years, went after the BJP but simultaneously underscored that he had not softened his stand on statehood. “We will teach a lesson to  the BJP in the coming Assembly elections here and make them struggle for each vote in the hills, Terai, Dooars and across north Bengal. They (BJP) did politics by using us as pawns. Also, let me be clear that we will never deviate from our demand for Gorkhaland,” said Gurung to a crowd of 40,000-odd people at the Indira Gandhi Maidan here. The Morcha leader spoke on what made him extend his support to Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul Congress. Mamata assured him of looking into the issue of a permanent political solution for the hills, Gurung claimed. “I have spoken to the chief minister on the issue. She has assured me that she is committed to bringing a permanent solution for the hills. I thank her because it is for her that I could come to this meeting. We will put all efforts to ensure that her party wins maximum number of seats in north Bengal,” said Gurung. He repeatedly fumed at the BJP, the party that he had allied with since 2009, and said Darjeeling MP Raju Bista  should resign. “We made him win the parliamentary election with a margin of lakhs of votes. But now we want to say the time has come to close his chapter. He should submit his resignation (as MP). This MP and his party did nothing to address our principal demand or the demand to confer Scheduled Tribe status on 11 hill communities,” Gurung said. At the meeting venue, a steady hum of “Gorkhaland” was witnessed throughout the day, whether in the songs played to entertain the crowd, or in recurring slogans chanted by leaders or in remarks made by leaders including Gurung or in crowd reactions. Political observers said Gurung and his associates want to send a message to their supporters that they had not softened their stand on Gorkhaland. “They also want to drive home the point that the decision to support Trinamul, a party that is completely against Gorkhaland, is a political move to defeat the BJP and that they still demand Gorkhaland,” said an observer. Gurung did not spare the other faction of Morcha headed by Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa, and alleged corruption in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. In GTA, only 30 per cent of funds is being used for projects while the remaining 70 per cent is siphoned, he alleged. “There are two persons who have said that I need their permission to enter the hills. Who are they to make such comments? If I want, I can ascend to the hills tomorrow or the day after,” he remarked. The Morcha leader asserted that in another seven days, he would hold a public meeting in Darjeeling and in all will address around 20 meetings in hills and adjoining foothills. Gurung’s remarks indicate that he has drawn up a plan to revive his support base in the hills, Terai and the Dooars. Observers said both factions of Morcha are competing to prove to Trinamul that each has a larger support base than the other. The Tamang camp announced a public meeting in Sukna, some 10km from here, on December 13. “It would be interesting to see how these two factions plan strategies to prevent the other side from drawing the maximum support,” said a veteran in hill politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
07-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata set for rally on Suvendu’s turf||Mamata Banerjee reached Midnapore on Sunday evening on the eve of her “mega” rally billed as her show of strength on the home turf of rebellious party colleague Suvendu Adhikari. The chief minister is likely to take the dais at College Ground around 12.30pm on Monday. The party leadership has been working hard to ensure a 1.5-lakh-plus turnout. “This is now a major prestige issue. Midnapore is a bastion of the Adhikari clan. The show of strength will not only be crowd-wise, but also on the dais. Whoever doesn’t turn up will be identified as having sided with Suvendu,” said a Trinamul MP. Nandigram MLA Adhikari claims influence across Bengal, but his core strength lies in East and West Midnapore. Of the 31 Assembly seats between the two districts, Trinamul holds 27 (excluding the party’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das, who died of Covid-19). Of them, at least 15 MLAs are said to be close to Adhikari. The Trinamul MP did the math. “We know Suvendu won’t be present. Patashpur MLA Jyotirmoy Kar has Covid-19. Contai South MLA Chandrima Bhattacharya is on a party assignment in north Bengal. The Egra MLA is no more. That leaves possible 24 attendees,” said the MP. “We do not think we will see Contai North MLA Banasri Maity, Khejuri MLA Ranajit Mondal, Moyna MLA Sangram Dolui, Ghatal MLA Shankar Dolai, Keshiari MLA Paresh Murmu….The others, we’re keen to find out,” he added. Adhikari’s clan, associated with Trinamul, are also powerful. Father Sisir Adhikari is the Contai MP and East Midnapore party chief and a party vice-president. One of his brothers Dibyendu is the Tamluk MP, and another brother Soumyendu is Contai’s civic chairman. Sisir, maintaining cordial ties with Mamata despite his son’s stand, on Sunday said he would like to attend the event, but cited a “surgery in the big toe of my right foot”. Adhikari and his brothers could not be reached for their comments. Adhikari did not hold his anticipated “tell-all” news meet on Sunday on his political future. A source close to him claimed the news meet was a canard “spread by the party”. “Dada (Adhikari) has nothing to say to the media right now and won’t make political declarations while still being a member of the party and the Assembly,” said the source. “The news meet could have happened had the party not gone to town with details of Tuesday evening’s meeting between Dada, (Mamata’s nephew) Abhishek Banerjee and (Bengal poll strategist hired by the party) Prashant Kishor,” he added. After the party divulged to the media details of that meeting, that was also attended by senior MPs Saugata Roy and Sudip Bandyopadhyay (Mamata addressed them via speakerphone), Adhikari got intensely displeased and called off dialogue. It is felt that Adhikari, opposed to Mamata’s choice of nephew Abhishek as political successor and her appointment of poll strategist Kishor for commandeering Trinamul ahead of Assembly polls, may join the BJP or float a party aligned to the NDA. Chances of him staying on in Trinamul appear slim now. Sources in the party said Mamata would deliver a speech with a stern message. “Elements such as zero tolerance for anti-party activities, those looking to go should go, and we will defeat the BJP with or without opportunists should prominently feature in her speech,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
07-12-2020||North East||Sonowal for Dibrugarh Doordarshan, All India Radio stations ||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal has moved the Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar over Prasar Bharati’s directives for reassigning All India Radio (AIR) and Doordarshan Kendra (DDK) in Dibrugarh as relay centres only. The move will curtail their capacity to produce their own programmes and would only broadcast or telecast AIR and DDK, Guwahati’s programmes, his letter to Javadekar said. Sonowal urged him to retain the present status of both AIR and DD Dibrugarh centres as these places have been instrumental in reflecting the cultural mosaic and indigenous traditions of communities in Upper Assam and even the eastern districts of neighbouring Arunachal Pradesh. Both the Dibrugarh centres of DDK, functioning as a full-fledged station since 1993, and AIR, which completed 50 years in 2019, should not be relegated to the status of relay centres as Guwahati centres of AIR and DDK would be overburdened to appropriately mirror the rich cultural facets of this part of country, he wrote. The letter also touched upon the concerns caused by transfer of artistes and staff from DD Dibrugarh outside the Northeast without replacements while underlining the resentment caused among the leading citizens of the state about the possible loss of employment opportunities for local artistes in both the centres. “For preserving and sustaining the language, culture and heritage of the State, the present status of AIR and DDK, Dibrugarh, should be retained and they should be allowed to transmit own locally produced programmes,” Sonowal letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
07-12-2020||Opinion||Planned Power: the need for energy modelling||In an effort to boost sustainable energy, the Niti Aayog partnered with the United States Agency for International Development to develop an energy modelling system — the process of estimating and analysing energy to meet a country’s demand without losing energy during supply and while keeping in mind environmental complexities. Both renewable and non-renewable sources of energy come with associated problems. If renewable sources are not always available owing to their dependence on natural sources, power generated from traditional sources cannot be stored efficiently. But because of the variability of demand and supply and absence of estimations, the maximum amount of electricity that could be needed has to be produced and whatever is not utilized is wasted. Power loss during the transmission of energy is included in this. India loses $86 billion annually, according to the World Bank owing to this. The challenges of unequal energy access and non-uniform sources of energy make the modelling of energy much more difficult in India. The Niti Aayog says that India will take on the experiences of the United States of America’s Energy Modelling Forum. India’s forum will constitute various think tanks and research organizations like TERI, IRADe, CEEW, NCAER and so on which have been consistently developing scenarios, modelling studies and analyses to provide inputs to the government. But if India does not dust off the problems of the EMF, which has not been very efficient, such a model might only become a development mirage. Energy models are computer programs, and the EMF is criticized for its top-down approach. Local data is scarce and mostly the generation of data is focused on specific areas and organizations. Such modellings are considered undemocratic and biased since, among other things, the models depict the behaviour of all consumers and businesses as a group and not as different entities. The models also do not reflect the social and environmental impacts that are not part of the prices and transactions in the market. Studies have shown that this model has not really been as effective as it claims. In the US, projections were different from forecasts, either overestimating or underestimating energy consumption and production. Lack of information on behavioural aspects of households is one of the causes for the errors. Behaviour is key to successful energy modelling and India’s huge population living in rural, remote and untraceable areas might be a challenge for the developers of the programme. Data gathering and analysis are important parts of energy modelling. But the collection, simulation and processing of data are more important than reporting. Open Energy Modelling is a framework which can resolve the issues of transparency. Under such systems, input is not restricted to be fed by appointed members and the open access of the programme allows individuals to contribute. Tools like the Open Source Energy Modelling System and Tools for Energy Model Optimization and Analysis are more democratic than closed source programs. Open models allow countries with a limited budget to build their own domestic modelling capabilities. International organizations like the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs have promoted the use of open source programmes and countries that have adopted such modelling methods include South Africa, Cyprus and Bolivia. China uses another open source like energy modelling, the Demand Resources Energy Analysis Model, and addresses end-use energy demand characteristics and links between economic growth and energy demand. India hosts vulnerable communities which do not have energy access and are worst affected by greenhouse gas emissions accredited to energy production. Efficient and clean energy is central to energy modelling system analysis. Rapid decarbonization and equal access to energy require modelling that can trap the potential new low carbon technology trends and make it accessible and affordable at the end-user level. Better representation of behavioural response, wide contribution from every level and technological detailing in the standard models may provide better outcomes for India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
07-12-2020||Opinion||Deadly hitman: inflation on the prowl||Ronald Reagan evocatively described inflation as “violent as a mugger... and as deadly as a hitman”. The armed robber is now on the prowl. The problem is that the policeman cannot ward him off because his truncheon is tied behind his back. Whether inflation in India, currently riding at 7.61 per cent, has reached such alarming levels as to draw larcenist labels is debatable. The traditional monetary policy response to check inflation is to raise interest rates. With the country technically in a recession, the policy makers of the Reserve Bank of India were not expected to use that blunt instrument. At the latest monetary policy review meeting that ended on December 4, the RBI’s policymakers chose to hold the policy interest rates and decided to persist with the accommodative policy that was embraced in June 2019. Liquidity has been sloshing around in the financial system. The net durable liquidity surplus in the system has ballooned to over Rs 8 trillion as on November 6 from Rs 2.56 trillion in March when India went into its first lockdown — an increase of over 213 per cent. The problem with this is that at a time when banks are looking to play safe and industry is reluctant to borrow, the deluge of money is winging its way back to the RBI through its reverse repo window. Banks still have surplus funds that they are deploying in the money markets where interest rates have tumbled below the reverse repo rate of 3.35 per cent, raising questions about the effectiveness of the policy rates. The problem of excess money is compounded by the fact that foreign investors have been pouring money into Indian equities and debt markets. The guiding principle within the central bank to deal with such a situation is to start longer term repo or reverse repo operations as these have no discernible impact on bond yields. That is precisely what the RBI has now done with its plans for on-tap repo operations and the decision to hold the reverse repo rate when most pundits had expected it to be cut. The surplus liquidity has only stoked inflation. Earlier, the RBI felt that inflation would cool in the third quarter as lockdown-induced supply side disruptions ended. The policymakers now believe that these disruptions will continue. They have identified two other factors for the inflation spiral: the higher margins that consumers pay as a result of the increase in product prices and the effect of indirect taxes. This can only mean that inflation — already way above the upside tolerance limit of 6 per cent — is going to remain elevated. The RBI is running out of options to deal with the elephant in the room. And it does not help when the latest Households’ Inflation Expectations Survey reveals that 86.5 per cent of the respondents expect prices to rise over 12 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
07-12-2020||Opinion||Southern spice: Rajnikanth as 'thalaiva'||Tradition can be resilient. Politics, on some occasions, mirrors its endurance. Consider the traditional hold of the film fraternity on Tamil Nadu’s electoral politics. The churn in this southern state’s political firmament continues to be influenced by stars: the announcement by Rajinikanth that he would soon be dipping his toes into the unpredictable currents of politics is a testament to this phenomenon. Whispers of the veteran actor entering politics had been swirling for years and the final day of December is expected to reveal the contours of his political formation. The artist — three years ago, his fan clubs reportedly numbered 50,000, with the majority of their members hailing from minorities and socially disadvantaged groups according to some estimates — would be hoping that his massive following would propel his political fortunes. Tamil Nadu’s political pie has been divided by formations rallying around the Dravidian identity and relevant social, cultural and economic aspirations. The challenge for the mega star would be to create a niche for himself in this competitive space. The demise of two influential figures, M. Karunanidhi and J. Jayalalithaa, has left a vacuum. But public adulation may not be enough to win political contests. Kamal Haasan’s freshly minted Makkal Needhi Maiam did not quite create a splash in the parliamentary elections of 2019. There is no concrete word on Rajinikanth’s preference for alliances yet — Tamil Nadu goes to the polls next year — but there have been persistent speculations about his political — ideological? — leanings not being averse to those of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Indeed, the BJP, which announced that it would fight the assembly elections in partnership with the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, has been receptive to Rajinikanth’s political turn. It remains to be seen whether the BJP attempts to deepen its imprint in Tamil Nadu by cashing in on the artist’s aura. Bihar, where the BJP finally managed to clip Nitish Kumar’s wings, offers a template of this model of saffron expansion. But such a strategy is unlikely to please the thalaiva.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
07-12-2020||Opinion||The golden years||The old age home is a new social institution that came into existence first in developed countries and gradually made its way to India after several years. This variance in time gives Indians the opportunity to carefully consider the various aspects of this institution and its suitability to our society before allowing old age homes to become entrenched as an integral part of our lives. Although this institution is presented to us as a convenient modern facility much like a hospital or a hotel or even online shopping, like other modern facilities, it too has a history. There are different ways of approaching an issue. For instance, looking at a sculpture from the angle it is presented — the intended point of view — is one way of appreciating it. Walking around it, on the other hand, provides a more comprehensive picture. Leonardo da Vinci, for example, examined Michelangelo’s David at the Sistine Chapel from various angles in an attempt to see if he could discover aspects that may have eluded Michelangelo. He did, in fact, conclude — correctly as it turned out — that the stone chosen would crack if placed outdoors. Similarly, no one has scrutinized modern social institutions as thoroughly as Michel Foucault. He proposed that modern social institutions like the clinic, prison or asylum are formed by the process of exclusion, thus replacing the inclusive model of social institutions prevalent till Durkheim’s time. This has remarkably changed our understanding of the nature of social formation. Yet, even the indomitable Foucault did not theorize the institution of the old age home. I would like to claim that this was because he failed to read modern philosophers like Descartes and Rousseau who distinguished different phases of the modern self — namely, childhood, adulthood and old age. Instead, he saw the modern self as a homogenous whole. Even feminists like S.M. Okin, who highlighted the gendered nature of the modern self, took the gendered male self to be homogenous. I, on the other hand, would like to assert that the modern self is not only a male self but also exclusively a self that is adult although divested of advanced age, an important aspect of human existence. While instituting the modern autonomous individual, Descartes excludes everything from this self except cognition. The excluded consists of childhood as it is the phase governed not by reason but by ‘appetites’ and ‘teachers’ who, according to him, do not give the ‘best advice’. He envisages adulthood to be governed by reason, providing a reliable ground for the formation of the modern self. Like a butcher packing minced meat, or a carpenter separating a log of wood by chopping off both the roots and the branches, Descartes packs the content of adulthood in the modern rational container along with reason, the combination of which ultimately constitutes the modern self. Unlike his predecessor, Rousseau does not reject childhood, but he does seek to explain it away. In an enigmatic passage in The Social Contract, while dismantling the institution of family which he considers to be ‘ancient’, he characterizes the relationship between the child and the father as contingent. He says that children are free from the ‘father’ (why it is only the father and not the mother is a point that has been critiqued by feminists) after they attain adulthood. However, this leaves the deal incomplete as one might legitimately ask why the father should spend time and resources on the child without getting anything in return. In a traditional society, the account is settled when children take care of parents in their old age. However, this is not acceptable to Rousseau, as this limits the contract and puts the child in debt. This would also legitimize the return to family, which he is seeking to dismantle. So how does one settle this deal? If we read the passage carefully, the subtext reveals that children need not take care of their parents. The father takes care of the children until they become independent, and the account is settled. It is settled because the father is paying off his debt to his father by bringing up his own children. Therefore, the ‘deal’ is more in the form of paying off debt rather than the father forcing his children to be indebted to him. Rousseau replaces circularity in the family by half circles that move in a linear direction. Since children have no obligation towards their parents, two things follow: the modern adult self is available for production and the post-productive adult phase of a human being is moved to the modern facility of an old age home. These philosophers, therefore, disparage old age and are enthusiastic facilitators of capitalism, not romantics as envisaged by some. With the elderly thus segregated, neither children nor adults are exposed to the experience of old age, a cost the modern self has to pay for individual freedom and liberty. Rather than approaching this from the aspect of concern or caring for the old, I wish to reverse the strategy and approach the experience of old age from the perspective of children and adults. Everyone will inevitably grow old, except in the case of premature death. It may therefore help adults to learn from the experience of the elderly and, in the process, broaden their understanding or even change their approach towards life and work. On the other hand, the old too can learn from the experiences of children if they lived together. Reliving their younger days through the children, like rereading a text, might help the elderly gain a better understanding of their own childhood and the subsequent impact on their lives. Similarly, there are experiences of the old that can equip children to plan and prepare better for their own old age. It is in this context that this denial of the experience of old age may take the adults away from an important domain of human experience, which one may have to confront suddenly rather than get acclimated to gradually. The experience of the old can be seen as a valuable asset for the future instead of being considered a burden. However, the production-centred modern life psychologically implicated the old in such a way that they are unable to see the trap similar to that of those inside the cave in Plato’s Cave allegory. I wish to further claim that the old age home is an unreflected consequence of the significant changes to rationality, production, and adulthood brought about by modernity. It will be interesting to find out from the old whether, having now reached an advanced age, they would still choose autonomous individualism in hindsight. Reading modern philosophy is thus important for India as we can learn from the experiences from the West and formulate our own programmes to not only contribute to production but also to improve the life of the elderly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Local gang robs Indian Bank operator||Barely 30 kilometres away from Dhanbad district headquarters, two, unidentified criminals looted Rs 45000 cash, a laptop, and 80 bank passbooks along with other documents from Indian Bank’s customer service point on Monday morning. The bike-borne criminals carried out the robbery at around 10.30 am when the operator of the Customer Service Point (CSP) of Indian Bank, Subhash Bauri, was trying to park his bike. The criminals, two in number, were speaking to each other in Hindi when they snatched the bag containing RS 45000, a lap and passbooks, besides a bio-metric machine and some ledger at gunpoint from the operator. They also threatened to shoot, when the man resisted the robbery attempt. A team of police from Madhuban police outpost, Dhanbad, led by officer-in-charge, Prabhat Ranjan Pandey, reached the site immediately after being alerted about the incident by local residents. Victim Subhash Bauri gave all the details to the police, following which the police have started conducting raids. The borders of the district have been sealed. “It seems like the criminals were waiting on the spot for me to arrive. No sooner did I park the bike at the CSP located inside the panchayat secretariat, one of them aimed the pistol at me, while the other snatched away the bag containing all the content, including cash,” said Bauri. He added that they fled away from the site in a black colour bike after snatching the bag. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, officer-in-charge Pandey, said, “We have lodged an FIR against the unidentified people based on the complaint lodged by the CSP operator, Subhash Kumar Bauri. We are also conducting raids based on inputs provided by the complainant and other people.” He added, “Both the secretariat and the CSP didn’t have CCTV cameras. Hence we have not been able to identify the criminals. But it seems to be the work of some local gang. We are conducting raids to arrest the crooks at the earliest. ” According to him CCTV footage of other shops in the area will be scanned by the police to get some clue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Police nets a gang of professional criminals in Seraikela||In a breakthrough, the police arrested 10 professional criminals from different parts of Seraikela-Kharsawan district on Monday. Manoj Sarkar, wanted in connection with the murder of builder-cum-land dealer Ranjit Baij in February, was also arrested during this raid. During the arresting spree, the police confiscated seven pistols (including two 7.65 MM) and a large quantity of ammunition along with two cars and 10 mobile phones from those arrested. Talking about the breakthrough, Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi, hinted at a timely tip-off playing a crucial role in having the criminals arrested. He also revealed that the gangsters were conspiring to commit some grievous crime in the Adityapur area sometime in the next two-three days. “Acting on the tip-off, we formed separate teams of police officers and had them carry out random search operations, especially at the police checking points across the district on Sunday evening.  During one such check, one of the police teams intercepted a car at Chowka and nabbed three suspected criminals, namely Domnik Samsung, Adhir Pradhan, and Dipu Ojha.  The team recovered two pistols from them.  During interrogation, the trio confessed that they had committed crimes in and around the district,” said Arshi while talking to the newsmen at Adityapur thana on Monday. The superintendent of police further revealed that based on information they got from the arrested individuals many more arrests were made from Kharsawan. The vital leads also helped the police officers recover fire-arms from them. On further interrogation, they admitted to having committed the crimes in an organised manner and that they were supposed to attend a meeting of the gang members in Adityapur where their leader Manoj Sarkar was also supposed to address them. Based on these leads, the police formed a network of cops to spread across, Nimdih block of the district, where Sarkar was staying at an undisclosed location.  Early on Monday morning, they succeeded in nabbing the gangster. “On being interrogated, Manoj confessed to having used his gang to settle railway contracts and also for real estate deals in both land sale-purchase in Seraikela-Kharsawan district and Jamshedpur.  He also confessed to having conspired the murder of Ranjit Baij at Adityapur in February, earlier this year,” said the senior police officer. Arshi also pointed out that Sarkar’s gang would influence the process of railway tender for any project starting from the Chakradharpur up to Kharagpur, and would bully the other contractors so that the tender would be bagged by his men. In lieu of the favour Sarkar and his men would get lucrative returns from the contractors concerned. Similarly, the gang would make itself of every land deal and would extort money from both the seller and buyer of the land. According to the SP, Sarkar had set up the new gang after the gangster Akhilesh Singh was arrested and his gang began to weaken. Those arrested during the raid have been identified as Manoj Sarkar, Adhir Pradhan, Domnic Samsung, Dipu Ojha, Gyani Kumar Sahu, Debabrata Goswami alias Debu Das, Shusant Pradhan, Santosh Banra, Totan Dutta, and Bijay Sahu. On Monday afternoon, after having the Covid test for the arrested criminals being performed all the arrested criminals were sent to Seraikela divisional jail following their subsequent production before a judicial magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Expect commuting issues till noon, but markets likely to stay open||Commuting could be an issue while shops and markets may open late on Tuesday in capital Ranchi and other parts of the state as the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD government has extended full support to the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ outfits against the new farm laws. On Tuesday, various political parties staged candlelight demonstrations at Ranchi’s Albert Ekka, appealing to one and all to ensure the success of the bandh. With chief minister Hemant Soren throwing his weight behind farmers by announcing the JMM’s wholehearted support for Tuesday’s strike, the state police and district administrations are on high alert to ensure maintenance of law and order amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic. Members of the transport and trade sectors in the state have so far disassociated themselves from the bandh, but many feared that they may be forced to close shops and establishments, given that the government is supporting the bandh. In Jharkhand, farmers are yet to hit the streets on their own, but the Opposition, mainly Congress and Left parties, have been holding series of protests over the last week against the new farm laws. Sources said the bandh would not impact industrial units in Jamshedpur and Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. The coal sector has been exempted from the purview of the bandh, hence mining activity is expected to continue unhindered in Dhanbad. But attendance of workers in collieries might be lesser than usual. Public transport Jharkhand Bus Owners Association president Krishna Mohan Singh said they will continue with inter and intra-state bus services. “We held a meeting on Monday and decided to continue running buses on Tuesday unless circumstances compel us to halt. Several buses are booked in advance by marriage parties and we can’t cancel them. Moreover, no one has officially approached us to support the bandh. But, if any individual bus owner wants to stay off the road, he is free to do so,” said the head of the association that oversees the service of over 2,000 buses. Another office-bearer, however, apprehended that services could be disrupted for a few hours in the first half of the day. “Had the Opposition parties called a bandh, we would have expected that the administration would remain strict. But here, ruling parties are supporting bandh, which means even police will be cautious before wielding the stick on any vandals. So, expect lesser buses in the morning,” he said. In Jamshedpur, however, long-distance bus owners have decided not to ply their vehicles. "We do not want to take a risk though bookings are heavy due to the peak wedding season, " said Upendra Sharma , a senior functionary of Jamshedpur Bus Owners Association. In Dhanbad, inter-state and local bus services are likely to be affected as a majority of operators have decided not to ply their vehicles on Tuesday. Sunil Singh, joint secretary of the Bus Operators Association, said, “We have decided to not run buses in order to avoid any disturbance.” City transport Auto services, considered to be the lifeline for commuting in the city, may also be hit. Dinesh Soni, president of Jharkhand Diesel Auto Chalak Mahasang, said, “Officially, we haven’t issued a bandh call. But auto owners will only hit the road when they feel safe, depending on the situation tomorrow.” Around 8,000 autos, including diesel and petrol variants, serve the district. In Dhanbad, the first of the day is likely to see little or no transport options available. Although none of the auto unions has come out in support of the bandh, drivers are expected to hit the road only if there is no trouble during the day. Sunil Singh, president of Jharkhand Pariwah Mazdoor Union, said, “The union has not issued any instruction auto operators. We have left it to individual drivers.” Goods transport Ranchi Goods Transport Association (RGTA), an umbrella outfit covering seven districts including Ranchi, Gumla and Hazaribagh, is not supporting the bandh, since it is “politically motivated”. It has appealed to the district administration to provide security. Sunil Chauhan, the spokesperson of the association, said, “Like farmers, traders, transporters and others are severely hit by the Covid-19 lockdown. Hence, we can’t afford to be part of a bandh. We shall continue with transportation of goods and essentials. We appeal to district administrations to ensure our vehicles aren’t vandalised.” Trade bodies Federation of Jharkhand of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) has appealed to businessmen to ensure that markets stay open on Tuesday, citing the ongoing marriage season. FJCCI president Kunal Ajmani said traders had already suffered huge losses due to the pandemic. “This is the time for traders to do business. The marriage season is on. Hence, we don’t support the bandh,” he explained, adding that the administration must ensure safety and security of all. In Jamshedpur, the Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) has also decided not to support the bandh. "This is the peak wedding season. The trader community which has already suffered huge losses due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown has therefore decided to stay away from the bandh as it will hamper their earnings, " said Bharat Vasani, general secretary of the trade body. Political parties Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said their party men would hit the streets since morning to enforce the bandh. They would also stage protests and dharnas across the state. “Farmers are our country’s backbone. We appeal everyone to stand in solidarity with them. We also appeal to everyone to observe the bandh voluntarily and support our farmers,” said Dubey. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee echoed similar sentiments. “JMM has been against the new farm laws since the beginning and are fully behind farmer’s cause,” he said. Policing and security Jharkhand police spokesperson Saket Singh said they were on high alert in view of Tuesday’s bandh. “All districts have been asked to deploy personnel in sensitive areas, like national and state highways and railway tracks, to ensure law and order. Also, a special focus will be on ensuring Covid-19 safety protocols are followed in public places. We will keep an eye on social media too,” he said. Jamshedpur The East Singhbhum district administration has beefed up the security apparatus in view of Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh. "Elaborate police deployment will be made in strategic locations for preventing any untoward incident. Apart from city, security will be tightened from midnight in rural and bordering areas too," said Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) have also been put on high alert. Dhanbad The coal capital is likely to see a marginal impact. Attendance in private and government offices in the coal capital is likely to be thin in view of Tuesday’s bandh. Transport is likely to be disrupted, at least in the first half of the day. But train services are not likely to be disrupted as the Dhanbad division of East Central Railway has decided to run all goods and passenger trains as usual. Dhanbad station master Ratnesh Kumar said, “We will run all trains originating or passing through Dhanbad. Necessary preparations have already been made in this regard.” The coal sector has been exempted from the strike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dalma elephants return early from Bengal||A herd of 35 elephants, which had migrated from Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary to Bengal forests around five months back and was supposed to stay put in the neighbouring state till February next year, have come back early on Sunday. The herd, including tuskers and calves, slipped into the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur, in the wee hours of Sunday and is presently stationed inside a jungle. The herd seems to have returned early in search of food. A forester said the elephants have taken a circuitous route to Dalma Sanctuary. The herd first stayed at Kharsawan for some days before heading to Saraikela and then to Chandil before coming home. “The elephants usually stick to their migratory corridor but the trend has changed this time,” he said. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra confirmed the early homecoming of the elephants. “Dalma jumbos usually leave for the jungles of West Medinipur and Bankura in Bengal in August-September and are back in January-February. The jumbos are welcome home,” he added. Besides coming home early, the elephants had also migrated to Bengal about a month earlier (in July). “The jumbos generally catch the corridor to Dalma after harvesting season ends in Bengal. However, elephants are moody animals and move as per their whims and fancies. More elephants should be back in the days to come,” another forester said. According to him, they have asked the trackers (village youths recruited as daily wagers to keep a tab on the movement of elephants and other animals) to keep an eye on the jumbos and inform about their movement to the forest range office in Jamshedpur. They have also been issued instructions to remain alert and prevent jumbos from venturing into villages inside the sanctuary. Forest patrol will also be intensified,” he informed. The villagers have already been handed over firecrackers and mashals (torches) to keep elephants at bay. The jumbos often barge into farms to damage standing crops which results in man-animal conflict. Meanwhile, a herd of 8 elephants wiped out vegetables from farms in Saparum village in Kharsawan in the wee hours of Monday. The villagers could not do anything out of fear and watched carrots, radish and harvested paddy being wiped out by the hungry elephants. Most of the villagers remained consigned to their homes at night. The forest team is trying to steer the herd back to the jungles. “We don’t come out of our homes late in the evening. The herd can attack us. The elephants are rampaging our farm,” said Shibu Tantubai, a farmer and resident of Saparum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Alert driver saves the day after LPG tanker springs a leak||The driver of an LPG tanker which had developed a leak on Sunday night averted a disaster by parking the vehicle in a secluded spot on NH-2, about 17km from the district headquarters, and waited for a rescue team to arrive on Monday morning and transfer the gas to another tanker. The leak took place in the pressure valve of the Indian Oil tanker (HR 38 Q 7818) which had over 17 tonnes of LPG. It was travelling to Gorakhpur in UP from Haldia port in Bengal. The driver, Abhishek Paul, realised something was amiss at Gahira in Govindpur on NH-2. He parked the tanker in an area free of human habitation and called police. Soon, a police team and firemen arrived at the spot. The police informed Indian Oil Corporation after which it sent a rescue team from Durgapur in Bengal which transferred the LPG from the leaking tanker to other tankers. District fire officer Surendra Yadav said “The IOC rescue team was able to start transferring the LPG at 5 am on Monday. Two other vehicles were needed to transfer the entire stock. The whole operation was completed at 12 noon.” Yadav said they had sent a fire tender soon after being informed by Govindpur police about the leak. “Our team remained at the site till the completion of the entire draining out process of the LPG,” he said. The fire officer said that if needed they would have used a special fire tender that was equipped with foam which was required in case of an LPG fire. “We could have increased the number of tenders if required. In case of fire due to LPG leakage, we have tankers containing foam which is required to control such fires,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||BIT-Sindri hosts special training for poor students||BIT-Sindri has lined up a host of soft skill activities to enhance confidence levels of engineering undergraduates from villages, underprivileged students and first-generation English learners and boost their employability. The activities being carried out at the lone state-run tech institute include conducting diagnostic tests, holding remedial classes, carrying out curative courses, organising special lecture series, entrepreneurship workshops, etc. The activities are planned under the equity action plan of Phase III of central government-sponsored – Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP). It will be executed by different agencies and will begin with the diagnostic tests for 1st year students of underprivileged background in January 2021 to ensure their successful conversion (promotion) in 2nd year of B.Tech course by clearing all the subjects of 1st year. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Director of BIT-Sindri, Dharmendra Kumar Singh said, “As classroom activities are suspended in the institute since March 17 this year, some of the activities will be organised online. In fact, the series of special lecture series, entrepreneurship workshops are already under progress.” Dean of Academics of BIT-Sindri, Upendra Prasad said, “We entrusted the responsibility of conducting various soft skill development programmes to different departments. We also appointed separate coordinators for each of the module but for one module titled - Knowledge hold forth series - we will be hiring an external agency to guide students.” “Under the ‘Knowledge hold forth series’ we will be training on Indian Constitution; law and women rights; women and health issues; entrepreneurship and girls; food and nutrition for girls; yogasana and meditations; workshops; seminars; training; psychological and sports training,” further added Prasad. Upendra Prasad is also the coordinator of Phase III of TEQIP at BIT-Sindri under which the institute has been provided with a fund of Rs 10 crore for carrying out some soft skill development programme for the students and teachers besides carrying out some civil construction work. Teachers from respective departments will provide guidance in subject matter, as well as pedagogy, will be organised on a quarterly basis in order to ensure the teaching of weak students, helping students in learning their goals and to develop an understanding of equity and equality of rights. Notably, both top engineering colleges of Dhanbad BIT-Sindri and IIT (ISM) Dhanbad have been selected under Phase III of TEQIP. IIT (ISM) has also been made the mentor institute for BIT-Sindri and both the institutes have also signed an MoU for sharing of resources and infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Prisoners learning to grow organic veggies at Birsa jail||Organic vegetables grown by prisoners at Birsa Munda Central Jail may soon be available in Ranchi markets if an initiative taken by the jail authorities in collaboration with Birsa Agriculture University (BAU) yield desired results, officials of the largest prison in Jharkhand said on Monday. A group of 50 prisoners, all serving life imprisonment in the Ranchi jail, have started undergoing classes on organic farming conducted by experts from BAU. The first such class was held on Monday, and in the next 10 days, prisoners will start planting seeds in around 4-acre land demarcated for organic farming within the jail premises, jail superintendent Hamid Akhter said. “An expert from BAU gave his first lecture to a group of 50 prisoners on organic farming. Once the initial training is done, the prisoners will start sowing seeds on fertile land within the jail premises,” said Akhter. Jail authorities also plan to seek a certificate from Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) confirming that the farming done at the Birsa Munda Central Jail was 100 per cent organic. “Once we get a certificate from the ICAR, we will be able to sell the vegetables grown here as organic vegetables in the market at a higher price,” Akhter said. For the special classes, the jail authorities have selected prisoners who were serving life terms to ensure that they can eke out a living through organic farming once they are released after serving 14 years of imprisonment, officials said. “It is difficult for prisoners to cope with the challenges of the outer world once they are set free after several years of imprisonment. We are hoping that prisoners who learn organic farming in jail will be able to earn money through farming once they are free,” said the jail superintendent. According to jail authorities, there are over 3,600 prisoners in the Birsa Munda Central Jail, and around 1,200 of them are convicts. The authorities are planning to focus on training the 1,200 convicts in the first phase of the initiative as they would be spending more time in the jail and will also be in need of a skill set for running livelihood once they are free. The chief executive officer of BAU’s business planning and development society, Siddharth Jaiswal, took the first class of prisoners on Monday at the jail. “We had asked the jail authorities to prepare a list of farmers who would be trained in organic farming. Minimum infrastructure is needed for organic farming and we are hopeful that with our assistance the jail inmates will do well,” said Jaiswal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro airport getting ready to start operations by 2021||Bokaro can hope to fly high from next year as the upcoming airport in the steel town is gearing up to host commercial flights to Patna and Calcutta. This will be the second airport under UDAN, the centrally sponsored regional air-connectivity scheme, after Deoghar airport which too is in the final stages of commencement. Last week, Airports Authority of India (AAI) announced on Twitter that Bokaro strip, being prepared at a cost of Rs 46 crore, is ready to host civilian flights. “Bokaro airport presently manages non-scheduled flights. Once civil operations start it will connect the steel city to Patna and Kolkata under RCS-UDAN,” the AAI said. The airport is owned by domestic steel major SAIL. In April 2018, SAIL signed a pact with AAI and the Union civil aviation ministry for using three of the PSU’s airstrips — Rourkela (West Bengal), Bokaro (Jharkhand) and Burnpur (Odisha) — under UDAN. Soon after, work began to revamp the Bokaro airport. The project included the construction of a terminal building with a peak-hour passenger capacity of 300 along with strengthening and re-carpeting the runway, apron and taxi track for ATR-72 aircraft. Now, two years later, about 25 per cent development work is pending owing to several challenges on the ground and the Covid-19 induced lockdown earlier this year, officials associated with the project said. “Work on the ATC tower, terminal building, isolated area and periphery road others are in progress. Once these get completed, we will obtain a licence from DGCA to begin flight operations,” said an official. He said in all probability, SpiceJet would a 72-seater flight from Bokaro. About existing hurdles, another official cited encroachments on a chunk of land in the Dundibagh area adjacent to the airport boundary and cutting and trimming of trees the vicinity. “Although encroachments were removed in the past, they resurface time and again owing to lack of enough surveillance in the area. We are in touch with the district administration for a permanent solution,” said the official, who is based in Ranchi. Infrastructure gaps have delayed Deoghar’s debut on the country’s aerial map despite Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri’s September announcement of commencing flights from the temple town from the first week of November. Recently, Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri held a review meeting with all stakeholders to speed up pending work. The foundation stone of the Rs 401.34-crore Deoghar airport was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 25, 2018. It is being developed by the Airports Authority of India in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Jharkhand government. Once ready, this will be Jharkhand’s second largest airport after Birsa Munda International terminal in Ranchi and will be suitable for operation of Airbus A-320 type aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports less than 100 new Covid cases, seven casualties in a day||While Jharkhand reported less than 100 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on Sunday, the Covid toll in the state shot up to 986 as at least seven more patients lost their battle against the lethal virus in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the state health department revealed. While Dhanbad reported two of the seven deaths on the day, Ranchi, Garwah, Palamu, East Singhbhum and Dumka reported one Covid casualty each. However, barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts have reported fewer Covid casualties than 100, highlights government data. The Covid-19 mortality rate of the state also shot up at 0.91 per cent on Sunday from 0.88 per cent on Saturday owing to more than half a dozen deaths in the past 24 hours. The national Covid-19 mortality rate was, however, much higher at 1.50 per cent, highlighted the NHM bulletin. Only 92 cases, including 37 from Ranchi alone, surfaced on the day, while as many as 134 Covid patients recovered from the infection, highlighted a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). The number of active cases of infection dropped down to 1796 after Sunday’s test results were out. As per the NHM bulletin released on Sunday night, at least 10 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single fresh case of Covid-19 on the day. While East Singhbhum reported 10 cases, only five fresh cases surfaced in Dhanbad. No other district reported a double-digit-spike in the Covid cases. The number of active cases of infection increased marginally in Ranchi, while it dropped in East Singhbhum as the two districts reported 30 and 27 recoveries respectively. On Sunday, the government tested swab samples of 16,121 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found to be infected. The state, however, still has around 20,000 swab samples pending for tests. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 43.56 lakh people and tested around 43.36 lakh of them. At least 1,07,496 of the 1,10,278 people infected by the virus so far have recovered, taking Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate to 97.47 per cent against the national average of 94.40 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.15 per cent against the national average of 0.32 per cent. It took 472.34 days for doubling of Covid cases in the state ag||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
