08-12-2020||Calcutta||Winter lost in December heat, poor air piles pain||The day temperature has been pushing 30 degrees for the past couple days. A week into December, mothballs are still embracing woollens inside cupboards. The night lacks nip but the day is when Calcuttans are feeling the heat. The December sun, usually mellow and pleasant, has forced many to switch on the fan. In Calcutta, the Celsius has been rising consistently over the past few days (see chart). At 18.6 degrees, the minimum temperature on Monday was three notches above normal. Despite the IMD’s forecast of a harsher than usual winter this year, northern parts of India have witnessed a rise in temperature for the past few days. “That is behind the warm spell in Calcutta and the rest of south Bengal,” a Met official said, ruling out a significant slide in the Celsius over the next few days. “The temperature in Calcutta is expected to go down marginally from Thursday. But it is unlikely to dip below 15 degrees over the next seven-eight days,” said a Met official. The maximum temperature is likely to be in the range of 29-30 degrees over the next three days. The minimum temperature in Srinagar was 4.6 degrees on Sunday, five notches above normal. In Delhi, the minimum temperature was 11.4 degrees, a couple of notches above normal. “The chill in Calcutta is brought by northwesterly winds which come from Kashmir via places like Delhi and Patna. The intensity of the winds keeps decreasing as they travel. A -2°C temperature in Srinagar can result in a 7°C reading in Delhi and a 12°C in Calcutta. The temperature has been on the higher side across northern parts of India. Gangetic Bengal is also witnessing a corresponding rise in temperature,” said G.K. Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. There is no immediate Western Disturbance — that triggers snowfall in Kashmir — on the Met radar.“The effect of snowfall in Kashmir is usually felt in Calcutta within 48-72 hours. In the absence of fresh snowfall, chill is unlikely to set in,” said Das. The reason for unusually hot days is the clear sky for most of the day, allowing the sun to beat down hard and triggering a rise in day temperature, said a weather scientist. “A cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand is leading to some fog early in the morning but as the day progresses, the sky becomes clear,” a Met official said of the past couple of days in Calcutta. The moisture injected into the atmosphere by the circulation is minimal but enough to ward off weak trickles of northwesterly winds, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Calcutta||Needed: graded plan to fight air pollution in Calcutta||An action plan with specific measures to be implemented as the air quality worsens with the progress of winter must be prepared for Calcutta, air quality management specialists have said. The action plan —  a graded response action plan has already been prepared for Delhi — will list the immediate measures that have to be taken when the air quality drops from “moderate” to “poor”, from “poor” to “very poor”, and from “very poor” to “severe”. Delhi’s action plan states that when the air quality worsens to “moderate” or “poor” from “satisfactory” and remains so for at least 48 hours, only trucks registered after 2005 are allowed to enter the city. Traffic cops are deployed in “vulnerable” areas to ensure smooth flow. When the air quality drops to “very poor” from “poor”, use of diesel generators and use of coal and firewood in hotels and open eateries are stopped. When it further worsens and stays severe for at least 48 hours with extremely high PM2.5 concentration, entry of trucks, except those carrying essential commodities, are stopped. Also, all construction activities are stopped and even schools may be shut down. “It is called a graded response action plan because there are different steps that have to be added with every fall in air quality standards,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, an air quality management specialist. “Calcutta must prepare its own graded response action plan. The National Green Tribunal had asked all non-attainment cities to frame such action plans through an order in October 2018,” said Roy Chowdhury, who is the executive director of the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). The air quality at most monitoring stations in the city has already touched the “poor” and “very poor” levels. At one station, it has touched the “severe” level. Bulletins issued for Calcutta by the Central Pollution Control Board at 4pm on Friday and Saturday, based on the average air quality of all seven monitoring stations of the city over the previous 24 hours, showed the air quality was “poor”. An official of the state pollution control board said a graded response action plan for Calcutta was under preparation. But he could not say when it would be ready. “We are working on a graded response plan for Calcutta. But it will take some time. It will be difficult to say by when it will be ready,” said the official. Roy Chowdhury said the graded response was like an emergency response, meant to ensure that the pollution was kept under control. “Systemic changes such as phasing out of old commercial vehicles take time, which is why an emergency graded response plan is required,” she said. Air quality management specialists also said the emergency action plan should continue parallel to long-term measures like stopping use of coal at roadside eateries, switching to cleaner fuel for public transport and phasing out commercial vehicles aged 15 years or older.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Calcutta||State board announces promotion without exams||The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education announced on Monday that students of Classes VI to IX would be promoted to the next class “without appearing in any evaluation/examination this year”. “But whenever the school shall open and classes start regularly, the teacher must revise the full syllabus of the previous class in the interest of the students before starting the syllabus of the present class,” reads Monday’s notification. The notice also says that though no selection test will be held this year for Class X students, “the schools are requested to make their students ready” for Madhyamik 2021 “by taking mock tests, if required”. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced on November 10 that students of the Bengal board in Classes X and XII will be allowed to write the Madhyamik and higher secondary exams next year without appearing in a selection test. Asked how mock tests could be held if schools don’t reopen, Partha Karmakar, the board’s deputy secretary (academic), told Metro: “We have left it to the schools to decide factoring in the circumstances.” A board official suggested “a bare minimum test on digital platforms based on the availability of tech support or over a phone call”. Although next year’s Madhyamik dates are yet to be announced, the board will hold camp offices on December 16 and 17 for the form fill-up exercise. The state government on November 25 had pruned the syllabuses for the students of Classes X and XII who will write their board exams next year because on-campus classes could not be held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Close to 14,000 secondary schools have been shut since the third week of March. The state government had decided to reintroduce the pass-fail system in Classes V and VIII in government-aided schools from the 2020-21 academic year. Reintroduction of detention in Classes VI and VII is due in the following year. Students were supposed to write three tests during the academic session that starts in January before securing promotion. “The three tests were to be held in April, July and November. But the tests could not be conducted this year,” said an official of the education department. Teachers tried holding classes on digital platforms during the pandemic but limited access for tens of thousands of students was a big hindrance. Saugata Basu, a teacher of Uttarpara Government School and the secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association, said the instruction to revise the full syllabus of the previous class once physical classes resume suggests that the department knows that alternative models were not adequate to cover the syllabus. “In the absence of revision, the students will not be able to comprehend anything of the new class,” said Basu. A school education department official said Avik Majumdar, the chairman of the syllabus restructure committee, advised revision of the full syllabus of the previous class. “The committee appointed by the state government consulted experts before giving its recommendations,” said an official of the board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Calcutta||Bonphool honey wakes up and smells sales||Bottles of honey collected from the Sunderbans mangroves and packaged by villagers, who faced the double blow of the pandemic-induced lockdown and Cyclone Amphan, are finding more takers from across the country. The sale of brand Bonphool, has jumped after a study, led by the New Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment, found that honey sold by major brands in India was “adulterated with addition of sugar syrup”, said a forest official. The honey-production programme, started by the state forest department, the panchayats and the rural development department in collaboration with WWF India as a means to generate alternative livelihood for villagers, who venture deep into tiger territory to collect honey or catch fishes and crabs, is barely a year old. On Monday, stocks of Bonphool were sold out on a popular online shopping platform. And the three cooperatives, set up jointly by the forest department, the panchayats and the rural development department and WWF India to produce honey from bee boxes, are working overtime to meet the demand that they had never seen before, the forest official said. Honey collectors have been going inside the forest despite the risks of getting mauled by tigers since ages. In fact, there is a popular saying: “Modhu khoja mane bagh khoja” (finding honey equates finding a tiger). According to forest department figures, at least five to six of these honey collectors (official figures) are killed by tigers every year. Bonphool sold 2,500 bottles per day on an average after the report was published last week, a forester said. As the demand soars, senior foresters are brainstorming to find out how to churn out more bottles and reduce time taken to pack each one before they are handed to the couriers for delivery across the country. The honey has had thousands of takers and has the likes of writer Javed Akhtar among its admirers. The demand for the honey started going up after a section of foresters started tweeting about the brand while focussing on the fact that they are collected from the mangroves of the Sunderbans. The programme was started by Santosha G.R., who was serving as the divisional forest officer of the South 24-Parganas, and a senior official of the panchayat and rural development department of the state government. The forest department had given 20 boxes each to 72 traditional honey collector families, who are called maulis in Bengali. It had also helped them to form three cooperative societies in the Jharkhali, Kultali, Nalgora areas and helped them secure soft loans from the state co-operative bank. The villagers have been trained in bee-keeping by experts from the Krishi Vigyan Kendra in Nimpith. Soumyajit Das, the special secretary of the panchayat and rural development department, said their sales counter on the ground floor of their office on Salt Lake was witnessing a steady stream of customers. “The response is overwhelming,” said Das. The department is setting up an app where orders can be placed. The forest department too has started a dedicated webpage for taking orders and residents of Calcutta can get theirs home delivered for free. To order one needs to visit: https://sundarbansjfmc.org/store/product-category/honey/ Visit: Mrittika Bhavan, Plot no-18/9, Block-DD, Salt Lake, Sector-I Online orders: https://sundarbansjfmc.org/store/ product-category/honey||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Calcutta||Burns while cooking kill aged woman||An elderly woman who suffered burns while cooking at her daughter’s home in Radha Madhab Dutta Garden Lane, in the Beleghata area, on Sunday evening died on Monday. Police suspect a leak in an LPG cylinder triggered the fire. The woman’s daughter and son-in-law got injured while trying to save her. The police said Chaya Nag, 74, was admitted to the NRS hospital with severe burns on Sunday. She passed away on Monday afternoon. “The woman’s daughter Alpana Haldar, 55, who was in the kitchen, got injured while trying to save her. The victim’s son-in-law Tarak Nath Haldar suffered burns while trying to save the two women,” an officer of Beleghata police station said. “Till now there is no hint of foul play. The exact location where the cylinder leaked is yet to be ascertained,” the officer said. Forensic department officials will collect samples from the spot to ascertain the location and cause of the fire. The findings of a preliminary investigation suggest a leak in the LPG cylinder that the family was using caused the fire. Forensic officials said consumers should periodically change the gas pipeline and keep a tab on its condition. “It is very important to have proper ventilation in the kitchen to prevent accidents even if there is a leakage. But in most flats windows are kept closed in winter. The gas gets trapped, causing sudden flames the moment it comes in contact with any spark or source of ignition,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Calcutta||Clear hospital dues, panel tells family||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission, which has so far mostly restricted itself to penalising hospitals and drawing guidelines, on Monday asked a petitioner to pay the bill a private hospital charged him, even if in installments. The commission asked a patient’s family to pay ILS Hospital, Howrah, Rs 65,000, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said. “To get the services, patients have to pay the necessary charges. She (the complainant) told us that their economic condition was not well. We allowed them to pay the dues in installments,” Banerjee said. The complainant told the commission that her husband was treated at the hospital for Covid-19 for nine days. The hospital billed him Rs 1.66 lakh. The complainant alleged the hospital overcharged them. The family paid Rs 70,000. “That leaves Rs 96,000 as dues. We asked the hospital to offer a discount of Rs 31,000, but even after that Rs 65,000 remained as dues,” Banerjee said. The woman told the commission that she had asked the hospital to discharge her husband as he was doing well. But the hospital discharged him two days later. “We have asked the hospital to refund the charges of those two days. After calculating everything, we asked the hospital to offer the discount of Rs 31,000,” said Banerjee. Debashis Dhar, the group vice-president of ILS Hospitals, said: “It is the doctor’s call when to discharge a patient. Even from a business point of view, the hospital would not want to keep a patient unnecessarily. If one patient gets discharged, we can take another on that bed.” Sanjib Bandopadhyay, who treats Covid patients at Beleghata ID Hospital, said: “The guidelines say a patient can be discharged on the 10th day from the onset of symptom without a negative test report, provided the patient does not have fever for three consecutive days and also have oxygen saturation levels more than 95 for three consecutive days.... A Covid-19 patient can spread infection. So the doctor has to be very cautious….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Calcutta||Covid test rate cap on hospitals||Private hospitals that do not have the permission to conduct Covid-19 tests cannot charge more than the government-capped rate to get the samples tested in other laboratories, the chairperson of the state clinical establishment regulatory commission said on Monday. The bar will only apply to those who will give samples for tests at the outpatient department of hospitals, not those who are admitted in hospital. Patients admitted in hospital can be billed a transportation cost or other necessary charges for carrying the sample to the laboratory, said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. According to the latest state government order, no hospital or laboratory can charge more than Rs 950 for an RT-PCR test for Covid. Banerjee made the observations while asking Zenith Hospital in Belghoria to return Rs 500 to a person who had complained that the hospital had charged him more than the government stipulated rate. “All private hospitals are admitting Covid-19 patients but not all have the authorisation from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct Covid-19 tests. Only a few hospitals have the approval,” Banerjee said. “The other hospitals collect samples and send them to authorised laboratories for tests. But they cannot charge more than the government stipulated rate. This will be applicable to people who are not admitted in hospital but are giving samples for Covid-19 tests,” said Banerjee. “The hospitals can charge patients who are admitted a nominal transport cost or other necessary charges.” He later told Metro that it was not possible for a patient admitted in a hospital to go to another hospital for the test. “A patient who is suspected to have been infected by the novel coronavirus has to be tested. But that patient cannot be taken outside the hospital. So the hospital will collect the patient’s sample and transport it to a laboratory authorised to conduct the Covid-19 test. In such cases, the hospital can charge a transportation cost,” he said. Arnab Pal, a resident of Peerless Nagar in Sodepur, complained to the commission that Zenith Hospital had charged him Rs 500 more than the rate stipulated by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Calcutta||Schools locked in tussle with parents over payment of fees||Many schools are locked in a tussle with parents over payment of fees during the pandemic, but some have also extended waivers that go beyond the court order. Schools have had to extend this help having realised that without concession some of the children might be forced to drop out. A parent of a senior school student at a Christian missionary school asked for a transfer certificate a few months ago because the father had lost his job and the family was planning to send the daughter to a relative’s house in a different city. The school intervened and offered a “considerable concession”. At a private school in north Calcutta, a mother approached the management saying her husband had undergone surgery and they could not afford the fees anymore. The teachers pitched in with some amount and the school agreed to pay the rest. At an Anglo-Indian school, a parent with three children approached the authorities for concession. The school asked the parent to pay the fees of the eldest child and waived the fees of the other two children. Calcutta High Court had ordered private schools to waive 20 per cent of tuition and session fees and not charge any fees on non-academic heads like “laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extracurricular activities or the like” between April 2020 and one month after the resumption of on-campus classes. After the court ordered a blanket waiver for all parents, irrespective of their financial condition, many schools discussed whether they could afford to provide the larger concessions they had offered to some parents. Fortunately, the overwhelming decision so far has been “we have to”. In such a situation, a number of schools have appealed to parents to pay their fees so they are able to extend the additional concession to parents in greater distress. Schools said these parents would play a crucial role at this point. “It is the generosity of other parents that will help the school keep giving to the other students who need it more,” said Sister Sherley Sebastian, the principal of Our Lady Queen of the Missions School in Salt Lake. The additional concession often varies from about 20 per cent to 50 per cent and goes up to even 100 per cent in some cases. Several school heads said concessions to a section of parents had been granted at the beginning of the academic year and to take that away during the pandemic would be “inhuman and unethical”. “We cannot change that because even when things were normal (before the pandemic), many of these parents were barely able to manage,” said Sister Sebastian. Since the court order, schools have had to deal with questions from some parents comparing their situation with others who are getting concessions despite being relatively better off. The Supreme Court has stayed portions of the high court judgment that asked schools to consider individual applications from parents for further waiver and allow-ed parents to approach a committee if they did not get redress from the schools. But many institutions are still getting requests for further waiver. “There is no question of rolling back the concession granted to the needy because the policy is to reach out education to as many as possible,” said a member of the Loreto Education Board. South Point has offered parents with dues options such as staggered payment, waiver or extension of date, depending on the documents that they provide. “As a school we have to show compassion and give parents as much opportunity as possible,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Business||Markets scale new peaks as Sensex jumps 182 points||Rising for the fourth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex jumped 182 points to end at its fresh lifetime peak on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, TCS and Infosys amid persistent foreign fund inflows. After touching a record intra-day high of 45,742.23, the 30-share BSE index climbed 181.54 points or 0.40 per cent to finish at 45,608.51. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose for the sixth consecutive day, up 37.20 points or 0.28 per cent to 13,392.95 -- its new lifetime closing high. It touched its intra-day record of 13,435.45 in early trade. UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by TCS, Reliance Industries, HCL Tech, Infosys and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Tech Mahindra, ONGC and Asian Paints were among the laggards. "Domestic equities continued to defy weak global markets by registering gains. Financials (mainly supported by PSU banks), IT and Reliance Industries supported market today, while profit bookings were seen in pharma and metal packs," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Continued foreign portfolio investment flows remained a dominant factor and given the consistent weakening of dollar along with the increased possibility of new fiscal stimulus, domestic equities are expected to continue getting support from FPIs in the near term, he added. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,792.06 crore on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in early deals. Meanwhile, global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 0.35 per cent to USD 48.62 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
08-12-2020||Business||Jio plans to roll out 5G by 2021, says Ambani||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani on Tuesday hinted at rolling out 5G telecom services in the second half of 2021 and said policy steps are needed to accelerate the early rollout of ultra-high-speed 5G services that are affordable and available everywhere. Ambani, whose four-year-old telecom venture Jio has captured the No.1 spot offering free voice calling and data at dirt-cheap rates, also pitched for developing hardware manufacturing in India, saying the nation cannot rely on imports in such a critical area. 5G is the 5th generation mobile network that enables connecting virtually everyone and everything together including machines, objects, and devices. India, he said, is today among the best digitally connected nations in the world. "In order to maintain this lead, policy steps are needed to accelerate the early rollout of 5G, and to make it affordable and available everywhere," he said. "I assure you that Jio will pioneer the 5G Revolution in India in the second half of 2021." Jio's 5G will be powered by the indigenously-developed network, hardware and technology components. "Jio's 5G service will be a testimony to your inspiring vision of AtmaNirbhar Bharat." Jio and other service providers such as Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea offer 4G services. The country however also has a 2G network that supports only voice calling and text messaging. "As many as 300 million mobile subscribers in India are still trapped in the 2G era. Urgent policy steps are needed to ensure that these underprivileged people have an affordable smartphone so that they too can benefit from direct benefit transfer into their bank accounts, and actively participate in the digital economy," he said. India has over a billion phone users. His company offers low-priced smartphones that allow internet access. "I can say with utmost confidence that 5G will enable India to not only participate in the Fourth Industrial Revolution but also to lead it," he said. As the digitalisation of the Indian economy and Indian society picks up speed, the demand for digital hardware will grow enormously. "We cannot rely on large-scale imports in this area of critical national need," Ambani, Chairman and Managing Director of Reliance Industries Ltd, said. Stating that many leading global companies are coming to India to set up manufacturing facilities, he said the country has developed world-class strengths in chip design. "I clearly foresee India becoming a major hub for the state-of-the-art semiconductor industry," he said. "When all the stakeholders work together, we can surely ensure that India's success in hardware will match our success in software." Jio Platforms, with its family of over 20 start-up partners, has built world-class capabilities in artificial intelligence, cloud computing, big data, machine learning, the internet of things and blockchain. "We are creating compelling home-grown solutions in education, healthcare, agriculture, infrastructure, financial services and new commerce," he said. "Each of these solutions, once proven in India, will be offered to the rest of the world to address global challenges." Ambani said India has the historic opportunity to become the world's pre-eminent digital society with ease of living for all. "My conviction comes from the enormous transformative power of the digital technologies," he said. India, he said, has two unique strengths - the confluence of three D's vibrant democracy, young demography and digital transformation, and the visionary and dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. While the outbreak of COVID-19 posed life-threatening challenges, high-speed 4G connectivity infrastructure has proved to be India's Digital Lifeline, he said. Throughout 2020, India worked online, studied online, shopped online, received healthcare online, socialised online, played online. "Simply put, India thrived online." With the coronavirus induced recession behind, Ambani said the Indian economy will not only bounce back but will also grow with unprecedented acceleration. "India can and India will prove cynics wrong by becoming a USD 5 trillion economy," he said. "It will be a more equal India, with increased incomes, increased employment, and improved quality of life for 1 billion Indians at the middle and bottom of the economic pyramid."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
08-12-2020||Business||Market opens at fresh high as Sensex jumps over 150 points||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points to touch its fresh lifetime peak in early trade on Tuesday tracking gains in index majors Infosys, HDFC Bank and Maruti amid persistent foreign fund inflow. After touching a record intra-day high of 45,582.83, the 30-share BSE index was trading 150.72 points or 0.33 per cent higher at 45,577.69. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 44.90 points or 0.34 per cent to 13,400.65. It touched its lifetime intra-day peak of 13,402.70 in early trade. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, M&M, HCL Tech, UltraTech Cement, HDFC and ONGC. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Sun Pharma, IndusInd Bank, Asian Paints and ICICI Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex soared 347.42 points or 0.77 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 45,426.97, and Nifty rose 97.20 points or 0.73 per cent to an all-time closing high of 13,355.75. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,792.06 crore on a net basis on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. "Continued FPI flow remained as dominant factor to drive the market and given consistent weakening to dollar along with increased possibility of new fiscal stimulus, we believe domestic equities will continue to get support from FPIs in the near term," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, irrational exuberance is quite visible in many counters given a sharp rally seen in small cap stocks as investors are pouring money in all stocks irrespective of earnings potential, he said, adding that this could lead to a sizable erosion of wealth especially for retail investors when the cycle turns. He further stated that US equities closed mostly lower as a continued spike in COVID-19 cases and ambiguity over the quantum of fiscal stimulus led to profit booking. Additionally, the emerging possibility of no trade agreement deal for Brexit after discussion with European Union leaders and UK officials led to unease about global political development among investors. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.82 per cent lower at USD 48.39 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
08-12-2020||Business||NTPC to buy back its masala bonds worth Rs 4,000 crore||State-run power giant NTPC has made an offer to buy back its masala bonds worth Rs 4,000 crore from bondholders or lenders. Masala bonds are issued outside India but denominated in Indian rupees, rather than the local currency. NTPC has launched a cash tender offer to buy the bonds worth Rs 4,000 crore. According to the company statement, the offer includes the rupee-denominated Rs 2,000-crore 7.375 per cent notes issued on August 10, 2016, payable in dollar and due on August 10, 2021 (“2021 notes”). The offer also includes rupee-denominated Rs 2,000-crore 7.25 per cent notes issued on May 3, 2017, payable in dollar and due on May 3, 2022. The company had issued the 2021 notes, which are at present listed on Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (SGX-ST), the London Stock Exchange’s Professional Securities Market, the NSE IFSC Limited and the India International Exchange (IFSC) Limited. The 2022 notes are at present listed on SGX-ST, the London Stock Exchange’s International Securities Market, NSE IFSC and India INX. The average spot power price dropped 4 per cent to Rs 2.73 per unit in November compared with the year-ago period at the Indian Energy Exchange. The day-ahead market (DAM) volume at 4,860 MU (million units) recorded a 43 per cent YoY (year-on-year) growth in November. The DAM market continued to see high sell-side liquidity with total sell bids at 9,778 MU being twice that of the cleared volume (sales). This enabled the market to maintain an attractive average market clearing price at Rs 2.73 per unit during November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Cafe Coffee Day picks Malavika Hegde as CEO||Coffee Day Enterprises Ltd, the owner of the Cafe Coffee Day chain, appointed founder and former chairman V.G. Siddhartha’s wife Malavika Hegde as its chief executive officer on Monday, more than a year after the coffee baron was found dead in a river in Southern India in an apparent suicide. In July last year, Coffee Day Enterprises named independent board member S.V. Ranganath as interim chairman, after authorities here recovered Siddhartha’s body floating in a river near the port city of Mangalore, two days after his disappearance sparked speculation that he was under intense financial strain. Malavika Hegde was appointed as the CEO with immediate effect, the company said in a filing to the exchanges. The company’s board in a meeting held on Monday also approved the appointment of C. H. Vasudhara Devi, Giri Devanur and Mohan Raghavendra Kondi as independent directors. The appointment is for five years, effective from December 31, 2020. Bangalore-based Cafe Coffee Day runs hundreds of coffee shops across India that brew cappuccinos and lattes for India’s booming moneyed class and compete with the likes of Starbucks, Barista and Coca-Cola Co-owned Costa Coffee. Siddhartha, 59, was recognised for having brought the coffee shop culture to a largely tea-loving country, while also being hailed as one of India’s early venture capital investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Jet Airways could fly again in 2021||Jet Airways could fly again in 2021 with the consortium, which won the bids to revive the carrier, holding talks with the ministry of civil aviation and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to reinstate airport slots and bilateral traffic rights of the airline. The consortium of UAE-based businessman Murari Lal Jalan and London’s Kalrock Capital said they are awaiting NCLT and other regulatory approvals, including reinstatement of slots and bilateral traffic rights. The talks with the government have been “extremely positive”, they added. The consortium in a statement said it wants to revive the airline, which had stopped flying in April 2019, as a full-service carrier and was also planning to launch dedicated freighter services once the carrier takes off the ground again. The consortium said it had evaluated an option to start a new airline. “But some of the inherent strengths of Jet Airways like the optimal flight slots, brand value and reputation for best-in-class in-flight service and safety, giving Jet 2.0 an edge over others, were too tempting to resist,” it said. The statement comes just days before the resolution plan submitted by the consortium is to be heard at the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on December 11. The plan has to get the approval from the NCLT, before the consortium can set the ball rolling. The committee of creditors (CoC) has already approved the airline's revival plan submitted by the consortium in October. Jet Airways was grounded on April 17 due to liquidity crisis and subsequently went into administration in June 2019. The Jet 2.0 hubs will remain in Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru like before as the revival plan proposes to support tier 2 and tier 3 cities by creating sub-hubs in such cities. This would boost the economy in these cities, help Jet Airways stand back on its feet fast and support the overall vision of the government to promote aviation business through tier 2/ tier 3 cities in India, the consortium said. Besides, the consortium is also planning to increase cargo services to include dedicated freighter service, a market currently under-served by any Indian carrier, the release said, adding given India's position as a leading centre for global vaccine manufacture, cargo services have never been more required. "Jet Airways has been a brand with a glorious history of over 25 years, and it is the vision of the Consortium to put Jet Airways back in the skies at the earliest opportunity," Manoj Madnani, board member of the Jalan-Kalrock consortium said. "As per the resolution plan, Jet Airways intends to operate all of its historic domestic slots in India and restart international operations. The Jet 2.0 program is aimed at reviving the past glory of Jet Airways, with a fresh set of processes and systems to ensure greater efficiency and productivity across all routes. "If everything goes as per plan and the Consortium receives the NCLT (National Company Law Tribunal) and regulatory approvals on time, Jet Airways would be back in the skies by the Summer of 2021," the consortium said in a release. The consortium has decided that it would be advantageous to re-energise and start Jet Airways on a clean slate with an established brand, it said, adding the vision is to regain the lost ground, set new benchmarks for the airline industry with the tag of being the best corporate full-service airline operating on domestic and international routes. "We aim to re-energise the brand by infusing energy, warmth, and vibrancy into it while making it bigger and better," Manoj Narender Madnani, Board Member of Jalan Kalrock Consortium, said. Over the years, the brand has created loyal customers and the consortium wish to bring in freshness by adding value – an Indian brand with a global outlook, he said, adding "with the revival of Jet Airways, it will restore the confidence among the Jet customers to fly again and experience its world-class facilities". The aviation sector was deeply hit by COVID-19, but that helped the sector as it underwent substantial correction and created that opportune time for the consortium members to enter the sector. The consortium's biggest strength is human capital, and it is putting together the best of aviation professionals with Global experience for running and managing the operations of Jet 2.0, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||IndiGo refunds by January 31||IndiGo on Monday said it would refund all credit shell sum by January-end and have already processed close to Rs 1,000 crore of refunds so far — a sign that things may be looking up for the airline industry. “IndiGo has been rapidly refunding amounts to customers whose flights had been cancelled during the lockdown. The airline has already processed close to Rs 1,000 crore of refunds, which are approximately 90 per cent of the total amount it owes customers. “IndiGo is committed to complete payments against all pending credit shells latest by January 31, 2021,” the airline said in a statement. Ronojoy Dutta, chief executive officer of IndiGo, said: “Covid-19 and the resulting lockdown brought our operations to a complete halt... As our incoming cash flow dried up, we were unable to immediately process refunds. However, with the resumption of operations, our priority has been to refund the credit shell amounts in an expedited manner.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Nissan bets on  its recently launched Magnite ||Nissan India has received 5,000 bookings for its recently launched compact SUV Magnite that it has aggressively priced in the range of Rs 4.99 lakh to Rs 9.35 lakh. These are introductory prices for buyers this year. From January 2021, the SUV will retail at Rs 5.44 lakh, which will make it the most affordable B-segment SUV with rivals such as Kia Sonet priced at Rs 6.71 lakh, Maruti Vitara Brezza retailing at Rs 7.37 lakh and Hyundai Venue selling for Rs 9.98 lakh. “The Magnite marks the beginning of a new chapter in the Nissan Next strategy for both the Indian and the global market,” said Sinan Ozkok, president, Nissan Motor India. Nissan, which has had a poor run in the country, is betting big on the Magnite, which enters the most competitive segment of compact SUV, and hopes to sell around 2,000 units a month, said an industry source. Its only other offering in recent years has been the Nissan Kicks which sold over 6,331 units in 2019. Its economy brand Datsun has also flopped. KTM, the premium motorcycle brand, has announced the launch of the MY21 KTM 125 Duke. The design of the KTM 125 Duke is based on the KTM 1290 Super Duke R. It has a 125cc liquid cooled fuel injected engine. It will retail at Rs 1,50,010 (ex-showroom Delhi). The model will be available in two colours - electronic orange and ceramic white. Nissan has less than 1 per cent market share, selling just 18,000 vehicles in the last business year. Its production facility in Chennai, co-owned with Renault, was operating at 43 per cent of its production capacity in January this year, before the pandemic. Nissan exported 80,000 vehicles in the last financial year. The company does not intend to quit the market where it has invested 800 million dollars but it needs to succeed with the Magnite.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Gems and jewellery industry seeks exemption from equalisation levy of 2%||The gems and jewellery industry has sought exemption from the equalisation levy of 2 per cent that has impacted the procurement of rough diamonds through online auctions. The Finance Act 2020, through section 165A, has introduced this levy on the consideration received by an e-commerce operator from the e-commerce supply of goods made or facilitated by it to an Indian resident. This has led to a confusion with global miners looking to amend contract terms with Indian businesses. A few auction houses/trading companies have even barred India-based customers from participating in the spot auction process earlier in June. According to the Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council, the competitiveness of Indian goods will suffer as other rough diamond importing countries do not have such a levy. Colin Shah, chairman of GJEPC, on Monday said the levy is more aimed at e-commerce operators but has affected the jewellery industry, which has requested the government for a clarification that the levy is applicable only on business to consumer and not business to business. “We are hopeful that this will come within the budget,” said Shah. Procurement of diamond through online auction is a preferred choice for the industry amid the Covid pandemic that restricts travel to physical auctions. The government in a meeting with the industry in August had been appraised of the issue. A reduction in import duty on cut and polished diamond from 7.5 per cent to 2.5 per cent, a reduction in import duty on precious metals including gold from 12.5 per cent to 4 per cent, amendment in taxation provision to enable sale of rough diamonds in special notified zone in Mumbai, extension of common facility centre scheme for five years, technology upgradation fund scheme for gems and jewellery industry are among the other issues the industry has included as part of its pre budget proposal. GJEPC estimates that lowering the import duty to 4 per cent will help in freeing up working capital to the tune of around Rs 600 crore on the import of gold bars for export purposes. GJEPC said that there has been a significant improvement in the declining exports from India. Gross exports at USD 2.48 billion was down 3.88 per cent in November 2020 compared to November 2019. The year on year decline in October was 19.02 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Hindalco Industries plans new unit||In an indication of how the commodity cycle is starting to bounce back as the economy recovers, Hindalco Industries has announced plans to set up a 34,000-tonne aluminium extrusion plant at Silvassa in Dadra and Nagar Haveli Union Territory at an investment of Rs 730 crore. In a communication to the stock exchanges, the AV Birla group firm said that the new plant will service the fast growing market for extruded aluminium products in the western and southern regions. Hindalco said the Rs 730-crore project in Silvassa signals a big step forward in its downstream strategy as the company revives its long-term downstream investment plan. The company added that its intent is to build a larger value-added product portfolio over the next few years. The company pointed out that the investment indicates confidence in the economic revival, which in turn will grow the demand for downstream value-added products. It comes at a time industries such as automobiles and construction are witnessing better activity as the unlock continues and the economy is in for a turnaround. The aluminium extrusion market in India is expected to grow exponentially — from the current level of around 373,000 tonnes to  about 850,000 tonnes by 2030. “The western and southern regions of the domestic market account for over 60 per cent of the extrusion market,’’ the company added. “We are seeing a revival in the economy, with demand picking in the building and construction and automotive sectors. This has given us the confidence to move forward. The Silvassa facility will enable us to service our customers faster with an offering of high-end quality aluminium products,” said Satish Pai, managing director of Hindalco Industries. He added that over the next few years, the plan is to enhance the capacity to more than 6,00,000 tonnes from over 3,00,000 tonnes at present with investments of around Rs 7,000 crore. Hindalco disclosed that commercial production at the plant is expected to start in 24 months Shares of the company today ended marginally lower at Rs 251.35 in the BSE. Since its 52 week lows in March, the stock has risen by over 195 per cent. Amid signs of an economic recovery, non-ferrous metal firms are expected to announce more investments as they brace for a surge in demand. Hindalco is one of the largest integrated primary producer of aluminium in Asia. It a pan-Indian presence covering the entire gamut of operations, from bauxite mining, alumina refining, aluminium smelting to downstream rolling, extrusions and recycling. Its copper division, operates one of the largest single location custom copper smelters in the world. The custom copper smelter at Dahej in Gujarat houses three copper smelters, three refineries, two rod plants, a captive power plant, a captive oxygen plant, phosphoric acid plant, di-ammonium phosphate plant, precious metal recovery plant, captive jetty and other utilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Franklin Templeton calls windup vote of six fixed income schemes||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund on Monday said that it has sought the consent of unitholders for the orderly winding up of its six fixed income schemes. Electronic voting to seek their approval will take place between December 26 and December 28 and the meeting of unitholders of relevant schemes on December 29. The fund, however, warned investors that if the decision to wind up schemes in an orderly manner is not implemented, “it would precipitate a rush of redemptions, which would force a distress sale of the portfolio securities, likely resulting in a reduction in the net asset value (NAV) of the schemes and substantial losses for unitholders’’. Franklin Templeton MF had wound up the six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23, citing redemption pressure and lack of liquidity in the bond markets. The schemes are Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, Franklin India Short-Term Income Plan, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund. In the voting, the unitholders will have to take a call on whether to give consent to the winding up or withhold it, which would allow the schemes to reopen for purchase and redemption. The latest move comes after the Supreme Court last week asked Franklin Templeton MF to initiate steps within one week for calling a meeting of unitholders to seek their consent for closure of the six mutual fund schemes. Franklin Templeton MF said the objective of the voting exercise is to seek, by “simple majority”, consent of the unitholders for the decision made by the trustee of the fund house. Consent will be sought from unitholders for each scheme separately. Franklin Templeton MF believes that it will be beneficial for unitholders to vote ''Yes'' to the proposed resolution as this will allow schemes to monetise assets without resorting to distress sales and will maximise value to them. From April 24 to November 27, the schemes under winding up have received over Rs 11,576 crore from maturities, pre-payments, and coupons. Out of this, the schemes have received Rs 2,836 crore in the month of November itself. The cash available stands at Rs 7,226 crore as of November 27 for the four cash positive schemes, subject to fund running expenses. `We seek unitholders’ consent for the orderly winding up and believe this will result in the best possible outcome for unitholders in these schemes. "Unit-holders'' vote in favour of the orderly winding up will allow us to maximise return of investment value without resorting to an emergency liquidation of securities. The opportunity to liquidate assets at fair value will increase with time in a normal market environment’’, Sanjay Sapre, President, Franklin Templeton – India, said. He assured that an orderly winding up does not mean a lengthy wait for return of money. Here he added that once the fund house receives a majority “Yes” vote in favour of the orderly winding up of the schemes, it will immediately proceed with a second vote to seek approval of the unitholders to authorize the trustee, or any other person, to proceed with winding up of the schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Sensex peaks on vaccine expectation||Domestic equity indices sprinted to a fresh lifetime high on Monday as investor sentiment got a lift after Pfizer and Serum Institute applied for emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccines in India. Robust buying in finance, FMCG and banking counters offset weak global cues and a depreciating rupee. Rising for the third straight session, the Sensex soared 347.42 points or 0.77 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 45426.97, after touching a record intra-day high of 45458.92. Similarly, NSE Nifty rose 97.20 points, or 0.73 per cent, to an all-time closing high of 13355.75. It touched its record intra-day peak of 13366.65 in early trade. The Nifty has now made fresh lifetime highs for five straight sessions. Hindustan Unilever was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping 3.09 per cent, followed by Airtel, HDFC, ITC, IndusInd Bank, SBI, Sun Pharma, ONGC, Tech Mahindra, L&T and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Nestle India, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finance and HDFC Bank were among the laggards, dropping up to 1.37 per cent. Vaccine major Serum Institute of India (SII) on Monday said it has applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation for the AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in the country. Earlier on Saturday, the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer became the first company to seek a similar approval from India’s drug regulator for its coronavirus vaccine in the country, after securing such clearance in the UK and Bahrain. “News of progress in the Covid vaccine and healthy inflows by FIIs helped markets to continue the upward trend... We are seeing buying interest emerging on every dip, thanks to rotational participants across the sectors. “Technically, Nifty could face a hurdle around 13,450. The stock-specific trading approach is yielding decent returns so far and we suggest continuing with the same,” said Ajit Mishra, VP — Research, Religare Broking. BSE telecom, FMCG, healthcare, oil and gas, industrials, tech and capital goods indices climbed up to 2.78 per cent, while consumer durables and realty closed with losses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Gas price discovery made more transparent||Reliance Industries and other producers of natural gas will no longer need government approval for gas price if it is arrived at using the new guidelines for the discovery of market price, an official order said. The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas last week notified guidelines for the discovery of market prices for domestically produced natural gas through e-bidding. The government has since 2017 given pricing freedom for natural gas produced from all fields other than the old fields of state-owned ONGC and Oil India Ltd in nomination blocks. Firms such as Reliance Industries-BP combine as well as ONGC (for non-nomination blocks) have been auctioning gas to users. They would typically devise a formula and seek bids from users. They will continue to devise a pricing formula, but will now have to seek bids on the electronic-platform of five pre-selected agencies, the notification said. The agencies are SBI Capital Markets Ltd, mjunction Services Ltd, RITES, MSTC and CRISIL Risk and Infrastructure Solution Ltd. This follows the Union Cabinet in October allowing marketing freedom for blocks where pricing freedom already existed. Alongside, it approved standardised bidding for price discovery. Petrol and diesel prices have risen to a two-year high as the state-owned oil firms have raised fuel prices for the sixth day in a row. While the price of petrol has increased 33 paise per litre, diesel prices have been hiked by 29 paise per litre. Petrol prices in Calcutta rose to Rs 85.19 per litre on Monday from Rs 84.86 litre, while diesel prices rose to Rs 77.44 a litre from Rs 77.15 per litre. This is the sixth straight day of hikes and the 15th increase since November 20, when oil companies resumed daily price revision after nearly a two-month hiatus. Rates are now at the highest level since September 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Flipkart prepares for $10bn IPO||Online retail giant Flipkart is making preparations for an initial public offer — after some years of swarming speculation on its on-again, off-again fund-raising plans through this route. Media reports said the Walmart-owned company is reportedly eyeing a $10 billion IPO and has hired Goldman Sachs for the exercise. A statement from Flipkart said while an initial public offering has always been part of its long-term strategy, the focus at present is on growth and democratising commerce in India through technology, while continuing to unlock customer value. This possibility comes just days after it announced a “partial spin-off’’ of PhonePe. A statement from the firm said that in the latest funding round, PhonePe is raising $700 million (about Rs 5,172 crore) in primary capital at a post-money valuation of $5.5 billion from existing Flipkart investors, led by Walmart. It added that Flipkart will remain PhonePe’s majority shareholder, and the two businesses will retain their close collaboration. In 2018, Walmart had announced that it was acquiring a 77 per cent stake in Flipkart, valuing the latter at around $21 billion. In a regulatory filing, Walmart had said it was open to an initial public offer in Flipkart in four years if demanded by the minority shareholders. In India, Flipkart competes with Amazon and Mukesh Ambani led JioMart. In July, it had raised $1.2 billion from Walmart and other existing investors, which had then valued the e-tailer at $24.9 billion. According to a BofA Securities report, the online retail market is worth $33 billion, where Amazon and Flipkart hold an 80 per cent market share, with Reliance gradually emerging as a competitor. The report said the battle for market share will focus on how the big players can bring the small grocers within their fold. Flipkart last week had launched the 2GUD Local platform to bring small and traditional retail businesses as its partner. The new format will offer offline stores, brands and shopping destinations an opportunity to unlock the benefits of technology and a hybrid retail model. “In our view, digitalising these kiranas (small grocers) is a gradual process and could take five--plus years. Amongst all companies, we find RIL’s strategy well-articulated and clear. But even it has to build on trust,” the analysts of BofA Securities said. “Amazon and Flipkart are currently looking at the kiranas (small grocers) as a last-mile delivery place. As things stand now, the online commerce competition is largely between Amazon, Walmart-backed Flipkart... Reliance is emerging as a formidable competitor in the online space,’’ the analysts said. They added that each of the companies bring their own strength —  Amazon has global expertise with better technology, and Flipkart  is strong in fashion and electronics. RIL could leverage its offline presence to deliver an omni-channel experience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
08-12-2020||India||Three Covid-19 vaccine candidates under DCGI’s ‘active consideration’||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said three Covid-19 vaccine candidates, including those developed by Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India and Pfizer, are under the active consideration of India’s drug regulator for their early approval, and there is hope that it would be possible for all of them. Over the last four days, Pfizer India, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Pune-based Serum Institute of India have been applying to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI)  for the emergency use authorisation of their potential Covid-19 vaccine. Addressing a press conference, Niti Aayog member (Health) VK Paul said that the pandemic situation in India is in a stable condition with the active number of cases exhibiting a “clear-cut declining trend” even though in several countries, the scenario is quite the opposite. “The concern and anxiety that arose following an increase in daily cases of infection in Delhi has also settled now,” he said. Asked what steps would be followed by the DCGI in the absence of a water-tight emergency use authorisation law for granting licence to vaccine makers, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said not all countries' regulatory framework or rules and acts mention emergency Use authorisation. “So, the fact that this phrase is not used in the national regulatory framework of any country does not mean that specific country does not have an enabling provision to accord an approval which is early and which is distinct from a regular market approval,” Bhushan said. “India's regulatory framework has a specific provision for grant of emergency use authorisation. Although this phrase is not used,” he added. Under the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, in specific special situations, relaxation, abbreviation, omission, or deferment of data including local clinical trial data may be considered for approval. “This is our law. Similarly other countries also have their legislations,” Bhushan elaborated. He mentioned that eight vaccines in India are at various stages of development, while providing a comprehensive view of India’s Covid-19 vaccine scenario. “Another vaccine, which is in initial stages, is the one being developed by Aurobindo Pharma. So there are a total of nine vaccines out of which six are in clinical trials and three are in pre-clinical stage,” Bhushan said. “There are multiple vaccine candidates in different stages of development and some may get licensed in the next few weeks. But we cannot foretell at this moment because licensure or market authorisation is the domain of the national regulator,” he added. Bhushan also revealed that a mobile app, Co-Win, was being developed to monitor the vaccination process. “Co-WIN digital platform includes a free downloadable mobile application which can help record vaccine data. One can register themselves on it if they want the vaccine. There are five modules in Co-WIN app -- administrator module, registration module, vaccination module, beneficiary acknowledgement module and report module,” he said. Bhushan said the administrator module is for the administrators who will be conducting these vaccination sessions. “Through these modules, they can create sessions and the respective vaccinators and managers will be notified,” he added. About cold chain infrastructure augmentation, the health secretary said presently the system consists of 85,634 equipment for storage of vaccines at about 28,947 cold chain points across the country. “Data on frontline healthcare workers is being uploaded on Co-WIN software in preparation of Covid-19 vaccination. The current cold chain is capable of storing the first lot of three crore Covid-19 vaccines for healthcare and frontline workers,” he said. He also informed that while  2.38 lakh auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) provide vaccination under universal immunisation programme, only 1.54 lakh such workers will be called in for Covid-19 inoculation. “The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has recommended that around one crore health workers should be given priority in the vaccination drive,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
08-12-2020||India||Opposition joins hands to meet Kovind over farm laws||A representation of Opposition parties will meet President ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday over their concerns on the three new agri-marketing laws enacted by the Centre in September, and to seek their revocation, senior leaders said Tuesday. According to CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechuri, the five member delegation, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, a representative of the DMK, CPI general secretary D Raja and he, will meet the President on December 9 at 5 pm. “The five of us will probably meet before we meet the President and finalise our strategy. We have spoken to all Opposition leaders and decided our next course of action. The delegation has been limited to five because of the Covid-19 situation although we are trying to see if they allow more leaders to join. In that case we have to rush leaders to Delhi as they are mostly in their respective states,” he said. The news was also confirmed by CPI general secretary D Raja. Sharad Pawar, also confirming his presence, told reporters, “Leaders from different political parties (those opposing the farm bills) will sit, discuss and take a collective stand on the contentious farm laws before meeting President Ram Nath Kovind.” A sit-in meeting of the Opposition parties was ruled out as most of the leaders are not in Delhi. Opposition parties including the Congress have extended their support to the farmers agitation and demanded the repeal of the three laws. A group of farmer leaders were scheduled to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday evening, around 7pm, a  day before the sixth round of formal talks with Union ministers is supposed to be held on Wednesday. Commercial establishments and shops were closed, transport got affected and traffic was disrupted as protesters demonstrated on roads as well as railway tracks in several parts of the country on Tuesday, in response to the farmers’ call for a Bharat Bandh against the three central agri-marketing laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
08-12-2020||India||Farmers seek an answer from Amit Shah: yes or no?||Home minister Amit Shah met a select group of farmer union leaders in a bid to break the deadlock on Tuesday night, a day before the government's crucial sixth round of talks with representatives of protesting farmers. Sources said 13 farmer leaders were called for the meeting, which began after 8 pm. The farmer leaders included eight from Punjab and five from various nationwide organisations. Among those who were taking part were Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha and Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). Some farmer leaders said they first expected the meeting to take place at Shah's residence here, but the venue was shifted to the Pusa area. Earlier, farmers had let it be known that they would demand a simple "yes or no" answer to their demands when they met Shah with union leaders claiming that the Bharat Bandh against the new farm laws was  "successful" and had impacted life in at least 25 states. "There is no midway. We will demand just 'yes' or 'no' from Home Minister Amit Shah at today's (Tuesday) meeting," farmer leader Rudru Singh Mansa said at a press conference at the Singhu border. Mansa claimed the Central government has bowed down before the Bharat Bandh. Another leader Gurnam Singh Chadhuni said the Bharat Bandh was successful and that the Central government knew it did not have a way out. The nationwide shutdown was observed in around 10,000 places in 25 states, added Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav. Commercial establishments and shops were closed, transport got affected and traffic was disrupted as protesters demonstrated on roads as well as railway tracks in several parts of the country on Tuesday, in response to the farmers’ call for a Bharat Bandh against the three central agri-marketing laws. Emergency services were exempted and banks, too, continued operations as the pan-India shutdown, backed by most opposition parties and many trade unions, came into effect with the maximum impact expected in states such as Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, the epicentre of the snowballing protests. Security was beefed up throughout the country as loud demonstrations were witnessed in several places. In Delhi’s borders, the number of agitators swelled where thousands of farmers have been holding protests for the last 12 days. Protesters blocked railway tracks at several places in West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha. The protest remained peaceful in other parts of the country. In the national capital, markets were open but app-cas remained off the roads, and tension spiralled when the ruling Aam Aadmi Party claimed that Chief MinisterArvind Kejriwal was put under house arrest by the Delhi Police. City police denied the claim but the party stuck to its guns and said the move was a response to Kejriwal meeting protesting farmers at the Singhu border, the main access point for those coming to the city from Punjab. “No one has been permitted to leave or enter his residence... When our MLAs went to meet the chief minister they were beaten and thrown on the streets,” partly leader Saurabh Bharadwaj said. Joining the 'Bharat Bandh' call, some auto-rickshaw and taxi unions also took their vehicles off the roads in the city. Shops, commercial establishments and 3,400 fuel pumps remained closed in Punjab. All major parties in the state, incldingthe ruling Congress, AAP and the Shiromani Akali Dal -- have also extended their support. “Over 50,000 government employees have taken mass casual leave in support of farmers”, said Punjab Civil Secretariat Staff Association president Sukhchain Khaira.  Opposition parties including the Congress and Indian National Lok Dal extended their support to the protest in the BJP-JJP ruled state. Farmers gathered on key roads and highways since Tuesday morning to protest. “Everyone should hold a peaceful protest,” Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said in a video message. The Haryana Police traffic advisory warned that main national highways would be closed and the peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 noon to 3 pm, when a ‘Chakka Jam’ is scheduled. Reports of clashes between the workers of the ruling Congress workers in Rajasthan and the BJP came in from Jaipur in Rajasthan.  In Bengal, where the ruling Trinamul Congress has joined the Congress and the Left in supporting the shutdown but has stayed away from enforcing it, the response was mixed. Life was disrupted with the railway tracks being blocked in several places and sit-ins on major roads and private vehicles off the roads in many parts of the state. However, public transport, including buses and taxis, operated though in fewer numbers. Daily life was hit in Bihar when protesters blocked highways, roads and railway tracks to extend their support. RJD supporters, and workers of Pappu Yadav's Jan Adhikar Party rallied across Patna and forced shopkeepers to close their shops, deflating tyres of vehicles plying on the roads. In Jehanabad, the movement of Patna-Palamu Express was obstructed for a few minutes until the bandh supporters, squatting on the tracks, were chased away by the police. Train services were also affected in Odisha as activists of farmers' organisations, trade unions and political parties held sit-ins on tracks in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Bhadrak and Balasore. Congress and Left supporters blocked major roads elsewhere in the state, affecting normal life in the Biju Janata Dal-ruled Odisha. Major cities in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, including its capital Raipur, wore a deserted look too with most business establishments closed and public transport keeping away. “At least 36 farmers, labourers and social organisations led by the Chhattisgarh Kisan Majdoor Mahasangh (CKMM) have been staging protests at various locations in the state in support of the shutdown,” said CKMM's Sanket Thakur.  Madhya Pradesh saw sporadic demonstrations, particularly in Seoni-Malwa in Hoshangabad district where protesters under the banner of the Krantikari Kisan Mazdoor Sangthan (KKMS) raised slogans and demanded a rollback of the laws. In Maharashtra, where the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress combine has extended its support, wholesale markets in major cities like Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad were shut. Retail shops also downed shutters in many cities. Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) also remained closed in many parts of the state. The state government appealed to protesters to not disrupt public transport services and buses and local trains were unaffected till afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
08-12-2020||India||Andhra’s ‘mystery illness’ caused by nickel and lead||Presence of lead and nickel in drinking water and milk has been primarily established as the root cause of the mysterious sickness among people in Eluru city of Andhra Pradesh, which has till now claimed one life and left over 500 ill. Based on the preliminary findings of the expert teams from AIIMS and other state and central institutions, health officials presented a report to Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy in Eluru on Tuesday. A release from the Chief Minister’s Office, citing the report, said that lead and nickel were the causatives of the unknown disease. Since Saturday night, people in the city were seen fainting suddenly, after suffering from fits and nausea. The symptoms, according to GGH doctors, included a bout of epilepsy for 3-5 minutes, memory loss for a few minutes, anxiety, vomiting, headache and back pain. “More tests are being conducted by Indian Institute of Chemical Technology and other institutes and the results are expected soon,” the CMO release said. “The Chief Minister directed the authorities to conduct a thorough investigation on the heavy metal content in the patients bodies and constantly monitor the treatment process,” it added. According to health authorities, out of the 505 people affected, 370 had recovered. Another 120 were being treated at the hospital. Nineteen more people were admitted to government hospitals in Vijayawada and Guntur for better treatment. Apart from experts deployed by the World Health Organisation, a three-member team drafted by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare arrived in Eluru on Tuesday and went round the affected areas to collect samples. Deputy Chief Minister (Health) A K K Srinivas said the affected people were recovering well and there was no need to panic. “Full details as to what triggered the mysterious disease will be known only after the central agencies submit their reports. Primarily, lead has been found to be the cause of the outbreak,” he informed. A special sanitation drive was undertaken in Eluru city and also in the adjoining rural pockets and Denduluru from where the cases were reported. Srinivas, who represents Eluru, went round the localities on Tuesday and inspected the overhead drinking water reservoirs and supervised the sanitation drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||Bandh leaves a mark across states||Commercial establishments and shops were closed, transport got affected and traffic was disrupted as protesters demonstrated on roads as well as railway tracks in several parts of the country on tuesday, answering the farmers’ call of Bharat Bandh against the three central agri-marketing laws. Emergency services were exempted and banks, too, continued operations as the pan-India shutdown, backed by most opposition parties and many trade unions, came into effect with the maximum impact expected in states such as Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, the epicentre of the snowballing protests. Security was beefed up throughout the country as loud demonstrations were witnessed in several places. In Delhi’s borders, the number of agitators swelled where thousands of farmers have been holding protests for the last 12 days. Protesters blocked railway tracks at several places in West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha. The protest remained peaceful in other parts of the country. In the national capital, markets were open but app-cas remained off the roads, and tension spiralled when the ruling Aam Aadmi Party claimed that Chief MinisterArvind Kejriwal was put under house arrest by the Delhi Police. City police denied the claim but the party stuck to its guns and said the move was a response to Kejriwal meeting protesting farmers at the Singhu border, the main access point for those coming to the city from Punjab. “No one has been permitted to leave or enter his residence... When our MLAs went to meet the chief minister they were beaten and thrown on the streets,” partly leader Saurabh Bharadwaj said. Joining the 'Bharat Bandh' call, some auto-rickshaw and taxi unions also took their vehicles off the roads in the city. Shops, commercial establishments and 3,400 fuel pumps remained closed in Punjab. All major parties in the state, incldingthe ruling Congress, AAP and the Shiromani Akali Dal -- have also extended their support. “Over 50,000 government employees have taken mass casual leave in support of farmers”, said Punjab Civil Secretariat Staff Association president Sukhchain Khaira. Opposition parties including the Congress and Indian National Lok Dal extended their support to the protest in the BJP-JJP ruled state. Farmers gathered on key roads and highways since Tuesday morning to protest. “Everyone should hold a peaceful protest,” Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said in a video message. The Haryana Police traffic advisory warned that main national highways would be closed and the peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 noon to 3 pm, when a ‘Chakka Jam’ is scheduled. Reports of clashes between the workers of the ruling Congress workers in Rajasthan and the BJP came in from Jaipur in Rajasthan. In Bengal, where the ruling Trinamul Congress has joined the Congress and the Left in supporting the shutdown but has stayed away from enforcing it, the response was mixed. Life was disrupted with the railway tracks being blocked in several places and sit-ins on major roads and private vehicles off the roads in many parts of the state. However, public transport, including buses and taxis, operated though in fewer numbers. Daily life was hit in Bihar when protesters blocked highways, roads and railway tracks to extend their support. RJD supporters, and workers of Pappu Yadav's Jan Adhikar Party rallied across Patna and forced shopkeepers to close their shops, deflating tyres of vehicles plying on the roads. In Jehanabad, the movement of Patna-Palamu Express was obstructed for a few minutes until the bandh supporters, squatting on the tracks, were chased away by the police. Train services were also affected in Odisha as activists of farmers' organisations, trade unions and political parties held sit-ins on tracks in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Bhadrak and Balasore. Congress and Left supporters blocked major roads elsewhere in the state, affecting normal life in the Biju Janata Dal-ruled Odisha. Major cities in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, including its capital Raipur, wore a deserted look too with most business establishments closed and public transport keeping away. “At least 36 farmers, labourers and social organisations led by the Chhattisgarh Kisan Majdoor Mahasangh (CKMM) have been staging protests at various locations in the state in support of the shutdown,” said CKMM's Sanket Thakur. Madhya Pradesh saw sporadic demonstrations, particularly in Seoni-Malwa in Hoshangabad district where protesters under the banner of the Krantikari Kisan Mazdoor Sangthan (KKMS) raised slogans and demanded a rollback of the laws. In Maharashtra, where the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress combine has extended its support, wholesale markets in major cities like Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad were shut. Retail shops also downed shutters in many cities. Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) also remained closed in many parts of the state. The state government appealed to protesters to not disrupt public transport services and buses and local trains were unaffected till afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||India to be in an advantageous position in the post-Covid world, says Modi||Observing that overcoming challenges in the post COVID-19 world and keeping up with the emerging trends is crucial for businesses, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India was in an advantageous position with its huge pool of skilled workforce. In a written message to the three-day TiE Global Summit (TGS) being held virtually, Modi said over the last six and a half years, the government has injected a new spirit through wide-ranging reforms in policies and governance and as a force multiplier, technology has been making a positive impact in lives of crores of people. "Overcoming the challenges in the post-Covid-19 world and keeping up with the emerging trends and opportunities is crucial for the businesses and enterprises to stay relevant. In such a scenario India finds itself in an advantageous position with its huge pool of skilled workforce and demographic potential," he said in the message. The PM said the nation was marching ahead with its resolute resolve to build a strong and self-resilient India that encapsulates the vision of world welfare and full integration. The intellect and intent of the youth powers the country's transformation trajectory that has witnessed unprecedented pace and scale in the last few years. Comprehensive measures with integrated approach have enabled a robust ecosystem for enterprise and innovation and have given wings to the ambitions and aspirations of the nation, he said. According to Modi, initiatives such as TiE Global Summit add strength to the youthful nation's entrepreneurial energy. He expressed hope that the gathering of industry leaders, investors, policymakers and various other stakeholders would come up with a future ready roadmap fostering innovation, cooperation and entrepreneurship. The event is scheduled to be inaugurated by Vice President Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday evening while Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Telangana Industries and IT minister K T Rama Rao and Andhra Pradesh leader of opposition N Chandrababu Naidu are expected to attend the summit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||Anna Hazare on fast in farmers' support||Social activist Anna Hazare on Tuesday sat on a day-long hunger strike to support agitating farmers who have called Bharat Bandh demanding the repeal of the Centre's agri laws. Hazare also said the agitation should spread across the country so that the government comes under pressure to act in the interests of cultivators. In a recorded message, Hazare appreciated farmers' protests at the borders of Delhi saying no violence has taken place in the last 10 days of the agitation. "I appeal to the people of the country that the agitation which is going on in Delhi should spread across the country. The situation needs to created to create pressure on the government, and to achieve this, farmers need to hit streets. But no one should resort to violence," said Hazare who began his fast in Ralegan Siddhi village in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra. He said this was the "right time" for farmers to come out on the streets and get their issues resolved. "I had backed this cause earlier also, and will continue to do so," he said. Hazare also expressed the need to grant autonomy to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) and to implement the recommendations of the M S Swaminathan Commission. The octogenarian warned of agitation if the government fails to grant autonomy to the CACP and implement recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission. "The government only gave assurances but never fulfilled these demands," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||CM Kejriwal under house arrest, says AAP  ||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that the Delhi Police has put Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest after he met protesting farmers at the Singhu border, a claim denied by the city police. Kejriwal had visited the Singhu border on Monday and reviewed facilities for farmers protesting against the agri marketing laws. Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj claimed the Delhi Police has put Kejriwal under house arrest. "On the direction of the Home Ministry, the Delhi Police has put Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest ever since he visited farmers at Singhu border. No one has been permitted to leave or enter his residence and he has not been allowed to meet anyone. When our MLAs went to meet the chief minister they were beaten and thrown on the streets. The party volunteers were also not allowed to meet," he alleged. "BJP leaders are standing at the gates of the residence and are being welcomed by police personnel. There is heavy barricading on all sides and even the housemaid is not being allowed inside the residence. The Centre is scared that if in this Bharat Bandh, the chosen CM of Delhi stands with farmers then the lie of the Centre will be exposed," Bhardwaj charged. Mayors, deputy mayors and various other senior leaders of the three BJP-led municipal corporations of the city have been sitting on a dharna outside the official residence of Kejriwal since Monday to demand the release of "due funds". Bhardwaj further said that AAP members will ensure that Kejriwal is "released". "We were told that there are direct orders from the MHA to keep Kejriwal under house arrest till farmers protest is going on. Today, all our party members have assembled here and we will go towards Kejriwal's residence. if police stops then we will not misbehave but will go to the residence and ensure that Kejriwal is released," he said. Refuting the charge, a senior Delhi Police officer said, "This is not true. The chief minister can come and go anywhere. We have our security personnel deployed outside his residence. Even last evening, he had come out". "There is absolutely no restriction on movement of people. We have deployed our teams there as a precautionary measure to avoid any clash between BJP and AAP members," the officer said. Anto Alphonse, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) also tweeted a photo of the entrance of Kejriwal's residence and denied the allegations. "This claim of CM Delhi being put on house arrest is incorrect. He exercises his right to free movement within the law of the land. A picture of the house entrance says it all," the DCP North Delhi tweeted. Other AAP leaders also claimed that the Centre has put Kejriwal under house arrest to ensure that he does not express his support to farmers during the strike. "Arvind Kejriwal was put under house arrest ever since he returned from the Singhu border. The government does not want Kejriwal to stand with farmers and that is why they took this step," AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh charged. "By putting Kejriwal under house arrest, the Centre wants to curb all the voices that have come out in support of farmers," Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain charged. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has extended its support to the 'Bharat Bandh' called by farmers' organisations. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws. The Centre's offer to amend the contentious laws failed to cut ice with farmer groups during the fifth round of talks on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||Huge dip in new Covid cases, below 27,000 after five months ||The number of new COVID-19 cases reported in a span of 24 hours was recorded below 27,000 after nearly five months on Tuesday, taking India's infection tally to over 97 lakh, while total recoveries surged to 91.78 lakh, according to the Union health ministry. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 97,03,770 with 26,567 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll rose to 1,40,958 with 385 new fatalities, data updated by the ministry at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 91,78,946, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.59 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the second consecutive day. There are 3,83,866 active cases of the infection in the country which comprises 3.96 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It had gone past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to ICMR, 14,88,14,055 samples have been tested up to December 7, with 10,26,399 samples being tested on Monday. The 385 new fatalities include 63 from Delhi, 48 from West Bengal, 40 from Maharashtra, 23 each from Haryana and Kerala, 21 from Chhattisgarh and 20 from Uttar Pradesh. The total number of deaths reported so far in the country includes 47,774 from Maharashtra followed by 11,867 from Karnataka, 11,809 from Tamil Nadu, 9,706 from Delhi, 8,771 from West Bengal, 7,944 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,038 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,934 from Punjab, 4,095 from Gujarat and 3,347 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||Almost blind activist Gautam Navlakha ‘denied glasses’ in jail||Jail authorities have prevented an “almost blind” Gautam Navlakha from accessing glasses sent by his family after his specs got inexplicably “stolen” inside the highsecurity Taloja Central Prison, the rights activist’s lawyers and partner have said. The episode carries echoes of the way the Navi Mumbai prison had earlier forced Father Stan Swamy, an 83 year old Parkinson’s Disease patient, to languish for weeks without his straw and sipper despite his inability to drink liquids unassisted without the device. “Gautam Navlakha, nearly 70, patient of several ailments, had his spectacles stolen on November 27. It was an emergency, for he is close to blind without his glasses. Yet, he was not permitted to call his home for a replacement until three days later, but even that call proved futile,” Navlakha’s lawyers said in a statement on Monday night. “His partner Sahba Husain had a new pair made and sent it to Taloja jail. The jail authorities were informed that Gautam was almost blind without the spectacles and that they would be arriving any day and to ensure that the parcel is accepted and not returned. In spite of this the jail refused to accept the parcel when it arrived by post.” Navlakha and Swamy, a Jesuit and tribal rights activist, are accused of links with the banned CPI Maoist and have been arrested with 14 other activists, lawyers and writers in connection with the Elgaar Parishad Bhima Koregaon case. Sahba Husain told The Telegraph: “Whom do I turn to? Isn’t the state government responsible for the jails? They seem to be oblivious of the condition of their jail where Gautam and others have been thrown to perish. It took me oneandahalf months to send him underclothes and slippers, which they kept returning. He uses highpower glasses and is blind without them.” She added: “I had them made and sent on December 3, and today I saw from the speed post website that they had been returned on December 5. Had they (jail authorities) at least opened the package they would have seen the prescription and the note from the optometrist. “The chargesheet has been filed, the trial has not begun, I can’t even meet him in jail, nor can he call regularly because the authorities say this is for Covid. The process itself is the punishment.” Navlakha wears dark glasses with power during the day, and used the stolen specs at night. He is the oldest in his barrack of 21 inmates. He has been given no explanation how the glasses could be stolen inside a highsecurity ward. Swamy had initially claimed the National Investigation Agency had seized his bag, containing his sipper and straw, when he was lodged at Taloja jail on October 9, a day after his arrest in Ranchi. The agency denied the charge, and Swamy filed a fresh plea to direct the jail to give it back to him. His lawyer told the court last week that he had been given a sipper, after almost a month’s legal proceedings, along with warm clothes that he had sought. Fellow accused and Telugu litterateur Varavara Rao, 80, had to petition Bombay High Court to be moved to a private hospital after he caught a urinary tract infection in the jail hospital that had failed to change his urinary catheter for three months. In a media release in October, the NIA had claimed that Navlakha who turns 69 this month  was a Maoist operative tasked to “unite intellectuals against the government” who also recruited cadres and had links with Pakistan’s ISI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||Supreme Court frowns on vista work, allows PM’s event||The Supreme Court on Monday rapped the Centre for continuing construction and tree relocations for the Central Vista project despite the matter being under its scrutiny, but allowed Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay the foundation stone for a new Parliament House on December 10. The three-judge bench, however, recorded an undertaking from the government that no further construction, demolition or tree removals would be taken up until the court had decided on a batch of public interest petitions seeking scrapping of the project. “It should not be a fait accompli to the court. Some deference should be shown to the court,” the bench, headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta after taking cognisance of news reports about continuing construction and tree removals for the project. “We thought we were dealing with a prudent litigant (the Centre) and deference will be shown to the matter being heard,” the bench, which included Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, added. The project, estimated to cost over Rs 20,000 crore, aims to erect new buildings for Parliament, the central secretariat and the residences of the Prime Minister and the Vice-President. “Just because there is no stay it does not mean that you can go head-on with everything…. We expected that you will also act in a prudent manner — there should be no demolition or construction,” Justice Khanwilkar said. “You can lay the foundation stone, you can carry on paperwork but no construction or demolition, no cutting down any trees…. We expected that you will continue with paperwork, etc, but not move forward so aggressively that you will start construction.” Justice Khanwilkar added: “We did not pass any clear stay order because we thought you are a prudent litigant, and you will show deference to the court. The news items in public domain show you are starting construction.” Mehta apologised and the hearing was briefly halted so he could seek instructions from the government. After proceedings resumed, Mehta assured the court that no further construction, demolition or tree removals would be taken up without the court’s consent. “In view of the above, we clarify that the authorities would be free to continue with procedural processes without altering the status of the site(s) in question in any manner, including to continue with the scheduled programme of foundation stone-laying on 10th December, 2020,” the court order said. Environmentalists and other NGOs have moved a raft of public interest pleas arguing the Central Vista project is unnecessary and alleging the government has not conducted a proper environment impact assessment. During earlier arguments, the Centre had defended the project saying: “The old Parliament building is under tremendous stress, necessitating a new Parliament building.” It had assured the court that no heritage structure would be dismantled — rather, they would be converted into museums.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||President keeps sports heroes waiting||Police on Monday afternoon stopped a march to Rashtrapati Bhavan by seven sportspersons who, led by two-time Asian Games champion wrestler Kartar Singh, wanted to return their awards and medals. The athletes, who planned to return 35 awards in all, are yet to receive an appointment from President Ram Nath Kovind. Their march was stopped as soon as it had begun from the Press Club of India. “We felt bad to see our farmer brothers lathi-charged and the roads closed (to prevent them entering Delhi),” Kartar, who won gold in the 1978 and 1986 Asian Games, told reporters. “Farmers are sitting on the streets in this bitter cold for their rights. I’m a farmer’s son and I still do farming despite being an IG (inspector-general of) police.” Kartar retired from Punjab police in 2013. The other six athletes included the Dhyan Chand awardee hockey player Gurmail Singh, part of the gold-winning team in the 1980 Olympics, and his wife and former national women’s hockey captain and Arjuna awardee Rajbir Kaur. Gurmail retired as a superintendent of police, and he and his wife joined the Shiromani Akali Dal in 2017. Recently, Olympic bronze-winning boxer and Congress member Vijender Singh too had threatened to return his Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award and the attendant benefits if the new farm regime was not rescinded. Gurmail told reporters: “Let the government declare that it will withdraw the (new farm) laws…. We are returning the awards because the farmer stands above all; everything else comes later.” After being stopped at a police barricade in front of Krishi Bhavan, the athletes left with their awards and said they would be joining the protesting farmers at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana. News agency PTI quoted a statement issued by the Indian Olympic Association on Monday, which said: “Of late sportspersons are seen to be announcing return of their national awards as a mark of their support for the recent farmers’ issue. National awards and farmers’ issue are two separate things…. “Every Indian, including us, loves and supports the farmers and we all would always like our farming community to be happy as they are the ‘annadatas’ (providers) of our country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||Kerala CPM worker murdered||The murder of a CPM worker in Kerala’s Kollam district has taken a political turn with the party accusing the Sangh parivar of plotting the incident to disturb peace in the state. Manilal, 45, who worked as an aluminum fabricator and was an active member of the CPM in Munroe Island in Kollam, died of a single stab that is suspected to have pierced his heart. Within hours of the incide­nt that took place around 8.30pm on Sunday at a busy intersection in Munroe Island, police detained accused Asho­k­an and his accomplice Sathyan. No arrests have been made till Monday evening as the investigation team was waiting for the post-mortem report. Ashokan is a former cop with Delhi police and had returned to his native place a few months ago after taking voluntary retirement. Kollam rural police superintendent K. Ilango told repor­ters on Monday that all angles were being probed. “We are lo­oking at the personal and poli­tical angles,” he told reporters. Manilal is the fifth CPM worker to be killed in just five months. The incident, which took place just 36 hours before the local council polls, has sent shockwaves across the state. Local CPM sources said Manilal had just finished campaigning for the local body polls, stepped out of the Left Democratic Front’s election campaign office and was on his way home when an inebriated Ashokan arrived in an autorickshaw driven by Sathyan. An argument ensued when Ashokan allegedly abused Manilal and the CPM. Manilal is suspected to have slapped Ashokan who then drew a knife and stabbed him in the chest. While Ashokan and Sathyan fled the scene in the auto, party workers rushed a bleeding Manilal to a CPM-run co-operative hospital where he was declared dead. CPM state secretariat member K.N. Balagopal, who was among the leaders who visited the spot, told a news channel on Monday that it was indeed a political killing. “Before the last local council election (in 2015), Manilal had joined the BDJS (Bharat Dharma Jana Sena), but later returned to the CPM apparently because of that party’s links with the BJP. That could be a reason for this cold-blooded murder,” Balagopal said. He said Ashokan was inducted into the BJP by state president K. Surendran at a public event in October. But Kollam district BJP president B.B. Shrikumar told The Telegraph that Ashokan had nothing to do with the BJP or any of the Sangh parivar organisations. “I am the district president and I would know if someone was admitted to our party,” he said. “Manilal and Ashokan were friends and the murder followed a drunken brawl. The CPM is trying to leverage this incident to draw electoral benefits since they realised they would lose the Kollam local body,” Shrikumar said. Acting secretary of the state CPM unit, A. Vijayaraghavan condemned the incident and blamed the BJP for the murder. “This brutal murder was part of a Sangh parivar conspiracy to disturb peace in the state ahead of the local body polls,” Vijayaraghavan told reporters in Thrissur. “Destroying peace by giving membership to criminals is the BJP’s larger agenda in Kerala,” the CPM leader said. He reminded that Manilal was the fifth CPM worker to get killed at the hands of either Congress workers or RSS activists. Congress worker and ward councillor Kavil Nisam was arrested in August over the murder of CPM worker Ziyad in Kayamkulam in Alappuzha district. At least four Congress workers were charged with the twin murders of Mithilaj and Haq Mohammed in Venjaramoodu, Thiruvananthapuram, on August 30. In a similar incident, a man linked to the Bajrang Dal was arrested for stabbing to death P.U. Sanoop, a CPM branch secretary in Thrissur in October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||No coercion on Bharat Bandh: Farmers’ unions||The farmers’ unions on Monday stressed that participation in Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh was voluntary and that no one should be forced to comply. The agitation leaders are awaiting word from the government interlocutors on whether a decision has been taken on their demand for repeal of the three new farm laws. Given the security the government is arranging to tackle the bandh, the farmer leaders do not appear very hopeful about their demands being met right away, or even about receiving a proposal for consideration. While the government has launched a broadside against Opposition parties that have backed the bandh call, the farmer leaders have been contending they cannot be held responsible for anyone supporting their agitation. “We have been clear from the beginning that we will not allow our platform to be used by any political party,” Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Morcha told reporters at the Singhu border on G.T. Karnal Road. “Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal came today (Monday) but he was not allowed to get onto the stage and address the farmers.” Commenting on the BJP allegation that the farmers are being misled by political parties, All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah told The Telegraph: “No one was with us for six months. The political parties have come out in support only now when the andolan (movement) has peaked.” The farmers have made it clear that political parties supporting them should do so without their party banners, even during Tuesday’s bandh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
08-12-2020||India||CRPF moves to drop khaki to create separate identity||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the country’s largest paramilitary force, has moved a proposal seeking to change the khaki uniform of its over 3 lakh personnel to give the CRPF a separate identity. CRPF director-general A.P. Maheshwari last week had moved the proposal with all the formations of the force while interacting with them online and sought their suggestions. “CRPF being the largest paramilitary force is the sentinel of the Union with regard to the internal security. The khaki uniform, which is worn by CRPF personnel, is very common with all the state/UT police, paramilitary forces. Besides, khaki uniform is also worn by postal delivery man as well as delivery of Indian Gas supplier which somehow degrade our quality/action,” said a CRPF circular on his address to the officers. “To make the CRPF more unique with the uniform and give a separate identity, a new uniform other than khaki should be introduced,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
08-12-2020||India||BJP ‘land jihad’ allegation backfires||When the courts quashed the Roshni Act that regularised encroachments on government land in Jammu and Kashmir, a gleeful BJP had alleged the legislation represented a “land jihad” by Muslims keen on settling in Jammu to change its Hindu-majority demography. Now the BJP-controlled administration of the Union Territory has sought a review of Jammu and Kashmir High Court’s October 9 order, having realised that the bulk of the 19-year-old law’s beneficiaries in Jammu were non-Muslims. The government affidavit, moved on Friday, has sought modification of the court order — which declared the Roshni Act unconstitutional and directed retrieval of the occupied plots — saying it may “unintentionally” affect a large number of poor people. Lists of the act’s beneficiaries that the government has released over the past fortnight under the court’s orders reveal that the overwhelming majority among the beneficiaries in Jammu were non-Muslims. For instance, one of the earliest lists that named 541 beneficiaries in Jammu contained only 3 Muslim names. Jammu lawyer Sheikh Shakeel Ahmad, who had campaigned against the law for years but felt outraged when it was given a communal colour, recently told this newspaper that of the 44,000 kanals (5,500 acres) encroached on in Jammu district, only 1,180 kanals (2.7 per cent) had gone to Muslims. Jammu district is one of Jammu province’s 10 districts. The government’s affidavit urged the high court to distinguish between influential and ordinary beneficiaries. Earlier, the administration had publicly accused several senior Valley politicians, including former chief minister Farooq Abdullah, of being beneficiaries of the act, passed during Farooq’s tenure as chief minister. The politicians had denied the allegation. Many believe that the first lists were released just before the district body polls, which started on November 28, to tarnish politicians who had formed an alliance to contest the elections to try and prove to the world that Kashmiris want Article 370 restored. Ahmad, the lawyer, told a news conference in Jammu that at least three senior BJP politicians had encroached on government land and wondered why their names had not been made public. The BJP has denied the charge. “We would like to bring to the kind notice of the hon’ble court the fact that a large number of common people would suffer unintentionally,” the government affidavit says. “This includes landless cultivators and individuals who are themselves residing in dwellings on small areas. They are unfortunately clubbed along with the rich and wealthy land-grabbers....” The affidavit urged the court “to come up with appropriate mechanisms” to enable the poor beneficiaries to retain their plots “subject to an appropriate ceiling and on payment at an appropriate rate”. Raja Muzaffar Bhat, a politician and activist campaigning against the eviction of poor beneficiaries, said the government seemed to have realised that “their men” would be hit. “I think there was pressure from influential people within as well as from ordinary people to make amends.…There are a lot of non-Muslims in Jammu, many of them also poor, who have benefited and they would have been hit hard,” Bhat told The Telegraph. “The government has issued thousands of eviction notices to poor people who have been living for generations on forestland. They have the right to live there under certain central laws that were extended (to Jammu and Kashmir) after the abrogation of Article 370 provisions.” BJP spokesperson Anil Gupta said the review had been sought to “avoid collateral damage”, and drew a distinction between “general people and rich land-grabbers”. Evictions “could have caused unrest among the poor”, Gupta said, adding that the review plea had “nothing to do with politics or winning elections”. “Some people see politics in whatever we do and are raising these issues after realising they are losing the (district body) elections,” he said. The eight-phase District Development Council elections in Jammu and Kashmir end on December 22. According to the high court, 604,602 kanals (75,575 acres) of encroached-on government land had been transferred to the occupants against nominal payments. Of this, the Jammu region accounted for 571,210 kanals (71,401 acres) — 17 times the land regularised in the Valley.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
08-12-2020||India||Deadline extended third time for engineering admission||Technical education regulator All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) has extended the deadline for admission into engineering courses in a few states from November-end to December 31, suggesting the students may have to forgo their summer vacation completely. Last week, the council issued a notification in this regard. This is for the third time this year that the council has extended the deadline of admission that usually gets over by August-end. Academicians disapproved the idea of no summer vacation arguing that they do contribute to efficiency and academic excellence. Earlier states like Maharashtra, Karnataka and Haryana had demanded extension because their state-level common entrance tests (CET) were delayed in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. “The last date for admission to Engineering Courses is extended up to 31st December, 2020 in only those cases where counselling and admission had not started due to delayed CET of the state or where counselling has yet not been over with a rider that classes were not started for more than 15 days to take care of the academic requirements of the students to avoid academic loss,” said the notification. AICTE member secretary Prof Rajive Kumar told this newspaper that the institutions can complete the academic transactions by adjusting the summer vacation. “The admission gets over by August. This year, there will be a loss of four months for many students. The institutions can still compensate this loss by shortening the summer and winter vacations,” Kumar said. Usually, the engineering institutions complete their first-year transactions by April. Then the students get more than two months of summer break. They also get a winter break from Christmas (December 25) to January 10. Prof Sunil Sarangi, former director of NIT Rourkela, said that cancelling a vacation completely is not a good idea. “Vacation is not a waste of time. It is required for students and employees to enhance their productivity and efficiency. So complete cancellation of leave would affect the quality of learning,” Sarangi said. He said the state-level CETs are being held about a month after the national-level entrance tests like JEE Main and JEE Advanced. He said that states must reduce their waiting time and conduct the tests immediately after the national-level tests. The AICTE should also provide guidance to states on scheduling their tests, he added. A teacher of an engineering college in Karnataka said in view of the economic recession, parents would not prefer to get their wards admitted into costly courses. Hence, the demand for engineering courses is low. “Admission is an important activity for a private college. They will prefer to linger the process as much as possible to get their seats filled up,” he said. Despite all efforts, only 50 per cent seats get filled in most of the private colleges. This year, the occupancy of seats may go below 40 per cent, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
08-12-2020||India||Supeme Court rejects  ‘ambitious’ Arnab plea ||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain Arnab Goswami’s ARG Outlier Media’s plea for protection from any “coercive action” against the channel’s employees or staff by Mumbai police in connection with various criminal cases registered against the media outlet, terming the petition as “ambitious”. Besides seeking protection for the channel’s employees from any coercive action in connection with the TRP manipulation case, the channel also wanted various other criminal cases registered against its employees and others for allegedly causing disaffection among people through as a couple of its programmes to be transferred to the CBI. “How can we entertain this? The petition is ambitious. You want Maharashtra police not to arrest or take any coercive action against your employees. You want the cases to be transferred to the CBI? How can this be done in one petition? You better withdraw it,” a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee told senior advocate Milind Sathe who appeared for the channel. Following this, the channel withdrew the petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
08-12-2020||India||Kerala to challenge constitutional validity of farm laws in Supreme Court||The Kerala government has decided not to implement the contentious farm laws and instead challenge their constitutionality in the Supreme Court. State agriculture minister V.S. Sunil Kumar on Monday told reporters in Thrissur that the state would file its petition this week itself challenging the constitutional validity of the laws that impinge on what is essentially a state subject. “As per the Constitution, the central government has no right to frame laws on state subjects. This (the farm laws) is a blatant violation of the constitutional provisions in this matter,” said Kumar. He said the state government has directed the advocate general to file cases against all three agriculture-marketing legislations that have led to a nationwide agitation. Thousands of farmers  have been protesting on the outskirts of Delhi for about two weeks demanding that the farm laws be repealed. “The Centre is trying to take away even the states’ powers mainly to protect the interests of large corporations,” the minister said. While Opposition-ruled states such as Rajasthan have already moved the apex court against the farm laws, Kumar said Kerala was yet to take a decision on whether to implead in those cases or file separate petitions. “We have asked the advocate general to provide legal advice on this,” he said. Agitating farmers have expressed fear that the new set of laws would eventually dismantle the cushion of minimum support price and they would end up at the mercy of large corporate buyers. The Left parties have come out in support of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 8 called by farmers’ organisations that have declared that they would settle for nothing less than the withdrawal of the farm laws hurriedly passed by the NDA government. Kerala had become the first state to fix minimum support prices for vegetables. Announced in October, the scheme came into force on November 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
08-12-2020||India||BJP accuses Congress of double standards ahead of countrywide bandh||The BJP on Monday accused the Opposition parties, particularly the Congress, of “shameless double standards” for supporting the farmers’ protest, betraying jitters before the countrywide bandh on Tuesday. The ruling party fielded law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in Delhi and chief ministers and former chief ministers in the states to launch an all-out attack on the Opposition ahead of the strike. Prasad claimed the Manmohan Singh government had been pushing the same reforms when it was in power. “This press conference is designed to expose the shameless double standards of the non-BJP Opposition parties as far as reforms in the farming sector is concerned,” he said. “In its 10 years, the Manmohan Singh government and their state governments have been doing the same things,” Prasad said, adding that contract farming had started in many Congress-ruled states. The BJP has been levelling these charges ever since the protests against the new farm laws began. What, however, was important in the repetition on Monday was the timing, a day ahead of the countrywide strike call issued by the farmers’ unions and backed by the Opposition. The minister said while he appreciates the farmers for not allowing political parties to join their protest, the way the parties were jumping on the bandwagon showed they were “opposing the Narendra Modi government for opposition, forgetting their work in the past”. Prasad quoted from the 2019 poll manifesto of the Congress and said the party had promised to “repeal the APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) Act” and make “inter-state trade free of restrictions”. The BJP has levelled this accusation in the past too and the Congress has responded that their idea of reforms was very different. On Monday, too, the Congress iterated that it was not against reforms but was against allowing corporate takeover of the farm sector, which it accused the new farm laws of doing. Prasad sidestepped the details in the new laws and alleged that the Opposition was using the farmers’ protest as another issue to target Modi. The minister also attacked NCP chief Sharad Pawar, saying that as agriculture minister in the UPA government he had written letters to all chief ministers and pitched for “private sector participation”. “...Private sector participation is essential for which an appropriate policy and regulatory mechanism environment needs to be in place,” Prasad quoted from a 2010 letter purportedly written by Pawar to then Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit. He referred to a media interview and said Pawar in 2005, in response to a question, had said that the “APMC Act will end in six months” and claimed he had even talked about stopping financial support to states if they didn’t go for reforms. The Left parties were supporting the UPA government and didn’t oppose these moves, Prasad said. But although Prasad accused Pawar of opposing the farm laws, the NCP boss has only opposed the manner in which they were pushed and has urged the government to take the protest seriously. Since the farmers’ protest began, the BJP has been trying to malign and discredit it, branding the protesters “Khalistanis”. On Monday, however, Prasad did not comment on the farmers. Badal writes to Modi A day before the bandh, longtime BJP ally Parkash Singh Badal who had walked out of the National Democratic Alliance over the farm laws wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to seek his “personal intervention” to resolve the farmers’ crisis. The Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch invoked the days of the Emergency and “dictatorship” to underline the need for amicable solution through consensus with all stakeholders. The first step should be withdrawal of the three farm laws, followed by making minimum support price a “statutory legal right”, as recommended by the Swaminathan Commision, he wrote. “In the end, I wish to re-emphasise the need for a liberal, secular democratic approach to solve all the problems facing the country today, including this one,” Badal wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
08-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi pins ‘Adani-Ambani’ tag on farm laws||The Congress on Monday asserted that it was not opposed to reforms in agriculture but would not allow corporatisation of the sector to the detriment of farmers. Rahul Gandhi stressed this point by describing the controversial laws as the “Adani-Ambani Laws”. In a tweet on Monday morning, he said: “The ‘Adani-Ambani Farm Laws’ have to be revoked. Nothing less is acceptable.” In the evening, Rahul issued a call to support Tuesday’s Bharat bandh, again using the label “Adani-Ambani Farm Laws”. “A peaceful Bharat bandh will be observed on December 8 in support of the farmers’ protest. We fully support the bandh. Injustice and atrocities on farmers is intolerable. Withdraw the Adani-Ambani Farm Laws.” Party president Sonia Gandhi too has decided not to celebrate her birthday on December 9 in solidarity with the protesting farmers. General secretary in charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal wrote to the state units and frontal organisations of the party not to hold any celebrations, including cake-cutting. The party has asked its workers to hold demonstrations in every district in the country and ensure the success of the Bharat bandh. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar later told a news conference: “The Congress is not opposed to reforms in agriculture sector. Rahul Gandhi has also said on several occasions that there is need for improvement in the existing mandi system. But if there is an attempt to hand over the entire agriculture trade to a few corporate houses, we will not allow that. We don’t believe that there are merely some flaws in the three laws; we believe the objective is wrong. The basic intent of the government is under suspicion.” Jakhar continued: “The objective is corporatisation. The government wants to allow the corporate houses to indulge in cherry-picking, aimed at privatising profits and nationalising losses. The government should not act as a lobbyist of corporate houses.” The Congress leader said: “Why was a consensus not evolved before enacting the laws? What is happening at Vigyan Bhawan (point-by-point negotiation) should have happened in Parliament.” Asked why the Opposition parties were not paying heed to the Prime Minister’s repeated assurances that the existing procurement system would not be abolished and the MSP (minimum support price) would continue, Jakhar said: “The question is about lack of credibility. Modiji said notebandi will finish corruption and black money but nothing of that sort happened. Modiji said railways will never be privatised and privatisation started within months. Modiji said the corona battle will be won in 21 days. His track record doesn’t leave any room for trust.” Jakhar added: “The Prime Minister’s feelings were hurt when Opposition MPs, sitting throughout the night in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue on Parliament premises in protest against unconstitutional passage of the farm laws, refused tea brought by the deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha. But his feelings were not hurt when water cannons were used on peaceful march of farmers, roads were dug on the way and lakhs of farmers were forced to sit in this winter on the Delhi border. “He referred in his last ‘Mann Ki Baat’ to a farmer benefiting from the new laws and the same farmer is now sitting in protest at Singhu border. Now he doesn’t have time to talk to them.” Jakhar also brought in the national security angle.  “Farmers are sitting on Delhi border and their sons are sitting on borders with Pakistan and China. Majority of soldiers come from rural background. “Food security is part of national security. Our foreign policy can be influenced if we have to depend on any country for food imports. If national security cannot be outsourced, even food security cannot be outsourced,” he said. Responding to law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad’s charge that the Congress had promised the same in its manifesto, Randeep Surjewala said: “What you are doing is called, Chor machaye shor. Modi government secretly brought ordinance in the darkness of night and pushed the bills through Parliament by voice vote to help crony capitalists. And the blame will be shifted on the Congress!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
08-12-2020||India||Farm law protests: Akhilesh Yadav barred at home, detained ||The police prevented Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav from stepping out of home early on Monday morning, and later detained him in the afternoon when he began a dharna near his residence protesting against the new farm laws. Earlier, the former chief minister had told reporters his party had planned protests across Uttar Pradesh in solidarity with the protesting farmers. “I wanted to go to Kannauj to lead the protest there but the police didn’t let me move out of my home for many hours in the morning. Nor did the Kannauj administration give us permission for a procession,” he said. “I wrote today to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla to withdraw the new farm laws as they are a death warrant for the farmers. We have announced our support for the farmers’ Bharat Bandh call (on Tuesday).” Later, as Akhilesh started his dharna at the Bandariyabagh Crossing, about 50 metres from his home, the police took him to the Eco Garden park, 10km away, and detained him there from about noon to 5pm. Akhilesh said the police had put many Samajwadi leaders under house arrest across the state. Chandrashekhar Singh, local station house officer, said: “We had posted forces near the leader’s (Akhilesh’s) house to prevent him going to Kannauj. We later detained him and his supporters and released them after a few hours.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke on the importance of reforms in general without mentioning the contentious new farm laws. Ahmedabad: Twenty-three farmer groups here have formed the Gujarat Khedut Sangharsh Samiti and are supporting the Bharat bandh. “We will hold protests all over Gujarat on December 10,’’ Jayesh Patel of Gujarat Khedut Samaj said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
08-12-2020||India||Covid vaccine emergency use scan ||India’s drug regulatory agency is set to review applications for the emergency use authorisation of one homegrown and two foreign-made Covid-19 vaccines which, if approved, would enable the government to roll out its planned immunisation campaign within weeks. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech on Monday filed an EUA application with the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, the third such submission to the regulator after EUA applications from Pfizer and the Pune-based Serum Institute of India. The Serum Institute is manufacturing the AstraZeneca vaccine in India. The Pfizer vaccine has shown 95 per cent efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19 in clinical trials in the US and other countries, while the AstraZeneca vaccine has shown 62 per cent efficacy in one dosing regimen and 90 per cent efficacy in another in the UK and Brazil. Bharat’s vaccine is currently under assessment for efficacy through a nationwide clinical trial involving 26,000 volunteers. Health officials said each vaccine would be assessed through accelerated reviews to determine they qualify for EUA, a process that allows the CDSCO to waive certain regulatory requirements to make available critical drugs or vaccines during health emergencies. The EUA reviews for the three vaccines would rely on different sets of clinical trial data. Pfizer has submitted clinical trial data from other countries, while the Serum Institute will combine foreign and Indian clinical trial data, and Bharat’s data was generated within India. The Union health ministry has indicated that the Covid-19 immunization campaign would initially seek to vaccinate around 10 million healthcare staff and 20 million frontline workers with high occupational vulnerability to Covid-19. The goal would be to vaccinate in the coming months 250 million to 300 million people from high-priority groups vulnerable to the infection or severe disease, said an official guiding India’s Covid-19 vaccination strategy. India will need 500 million to 600 million doses of vaccines for the planned campaign. The Serum Institute has said it can produce around 70 million doses per month, which can be stretched to 100 million doses a month, with half of it available for domestic use and the rest intended for the global market. Pfizer has not made public how many doses it can supply India with. Serum’s chief executive officer, Adar Poonawalla, has told the UK-based Financial Times that the vaccine will be available for purchase in India by March or April. He was quoted by the newspaper as saying that Serum would initially supply the Indian government and then expected to sell 20 to 30 million doses to private facilities. But a government official involved in the Covid-19 vaccination strategy told The Telegraph on Monday that there was “no decision” yet on private market sales of Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
08-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC-BJP clash during North Bengal bandh ||Activists of the ruling Trinamul Congress and the BJP on Tuesday clashed here over alleged tearing up of hoardings with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's picture during a 12-hour north Bengal bandh called by the saffron party, which evoked mixed response. The bandh has been called to protest the death of party worker Ullen Ray in alleged police firing during BJYM's march to 'Uttarkanya', the branch secretariat here, on Monday. Protest marches were held by bandh supporters at different towns and district capitals in north Bengal with roadblocks being put up at Coochbehar, Mathabhanga and Malda affecting traffic movement. However, no major untoward incident was reported from the region, official sources said. Markets and shops were partially open while private buses and other modes of road transport were fewer in number than usual. However, government buses were available. Tension mounted at Mahatma Gandhi crossing here over alleged tearing up of hoardings displaying messages and pictures of the chief minister. TMC and BJP workers clashed over the alleged vandalism and blocking of movement of traffic in the area. While the TMC alleged that the flex hoardings of the party supremo were damaged by the BJP supporters, the saffron party claimed that its flags were torn by the workers of the ruling party. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista and Jalpaiguri MLA Dr Jayanta Kumar Roy on Tuesday visited the victim's family at Mengara village and assured his family that the party will bear the education expenses of his three school-going children. Police had fired teargas shells and used water cannons on Monday to quell a violent protest called by the Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) against the Mamata Banerjee government during which Ray died. The BJP, initially, had alleged that Ray was "beaten to death" by the police during a baton charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||Get rid of farm laws or go: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the BJP government at the Centre should immediately repeal the contentious farm laws or step down, and went on to announce her party’s in-principle support for Tuesday’s nationwide strike. “The BJP government (at the Centre) should immediately withdraw the farm bills or step down. It should not continue to remain in power after sacrificing the rights of the farmers,” the chief minister told a rally in Midnapore. “Tomorrow (Tuesday) there is a nationwide strike.... As a government we don’t support strikes, but as a party we fully support the nationwide movement of the farmers and support their issues.” In several parts of Calcutta, people on auto-rickshaws reminded residents over loudhailers about Tuesday’s bandh. The autos did not carry any party flags. The occupants did not appeal to shop owners or traders to keep their establishments shut. The bandh is scheduled to be observed in Bengal from 11am to 3pm. In Midnapore, as Mamata held the mic, one of her aides placed a sheaf of paddy and a garland made of potatoes, onions, eggplant and pointed gourds on the rostrum. “All of you know that farmers are protesting against the three farm laws.… I declare with this sheaf of paddy in my hand that I was with the farmers, I am with the farmers and I shall always be with the farmers,” Mamata said, drawing applause from her 1.3 lakh listeners, most of them from farming families in East and West Midnapore. Mamata did not bring up subjects like the minimum support price or contract farming, both non-issues in Bengal because of historical reasons. She spoke at length on how the new farm laws had taken away the states’ power to contain prices or ensure a steady supply of essential goods. Mamata used the opportunity to remind Bengal’s farmers that she had always stood by them. She referred to her anti-land-acquisition protests in Singur and Nandigram that had endeared her to rural Bengal and brought her to power in 2011. “We will keep protesting till the black farm laws are repealed,” Mamata, who has already reached out to the protesting farmers in Delhi and pledged her support to them, said. Several analysts think that the new farm laws do not necessarily change the rules of the game in the field of agriculture in Bengal, but there’s little doubt that the protests have offered Mamata a political opportunity in her fight against the BJP. By demanding the withdrawal of the bills, she has not only echoed the protesting farmers in Delhi but also joined other non-BJP parties in mounting pressure on a Narendra Modi government that increasingly finds itself isolated on the issue. Mamata’s speech reflected a plan to portray the BJP as “anti-people”, which she would like to use in her campaign for the upcoming Assembly polls. “The farmers are in distress as they fear their land will be taken over…. What is this government doing? They are privatising the railways, Coal India, Air India. They are against the people,” Mamata said. She then switched to campaign mode by offering a comparison with what her government was doing for the people of Bengal. “We are giving free rations to the people of Bengal till June.... After returning to power in next year’s elections, we will continue with the free rations,” Mamata announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||Rivals unite on farmers’ strike today||Tuesday’s strike called by farmers’ unions demanding repeal of the contentious farm laws of the Narendra Modi government has brought political rivals Trinamul Congress, Congress and the Left Front together with Mamata Banerjee’s party expressing support for “tomorrow’s movement” of the peasants. “The issues on which the strike has been called has our support,” said minister and Trinamul spokesperson Chandrima Bhattacharya. “Since 2011, we have always been asked to oppose strikes but the chief minister’s announcement on Monday should be considered as an exception and her keenness to express solidarity with farmers fighting against the farm laws of the Modi government,” a Trinamul source said. The Left parties, however, saw in Tuesday’s strike an opportunity to assess the public mood on the farm law issue ahead of Assembly polls. “We had called a strike on November 26 and in less than two weeks, we are campaigning in support of another strike. If the people respond positively on Tuesday, as they did on November 26, we will understand that our message has been conveyed to them,” a CPM leader said. However, a section of Left leaders feels that with Mamata showing her solidarity with Tuesday’s programme, it would be difficult for them to assess the outcome of the strike. Reacting to Mamata’s announcement, Congress state president and MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said: “If the CM was worried about the fate of farmers, she could have brought an ordinance in the Assembly and stopped implementation of the farm bills in the state. States like Rajasthan have done that.” Trinamul leaders, however, said they preferred to be on the streets to oppose the laws. Trinamul has planned a three-day long sit-in demonstration in Calcutta from December 8 to protest against the farm laws. “The demonstration will be led by MLA Becharam Manna and rallies will be taken out in all blocks of the state,” minister Chandrima Bhattacharya said. The Left parties and the Congress will also take out a joint rally from Moulali in Calcutta on Tuesday to express solidarity with the strike. “We are confident of the strike’s success and will take out rallies across the state in support of the farmers,” said All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee convenor and CPM leader Amal Halder. Bengal BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya, however, criticised Mamata and said she had no moral right to speak for the farmers. “Farmers of our state are exploited by the middlemen and can never avail themselves of the promised MSP. The strike is an attempt to divert attention from important issues,” he said. Donation A canteen run by the CPM and local residents in Jadavpur donated Rs 80,000 to the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee on Monday. The canteen has been providing food packets at Rs 20 each to around 600-800 everyday for the past 250 days. State convenor of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Amal Halder said: “I was overwhelmed that a canteen run with people’s support could contribute in such a big way to help the farmers’ protest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||Binay camp counters Bimal with roads||Anit Thapa, general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang faction) and GTA chairman, on Monday laid the foundation stones of three roads in Sukhiapokhri block while his youth wing held a meeting at Bimal Gurung’s stronghold Jamuni, a day after Gurung’s political homecoming in the district after three-and-half years. Gurung’s physical entry into hill politics after a gap has increased the political temperature this winter. Thapa’s activities of the past one week suggests that the Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp now seem to be looking at a mix of development work with political activities to fortify the constituency ever since Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Morcha’s Gurung camp held a public meeting in Kurseong last Sunday. In the past one week, Thapa inaugurated the Gorkha community hall at Kurseong, laid foundation stones of two other roads at Longview tea garden in Kurseong and one at Gopaldhara tea garden in Mirik and also directed his party supporters to organise rallies including a signature campaign to demand a separate subdivision of Pedong-Algarah in Kalimpong district. At Sukhiapokhri, where Tamang was also present at the event, Thapa while laying the foundation stones of three roads for an estimated budget of Rs 11 crore touched on Sunday’s Gurung’s rally in Siliguri. “What has Bimal Gurung done since 2007 (since the party was formed)?” questioned Thapa. “He talks about the vote results (Lok Sabha and Darjeeling Assembly byelection). People had not voted for Bimal Gurung but for Gorkhaland,” said Thapa who criticised Gurung for being on the run since the Gorkhaland agitations in 2017. The BJP, supported by Gurung’s faction and other hill-based parties, had won both elections. In fact, Tamang lost the Darjeeling Assembly bypolls. Thapa added that he would reveal more during their “mega rally” at Sukna on December 13. Many observers see the Sukna rally as an attempt to counter Gurung’s homecoming rally at Siliguri on Sunday. While Gurung addressed the Siliguri rally on Sunday, Thapa was present at a football tournament final at Kurseong. “The Binay Tamang camp seems to be using all resources available with them to keep their camp intact,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP’s north Bengal ‘focus’ tells in violence ||Violence and arson erupted on Monday during the BJP’s Uttarkanya Abhiyan, a protest march to the state’s branch secretariat here, as supporters clashed with police and the party leadership alleged that a BJP worker died of wounds from pellets fired by the law enforcers. The BJP announced a 12-hour general strike across north Bengal on Tuesday and submitted a memorandum to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar against “police atrocities”. “Our workers will wear black badges and host candlelight marches across the state,” said Kailash Vijayvariya, a national general secretary and Bengal minder of the party. A source in the BJP said that state party chief Dilip Ghosh received a call from the office of BJP national president J.P. Nadda, and asked to share details of Monday’s incident and the death of party worker Ulen Roy. Details were then conveyed to Union home minister Amit Shah’s office, the source added. The police, however, tweeted on their official handle that they acted with restraint. The police said in a tweet: “Today in Siliguri, serious acts of violence were committed by supporters of a political party during their protest programme. They resorted to arson, brick-batting, firing and vandalism of government property. Police showed restraint and didn’t do lathi charge or used firearms. Only water cannons and teargas were used to disperse the violent crowd. However, death of a person has been reported. Body is being sent for PM (post-mortem). The actual cause of death will be known only after the PM.” Trinamul leader and minister Gautam Deb accused the BJP of “planned vandalism”. Since morning, hundreds of BJP supporters started assembling at Jalpai More and Fulbari in northern and southern sides of the Uttarkanya campus. On both sides, the police had put up barricades. At Jalpai More, the BJP’s central and state party leaders and MPs delivered speeches. In the afternoon, they started towards Uttarkanya. A rally also started from Fulbari. According to eyewitnesses, protesters removed two barricades en route to Uttarkanya from Jalpai More, and breached one more barricade near Fulbari. Policemen made public announcements asking BJP supporters to leave, citing prohibitory orders. But as protesters targeted barricades, police fired water cannons and burst teargas shells. Most dispersed, but some pelted stones and glass bottles at the police. The police retaliated with teargas. Some supporters entered the traffic guard office of Siliguri Metropolitan Police at Jalpai More and ransacked it, setting ablaze office furniture on the road near Naukaghat More. Tyres were torched and some two-wheelers and shops were vandalised. In Fulbari, protesters ransacked a state-run motel. They also set on fire barricades. As supporters showed signs of regrouping and charged at barricades, policemen waved batons and burst teargas shells. Many protesters, including women, were arrested for perpetrating violence. BJP state party president Ghosh said 65-year-old party worker Roy of Gajoldoba in Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri district died of pellet injuries. “His injury marks suggest he was struck by pellets used in air guns. The police should clarify how he was hit by pellets,” Ghosh said. Ghosh added: “This apart, at least 15 other supporters of ours are under treatment at the hospital with injuries, and many other supporters and leaders were beaten up.” The leaders brought in outsiders and assembled anti-socials to create such a situation. If they try to foment tension in north Bengal, people will give them a fitting reply,” said state tourism minister and On BJP’s claim that one of their supporters died during the movement, Deb said it would be confirmed only after a proper inquiry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP parade on tested ground||State and central BJP leaders, who came to Siliguri on Monday for the Uttarkanya Abhiyan protest march, asserted that north Bengal, a region where it won seven Lok Sabha seats last year, was prominent on their radar for Bengal elections. State party chief Dilip Ghosh, national vice-president Mukul Roy, national general-secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, state general secretary Sayantan Basu and almost all party MPs from Bengal were in attendance. BJP MP from Bangalore South Tejasvi Surya, who is also the national president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, flew in. Tejasvi lambasted Trinamul. “North Bengal has been neglected for years. I have come across thousands of youths who are from this place but travel to Bangalore as they don’t have jobs here. The Trinamul government could not bring in development to the region but brought in infiltrators from Bangladesh,” he said. A senior BJP leader from here said most prominent faces of the state BJP and some national leaders came for Monday’s protest. “Even Tejasvi Surya flew in. Our party is organising political activities across the state but we have hardly seen so many leaders sharing the dais for a protest march. This reconfirms that central leaders are concentrating on north Bengal,” the leader said. The BJP leadership, sources said, have also planned to redraw their strategies for the hills and foothills after losing the support of long-time ally, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung. Gurung, who addressed his first public rally in Siliguri on Sunday after over three years, openly flayed the BJP for alleged failed promises and said it would have to struggle for every vote in north Bengal. “For past 11 years, the BJP piggybacked on the Morcha to win the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat. Now that both Morcha factions are with Mamata Banerjee, BJP has to plan new strategies to win the Gorkha population,” said an observer. In the 2019 parliamentary elections, BJP secured a lead in 38, Trinamul in 12 segments and Congress in four of the 54 Assembly constituencies in north Bengal. “Trinamul could not win even one Lok Sabha seat in north Bengal. It bolstered BJP’s confidence and the party’s central leadership set a target of 50 Assembly seats from here in the upcoming elections,” the source said. BJP president J.P. Nadda visited Siliguri in October and galvanised party leaders of north Bengal, the source added. At internal party meetings, feedback was collected from elected representatives and party leaders across ranks. Many parallel posts and bodies were formed to work for state polls. In the coming days, the BJP plans to bring in central ministers to tea belts to interact with communities and stakeholders in tea and tourism sectors. Central and state leaders will also hold public rallies here. Committees from the district to booth levels, and the party’s frontal organisations, would take up programmes on local issues and implement the party’s “Ar Noi Annay (No more injustice)” campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||10,000 attend Congress protest rally||Around 10,000 Congress supporters hit the streets of Raiganj town on Monday to rally against central and state government policies, a major political event that the party could host here in recent times. Led by state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, participants walked 3km, sloganeering against the Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee governments. “The response shows people are fed up with central and state governments and want a change,” North Dinajpur district Congress chief Mohit Sengupta said. Chowdhury said Trinamul ministers and leaders voice resentments against their party every day and Mamata “should assess herself and her party”. He alleged both the BJP and Trinamul had “sheltered” Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung. North Dinajpur, the late Priya Ranjan Das Munshi’s turf, saw the Congress base shrink with the rise of Trinamul and BJP, but the rally showed the Congress had some support left, said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||Active cases decline in Bengal, pace slows||Bengal on Monday reported 2,231 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,214 new infections and 48 deaths, 15 of them from Calcutta. However, though the state logged a drop in total active cases for the 42nd consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami, the daily fall has been less sharp over the past couple of weeks, worsening Bengal’s position in relation to other states. Bengal, which had last month managed to drop to eighth spot among states with the most active cases, was back to being fourth on Monday, after Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka. Bengal, with 23,829 active cases on Monday, down from 37,190 on Dashami on October 26, has over 6 per cent of the nation’s total active cases. The state’s recovery rate is at a new high of 93.55, a little behind the national rate of 94.5 per cent. Bengal’s recovery rate has risen for 46 consecutive days to over six per cent since October 22. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.73, still behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. “We have not been doing badly. It is just that some of the other states such as Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh did rather well over the past couple of weeks. We remain on track,” said a minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. Data on infections from festivals in October and November has shown that the court’s instructions were effective. In the 42 days since Dashami, the state recorded over 1.62 lakh recoveries and 1.51 lakh infections. Bengal now has over 5.05 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.72 lakh recoveries and 8,771 deaths. Of the toll, 7,346 deaths or 83.8 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities. With 31,453 tests on Monday, the state’s total test count went past 61.67 lakh, at 68,526 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.19 per cent. The state reported 24.31 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated Covid hospitals, besides over 5.13 lakh telemedicine consultations amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
08-12-2020||West Bengal||Abhishek wife’s case||The Customs department on Monday moved an appeal before a division bench of Calcutta High Court for setting aside a single judge’s order that had quashed continuance of proceedings against Rujira Narula, wife of Trinamul Congress MP Abhishekh Banerjee, in connection with alleged discrepancies in her documents and baggage at Calcutta airport. The Customs had alleged Rujira and her sister had avoided an interrogation at the airport in 2019 when they were asked to explain certain discrepancies in their documents and baggage. The duo were returning from Bangkok.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
08-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata takes ‘blackmail’ bull by the horns||Mamata Banerjee asserted on Monday that BJP’s attempts to break the Trinamul Congress through blackmailing and bargaining would not be successful as she sought to counter the saffron camp’s narrative that Bengal’s ruling party would disintegrate before next Assembly polls. “You (BJP) may try your best in breaking the party or the government, but that won’t succeed with Trinamul,” the Bengal chief minister thundered at a public meeting at Midnapore College Ground. Trinamul sources claimed that over 1.3 lakh people from West Midnapore and East Midnapore attended the rally. The next Assembly polls are going to be the biggest challenge in Mamata’s four-decade political career as the BJP has managed to create a narrative that several senior Trinamul leaders are about to join the saffron camp. The narrative has started getting traction across the state, especially in the two Midnapores, as Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari, one of the key Trinamul leaders, resigned from the cabinet amid speculations he was about to leave the party along with a pack of other leaders. Trinamul sources said Mamata was aware that her biggest challenge lied in contesting that perception and that’s why the meeting was organised for the party workers in the two Midnapores, which were looked after by the rebel leader. In her 35-minute speech, she didn’t mention Suvendu even once, but obliquely referred to him and his alleged parleys with the ruling party at the Centre several times. “If someone thinks that Trinamul can be weakened ahead of the polls by blackmailing or bargaining, I want to tell the BJP and their friends that don’t play with fire,” said Mamata, who stressed repeatedly that Trinamul would return to power in 2021. “Those who have made a lot of ill-gotten money are going to the BJP to protect their money. This has become a fashion,” she added as she underscored that a few defections would not come in the way of Trinamul’s poll prospects. The comments, clearly aimed at Suvendu, were significant as they signalled that the Trinamul chief had closed the chapter with the rebel leader, who had apparently rolled out several conditions to continue his association with the party. She called out the names of almost all Trinamul MLAs from the two districts, who were sitting on two adjacent daises, in her speech, which was an attempt to prove that a majority of them were with her. The chief minister took care to explain that some didn’t show up — like Patashpur MLA Jyotirmoy Kar and Keshiari MLA Paresh Murmu — according to her advice as they were ailing. Mid-way through her speech, she also named Ranajit Mondal, MLA of Khejuri and a known Suvendu aide, for attending the rally. Another Suvendu loyalist, Moyna MLA Sangram Dolui was also at the meeting. “The only absentee was Contai North MLA Banasri Maity and we know that she is with Suvendu.... Didi proved that most MLAs still listen to her,” said a Trinamul source. While it is true that customary attendance of MLAs or a decent turnout at a rally prove little and a lot may change ahead of the elections, there is little doubt that Mamata was successful in proving that she still holds command over the party in the two districts, multiple Trinamul sources told this correspondent. However, Suvendu loyalists said West Midnapore had contributed more to the turnout and it was a proof that the rebel leader continued to call the shots in his home district of East Midnapore. In direct reference to the two Midnapores, she announced that the state government had managed to get Rs 15,000 crore investment in a deep-sea port in Tajpur, which would create 25,000 jobs in the two districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
08-12-2020||Opinion||A pittance: the minimum wage question||The International Labour Organization’s recently published Global Wage Report for 2020-21 describes and estimates ways in which Covid-19 has affected labour markets across the world. In countries where the pandemic adversely affected employment in low-paid, low-skilled jobs, the average wage increased in the economy because of, what is referred to by economists as, the ‘composition effect’. This increase is not a true reflection of the economy’s health. In other economies, which have tried to retain employment levels as much as possible, the average wage rate has fallen through pay cuts and lower productivity. India has not been reticent about making public a number of data estimates, including those pertaining to unemployment and earnings. According to the ILO report, from the data available on India, the nation’s economy may have suffered the sharpest decline in average wages. The estimated wage loss in the informal sector was to the tune of Rs 63,550 crore in the first half of 2020. The total wage loss was Rs 86,448 crore. In the informal sector, the decrease in wages was 22.6 per cent since the pandemic began; the formal sector witnessed decreases to the tune of 3.6 per cent. The report lays a great deal of emphasis on the importance of an effective and well managed minimum wage system that helps create demand to boost the post-pandemic economic recovery, provides new employment, and helps reduce the unsustainable levels of economic inequality. The Government of India-appointed expert committee had suggested Rs 9,750 as the minimum wage per worker per month as a measure that could make a decent living affordable. This was published in January 2019. It is a matter of deep concern that before the pandemic, the suggested minimum wage was above the earnings of 58 per cent of self-employed workers, many of whom belonged to the casual labour category. As far as the regular wage and salaried workers were concerned, 42 per cent remained below the minimum monthly wage suggested. Since the pandemic started, only nine states in India have tweaked the minimum wage, but there has not been any concerted effort by the Central government to frame a fresh wage-incomes policy. If anything the agricultural reforms and the labour market reforms are likely to reduce incomes by doing away with many restrictions that help to prop up the minimum earnings. The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act is a good starting point to build a new framework for income assurance. This is especially so since the ILO has claimed that there is a possibility that without interventions, 400 million informal sector workers might sink deeper into poverty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
08-12-2020||Opinion||There’s a lot in a name||What’s in a name? A lot — when it comes to India. Today, a Muslim name runs a higher risk of suffering discrimination. Names, thus, provide deep insights into society, ‘touching on issues such as gender, ethnicity and social class differences’. The study of the names of infants has emerged as a distinct subject of research. The pioneering work by R.G. Fryer and S.D. Levitt, titled “The Causes and Consequence of Distinctively Black Names”, revealed the stupendous social cost of having distinctively black names. Another study by the BBC in association with the University of Bristol’s Centre for the Study of Ethnicity and Citizenship found that “Muslim men are 76 per cent less likely to be employed than their white Christian counterparts in UK.” Applicants with Muslims names being rejected by employers in India’s private sector or flat owners refusing to rent rooms to Muslim tenants are not unheard of. Is the naming process connected to religion? In India and elsewhere in South Asia, a name indicates the religious identity of a person. A Muslim sounding name has an Arabic origin, while a Hindu name is rooted in a Sanskrit word. Another prevalent practice, especially popular in southern India, is the addition of the name of one’s native place or that of a forefather to a child’s name. Parents have also been known to name their children after celebrities or a community hero. But convergences and divergences are common, as is evident from the following data. A study of 2.4 million names of students at the secondary level in West Bengal in 2017-18 revealed a deep diversity in naming conventions. The top five names of girls among Hindus were ‘Puja’, ‘Priyanka’, ‘Riya’, ‘Susmita’ and ‘Priya’; for boys, they were ‘Rahul’, ‘Sourav’, ‘Suman’, ‘Biswajit’ and ‘Akash’. ‘Priyanka’ and ‘Rahul’ have found a favoured place in the top ten names among other social groups too. Our analysis also showed that the popularity of ‘Sourav’ corresponded with the hey day of Sourav Ganguly’s cricketing career. ‘Sabina’, ‘Sabana’, ‘Rubina’, ‘Salma’ and ‘Nasima’ are some of the most popular names chosen for Muslim girls, while ‘Samim’, ‘Sohel’, ‘Imran’ are preferred in the case of Muslim boys. Among Sikhs, ‘Simran’, ‘Riya’, ‘Amrita’ and ‘Gurpreet’ were the favourites for girls, while boys were frequently named ‘Amandeep’, ‘Balbinder’, ‘Manjit’ and ‘Manpreet’. Interestingly, ‘Priyanka’ was one of the most popular names among girls who are Christian; ‘Nikita’, ‘Anisha’, ‘Neha’, ‘Anjali’ and ‘Manisha’ were also common. These names are also chosen for Buddhist girls, along with ‘Sandhya’, ‘Nima’ and ‘Roshni’. ‘Rohit’, ‘Rahul’, ‘Abhishek’, ‘Rohan’ and ‘Raj’ are popular choices for Christian and Buddhist boys. We came across ‘Rahul’, ‘Biswajit’, ‘Sanjoy’, ‘Amit’ and ‘Sourav’ for boys’ names among scheduled castes and scheduled tribes: they are perhaps indicative of upward mobility. The names of girls for SCs and STs were similar to those chosen for Hindu girls. There were recurrences of the names of goddesses, such as Lakshmi, Saraswati and so on. Naming conventions are thus based on complex, overlapping ideas concerning ethnicity, religion, and region. India lacks adequate data to understand its diverse naming conventions. This calls for investment in recording and making available birth registration data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
08-12-2020||Opinion||Women at law: a question of empathy||India is rather startling. The system that upholds gender equality may display imbalance in the same sphere. The attorney general, K.K. Venugopal, recently spoke up strongly about the paucity of women judges in the Indian judicial system, saying that there were only two women judges in the Supreme Court among 34 and that no woman had ever been made Chief Justice of India. Women comprised only 7.2 per cent of judges in the Supreme Court and high courts, while the percentage of women among designated senior counsel was low too. Data were lacking on the number of women judges in tribunals and lower courts. Mr Venugopal urged the Supreme Court to ensure that the percentage of women in the higher judiciary rose to 50 per cent, since the Supreme Court collegium was the most powerful appointing authority. Surely this imbalance should have been emphasized earlier? The occasion for the attorney general’s comments was a plea against the conditions for bail imposed on a sexual offender by the Madhya Pradesh High Court. The accused was to ask the complainant to tie a rakhi on him, giving her a ‘brother’s’ gift of Rs 11,000 and another Rs 5,000 for her child. These conditions diminished the offence and trivialized the woman’s trauma. Nine lawyers had petitioned the Supreme Court, saying that such directions normalize a crime. In his response, the attorney general said that the conditions were unacceptable and could cause grave harm to the victim and society, that judicial orders should conform to judicial standards and such things should not recur. According to Mr Venugopal, the presence of women judges would ensure balance and empathy in cases of sexual violence. This view prompted his detailed statement about the sparseness of women in the judicial system. While the importance of Mr Venugopal’s insistence on gender balance in the judiciary cannot be overestimated, his comment that women would have more empathy in matters of sexual violence seems to suffer from a gendered assumption too. Following the law without bias, together with rules such as excluding comments on the plaintiff’s character, dress or livelihood, should go a long way towards delivering justice irrespective of the judge’s gender. Executing Mr Venugopal’s other recommendation that all lawyers be sensitized, however, would be a meaningful step forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
08-12-2020||Opinion||Rediscover the electoral music||A great piece of orchestral music is a confluence of several factors. First, there is the music itself as set down in the notes. Then there is the mutual agreement and coordination among the musicians for without everyone being on the same page, the team risks disharmony. Finally, there is the actual performance. The Congress cannot hide the fact that it is currently a poor orchestra. The proof is there in the music, and we all hear it. The predicament the Congress finds itself in is one of shrinking political space and the erosion of public faith in the party. The middle/moderate ground it stands for is no longer the preferred refuge of many. The middle space is shrinking for a reason. Right-wing forces have never shied away from adopting polarizing stances. For their political opponents and the people at large, the result resembles firefighting: extreme politics are intense fires. The moderates among the firefighters are losing significance; that’s how the middle space fades. Wrecking the middle space is part of the BJP’s strategy. Right-wing politics, however, strengthens the case for its political opposite — the left-wing. The ruling disposition is aware of this paradox; that is probably why it actively hunts Left sympathizers. The BJP’s strategy has been — shrink the middle space, corner the Left, cultivate a landscape for the Right and its hangers-on. Under such circumstances, you could resign to playing free market with democratic politics. You can argue that the Opposition will sort itself out naturally and, eventually, produce a credible alternative. However there is a danger. In their extreme avatars, neither the political Right nor the political Left is naturally democratic. The right-wing in India has amply and unapologetically shown its appetite for insensitivity and authoritarianism. Because its footprint in India never matched that of the BJP, the Left parties have isolated incidents of similar weakness being exposed. In states where they enjoyed political power, there have been instances of excess. However, as a marginal Opposition, mainstream Left parties — not the fringe ones — are compelled to be democratic. The Left has not been guilty of an Emergency like the Congress or of polarizing politics and divisive rule like the BJP. If the Right was to continue its current streak and the Left was to get empowered through progressive clearing of the middle space, then there is the danger of reducing our choice to one of two formations inclined to authority and differentiated only by ideology. If our goal is a modern, liberal, inclusive and democratic society, then we need moderates from both sides as prime choice with enough mutual distinction for them. Although the Congress along with some other Opposition parties has, of late, attempted to compete with the BJP in stridency, its actual value to the Opposition is as a moderating force and a pan-India glue. Additionally, while many corporates love the BJP, when it comes to a similar connect in the Opposition the easiest choice is the Congress. The connect matters because even though democracy and politics are people-based on paper, you need resources to fight elections. Even if you avoid corporate funding for being a corruptive influence on the system, you can’t avoid the GDP brigade. The BJP, once again, has followed a scorched earth policy here. In a bid to secure itself, it has encouraged leading corporates to create a cozy club. From the ranks of the Opposition, it is the Congress that is best placed to counter this; not because it is morally superior but because it knows the club, having been there before. But the question that is clear to the electorate is this: do these values give the Congress the right to dominate the Opposition? Or is the Congress more useful as a functional component within an Opposition fronted by parties capable of fighting and winning elections? Any move to take on the BJP will have to be two-pronged. The first step should be to fight the elections; do what it takes to evolve a convincing message, communicate it to the people, and encourage them to vote. If they are serious, Opposition parties will have to make great sacrifices in this regard. The Congress, for example, may have to accept that it is a party in rehabilitation, refrain from thirsting for political power and, instead, have its politicians provide their voice to the larger direction agreed to by a combined Opposition. In other words, it has to actively play a supporting role till the middle space and its own link to ground reality are nursed back to a viable scale. The Opposition needs an excellent secretariat, which addresses the bandwidth spanning voters to corporates. This is something the Congress can contribute to provided it shakes off the residual vanity stemming from being India’s grand old party. The second step is that of government formation should a future election grant these parties such an opportunity. Parties that refrain from making this exercise murky will genuinely gain the respect of the people, especially of those in the electorate wishing for an end to right-wing rule. For the Congress, focus shouldn’t be the next national election that an Opposition manages to win but the polls thereafter. It is a measure of how challenging the path ahead is and how much the Congress needs to restructure. First the musical notes, then the orchestra, and only after that a maestro, if there is one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
08-12-2020||Opinion||Toxic traits||For those of us privileged enough to be able to stay mostly at home through the progression of this pandemic, life may be measured out not in T.S. Eliot’s coffee spoons but in delivery boxes. For those of us so addicted, spoons of coffee are also crucial, but the coffee powder now arrives with its own ceremony: the emails and text messages come first; then there is the phone call from the delivery man, asking for the four-digit pin, then the brief confirmation — ‘I have left the package with your guard’; then the doorbell, signalling that the darwan has left the package on the little makeshift table you’ve organized outside your front door using a small plank of wood and, yes, an empty delivery box. Finally you put on your mask and capture the packet from the potential miasma of peril-laden aerosols in the enclosed hallway. Inside the flat, there is the segregationary choreography of clean hand and hand contaminated by new packet. If you can afford to ignore the parcel for a few days, you put it alongside the suspects’ line-up of spices, pasta packets and sugar pouches on the living-room sofa. If your need is immediate, the prisoner is taken to the sink for one of several possible vidhis of sanitization. Quickly you compute what needs to be done according to whether it’s a cardboard box, soft packet, fresh food item in a plastic tub or whatever. Washing all sorts of things has now become second nature: paper pouch inside cardboard — take out and decant carefully; plastic pouch sealed by modern industrial methods — sponge with dishwasher liquid, doesn’t matter if it’s haldi or bajra or salt, you trust the packaging and give the outside of it a soaping; vegetables — just water is supposed to be fine, wash and dry; eggs — a little bit of soap won’t hurt them, but not too much, just enough to get the hen-muck off. Before, during and after each bout of sanitizing, there is the constant washing of hands — soap on hands, soap on the tap and the nozzle even as you turn on the water, soap on the pump of the soap dispenser. Wash, wash, wash. And wash again. Oops, did I just touch a non-sanitized surface after washing? — well, wash again. Some people have been ironing their morning newspapers but I’m not that in love with the front page; I’ve developed a technique to hold the very end of the top right corner of the front double page, using a cross between the googly grip of the great Australian, Clarrie Grimmett, and the fingertip deployment of champion pickpockets, and I use this to drop the inside pages and supplements onto a table before quarantining the outside pages in a corner. By late afternoon, I reckon any possible viral load has gone from these and I glance at them to confirm what I’ve already read on the net — the world is continuing its journey to hell in a handbasket. As the days pass, the boxes and the plastic packets pile up. The cardboard is deemed safe after a couple of days and I’ve made a small parking lot for the boxes near the front door. The plastic is another matter. For a while, I had the polythene bags stored in three boxes, labelled ‘Recent’, ‘Mid-term’ and ‘Safe’, and the boxes would be rotated as per the calendar. Now, having garnered enough of a stockpile to last me till the year 2060, I just get rid of the damn things every week, hoping someone somewhere will recycle them. Speaking of recycling, it’s been on my mind a lot over the last few months. A couple of times I had this dream that no one was taking away the plastic bags and cardboard boxes; and that they began to grow into those canyon cliffs that reached all the way up to my fourth floor and beyond before finally burying the whole building. At one point, I suggested to everyone in my building that we start to separate the dry rubbish from the wet garbage. This was met with great enthusiasm that lasted the length of time it takes to exchange 12 messages on the WhatsApp group, after which we all forgot about it. I shouldn’t worry though, because every few days I’m awoken by the sounds of vast piles of garbage being cleared from the kachra room in the much bigger building next door. As I get up and look, my bleary eyes can make out a team of four workers clearing and sorting the weekly detritus from the huge block of flats. Two men stand inside the room and shovel out the stuff. One man loads the carts, while another man sits right next to the brand new grey BMW sorting out the recyclables. By noon they’re done and the convoy of rusty carts winds its way through the shiny cars towards the gate. Once a piece of muck and mulched leaf had accidentally landed on the sunroof of the BMW, but only that once. I mostly avoid ordering in, but when I do it’s usually from the vegetarian snack bar across the road. The food is pretty clean and non-oily for a commercial establishment and I’ve been a customer for decades. One of the things I liked about the snack bar was that the packaging was as unpretentious as the food: simple thongas or, for the lunch thaali, paper boxes with a minimum of foil or plastic. Recently though, the place has gone what some people call ‘hi-fi’. I don’t know whether it’s the shrunk market because of Covid (a lot of its customers were office workers in the nearby buildings) or simply a perceived need to go ‘upmarket’, but instead of the generous portions of dal and sabzi in plastic pouches or foil tubs, they’ve shifted to these horrible compartmentalized thaalis with hinged lids, made from hard, non-biodegradable, clear plastic. The much smaller portions of food come trapped in these things, which make items spill into each other. I found myself thinking that these tray-thaalis were a perfect metaphor for what is happening. The upper and so-called middle classes have always been separated from the people who serve us and the ones whose labour makes our privileged existence possible. However, in a city such as Calcutta, there was always a ‘spillage’ where the working class lived cheek by jowl with the wealthier sections. The compartmentalization between the classes has been growing but the pandemic has accelerated this process: now there are new justifications to add to the old excuses to further marginalize the poor and shove them to the edges of the sites of daily urban existence. However, the imperfect ‘lid’ of the environmental crisis — of which this pandemic is but a part — has come down on everybody, leading to smaller portions, less generosity, and a different kind of bleeding across boundaries. Clearly, the future is biodegradable, but in that degrading future some of our traits will stay toxically intact, infecting everything.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Police bust wife plot to kill forest officer husband ||In a dramatic move, the Hazaribagh Police saved a forest officer’s life, whose wife had plotted his murder by hiring three contract killers. Superintendent of Police Karthik S on Tuesday confirmed the arrest of the three killers, Naveen Rana, Indad Hussain and Mohammad Noman, who were paid Rs 90,000 in advance by the officer’s wife to execute the murder. The officer, a native of the Meru village near Hazaribagh, is posted at Gaya in Bihar and lives in a rented house with his wife. The police, according to Karthik, received a tip-off, based on which they put the trio’s mobile phones on surveillance. He further said that an investigation confirmed that the officer’s wife had an extra-marital affair with Naveen, one of the arrested youths, and hence they planned to kill him. The trio hatched the conspiracy after the woman agreed to pay them Rs 2 lakhs, out of which Rs 90,000 was paid in advance. With the officer's wife passing all information about her husband's movement, the trio started their journey to Gaya, making the police come on high alert. Karthik had made up a team led by sub-divisional officer Kamal Kishore and comprised other officers-in-charge of several police stations. This team started following the killers’ car, in which they had planned to go to Gaya. Their plan was to strangulate the officer in the night and his wife had agreed to keep the main door of the house open. The police team intercepted the car on Ranchi-Patna(NH-33) near Ichak Mor,14 kilometers away from Hazaribagh district headquarters and arrested the trio while they were on their way to Gaya on Monday night. They recovered gloves and the advance amount from the car. Karthik said that the officer’s wife escaped after getting the news of the arrest, and added that the police are looking for her to carry out further investigation. The arrested killers told the police that the wife was also eyeing the officer’s government job following his death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad markets see fewer buyers on bandh day  ||The Bharat Bandh called by farmers on Tuesday disrupted life in Dhanbad partially with fewer buses and autos on the road while business was hit in markets. Rail transport remained totally unaffected during the strike as all passenger and goods trains ran on schedule in the Dhanbad division of East Central Railway. The strike had zero impact on the coal sector as mining activities had been exempted.  Bandh supporters blocked roads at various places of Dhanbad town, including Naya Bazar, Birsa Munda Chowk, Purana Bazar, besides several suburban areas like Karkend, Govinpur and Katras. Bandh supporters led by Congress town president Ravindra Verma held a march from Birsa Munda Chowk and moved through various parts of the town like Bank More, Karbala Road, Matkuria, Naya Bazar, Station Road, Court More and Hirapur. Verma said the anti-people policies of the Centre were apparent in sphere of governance, including the changes in labour laws, commercialisation of mining operations and the introduction of farm bills. “All these measures are aimed at benefitting the capitalist forces in the country,” he said. Long-distance buses and inter-state buses did not operate from Dhanbad in the morning. A few local buses plied within the district. There were fewer autorickshaws on the road throughout the day. Rail transport was unaffected across the Dhanbad division that covers over 140 railway stations and halts. Movement of passenger and goods trains was normal. By and large, markets remained open in Dhanbad. But in pockets of Kendua, Karkend, Katras, Phusbunglow, bandh supporters forced many shopkeepers to down shutters. Business was poor through the day as there were fewer buyers. Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry Rajesh Kumar Gupta said, “Although markets and business establishments remained open, there were fewer customers which meant business was poor.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Bharat Bandh: a day of rallies, protests across steel city||Shops and other commercial establishments remained closed, long-distance buses stayed off the road and traffic within the steel city was disrupted as Bharat Bandh supporters held demonstrations at Sakchi, Bistupur and elsewhere in support of farmers. Bandh supporters, including those belonging to the Congress, JMM and Left parties, trade unions and Sikh outfits, hit the roads as early as 8am to enforce the day-long strike. While emergency services were exempted, banking and insurance services remained unaffected. Post offices and courts functioned as usual. Railway services under South Eastern Railway's Chakradharpur division were by and large unaffected. The East Singhbhum district administration had beefed up security in both rural and urban areas even as demonstrations were held in several places. In Bistupur, near the Postal Park, the number of agitators swelled after 12 noon as bandh supporters reached the area in tractors and motorcycles chanting slogans like “Jai Jawan Jai Kisan” and "Kendra Sarkar Kala Kanoon Wapas Lo". Public transport, like town buses and auto-rickshaws, stayed off the road till 3pm. Long-distance buses for Ranchi and other destinations did not ply fearing disruptions. District Congress president Bijay Khan, along with other party leaders, marched from Tilak Pustakalaya to Postal Park with placards and banners condemning the Centre's farm laws. Veteran trade union leader Rakeshwar Pandey also took part in a similar rally at Golmuri. Protest rallies were also taken out by Opposition parties at Baridih, Kadma, Sonari and Jugsalai. Members of the Sikh community took out a padyatra at Dimna Road in Mango, raising slogans against the Centre. Bandh supporters indulged in a fisticuffs with shopkeepers at Sakchi. Police had to intervene. Railway sources revealed that train services was partially affected at Jhinkpani and Talaburu in West Singhbhum under Chakradharpur division for half an hour from 2pm as bandh supporters squatted on tracks. The bandh failed to have any impact on industrial production. Industrial units in the steel city and Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela- Kharsawan district functioned as usual.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||JMM-Cong alliance claims bandh a grand success||The UPA described Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh against the new farm laws as a total success in Jharkhand, saying that the spontaneous support from various sections of civil society was testimony to the growing anger against the Centre for its anti-farmer and anti-people policies. But the Opposition BJP put up a brave face, claiming that life remained normal across the state. Former chief minister and BJP leader Raghubar Das said that neither farmers nor the “aam-admi” were concerned about a “political bandh”. Police said there were no untoward incidents reported from anywhere. In all, 368 protestors were arrested from Jamshedpur (125), Dhanbad (135) and Gumla (108), said an official. All three Congress ministers, namely, Rameshwar Oraon (finance and food and civil supplies), Badal Patralekh (agriculture) and Alamgir Alam (rural development), took to streets, riding e-rickshaws and marching on foot along Ranchi’s Main Road to enforce the bandh. A host of party MLAs also hit the streets. JMM’s working president and chief minister Hemant Soren, who extended his support to the Bharat Bandh, spent the day at Project Building working. His party workers held protests in groups at Albert Ekka Chowk and other parts of the city. Congress and Left party leaders hit the streets from 8am. Gradually, RJD, JMM, joined by some social outfits, including those belonging to Sikhs, held marches and demonstrations along Main Road, forcing business establishments to down their shutters till well after noon. Life in other parts of Ranchi remained unaffected even though there were fewer people and vehicles on the streets compared to a usual working day. Buses did not operate from Khadgara during the first half of the day. Jharkhand Bus Owners Association president Krishna Mohan Singh said that passenger turnout was low. “Some buses ran but there weren’t many passengers,” he said, adding that they would have run more buses had there been a demand. The number of autos and city buses were less on the road. However, attendance at government establishments was unaffected. “Almost all government officials own private vehicles. Hence, there was no issue about attendance. As it is, most offices are still functioning in a staggered manner,” said a forest department official. Markets remained open and did usual business, except at Albert Ekka Chowk and Main Road, which remained the epicentre of protests through the day. “The bandh was a total success across Jharkhand. In rural areas, many farmers voluntarily supported the bandh by keeping haats and mandis closed,” said Congress spokesperson Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo. He said the Congress would continue with protests against the farm laws until these were repealed. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee echoed similar sentiments. Quoting the chief minister, he said Jharkhand would lead the “ulgulan (rebellion)” in favour of farmers, labourers, and the marginalised in the coming days if the Union government continued to “work in favour of capitalists”. Former chief minister Raghubar Das called out the ruling alliance as “hypocrites”, accusing it of scrapping pro-farmer policies rolled out by his government in the last five years. “They have stopped Mukhyamantri Krishi Ashirward Yojana robbing scores of marginal and small farmers of government help. Not only this, the state government is deliberately delaying procurement of paddy grains citing moisture content, thereby forcing farmers to sell their produce at throwaway prices,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Gourav Mukhi all set to sign for Mohammedan Sporting ||Gourav Mukhi may not be plying his trade for Jamshedpur FC this season but the controversial forward seems all set to don the famous black and white colours of Mohammedan Sporting Club in the I League. The Calcutta club is in talks with the 22-year-old Mukhi who is keen to make a comeback to the competitive fold. The talks between the two parties have reached the final stage, sources claim. Mukhi, who hails, from Jamshedpur and grabbed headlines after he scored his debut goal against Bengaluru FC in an Indian Super League (ISL) tie in Bangalore two seasons back, confirmed about his talks with Mohammedan Sporting and that he was serious to resurrect his career. “Mohammedan Sporting has contacted me and I am keen to sign on the dotted lines. I am working hard and want to make a comeback to competitive football,” Mukhi said. The All India Football Federation (AIFF) had suspended Mukhi for an age-related discrepancy on November 2018. The player got embroiled in the age-related controversy triggered by ISL's claim that Mukhi, at 16, was the youngest scorer in the tournament’s history when he scored his debut goal against Bengaluru FC in 2018. Later, the AIFF’s disciplinary committee imposed a 6-month ban on the player. Mukhi was suspended on the basis of contradictory statements about his actual age which was upheld by the AIFF verdict on the basis of the evidence presented by him, his own admission and statements of the manager of the under-16 AIFF academy in 2015. Mukhi has since completed the ban and is looking forward to displaying his brilliance on the pitch again. ISL franchise Chennai FC had shown interest in him but things didn’t move forward due to some unspecified reasons. The Calcutta club will certainly give him a platform which Mukhi needs the most at this time of his career. Sources revealed that Mukhi wants to forget the past and is keen to redeem his football career. “He (Mukhi) is working hard and is focussing on his fitness. He wants to start his career afresh and also concentrate hard on the game,” one of the sources close to the striker said. Mukhi, who stays with his parents at Harijan Bustee in Dhatkidih locality, was hoping for a berth in the Tata Steel-owned club JFC. However, the team management did not show any interest to retain him. Besides the JFC senior team, Mukhi has also played for the reserves side. It was his promising stint in the reserves side that earned him a promotion to the senior side. The forward has played four ISL matches for the Jamshedpur outfit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Two workers trapped in flooded coal mine in Nirsa||Efforts are on to rescue two miners trapped inside an underground colliery after a borehole burst triggered flooding at the Mugma area of Eastern Coalfields in the wee hours of Tuesday. Senior officials of the district administration, including Nirsa BDO Vikash Chandra Rai and circle officer M.N. Mansoori, besides police led by Nirsa SDPO Bijay Kumar Kushwaha, were supervising rescue operations. Teams from Khudia colliery and ECL’s Mugma area and Sanctoria headquarters in Asansol are working together, trying to pump out water from the underground colliery. The miners who are trapped are Basia Maji (56) and Manik Bauri (58). Former Nirsa MLA Arup Chatterjee, who was at the site, said mining operations at the site were launched two days ago. “The colliery was lying closed since November 27 when there was a similar inundation. But no one was injured then,” he said. Chatterjee said a sudden burst in the borehole led to water flowing into the mine from an adjoining colliery leading to flooding around 3.30am. And although two other workers managed to escape, Maji and Bauri got trapped inside. “There is no record of a borehole in the mine survey record. Nor is it mentioned the mine map study carried out before the relaunch of mining activity in the colliery,” the former MLA revealed and wondered how the accident occurred. Chatterjee said even though rescue efforts were on, he would request the district administration and Eastern Coalfields to ensure the operation was speeded up so that the two miners could be rescued as soon as possible. Nirsa MLA Aparna Sengupta blamed the ECL management for being negligent about safety concerns. “We have been raising the issue of lack of safety gear, including boots, for the colliery workers. But the management did not respond,” she said. Nirsa circle officer M.N. Mansoori said he went to the site at 4am after receiving information about the inundation in the mine from Eastern Coalfields. “Four workers were underground when the incident took place. Of them, Samir Tuddu and Vikash Bhuian, somehow escaped unhurt,” he said. Mansoori said apart from the ECL rescue teams, another group of 25 workers had been engaged to drain out water from the mine. “Talks are on with NDRF to deploy a team of theirs to add to the efforts,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city doctors protest Centre’s Ayurveda order||A section of Jamshedpur doctors under the banner of the Indian Medical Association staged a demonstration near the Sakchi roundabout on Tuesday noon, against a recent Central Council of Indian Medicine (IICM) notification allowing Ayurveda surgeries. The protest was carried out by the doctors to create awareness about the nationwide strike on December 11 against the same issue. Adhering to Covid-19 protocols, the agitation was held in a small  group of 20 participants for two hours between 12 noon and 2 pm, when doctors carried posters with slogans against the notification. Over 5,000 doctors of Kolhan from three districts, East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan, will join the nationwide strike called by the IMA on Friday  against the IICM notification, which authorises post-graduate practitioners in specified streams of Ayurveda to be trained to perform general surgical procedures. The Jamshedpur wing of the IMA had earlier announced that they will join the strike and demanded withdrawal of the decision. “The notification by the Central Council of Indian Medicine  to allow the legal practice of surgeries by Ayurveda practitioners and the formation of four committees by NITI Aayog for the integration of all systems of medicine will only lead to ‘mixopathy’. We  demand immediate withdrawal of both,” said Dr Mritunjay Singh, secretary of IMA 's Jamshedpur chapter. He informed that doctors will stay away from OPD services during Friday’s strike. “All clinics, pathology laboratories, X-ray / ultrasound units, MRI and CT Scan centres will shut down for 12 hours, from 6 am to 6 pm. However, emergency services including ICUs, CCUs and Covid care centres will continue to function as usual as they have been kept outside the purview of strike,” the senior IMA functionary said. Doctors, who are members of the body, had assembled at the IMA building in Sakchi on Sunday to express their grievances over the order. “Doctors of all private and government hospitals will join the strike on Friday. Though the Ayush ministry has issued a clarification claiming the technical terms and the modern developments are a common heritage of mankind but IMA rejects the clarification,” another senior member of the association said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||State’s first post-Covid care centre comes up at RIMS||Jharkhand’s first Post Covid-19 Care and Counselling Centre has come up at the State-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi where expert doctors will address the residual symptoms in people who have overcome the viral infection but were still dealing with aftereffects of the lethal virus, doctors from RIMS said on Tuesday. Dr. Prabhat Kumar, the coordinator of the Covid-19 Task Force at RIMS said that the new facility will be a daycare centre, and not have beds. Expert cardiologists, physiotherapists, kidney experts, neurological experts and psychotherapists will provide consultation to Covid survivors with residual symptoms here depending on the nature and severity of their symptoms, added Kumar. “Many Covid survivors, especially the ones who had developed a severe infection, complain of residual symptoms even after recovering. At this new facility, they will be provided consultation to tackle the symptoms,” said Kumar, adding that experts at the facility will also teach breathing exercises to Covid-19 survivors for strengthening their lungs – the organ which the virus affects the most. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni had announced in October that post Covid care centres will come up at six government-run hospitals across Jharkhand. For the purpose, the government shortlisted RIMS in Ranchi, Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur, Bokaro General Hospital in Bokaro, Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) and Central Hospital in Dhanbad, and Sheikh Bhikhari Medical College and Hospital (SBMCH) in Hazaribag. The facility at RIMS will be open for patients from 10am to 11.30 am and from 3pm to 4.30 pm, doctors said. Patients who complain of serious residual symptoms of the infection will be referred to the concerned department after consultation at the facility. Doctors say that several Covid-19 survivors suffer from residual symptoms like shortness of breath, sore muscles, depression, anxiety, disturbed sleep cycle, poor digestion and even infections in the respiratory tract. Cases have been reported wherein patients developed fibrosis in lungs after testing negative for Covid-19, doctors said, claiming that post Covid care was as important as treatment during an infection. As per figures with the state health department, as many as 1,07,710 of the 1,10,457 Covid patients in Jharkhand have recovered from the infection. However, cases of deaths after testing negative for the infection have also been reported in the state. State Minority Welfare Minister Haji Hussain Ansari died of a cardiac arrest hardly 24 hours after testing negative for Covid-19 in October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||National Metallurgical Laboratory signs pact with IAF||The National Metallurgical Laboratory (NML) on Monday, in a major move entered into an agreement with the Indian Air Force (IAF) in the field of Research and Development (R&D). The NML is a leading Ranchi-based laboratory of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). A top level IAF delegation signed the MoU, which was led by Air Marshall Vibhas Pande and included senior officials of the NML. “During the visit, discussions were held on the areas of prime national interest in the field of materials, metals, corrosion science and other allied engineering domains with an aim to decide on aspects of collaborations between IAF and NML,” a spokesperson of the laboratory said. The IAF delegation stressed upon the requirement of improving the reliability and serviceability of their legacy assets, with emphasis on material informatics, substitution, life extension and indigenisation. The importance of refurbishment, reclamation, simulation of material behaviour and increasing the envelope of operations were brought out. The need for HR development through training, workshops and knowledge exchange were highlighted. The team of the IAF inspected the research and development facilities at the Burmamines campus of the NML. The National Metallurgical Laboratory is the third in the CSIR family that comprises 38 labs. It was formally inaugurated and dedicated for scientific research in India by Jawaharlal Nehru on November 26, 1950. The NML is one of the premiere, publicly funded research and development organisations of the country in the field of metallurgy and materials exploration. It is backed-up by state of the art infrastructure (both at laboratory and pilot plant level), substantial number of technology development initiatives available for commercialisation, intellectual property holding and research publications. In recent years, the laboratory has emerged as a leading technology provider to a number of industries, including start-ups. The NML has 125 scientists and highly skilled technical personnel, aiding its quality human resource.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||On bandh day, roti, roadblock and veggies||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Recoveries outnumber fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||As many as 214 Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection on Monday, while 179 people were found to be infected, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Monday’s test results brought the number of active cases of Covid-19 infections down at 1,795. Ranchi reported 79 fresh cases of infection against 72 recoveries, while East SInghbhum reported 25 cases against 17 recoveries in the past 24 hours, the NHM bulletin highlighted. Besides these two districts, only Dhanbad and Bokaro reported a double-digit-spike in Covid cases. At least 13 people were found infected in Bokaro and 10 in Dhanbad. After Monday’s test results, the number of active cases in Ranchi reached 757, while the number of active cases in East Singhbhum rose to 276. These two districts account for more than 60 per cent of the active cases in Jharkhand. Barring these two districts, all the remaining 22 districts had less than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection. Meanwhile, two more Covid patients, one each from East Singhbhum and Dhanbad, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid-19 toll in the state up at 988, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least five of the 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, the NHM bulletin revealed. However, barring Khunti, all other districts reported Covid-19 recoveries on the day. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 17,057 people and around 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 43.74 lakh people and tested 43.59 lakh of them. Around 19,000 swab samples were still pending for tests. Of the 1,07,710 people infected by the virus so far in Jharkhand, at least 1,10,457 have recovered, taking the recovery rate in the state up at 97.51 per cent. The Covid mortality rate of the state has increased marginally to reach 0.91 per cent, but it is still lower than the national average of 1.50 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.15 per cent against the national average of 0.32 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 473.96 days against the national doubling rate of 216.52 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren warns Delhi of ‘ulgulan’ on farm laws||Jharkhand chief minister and JMM executive president Hemant Soren has lent support to the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers and trade union outfits for repeal of the new farm laws on Tuesday and cautioned the Centre about the possibility of an “ulgulan” (rebellion). “Our farmers are the pride of our country. The Union government has hatched a conspiracy to make the owners of lands and food producers slave in the country and an ulgulan will take place in Jharkhand too against the Union government. JMM fully supports the Bharat Bandh call given to express solidarity with kisan annadatas,” Soren tweeted late on Sunday night. The word “ulgulan” was coined during tribal icon Birsa Munda’s rebellion against the British empire between 1899 and 1900. JMM general secretary and party spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya, however, said that its party supporters would enforce the bandh in a peaceful manner. “Most of the people in the tribal state of Jharkhand know about the ongoing struggle and agitation of the farmers against the new anti-farmer laws enacted by the Union government. We expect most of the establishments to down their shutters voluntarily during the bandh period. Our party cadres will peacefully try to persuade them to down their shutters in case they do not do so. However, emergency services will not be affected,” said Bhattacharya. Almost all the ruling UPA alliance partners, including the JMM, the Congress and the RJD, along with Left parties and social rights outfits and farmers unions in the state, have joined hands to support the nationwide bandh. “We have been staging agitation and burning effigies of the Union government in different districts for the past one week and our party supporters will go out to enforce the bandh in the state,” said Congress state executive president Rajesh Thakur. The RJD and Left parties also took out torch rallies on Monday between Ranchi University and Albert Ekka Chowk in support of Tuesday’s bandh. Civil rights activist Arvind Anjum observed a daylong fast in Jamshedpur as part of the agitation by Sarva Seva Sangh (a pan-India socio-political organisation) on Monday to protest against the farm laws and express solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ agitation. “We are staging the daylong fast as part of the ‘annadata ke liye annatyag’ (fasting for food producers) programme of the Seva Sangh. Hundreds of Seva Sangh members are observing fast across the country and we will be supporting the bandh call on Tuesday,” said Anjum while fasting at his house in Jamshedpur. With the ruling parties coming out in support of the bandh, public transport is set to take a hit in Jharkhand. Three-wheelers and private cabs are also unlikely to hit the road. However, train services will run as usual. “Trains will ply as usual at their normal times and schedules under South Eastern Railway,” said SER chief public relations officer Sanjay Ghosh. Shopkeepers not supportive of the bandh call are adopting a wait and watch policy. “We are not in support of the bandh call as it is the marriage season and the market is reviving. However, we will wait and watch,” said Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries president Kunal Ajmani. The administration has geared up to maintain law and order during the bandh. State police spokesperson and inspector-general (provision) Saket Kumar Singh said, “Directive has been issued to initiate appropriate preventive and precautionary measure. All the forces have been alerted. Directions regarding maintenance of Covid-19 guidelines have also been issued. Directions for maintenance of vigil on social media have also been issued.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
