09-12-2020||Calcutta||Survey to design Covid tips in Calcutta||A project that will assess whether people respond better against Covid-19 when they are told about the protective measures in face-to-face conversations was launched in three wards of Calcutta on Monday. The project will have three parts. The first and the last parts will be surveys where the same questions will be asked to respondents. The second part will involve interventions in two wards, as part of which trained personnel will visit houses once a week over six weeks and tell the residents about the protective measures and what to do when one falls ill. “In one ward, we will disseminate a lot of information about the disease and facilities for treatment. In another ward, we will provide limited information. In the third ward, no intervention will be done. The first survey and the repeat survey will be done in all three wards,” said an official involved in the project. The difference in response between first and repeat surveys in all three groups will tell whether face-to-face interactions help people prepare better in taking precautionary measures. The questions have been framed in a way that they test people's knowledge about Covid and how they respond during an emergency. The three wards chosen for the eight-week project are 82 (Chetla), 11 (Hatibagan) and 101 (covering parts of Patuli). The project, funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is being conducted by Liver Foundation, which focuses on liver diseases and other public health issues; Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC); and Covid Care Network, a voluntary organisation of medical professionals and people who have recovered from Covid-19. “We launched the project on Monday. Over this week, our personnel will visit select households in three wards and conduct a survey. We have deputed 20 persons in each ward and are targeting 2,000 households in each ward. This is a pilot project and will cover only a select number of households,” said Subrata Roy Chowdhury, a deputy chief municipal health officer of the CMC. About 800 houses were visited till Tuesday, said Partha Sarathi Mukherjee, the director of Liver Foundation. In the ward where Covid-related information will be disseminated extensively, project personnel will visit the households once every week from the second week to the seventh week. “Over the six weeks, we will gradually pass on information about the disease and the necessary protective measures. The messages will get repeated by the seventh week. We are hoping that face-to-face conversations will drive home the point,” said the official. In the eighth or the last week, the respondents will be asked the same questions they will be asked in the first week. Mukherjee said the project could also develop a model for dealing with public health emergencies. Covid-19 has laid bare the deficiencies in the country’s health care and preparedness in facing an epidemic, he said. “We have designed a model hoping that it will lead to better responses from people against Covid-19. The model has tools like door-to-door visits, individual interactions, screening and testing, and providing logistics support like taking someone to a testing centre or arranging hospitalisation,” said Mukherjee. He said if it was found after eight weeks that the model implemented in the ward where full intervention will take place elicited better response, it can be inferred that the model can be successful in dealing with public health emergencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
09-12-2020||Calcutta||Women saviours when virus hit men’s income ||Hundreds of women in a Maharashtra district, whose attempts to earn by joining self-help groups had met with resistance from husbands and others, emerged as saviours for their families when the Covid pandemic robbed men of income. A public health expert from Calcutta who is visiting several places in India to witness community endeavours against Covid-19, saw how the pandemic led to women empowerment in a string of Maharashtra villages. Abhijit Chowdhury, at the forefront of the Mamata Banerjee government’s fight against Covid-19, recently visited Chandrapur district in Maharashtra. He narrated how hundreds of women in several villages there, who had earlier been neglected and had no say in their families, have taken the lead in sustaining their near and dear ones. “I met many women who are members of self-help groups (SHGs). They said for long their husbands, as well as other family members, were against their taking part in SHG activities and they had no importance in their families,” said Chowdhury. “But during the Covid-19 pandemic, when the men lost their livelihood, these women, through various SHG schemes of income generation, ran their families. Now, they say, their husbands are urging them to continue with the economic activities. Many of these women told me during my visit that now they have gained importance and respect in their families, for which they have strived for years,” he said. Chowdhury is documenting these experiences for research. He saw how these women, who used to run community health centres at their villages for non-communicable diseases, are using the facilities with encouragement from their families to raise awareness about Covid-19. “There are cement factories and cotton mills in the areas where most men work. They also work in agriculture fields and sell milk and dairy products in these villages,” said Jyoti Khandale, a project executive for women empowerment at Ambuja Cement Foundation in Chandrapur district. The foundation runs around 200 SHGs, involving nearly 2,300 women and covering about 50 villages in the district. “During the lockdown, their incomes reduced to zero as factories were closed and they could not go house to house selling milk. They were also unable to go to the fields for farming because of lack of funds,” she said. The Telegraph spoke over the phone to a few of these women who narrated how their social standings changed during the pandemic. Sangita Chaudhury, 41, Isapore village: Sangita’s husband Vijay works at a cement factory, earning Rs 15,000 a month. “During the three months of lockdown, the factory was closed and he did not get any wages,” said Sangita. She has been working with an SHG in her village for some time but would always face resistance from her husband and other family members. “In my husband’s family, no woman member is allowed to go out. They would tell me I was wasting time attending SHG meetings and urge me not to go. They would wonder why I should be involved in those activities when my husband was earning enough,” Sangita said. She was earning about Rs 2,000 a month earlier from various activities. But during the lockdown, when no veterinary doctor would visit villages, she was earning more than Rs 5,000 through goat and poultry management and vaccination of animals, for which she is trained. “I learnt how to drive a Scooty, which was given to me by the foundation, and went to various places in course of my work. My husband’s factory has resumed production but he still tells me to do what I am doing. He keeps telling me that it was because of me that the family was saved,” she said. Tai Kelvadkar, 38, Thutra village: Tai’s husband, Sudhakar, works at a cement factory and earns Rs 9,000 a month. “He would tell me that I attended SHG meetings only to gossip and urge me to, instead, concentrate on domestic work. Family members would tell me I had no business attending those meetings since I am uneducated,” she said. But during the lockdown, and even later, when her husband had no income, she was preparing masks and selling them through the SHG, earning more than Rs 4,000 a month. “I know how to knit and took online training in preparing masks,” she said. Now, her husband says she should continue preparing masks and is even eager to help her sell those. Geeta Watguire, 29, Timpalgaon village: Her husband drives a vehicle and earns Rs 15,000 a month. She has been working with an SHG in her village for about two years and would face resistance and abuses from her in-laws. Her husband had no income during the lockdown and even for several months after that. During the period Geeta was supporting the family by making saris and other apparels and selling them through the SHG. She also started vaccinating cows and oxens after training and was earning nearly as much as her husband. “Initially, my family members and other villagers would laugh at me and wonder how a woman could vaccinate cattle?” said Geeta. “But now I get calls from villagers even late at night for vaccination and my husband takes me on a two-wheeler to those places,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
09-12-2020||Calcutta||Coast Guard rescues 19 Bangladeshi fishermen||Nineteen Bangladeshi fishermen, who were drifting on a wooden trawler on the Bay of Bengal, were rescued by the Indian Coast Guard on Tuesday. The fishing trawler had been adrift for more than 20 days after the engine developed a snag and it entered Indian waters, an officer of the Coast Guard said. The crew members had run out of food and were rationing drinking water when they were rescued. A Coast Guard Dornier that took off from Bhuban-eswar in Odisha on Monday night for a routine patrol spotted the boat around 170km from the Paradip port, the officer added. The aircraft crew tried to get in touch with the boat on a Very High Frequency (VHF) radio but the boat did not respond. The aircraft crew then got in touch with the Indian Coast Guard Ship (ICGS), Varad, that was deployed on another mission on the Bay of Bengal and gave them the coordinates of the trawler. According to the officer, the Coast Guard ship’s crew also tried to contact the ship on radio but there was no response. The ship immediately charted a course for the boat and reached it early on Tuesday. “The ship then sent in specialised boarding parties on two fast-moving vessels. Once our men boarded the trawler, they checked for contraband but did not find any. The crew told them that they were fishermen and their engine had developed a snag which they could not repair,” said deputy commandant Kamal Singh Bhutola. When asked why they were not responding to radio messages, the crew said that they did not have a set nor any modern navigational equipment. The fishermen were then given food, water and first aid. The Coast Guard got in touch with their Bangladeshi counterparts, Bhutola said. On Tuesday evening, Varad was towing the trawler towards Bangladesh from where a Bangladeshi Coast Guard vessel would take over and tow it to Cox Bazaar harbour. The trawler had set sail from Cox Bazaar on November 15. India has a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Bangladesh and the Coast Guards of the two countries work in coordination to rescue fishermen who cross the International Maritime Border Line (IMBL). In the last several years, the two forces have worked in tandem to rescue fishermen in distress. With common security interests, the two forces also undertake coordinated patrolling to prevent activities such as smuggling and poaching. Preventing ecological degradation along the coasts is also a mandate for the two forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
09-12-2020||Calcutta||Dense fog disrupts flight operations for five hours at Calcutta airport||Dense fog disrupted many flights at the Calcutta airport on Tuesday morning, the first time this season. Low visibility triggered by the fog delayed the departure of 27 flights. The arrival of five flights was delayed, too, and one had to be diverted. The fog caused disruptions between 4.30am and 9.30am, said an airport official. A SpiceJet cargo flight from Delhi to Calcutta had to be diverted to Visakhapatnam before it could return to the city, airport officials said. The visibility started dropping around 4.30am, leading to disruption. Departure of flights came to a halt around 6.45am, when the visibility dropped below 50 metres, airport sources said. The Category III-B instrument landing system, which was installed at the Calcutta airport in January 2018, enables flights to land at a minimum visibility of 50 metres. Earlier, with the CAT II ILS, flights could land with a minimum visibility of 350 metres. At 8am, when visibility went up to 100 metres, planes started taking off again. Airport sources said a SpiceJet flight for Bagdogra was the first to take off, at 8.14am. The delays, however, continued. Two cargo flights of IndiGo from Delhi and Mumbai and one passenger flight of GoAir from Bangalore landed amid fog. The IndiGo flight from Delhi was the first to land, at 6.27am. A cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand and a high-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal triggered moisture incursion into the city and fog formation on Tuesday morning, said a Met official. The city had been witnessing foggy mornings for the past few days but the density of the fog was much more on Tuesday. Around 6.40pm on EM Bypass, it was tough to spot a car just 10m away. Every car had its lights on to ensure visibility. A group of morning walkers kept clicking pictures of the road, which “looked like that of a hill station,” said one of them. The fog reduced the intensity of the sun’s rays reaching the earth, which made the day a tad cooler on Tuesday. “The cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand is almost gone but the high-pressure zone persists. The next couple of days are also likely to be foggy,” said the Met official. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 18.4 degrees, three notches above normal. But the fog brought the maximum temperature down to 26 degrees from almost 30 degrees a day ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
09-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Air pollution: worst week in two years||The city suffered its worst air pollution in two years in the first week of December, says a study by the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). According to the study, the average PM2.5 level in the city’s air was 10 micrograms per cubic meter of air in a week in August, when the air was the cleanest compared with other months of the year. It jumped to 130 in the first week of December. Across the river, in Howrah, too, the December air has been found to be critically polluted. The corresponding PM2.5 level are 19 and 136. Environment scientists said August was the cleanest because of a combination of reasons, including limited economic activity in early stages of unlocking and meteorological factors such as rain, which had considerably neutralised the pollution load. “In the first week of December, Calcutta has experienced its worst week and peak in last two years so far with PM2.5 level,” the report states. “There were a few days when Calcutta and Howrah air pollution levels were higher than Delhi,” it says. Experts associated with the study — which analysed the winter air data from October 1 to December 6, generated at all automatic air pollution measuring stations in the city —  pointed out that the combination of heightened economic activity and meteorological factors have contributed to the jump in pollution. Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said visibility had dropped considerably, a tell-tale indicator of heightened pollution. The wind speed has been low, a typical winter phenomenon, leading to slow dispersal of pollutants. “The visibility in Alipore this morning was between 60 and 100 metres. Under normal circumstances it remains about 1,000 metres. The wind speed also remained relatively low,” said G.K. Das, of IMD Calcutta. The CSE study found that the air quality recorded by the automatic monitoring station on the BT Road campus of Rabindra Bharati University reached “severe” in the first week of December. At the other six stations in the city, the quality was “very poor”. According to the study, the average PM2.5 level in the city’s air was 10 micrograms per cubic meter of air. It jumped to 130 micrograms in the first week of December. “The disturbing part is the finding that the share of PM2.5 has increased significantly within PM 10,” said Anumita Roy Choudhury, an air pollution expert of the CSE who led the study. Ultrafine PM2.5 is considered much more lethal compared with the relatively coarser PM10. “The percentage share of PM2.5 in overall PM10 has gone up to 60 per cent during high pollution episodes from around mid-November and remained high at over 50 per cent since then,” the report says. “The spike in pollution can be attributed to anthropogenic well as meteorological factors. The cooler December air leads to an inversion phenomenon that results in trapping pollutants closer to the ground. Heightened economic activity, too, has contributed to the rise in pollution,” said Roy Choudhury. “This is a typical and predictable winter trend when continuous emissions from local sources, including vehicles, industry, construction and episodic pollution from biomass burning, get trapped because of meteorological changes,” said Avikal Somvanshi, from the CSE air pollution team. Roy Chowdhury stressed the need for “systemic changes” to reduce the city’s air pollution. “Systemic changes like switching public transport to cleaner fuels or phasing out old commercial vehicles will take time, but these changes will lead to a drop in the city’s air pollution level,” she said. The report published by the CSE said that the three-year annual average of Calcutta’s air quality was 41 per cent poorer than the standards set by the Central Pollution Control Board for the country. For Howrah, it was 42 per cent poorer. Asked about the study, Kalyan Rudra, the chairman of the state pollution control board, said: “I have not seen the CSE report. Unless one critically considers the impact of meteorological factors, it becomes a one-sided report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
09-12-2020||Calcutta||Impact of lockdown on domestic workers ||A domestic help defaulted on EMIs for the first time during the lockdown. Another had her salary credited to her bank account by her employer during the lockdown. A virtual session on Tuesday discussed the impact of the pandemic on domestic workers, sharing the findings of a study. The session brought together domestic workers and employers, besides rights activists and government representatives. “Both workers and employers are part of this session so that we can go beyond the narrative of one group pitted against the other. We have to keep in mind that many employers have also lost their income,” said Smita Khator from the People’s Archive of Rural India, a digital journalism platform, who moderated the session. The findings of a study on around 15 women domestic workers conducted during the lockdown were shared at the session. Some of the findings: Anchita Ghatak of Parichiti, the NGO which conducted the survey, shared some snippets while revealing the findings of the study. The husband of a domestic worker used to cook at social occasions. The couple had borrowed money from a bank to start a business. The husband was out of work because of the lockdown. The wife continued working during the lockdown. She ran the family but defaulted on EMIs for the first time because of the lockdown. Amid persistent allegations of non-payment of dues to domestic help for not being able to report for work, the study came across a domestic worker who had her salary credited to her bank account during the lockdown. With the resumption of suburban train services, more and more domestic workers are going back to work. But employers are now wary of help who work at multiple households, the domestic workers who attended the session said. Elderly couples are especially wary of letting outsiders in, they said. A number of elderly couples who hire domestic help from help centres are opting for 24-hour deals to minimise the employees’ exposure to other people, a precautionary measure against Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
09-12-2020||Calcutta||IIEST semester exams to be held through digital platforms ||IIEST will hold the upcoming semester exams through a digital platform after students in Monday’s senate meeting expressed their fear about writing the tests on the campus because of the raging Covid pandemic, officials said. Final-year BTech students of the Shibpur institute had last month written the final-semester supplementary exams on the campus, but a much larger number will write the upcoming semester tests. “Only 59 students had written the supplementary exams on the campus on November 11 and 12, while as many as 3,000 are slated to write the semester tests in December and January,” said an IIEST official. The institute had at one point considered holding offline or in-person tests to ensure transparency. But as students and teachers wanted to avoid assembly as a precaution against Covid-19, the institute opted for a test through a digital platform. “We could not ignore the concern over physical assembly. A minuscule number of students had written the supplementary tests. But the mid-term and end-term tests will be written by a large number of students and we don’t want to risk their health,’’ IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said, explaining why on-campus tests would not be held. An official of the institute said questions about the fairness of tests conducted on digital platforms would arise because students would write the papers sitting at home. Concerns over fairness, he said, prompted IIT Madras to hold the December semester exams in designated Kendriya Vidyalayas across the country. Students of the IIT, however, opposed the decision citing health risks. Aman Kumar, the general secretary of the students’ union at IIEST, said: “During the senate meeting and during an earlier interaction with the director, we had appealed that students should not be brought to the campus to write the test, as that could risk their health.” IIEST director Chakrabarti said the students would be sent questions over Google Meet a couple of minutes before the start of the test. After accessing the questions on their computer or smartphone, the students will write the answers on paper and will have 15 minutes after the end of each day’s exam to upload scanned answer scripts on Google Meet. “We will ask students to switch on the web cams while they write the answers. Those accessing the questions on smartphones will have to keep the cameras of the phone on while penning the answers. That will ensure transparency,” said Chakrabarti. Those who don’t have a computer or a smartphone will have to write the test from a cybercafe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
09-12-2020||Calcutta||Parents play crucial part by resisting tuition and session fee waiver||A father who is a middle-level employee at a hotel in Calcutta and has suffered a pay cut during the Covid pandemic has not opted for a 20 per cent waiver of tuition and session fees for his daughter, a student of Class V. A single mother of a Class III student has written to the principal saying she would not take the concession though running the family had become difficult because of the pandemic. A number of schools have told The Telegraph that there were some such parents who had not availed themselves of the tuition and session fee waiver, which the high court has made them entitled to, despite the pandemic-induced crisis. The high court had in October ordered private schools to waive 20 per cent of tuition and session fees and not charge any fees on non-academic heads such as “laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extracurricular activities or the like” between April 2020 and one month after the resumption of on-campus classes. Not all such parents who have been paying the full fees are “highly placed” in their profession and have their share of financial responsibilities and difficulties, one principal said. “We will acknowledge the parents who have stood by us. We talk about the school as a family and there are parents who have shown that solidarity. We understand that there are parents who have financial difficulties and it is acceptable that they are seeking the concession,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School. “I have not suffered any pay cut. Why should I deprive the school and perhaps the teachers by not paying the fee?” asked a father whose son is in the primary section of a private school in south Calcutta. “I will effectively be saving Rs 10,000 in some months if I avail myself of the concession, but I have been saving on travel and other expenses because of the pandemic. So, I can pay the full fees,” the father said. Among the parents who are paying the full fees is Madhav Prasad Roy, a retired school teacher whose only source of sustenance is his pension. “I have paid because my funds permitted and I also understand the kind of expenses the school has to incur for smooth functioning. If by paying about a thousand more I can stand by the school, then why not?” said Roy, the only earning member of the family, whose daughter is in Class XII. A mother has written to the principal of a school in Alipore, saying she would like to pay the full fees because she thought what the institution was doing during the pandemic was sufficient to warrant the fees. “The percentage of parents not taking the waiver is small. But they are contributing to the school. In fact one of them said he thought it was his duty to help the teachers who might have to bear the brunt of non-payment of fees,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School, Ganganagar. The heads of two schools said they would like to believe that parents were paying the full fees to reciprocate the effort the school was making. “We are happy that a section of parents has responded to the school’s appeal to not avail themselves of the waiver if they are not facing financial difficulties. The parent is supporting the school when the institution is in a crisis just as the school supports the parent in bringing up the child,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
09-12-2020||Business||Sensex rallies 495 points, crosses 46,000 mark for first time||Equity benchmark Sensex soared 495 points to cross the 46,000-level for the first time on Wednesday amid persistent foreign fund inflows and positive cues from global markets. After touching a record intra-day high of 46,164.10, the 30-share BSE index ended 494.99 points or 1.09 per cent higher at 46,103.50. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rallied 136.15 points or 1.02 per cent to its new record high of 13,529.10. It touched its lifetime peak of 13,548.90 during the day. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, Infosys, Reliance Industries and ITC. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Tata Steel, Maruti, SBI and Bajaj Auto were among the laggards. "Domestic equities remained buoyant with Nifty and Sensex recording fresh highs today mainly supported by a sharp rebound in global markets," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. The favourable progress on COVID-19 vaccine approvals and distribution across the globe has overshadowed the concerns over a sharp rise in new cases and resultant lockdowns in various countries, he said. Indian equities emerged as a preferred destination for foreign investors given the government's strong commitment to reviving the economy, he said, adding that prospects of corporate earnings recovery have emerged strongly, which is much evident from key economic data and management commentaries. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,909.60 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Shanghai finished in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.96 per cent to USD 49.31 per barrel. In the forex market, the rupee settled 3 paise higher at 73.57 (provisional) against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
09-12-2020||Business||Sensex rallies 300 points to hit fresh high in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 300 points to touch its fresh lifetime peak in early trade on Wednesday tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, TCS and Infosys amid persistent foreign fund inflow and positive cues from global markets. After touching a record intra-day high of 45,908.08, the 30-share BSE index was trading 285.62 points or 0.63 per cent higher at 45,894.13. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 78.25 points or 0.58 per cent to 13,471.20. It touched its lifetime intra-day peak of 13,475.05 in early trade. ITC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by ONGC, TCS, Sun Pharma, Asian Paints, HCL Tech, Bajaj Finserv and NTPC. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement and Maruti were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex climbed 181.54 points or 0.40 per cent to finish at its fresh lifetime high of 45,608.51, while Nifty rose 37.20 points or 0.28 per cent to 13,392.95 -- its new closing record. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,909.60 crore on a net basis on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, said domestic markets saw a gap-up opening on Wednesday taking cues from positive global markets. "Persistent FPI flow remains a dominant factor for the markets. Given strong visibility of sustained earnings growth in 2HFY21 led by continued traction in business activities for many sectors, markets are likely to remain buoyant. "However, high valuations of markets will continue to pose a risk. We believe midcap and small-cap stock may continue to see traction in the near term," he said. US equities finished higher with key indices recording new highs mainly on satisfactory progress on vaccine approvals and distribution, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.51 per cent lower at USD 48.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
09-12-2020||Business||Titan axe on Favre Leuba||The Tatas are wielding the axe on cash-draining or loss-making operations as they look to make businesses competitive and profitable in a post-Covid environment. On Monday, Titan Company announced that it is scaling down operations of Favre Leuba. Analysts gave the move a thumbs-up as there would be lower losses from the venture in the future. In October this year, Titan had announced that it will end its five-year joint venture with Montblanc in December to focus on its primary business and proprietary brands. Titan holds a 49 per cent equity stake in the joint venture — Montblanc India Retail. Titan entered into the JV with Montblanc Services BV, the Netherlands, to operate retail boutiques in India for Montblanc products. Shares of Titan on Tuesday closed marginally higher at Rs 1,427.25 — a gain of 0.15 per cent over the last close. Favre Leuba AG (FLAG) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Titan and it was incorporated in 2012. It had acquired the Swiss watch brand a year earlier for up to 2 million euros or nearly Rs 14 crore to expand the product portfolio. FLAG is now based in Solothum, Switzerland and it owns the Favre Leuba brand. Titan said that Favre Leuba is amongst the oldest watch brands in the world, and considering the rich heritage of the brand, it had incorporated FLAG, acquired the brand and presented it in a contemporary form. “While the company has been continuously supporting FLAG, and has made a series of investments aggregating to approximately Rs 275 crore over a period of time for the revival of the Favre Leuba brand and its growth plans, the current Covid-19 pandemic has severely impacted these revival plans and prospects,’’ the company said. It added that the board of the company decided to request the FLAG management to scale down its operations substantially with immediate effect so that further investments from Titan to FLAG cease as early as possible. “Consequently, this will lead to Titan making provisions in the current financial year for additional impairment pertaining to its investments in FLAG, in addition to the impairment of Rs 145 crore already made in earlier years,’’ Titan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
09-12-2020||Business||Steel exports from Bengal hit hard||The lockdown at the beginning of the year coupled with an ongoing shortage of iron ore have dented steel export out of Bengal. Data available with the Exim Bank, the public sector lender which facilitates overseas trade for the domestic industries, recorded iron and steel exports from Bengal fell  almost 4.6 per cent during April-October compared with the corresponding period of last year. In absolute terms, iron and steel exports stood at $695.3 million during April-October 2020-21, down from $728.5 million in April-October 2019- 20. Further, the exports of ‘products of iron and steel’ were down at $278.6 million in April-October 2020-21, from $404.2 million a year ago. Nepal and Bangladesh are among the major export markets out of Bengal for iron and steel, which import semi finished items such as sponge iron and billets. Indian companies compete with Chinese players in these markets. Some quantities are exported to China and the UAE also. The state also exports finished products (tube, pipe, screws, bolts) — categorised as products of iron and steel — to destinations such as the US, Qatar, and UAE. “We could hardly operate our plants in the first two months of the year due to the lockdown. After capacities were ramped up from June, the plant faced shortage of iron ore, crippling our ability to scale up,” a leading producer of primary steel from Bengal said. The number of merchant mines in Odisha and Jharkhand, from where the small steel mills of Bengal used to source their iron ore, are closed, squeezing out supplies in the market. According to one estimate, annual supply of close to 90 million tonnes has gone out of the market. While leases of some of the mines have expired, the ones which found new owners by an auction process, did not start operations. Steel mill owners say only 12 merchant mines in Odisha are operational at present, while at least 20 are closed. All 11 such mines in Jharkhand are not in production as well. Moreover, exports of iron ore and pellet are on the rise, creating further shortage. Data shows iron ore exports from India during April to October 2020 grew by 60 per cent. An Exim Bank official backed the call made by Bengal based steel makers to put a temporary ban on export of iron ore as well as pellets. The demand has been raised with Union steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
09-12-2020||Business||Plea on Vodafone case||The Centre on Tuesday told the Delhi High Court that it was entitled to the relief of restraining telecom major Vodafone from initiating a second international arbitration against India in connection with a tax demand, irrespective of the outcome of arbitration proceedings under the India-Netherlands Bilateral Investment Protection Agreement (BIPA). The Centre urged the high court to sine die adjourn its appeal against the single judge’s verdict permitting consolidation of two international arbitrations initiated by the company against India under the India-Netherlands and India-UK BIPA. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon said it would pass an order on the appeal and indicated that it will give an option to the Centre to revive the appeal later. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma submitted, “Let the appeal be deferred sine die. Our suit, according to us, shall be decreed. They cannot put the India-UK BIPA gun on my head and say you have to do this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
09-12-2020||Business||Rate reliefs ruled out||The Centre on Tuesday ruled out in the Supreme Court the waiver of interest on loans availed during the six-month moratorium period ending August 31, saying it would cost the bank Rs 6 lakh crore and any such move would raise serious questions on their survival. Appearing for the Union finance ministry, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta told a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan that if the interest is waived off on all the types of loans the amount forgone would be over Rs 6 lakh crore and this was precisely the reason why interest waiver was not even considered by the government. The bench was dealing with a batch of petitions filed by various business sectors seeking waiver of interests on loans in view of the pandemic as according to them the government cannot be discriminatory by waiving of only compound interests on those who had availed loans worth Rs 2 crore or less.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
09-12-2020||Business||Bids sought for Pawan Hans||The Modi government on Tuesday invited bids to sell its stake in state-owned helicopter services operator Pawan Hans, its second attempt at sell-off in three years. The earlier attempt in 2018 did not find any suitors. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) on Tuesday issued a fresh request for proposal (RFP) to invite bids for Pawan Hans. Any domestic or global player registered with Sebi can submit its bid by January 19, while shortlisted bidders will be intimated about selection by February 17. The government and ONGC will sell their entire stake in the unlisted company. ONGC holds a 49 per cent stake in Pawan Hans with the remaining 51 per cent being held by the Centre. Dipam on behalf of the central government will conduct the transaction and has appointed SBI Capital Markets Limited (SBICAP) as its adviser to manage the strategic disinvestment of the company. “The GOI has ‘in-principle’ decided to disinvest its entire equity shareholding in PHL by way of strategic disinvestment along with transfer of management control. ONGC has also decided to offer its entire shareholding of 49 per cent in PHL to the successful bidder at the same discovered price per share and on same terms & conditions as agreed by the GOI,” the RFP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
09-12-2020||Business||Indian economy to shrink by 9.4%: Fitch||Fitch Ratings on Tuesday has lowered its forecast of contraction of the Indian economy for the fiscal to 9.4 per cent against 10.5 per cent contraction earlier, taking note of the sharper than expected growth in the second quarter of the current fiscal. Fitch kept its forecast for the next fiscal and the following year unchanged at 11 per cent and 6.3 per cent growth, respectively. The report said the coronavirus-induced lockdown has inflicted severe economic scarring and the country needs to repair balance sheets and increase caution about long-term planning. The projections compare to a GDP growth of 4.2 per cent in 2019-20 fiscal and 6.7 per cent annual expansion between 2015 and 2019. Fitch said the Indian economy staged a sharper rebound in the July-September quarter from the coronavirus-induced recession. GDP fell 7.5 per cent year-on-year, up from -23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter. Manufacturing enjoyed a sharp rebound and its output in the second-quarter reached the levels before the pandemic, with the autos and pharmaceuticals leading the revival. The rebound in the services sector was more muted amid continued social distancing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
09-12-2020||Business||SBI goes easy on plan to spin off Yono||State Bank of India (SBI) is going slow on its plans to divest its stake in digital platform Yono, which has around 28.5 million registered users. This was disclosed by SBI chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara to Bloomberg Television in an interview on Monday. Pointing out that the country’s largest bank will at some stage consider such a divestment, he said the lender is not in a tearing hurry to take this step. In October, Rajnish Kumar, the former chairman of SBI, had said that it is looking to hive off the integrated digital and lifestyle platform into a separate subsidiary. He had then disclosed that SBI was in discussions with all its partners to hive it off as a separate subsidiary. Kumar had said that after Yono becomes an independent entity, SBI could even become one among its users even as he admitted that discussions in this regard were at a preliminary stage and that a valuation exercise for the entity was pending. Earlier, Kumar had said that Yono’s valuation could be around $40 billion. Launched three years ago, the app, which has crossed more than 65 million downloads, sees more than 5.5 million logins per day along with over 4,000 daily disbursals of personal loans and 16,000 Yono Krishi Agri Gold loans. Use of the app has gone up amid the pandemic. While declaring the second quarter numbers, SBI had said that digital transactions now form 65 per cent of the total transactions. The platform has also been successful so far in generating a loan portfolio of Rs 25,000 crore and liabilities portfolio of Rs 60,000 crore. Its estimated contribution to the profit before tax of SBI is put at Rs 1,000 crore for the current fiscal. SBI has also been looking to establish a digital payments entity under the New Umbrella Entity (NUE) framework for retail payments. In August this year, the RBI had released a framework for authorisation of a pan-India umbrella entity for retail payments. The last date for submitting the application to the banking regulator is February 26, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
09-12-2020||Business||Mistry stake value slashed||Tata Sons on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that  the Pallonji group’s shareholding in the company was not more than Rs 80,000 crore, contrary to group head Cyrus Mistry’s claim that its value was over Rs 1.75 lakh crore. “As per our calculations, the Pallonji Group shareholding in Tata Sons is worth not more than Rs 70,000 crore to Rs 80,000 crore. Pallonji Group claims value of over Rs 1.75 lakh crore of its 18 per cent shareholding in Tata Sons,” senior advocate Harish Salve told a bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde during the day-long inconclusive arguments. He made the submission while asserting that the NCLAT had no power to direct Mistry’s reinstatement as the executive chairman of the company. It is not clear as to how Salve cited the nearly Rs 1 lakh crore difference in valuation between that made by the Mistry camp and the Tatas. However, it is learnt this has  came from an internal estimate done by the Tata group. This, however, could not be confirmed as a spokesperson of the Tatas declined to make any comments. Back in 2016, chartered accountant Y. H. Malegam had valued the Mistry stake in Tata Sons at Rs 58,000 crore. The bench also comprising Justices A.S.Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian  was dealing with an appeal filed by Tata Sons challenging the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal’s (NCLAT) order of December 18, 2019 directing the reinstatement of Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the company. Salve said the event which triggered the present proceedings was primarily on October 24, 2016 when Cyrus Mistry was removed as the executive chairman, months before his term was to end in March 2017. “Original appointment of Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman was to end in March 2017. It was not a lifetime appointment.” The bench asked whether the tribunal can explore possibilities of running the company even if it concludes that there is oppression and mismanagement, under Section 242. Salve said that in such cases the test would be whether there is lack of probity in running of company. “Sale of Rs 1 lakh car takes downturn, or issues faced by company due to problems in distribution of spectrum by government cannot be reasons for winding up on lack of probity,” he said. The arguments would continue tomorrow. Senior advocates C.A.Sundram, Shyam Divan and Janak Dwarkdas would be arguing for Cyrus Mistry and the Pallonji group after Salve’s submission. The development has however, led to apprehensions that the two sides could see fresh differences crop up over valuation of the 18.37 per cent stake held by the Mistry family in Tata Sons. They had earlier ascribed a value of Rs 1.78 trillion for their shareholding With 18 percent, in normal corporate democracy, Mistry would not even be able to get one director on the board and the 68 percent shareholder will be able to pack the board, Salve argued. “The 18 percent (shareholder) will be entitled to get dividends. As long as TATA sons is distributing huge amounts as dividends, where is the question of winding up. That is the long and short of this matter,” he said. The bench also comprising Justices A.S.Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian  was dealing with an appeal filed by Tata Sons challenging the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal’s (NCLAT) order of December 18, 2019 directing the reinstatement of Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the company. The controversy relates to Mistry’s removal on October 24, 2016 as Executive Chairman by the Tata Sons. In response to Justice Bobde’ query as to whether the post of the Executive Chairman is created by the company’s board, Salve said “It is a designation. Many times companies don't have executive chairperson and senior-most director presides over board. It is not a post but only a designation.” He explained that Tata Sons was a company created in 1917. It was never a public company. Tata Sons always had a provision in its articles which restricts the transfer of its shares and provisions relating to stringent control on shareholding. According to Salve it also has an unusual article which empowers the Board to compel shareholder to sell his/ her share. “These articles have been in play all along even when Companies Act was amended and section 43A inserted,” the senior counsel said. He assailed the NCLAT for arriving at the finding that Tata Sons remained a public company despite Registrar of Companies approving the change in certificate of incorporation of Tata Sons from public to private. Salve submitted that the major shareholder of Tata Sons is Tata Trusts which holds 68 percent stake. The trustees controlled Tata Sons and nominated people to Board of Tata Sons. It was a matter of prestige to be nominated to the Board of Tata Sons, he said. Tata Sons in turn control a slew of listed companies including Tata Steel, Tata chemicals, Tata Motors, Indian Hotels and prestigious companies in Europe like Jaguar Land rover and Corus group, Salve said and remarked “It is a matter of pride that Jaguar cars are manufactured by Tata owned company,” Salve said. He said Pallonji Mistry, Cyrus Mistry's father was included in Tata Sons as non-executive Director in 1980. Cyrus Mistry joined Tata Sons in 2006. Between 1965 and 1980 none from Pallonji group was on the Board of Tata Sons. He said appointment of Cyrus Mistry as Executive Chairman was only until March 2017 “It was not a lifetime appointment.” “If instead of October 2016 we had reached March 2017 and he was not reappointed, then there would be no right on the part of minority shareholders to claim he shod be reappointed,” Salve said. He submitted that Cyrus Mistry and Pallonji group had never raised issues about appointment of N Chandrasekaran who had replaced Mistry, yet the NCLAT went ahead and struck that down. He said Ratan Tata wanted to do it in a quiet manner. So he had met Mistry and told him that Board had lost confidence in him and he should consider stepping down. But he did not and then there was leaking of letter. Eventually he was removed from Board. According to the counsel The Articles of Association of Tata Sons was amended in 2000 which gave affirmative voting rights on “Trust nominated directors.” These amendments were voted in affirmation by Pallonji Mistry, father of Cyrus Mistry, he said. These amendments created a structure such that resolutions etc had to be run past the trust before placing before the board. Otherwise, the nominated directors might say they will have to take instructions from nominator. “There is nothing wrong in it. But it is for this that they (Pallonji group) have called them stooges etc…The NCLAT has also picked out these articles to say they interfere in operation of minority,” Tata’s counsel said. He submitted that Mistry was not appointed as Executive Chairman not under any right of minority shareholder. Even otherwise, only Mistry personally can have grievance (due to removal) and not minority shareholders. “What NCLAT has done now is vest the control of the company with minority. Minority with 18 percent holding has been effectively given power to rule over all the Tata Companies,” Salve said. He submitted that under Section 241 of the Companies Act, the NCLAT can be moved only when the affairs of the company is conducted in a manner prejudicial to public interest or in a manner oppressive to any member of the company. To a query from the CJI, Salve remarked: “Yes, it might at the most be a bad decision but not mismanagement. There has never been a single allegation of mismanagement of TATA Sons… “The company has been run amazingly. During the tenure of Mr. Ratan Tata between 1991 and 2012, the market cap of Tata went up 500 times. When there is a growth story of 500 percent, there will be some winner projects and some losers,” he said. Tata Sons said there was not a single resolution brought by Mistry,  when he was Executive Chairman, which was defeated by the board. For 20 years, veto was in place but never exercised. That was how this company was run, he said. The bench asked whether the tribunal can explore possibilities of running the company even if it concludes that there is oppression and mismanagement, under Section 242. Salve said that in such cases the test would be whether there is lack of probity in running of company. “Sale of Rs 1 lakh car takes downturn, or issues faced by company due to problems in distribution of spectrum by government cannot be reasons for winding up on lack of probity,” he said. Being outvoted in board meeting or personal lives of directors cannot be reasons to invoke just and equitable ground for winding up, Salve submitted. “The judge has to see whether oppression is of such degree and accompanied by lack of probity to such an extent that the judge has to either wind up the company or pass such orders to remedy the situation. Is that your submission?” Justice Bobde asked to which Salve answered in the affirmative. “Can there be a finding of oppression and mismanagement on the basis of articles of association of the company or should there be acts of oppression by the management?” the CJI asked prompting Salve to say “it should come out of the acts of management.” The arguments would continue tomorrow. Senior advocates C.A.Sundram, Shyam Divan and Janak Dwarkdas would be arguing for the Cyrus Mistry and Pallonji group after Salve’s submission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
09-12-2020||Business||Nokia ready with equipment ||Telecom gear maker Nokia on Tuesday said it has begun the production of 5G equipment at its manufacturing site in Chennai. The Finnish firm was the first to manufacture 5G New Radio in the country and is now producing the Nokia AirScale massive Multiple Input Multiple Output (mMIMO) solution. The equipment is already being exported to many countries in advanced stages of 5G deployment, the company said. The roll out of 5G services in India is dependent on spectrum auction as telecom operators need suitable wireless frequencies to start 5G in the country. Sanjay Malik, senior vice-president and head of India market, at Nokia, said “Our Chennai factory has emerged as a benchmark of India's manufacturing capabilities, bringing an entire range of telecom technology to operators in India and the rest of the world. ”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
09-12-2020||Business||PM offers incentives||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday made a strong pitch to make the country a global hub for telecom gear design, development and manufacturing by leveraging the over Rs 12,000-crore productivity linked incentive scheme (PLI) for telecom equipment. Addressing the India Mobile Congress, Modi said India was emerging as one of the most preferred  destinations for manufacturing. “We have also come up with the PLI scheme to promote telecom equipment manufacturing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
09-12-2020||Business||Telecom czars at odds over 5G rollout||Mukesh Ambani and Sunil Mittal have differed over the rollout of 5G services in the country and the need to hold early spectrum auction. At the India Mobile Congress on Tuesday, Ambani said Reliance Jio would roll out 5G by the second half of 2021 using indigenous technology only to be contradicted by Mittal who said the country would be ready for 5G tech in the next two-three years even as his deputy Gopal Vittal chipped in with his view that local 5G technology posed an existential threat. The Centre is yet to clear the air on the timing of India’s much awaited maiden 5G spectrum sale or the bands likely to be on offer. Airtel had earlier said it would refrain from bidding for 5G spectrum if the reserve price was high. Telecom regulator Trai has recommended a floor price of Rs 492 crore per Mhz for spectrum in the 3,300-3,600 Mhz band. Speaking at the inaugural event of the mobile congress, Ambani said policy steps were needed to accelerate the early rollout of 5G in the country and to make it affordable and available everywhere. “I assure you that Jio will pioneer the 5G revolution in India in the second half of 2021. It will be powered by an indigenous-developed network, hardware and technology components. Jio’s 5G service will be a testimony to your inspiring vision of Atma Nirbhar Bharat… The 5G would enable India to not only participate in the Fourth Industrial Revolution but also to lead it,” Ambani said. Ambani’s Jio Platforms had already partnered Qualcomm Technologies to fast-track the deployment of 5G mobile internet based on home grown technology. However, Bharti Enterprises chairman Sunil Mittal said at the event that it would take to 2-3 years to roll out 5G. “As world settles down on 5G space, pricing of the equipment comes down and importantly the devices start getting available in plentiful, I think India in two-three years' time will be ready to receive the benefit of the investments that the globe would have made on 5G standard and 5G ecosystems,” Mittal said. Bharti Airtel South Asia CEO Gopal Vittal called for embracing global 5G standards’ in India as the idea to develop country specific 5G standard was an existential threat and will lock the country out of the global ecosystem. “There are sometimes talks that India must have its own 5G standard. This is an existential threat which could lock India out of the global ecosystem and slow down the pace of innovation. We could have let our citizens down if you allow that to happen,” Vittal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
09-12-2020||India||Karnataka passes anti-cow slaughter bill despite mayhem||The Karnataka Assembly on Wednesday passed the controversial anti-cow slaughter bill amid uproar, as members of the Congress party staged a walkout in protest. Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020 seeks a total ban on the slaughter of cattle in the state and proposes strict punishment to those who engage in smuggling, illegal transportation, atrocities on cows and slaughtering them, BJP sources said. "Yes, the bill has been passed in the Assembly," Karnataka Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy told PTI. The bill intends to protect cows, their calves, as well as buffaloes and their children below 12 years of age. A provision saying that special courts will also be set up to punish the guilty. It also makes provision for setting up Goshala or cattle-sheds for the protection of livestock. The police have been given power to conduct checking, while those maintaining these livestock will be given protection, the bill says. The bill was passed without any discussion as there was din in the House. Earlier, when Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan tabled the bill in the evening, Congress MLAs led by leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah trooped into the well of the House. They alleged the bill was not discussed for tabling in the Business Advisory Committee meeting. “We had discussed yesterday that new bills will not be tabled.We had agreed that only the ordinances will be passed. Now he (Prabhu Chavan) has all-of-a-sudden introduced this anti-cow slaughter bill,” Siddaramaiah said. However, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said he had clearly said in the meeting that important bills will be tabled on Wednesday and Thursday. The Congress has expressed fears that the bill, if passed, may be misused for polarisation on communal lines and target the minorities. On the other hand, the BJP has been saying the bill is to protect the cows which are holy to the Hindus. A team of officials led by Chavan had recently visited Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, where the law has been enacted, to study its implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||Farmers reject govt offer of ‘written assurance’ on MSP||As thousands of farmers continue to protest at various borders of the national capital demanding the repeal of three new farm laws, the government on Wednesday proposed to give a "written assurance" that the existing minimum support price (MSP) regime for procurement will continue. However, the farmers' unions rejected the proposal and said they would intensify their agitation until the government accepts their demand for a complete repeal of the three laws. They said they would block the Jaipur-Delhi and the Delhi-Agra expressways on or before December 12, and all roads entering into the national capital, one-by-one, if their demands were not met. The government also proposed to make necessary amendments on at least seven issues, including one to allay fears about the weakening of the mandi system. In a draft proposal sent to 13 agitating farmer unions, the government also said it is ready to provide all necessary clarifications on their concerns about the new farm laws enacted in September, but it did not mention anything about the main demand of protesting farmers for the repeal of the laws. At a press conference later in the day, farmer leaders said there was nothing new in the government proposal and they would  continue their protest. “The proposals sent by Union Home Minister Amit Shah contained the same things as Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told farmer leaders in previous meetings,” said farmer leader Darshan Pal. Separately, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said at a post-Cabinet media briefing that the government was sensitive to the concerns of farmers as he expressed hope that ongoing deliberations with them, which he termed a "work in progress", over the three agriculture-related laws would yield some results soon. He said the government has held several rounds of talks with the farmers agitating against the three legislations and is keen to resolve their issues In the proposal, sent by agriculture ministry joint secretary Vivek Aggarwal, the government said it was ready to consider with an open heart the issues which farmers have on the new laws. “The government has tried to address the concerns of farmers with an open heart and with respect for the farming community of the country. The government appeals to the Kisan unions to end their agitation,” the draft proposal said. On farmers' concern that mandis would weaken after the enactment of the new laws, the government said an amendment can be made wherein state governments can register the traders operating outside mandis. States can also impose tax and cess as they used in APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) mandis on them. On concerns that farmers may be duped as anyone having just a PAN card was allowed to trade outside APMC mandis, the government said to rule out such apprehensions, the state governments can be given the power to register such traders and make rules keeping in mind the local situation of farmers. On the issue of farmers not getting the right to appeal in civil courts for dispute resolution, the government said it was open to making an amendment to provide for an appeal in civil courts. Currently, the dispute resolution is at the SDM level. On fears that big corporates will take over farmlands, the government said it had already been made clear in the laws, but still, for clarity's sake, it can be written that no buyer can take loans against farmland nor any such condition will be made to farmers. On attaching farmland under contract farming, the government said the existing provision is clear but still it can be clarified further if required. On fear about the scrapping of the MSP regime and shifting of trade to private players, the government said it was ready to give a written assurance that the existing MSP will continue. On demands to scrap the proposed Electricity Amendment bill 2020, the government said there won't be any change in the existing system of electricity bill payment for farmers. On farmers' demand to scrap the Air Quality Management of NCR Ordinance 2020, under which there is the provision of penalty for stubble burning, the government said it was ready to find an appropriate solution. On Constitutional validity of farm laws, the Centre said it had the power under Entry 33 of the Concurrent List to pass laws on contract farming and intra- and inter-state trade, and prohibit states from imposing fees/cess outside APMC areas. It had followed legal provisions while enacting the laws and earlier for bringing ordinances, it added. The draft proposal was received by 13 agitating agricultural union leaders, including Joginder Singh Urgrahan of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), whose party is one of the biggest among the 10 farm bodies. “Farmer unions have received the draft proposal from the government,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait told PTI. Home minister Amit Shah, at Tuesday night's meeting with 13 union leaders, had said the government would send a draft proposal on key issues raised by the farmers regarding the three farm laws, even though the meeting had failed to break the ice with farm union leaders who are insisting on repealing these laws. Wednesday's scheduled meeting between the protesting farmer unions and the government interlocutors also stood cancelled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||Opposition delegation meets President, seeks repeal of farm laws||A delegation of Opposition parties including Rahul Gandhi, Sharad Pawar and Left leaders on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind seeking repeal of the three farm laws against which thousands of farmers have been protesting on various borders of the national capital. The five-member delegation of Opposition leaders included CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D Raja and DMK leader TKS Elangovan, besides Gandhi and Pawar. "We met the President and informed him of our view regarding the three farm laws. We have asked for their repeal. We informed the President that it is critical that they are taken back," Gandhi told reporters after meeting the President. He said the way the farm laws were passed in Parliament, "we feel it was an insult to farmers and that is why they are protesting in the cold weather against them". The former Congress chief said the new laws appeared aimed at handing over the farming sector to the "friends of the prime minister", but the farmers are fearless and would not back off and will continue with their peaceful agitation. NCP leader Pawar said various political parties have requested President that these farm laws should be repealed as they were not discussed with either stakeholders or in the Select Committee of Parliament. Yechury said, "We told President that the three farm laws were passed undemocratically in Parliament and have sought the repeal of these laws." The Opposition delegation was limited to five because of the COVID-19 situation. The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||Saffron spread in Rajasthan blow for Congress in local polls ||The ruling Congress in Rajasthan suffered a jolt in the panchayat elections on Wednesday as the BJP beat it by bagging 1,989 of the 4,371 panchayat samiti seats. The saffron party dubbed the win as a farmers' mandate amid protests against the Centre's new agri-marketing laws. The Congress, on the other hand, won 1,852 seats, with almost all results of the four-phase local government polls being declared. The CPI(M) won 26, while the RLP won six and the BSP bagged five.  Independent candidates won 439 panchayat samiti seats. The BJP, at the zila parishad level, made 353 of the 635 seats its own, while the Congress got 252. Only one zila parishad seat result is yet to be announced in the election held across 21 of the state's 33 districts. The BJP candidates are now in majority in 13 of these district boards and the party is set to head one more with the help of ally Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP). The Congress has won five of the remaining zila parishads. The results, which came as a boost for the BJP amid the farmers’ protest in Delhi, were declared just days before the Ashok Gehlot government completes two years in Rajasthan, and only months after it tackled a revolt among the Congress MLAs led by sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. On Twitter, BJP president J P Nadda called the Rajasthan success a symbol of trust farmers, labourers and the poor have in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership. Rajasthan Congress president Dotasra said his party will perform better in the next election. “Many thanks to all the candidates for increasing the base of the party in the panchayat elections held in 21 districts of the state”, the Congress leader tweeted. “These results motivate us to do better in future; Congress will do better in the upcoming elections by keeping good synergy between the government and the organisation,” he added. But BJP state president Satish Poonia said the results signaled farewell to the corrupt government in the state. The polls were held in the districts of Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||Govt ready to provide ‘written assurance’ on MSP||The Centre on Wednesday said it was ready to give a “written assurance” to protesting farmers that the existing Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime for procurement would continue to function but was silent on their primary demand of repealing the laws. In a draft proposal sent to 13 farmers’ bodies, the Centre said that the government was ready to provide all necessary clarifications on their concerns about the new farm laws enacted in September. It also proposed to make required amendments on at least seven issues that farmers complained about regarding the new laws, including one to allay fears about the weakening of the mandi system. The Centre has not touched one of the three laws, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, at all in its draft proposal. Instead, it has proposed seven amendments to the two other laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. In the proposal, sent by agriculture ministry joint secretary Vivek Aggarwal, the government said it was ready to consider with an open heart the issues which farmers have on the new laws. “The government has tried to address the concerns of farmers with an open heart and with respect for the farming community of the country. The government appeals to the Kisan unions to end their agitation,” the draft proposal said. On farmers' concern that mandis would weaken after the enactment of the new laws, the government said an amendment can be made wherein state governments can register the traders operating outside mandis. States can also impose tax and cess as they used in APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) mandis on them. On concerns that farmers may be duped as anyone having just a PAN card was allowed to trade outside APMC mandis, the government said to rule out such apprehensions, the state governments can be given the power to register such traders and make rules keeping in mind the local situation of farmers. On the issue of farmers not getting the right to appeal in civil courts for dispute resolution, the government said it was open to making an amendment to provide for an appeal in civil courts. Currently, the dispute resolution is at the SDM level. On fears that big corporates will take over farmlands, the government said it had already been made clear in the laws, but still, for clarity's sake, it can be written that no buyer can take loans against farmland nor any such condition will be made to farmers. On attaching farmland under contract farming, the government said the existing provision is clear but still it can be clarified further if required. On fear about the scrapping of the MSP regime and shifting of trade to private players, the government said it was ready to give a written assurance that the existing MSP will continue. On demands to scrap the proposed Electricity Amendment bill 2020, the government said there won't be any change in the existing system of electricity bill payment for farmers. On farmers' demand to scrap the Air Quality Management of NCR Ordinance 2020, under which there is the provision of penalty for stubble burning, the government said it was ready to find an appropriate solution. The draft proposal was received by 13 agitating agricultural union leaders, including Joginder Singh Urgrahan of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), whose party is one of the biggest among the 10 farm bodies. “Farmer unions have received the draft proposal from the government,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait  told PTI. Home minister Amit Shah, at Tuesday night's meeting with 13 union leaders, had said the government would send a draft proposal on key issues raised by the farmers regarding the three farm laws, even though the meeting had failed to break the ice with farm union leaders who are insisting on repealing these laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||Nine states implemented One Nation One Ration Card policy: Finance Ministry||A total of nine states as of now have implemented the Centre’s ‘One Nation One ration Card’ system, following which it has granted them to raise an additional Rs 23,523 crore, said an official release on Wednesday. Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh have successfully completed the Public Distribution System (PDS) reforms. Uttar Pradesh has emerged the biggest beneficiary of this scheme with an additional borrowing window of Rs 4,851 crore, followed by Karnataka at Rs 4,509 crore and Gujarat at Rs 4,352 crore. Department of Food and Public Distribution in the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution is the Nodal Department to certify that a State has met the conditions stipulated for this reform, the Finance Ministry statement said. It also informed that to become eligible for additional borrowing, states have to complete the process by December 31, 2020, and added that several other states are likely to finish the reform within the stipulated time. In addition to the One Nation One Ration Card, it said, other reforms specified as a precondition to avail additional borrowing are : ease of doing business reform, urban local body/utility reforms and power sector reforms. In view of the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic for mobilisation of financial resources, the Indian government has strengthened the hands of the States through multiple measures including grant of additional borrowing permission of 2 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) during 2020-21,” the statement said. “This has enabled the States to mobilise additional financial resources to fight the pandemic and maintain the standards of service delivery to the public”, it said. However, it said, to ensure long-term debt sustainability and prevent any adverse impact on future, a part of the additional borrowing was linked to the States carrying out reforms in the sectors critical for service delivery to the citizens. However, it said, to ensure long-term debt sustainability and prevent any adverse impact on future, a part of the additional borrowing was linked to the States carrying out reforms in the sectors critical for service delivery to the citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||Kejriwal still confined to home, claims AAP||The AAP on Wednesday alleged Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's movement is still "restricted" and the main gate of his residence remains closed at the behest of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, a claim denied by the city police. Police sources said the chief minister left his residence around 11 am to attend a programme. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had on Tuesday alleged the Delhi Police put Kejriwal under house arrest after he met farmers protesting against the Centre's agriculture reform laws at the city's Singhu border. However, a senior Delhi Police officer dismissed the claim as "totally baseless". Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said there is an atmosphere of "undeclared emergency" around the chief minister's residence. "I am telling you with full responsibility that the movement of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is still restricted at the behest of the (Union) home minister. The main gate of the chief minister's residence is still closed," Chadha said. "In a way, there is an atmosphere of undeclared emergency. All this, just because we did not allow the stadiums to be converted into prisons for farmers," he said. A senior police officer said there is no restriction on any kind of movement of the chief minister. "The police deployment outside the chief minister's residence is part of security protocol," he said. According to police sources, Kejriwal left his residence around 11 am to attend a programme. On Tuesday, Kejriwal came out of his residence after hours of drama outside. Addressing party workers, he said the Centre tried its best to ensure that he did not step out. He said if he was not stopped, he would have gone and supported farmers in their Bharat Bandh movement. Kejriwal claimed the Centre was "very angry" as his government did not allow Delhi stadiums to be used as prisons for farmers. "We faced a lot of pressure to allow the use of stadiums as temporary prisons, but we did not give permission and I feel this helped the movement. But since then the Centre has been very angry," the chief minister said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws. The Centre's offer to amend the contentious laws has failed to cut ice with the protesting farmers who have stuck to their demand for a repeal of the legislation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||SC seeks status report from Centre, states on Covid guidelines||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought "detailed" response from the Centre as well as states on issues ranging from adhering to Covid-19 guidelines on wearing of face masks and social distancing norms to implementation of fire safety guidelines in hospitals and nursing homes across India. The top court was hearing a suo motu case registered by it to ensure proper treatment of Covid-19 patients in hospitals and dignified handling of dead bodies there. Recently, it also took cognisance of the fire incident in a designated Covid-19 hospital in Gujarat's Rajkot in which several patients had died, raising the issue of lack of proper fire safety measures in hospitals across the country. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre and the Gujarat government, to file detailed affidavits within three days on the issues such as enforcing of Covid-19 guidelines and fire safety measures in hospitals and nursing homes. The bench, also comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah, directed the states as well to file affidavits by Friday on steps taken on these issues and fixed the suo motu case for hearing on December 14. The bench directed that the Justice (Retd.) DA Mehta committee will probe the Ahmedabad fire incident, besides the fire tragedy at a Covid-19 hospital at Rajkot which is already being inquired into by the panel. At the outset, the law officer said he would request the Gujarat government to appoint a judge to probe the fire incidents in hospitals if the apex court suggests any name to head such an inquiry. "It is upon the discretion of this court," Mehta said. Mehta said the Centre has asked all the states and Union Territories (UTs) to send a status report on the implementation of fire safety guidelines to prevent recurrence of fire incidents in hospitals and nursing homes. A detailed report on fire safety would be prepared after getting the inputs from states, he said. The bench then asked about the fire safety audit of Gujarat and hospitals there and said as to how many nodal officers have been appointed. It then enquired about the steps taken to enforce the Covid-19 guidelines on wearing of face masks in public and adhering to the social distancing norms. "File a detailed affidavit giving all steps taken," it said. Earlier, the apex court had said that people are violating with impunity the Covid-19 guidelines on wearing of face masks at public places and are not adhering to social distancing norms. It had pulled up the authorities for not ensuring strict compliance of these measures to contain coronavirus and had asked the Centre and states to give suggestions so that appropriate directions can be issued to implement these guidelines. The top court had however stayed the Gujarat High Court direction to send people caught without wearing masks to do community service at the Covid-19 patient care facilities. It had taken note of the submissions of the Gujarat government that the order was harsh, having serious repercussions on the health of the violators. The top court had asked the Gujarat government to strictly enforce the Covid-19 guidelines. The apex court had also expressed concern over the spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||SC says posters should not be affixed outside homes of Covid patients||The Supreme Court on Wednesday took note of the Centre's guidelines and said posters and signages should not be affixed by authorities outside homes of COVID-19 patients in the country. The apex court, however, added that such posters can be affixed only in specific cases when the competent authority issues specific directions under the Disaster Management Act. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said this in its verdict on a plea seeking directions to do away with the practice of pasting posters outside homes of those infected by coronavirus. The bench, also comprising justices R S Reddy and M R Shah, disposed of the plea, saying the Centre has already issued guidelines, and therefore, states and union territories should not affix such posters. The Centre had earlier told the top court that its guidelines do not contain any instructions regarding affixing posters and signages outside homes of COVID-19 patients, and there cannot be any stigma attached to it. The bench had reserved its judgement on the plea on December 3. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had on December 3 referred to the affidavit filed in the apex court by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) and told the bench that guidelines do not require any such affixation of posters. The counsel appearing for petitioner Kush Kalra had told the apex court that there are no such instructions in the guidelines to affix posters outside the home of those found COVID positive but the reality is very different. While hearing the matter on December 1, the top court had observed that once posters or signages are pasted outside the homes of COVID patients, the people affected are treated as "untouchables", reflecting a different "ground reality". In its affidavit, the ministry had said that its guidelines do not contain any instructions or guidance regarding affixing of posters or other signage outside the residences of those found COVID positive. Mehta had told the bench that the Centre has not prescribed this practice and some states might be pursuing it on their own to prevent the spread of the virus. The apex court had earlier asked the Centre to consider issuing guidelines to do away with the practice of pasting posters outside the homes of COVID-19 patients. It had directed so without issuing any formal notice to the Centre on Kalra's plea seeking framing of guidelines in this regard. In its affidavit, the ministry has said that all states have been intimated to this effect that the MoHFW has not issued any such guideline to identify Covid-19 patients. The Central government, through MoHFW has already communicated to the Additional Chief Secretaries ...secretaries (Health) of all the states and UTs pointing it out that the MoHFW guidelines do not contain any instructions or guidance regarding affixing of posters or other signage outside the residences of those found COVID-19 positive, the affidavit said. On November 3, the Delhi government had told the high court that it has instructed all its officials not to paste posters outside homes of Covid-19 positive persons or those in home isolation; and the ones pasted have been ordered to be removed. Kalra, in his plea before the high court, had contended that names of persons who tested positive for COVID-19 were being freely circulated to the Resident Welfare Associations and on WhatsApp groups and this was "leading to stigmatisation and drawing of unnecessary attention".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||India's Covid cases inching towards 98 lakh, 32,080 new infections in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 97.35 lakh on Wednesday, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 92 lakh, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.66 per cent, according to the Union health ministry. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 97,35,850 with 32,080 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll rose to 1,41,360 with 402 new fatalities, data updated by the ministry at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 92,15,581, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.66 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below four lakh for the third consecutive day. There are 3,78,909 active coronavirus infections in the country now which comprises 3.89 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and 70 lakh on October 11. The figure crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 14,98,36,767 samples have been tested up to December 8, with 10,22,712 such examinations being conducted on Tuesday. The new fatalities include 57 from Delhi, 53 from Maharashtra, 49 from West Bengal, 31 from Kerala, 30 from Punjab, 23 from Uttar Pradesh and 20 from Rajasthan. The total number of deaths reported so far in the country includes 47,827 from Maharashtra, 11,880 from Karnataka, 11,822 from Tamil Nadu, 9,763 from Delhi, 8,820 from West Bengal, 7,967 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,042 from Andhra Pradesh and 4,964 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||Agricultural scientist refuses to accept award in solidarity with protesting farmers ||An agricultural scientist refused on stage to accept an award from a Union minister in solidarity with the protesting farmers and later urged the Centre to withdraw the new “anti-national” farm laws. Varinderpal Singh, principal soil chemist at the state-funded Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, had climbed onto the stage on Monday after being called to receive the Fertilisers Association of India’s golden jubilee award for his scientific work. He thanked chemicals and fertilisers minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda and the association for the recognition but politely refused to accept the award just as the minister was about to hand it to him. Singh apologised for any “inconvenience” his action may have caused. “My conscience does not allow me to receive this award.... I feel I would be guilty if at this moment I receive this award,” the scientist said. Singh later wrote to Gowda, expressing his regret at having to turn the award down. Singh wrote: “It is a time of crisis for the nation when farmers are on the roads with their genuine demands and the government is not accepting their request to withdraw the anti-national laws.” In a separate letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Singh wrote: “My (conscience) does not allow me to receive this award from any government official because of unnecessary pains given by the GOI to the peacefully protesting farmers.” He added: “The way the government tried to break the courage of farmers and the way the farmers remained disciplined is now history.... Ignoring the genuine demands and keeping Indians on roads during winter is not in the interest of the nation.” The contents of both letters have been uploaded by a Twitter user. Singh was to receive the award for work that led to the development of a lead colour chart that helps optimise the use of urea on farms. The technology has the potential to reduce urea consumption and save about Rs 750 crore in Punjab alone, Singh wrote to Modi. He described the farm laws as anti-farmer, antisocial and dangerous for the socio-economic structure of India. He flagged how civilians and academics from various states too had demanded withdrawal of the farm laws. “Under these circumstances, I regret to accept the FAI golden jubilee award. I love to stand by the farmers instead of receiving any cash award or gold medal at this time of crisis of the nation,” Singh wrote to Modi. A social media user posted on Twitter a video of Singh’s rejection of the award, drawing multiple comments, some condemning his act and others hailing it. One Twitter user called the on-stage rejection “outrageous” and “pure nautanki (theatrics)”. But another wrote: “What courage and spine! Huge respect for (Singh). Wish people from IITs and IIMs etc would stand up in solidarity with farmers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||‘Tough reforms difficult’, says Amitabh Kant||Amitabh Kant, cheerleader to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Niti Aayog CEO, has said “tough reforms are very difficult in the Indian context, we are too much of a democracy.…” Addressing a virtual event organised by Swarajya magazine, Kant said: “Tough reforms are very difficult in the Indian context, we are too much of a democracy.… You needed political will to carry out these reforms (mining, coal, labour, agriculture) and many more reforms still need to be done.” Later, responding to a tweet from a newspaper, Kant tweeted: “This is definitely not what I said. I was speaking about MEIS scheme & resources being spread thin & need for creating global champions in manufacturing sector.”  (MEIS is meant to reward exporters.) It is not clear which part of the statement Kant was denying as the newspaper withdrew the tweet and uploaded a report on the event attended by Kant. A video clip did show Kant saying: “Tough reforms are very difficult in the Indian context, we are too much of a democracy.…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||Farm talks with Amit Shah fails to resolve standoff||Union home minister Amit Shah made an attempt at resolving the standoff with the farmers on Tuesday evening but it made little headway with both sides sticking to their guns. This led to Wednesday's scheduled meeting between the protesting farmer unions and the government interlocutors being postponed. During the more than three hours of discussions, Shah offered to consider more amendments to the contentious new farm laws but the farmers said that nothing short of repeal would do. The government, however, bought some time for itself by promising to send the amendments it is willing to make in writing to the farmers by Wednesday morning. These, according to Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), will be placed before all the farmer organisations for consideration because the delegation that met Shah on Tuesday was only representative. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and food minister Piyush Goyal attended the meeting. According to those present, Tomar again listed the amendments the government was prepared to accept and was reminded by the farmers that they had heard all this several times before. Shah then stepped in to say the government was willing to consider more amendments. When the farmers insisted on repeal, he urged them not to be adamant. Shah’s shot at finding a way out of the impasse came soon after the Bharat Bandh witnessed a peasant-worker mobilisation across the country. The bandh remained peaceful across the country, with the states governed by parties that had supported the programme witnessing more success. In Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, the BJP governments went in for preventive detentions to stop union leaders from mobilising people to participate in the bandh. The olive branch was extended late in the afternoon, with the Union home minister’s office inviting the Punjab farmer unions to a meeting at Shah's residence in the evening. They were asked to send a delegation of 13. Soon after, farmer leaders told reporters at the Singhu border that their representatives would be going to the meeting. But they remained unrelenting on their main demands for repeal of the new farm laws and the enactment of a law guaranteeing a minimum support price. “We will go to the meeting but there is no going back on our demands,” Bhog Singh Mansa said. Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh (RKM) leader Shiv Kumar Sharma “Kakaji” said the farmers’ unions had no option but to stay the course — an indication that the groundswell of opinion against the three new laws had left the leaders with little room to negotiate. Mansa and “Kakaji” were among the 13 who met Shah. The meeting got delayed because the farmer leaders got caught in rush-hour traffic, made worse by the police barricading for the Bharat Bandh. In the middle of the journey, the farmer leaders were informed of a change in venue — the meeting was now to be held on the Indian Council for Agricultural Research compound in Pusa on the edge of Lutyens Delhi. There was some disgruntlement among the Punjab farmers over the selection of representatives for the meeting, in particular the exclusion of Joginder Singh Ugrahan who heads the Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta-Ugrahan, one of the largest unions in the state. In a statement, Ugrahan said: “These organisations should not have gone to meet him separately because it creates misunderstanding among struggling people.” Ugrahan said Shah had approached his organisation twice in the past for separate talks but it had refused, insisting that all the organisations be invited jointly. All India Kisan Sabha president Ashok Dhawale, however, clarified that the 13 union leaders attending the meeting would not be giving any undertaking to the government. “Since the home minister had invited us for talks, we thought it best to keep the conversation going despite the short notice,” Dhawale said. “That he had called today soon after the Bharat Bandh is testimony to the success of the bandh. Our future course will be decided by all the unions together.” Dhawale said the Punjab unions had decided among themselves who to send to the meeting. The remaining four — “Kakaji”, Mollah, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Rakesh Tikait — represent their respective collectives: RKM, AIKSCC, BKU (Haryana) and BKU (Uttar Pradesh).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||Opposition asks govt to convene a Parliament session||The Opposition has asked the Narendra Modi government to immediately convene a Parliament session and pass a new law to protect the interest of farmers and introduce effective agricultural reforms instead of misleading the nation and creating confusion in the minds of people by selective leaks and false narratives. While former agriculture minister and NCP leader Sharad Pawar, whose letter to chief ministers on reforms in the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act was cited by the government to accuse the Opposition of hypocrisy, dismissed the ploy as a diversionary tactic, the Congress said the three new laws had nothing to do with reforms. An Opposition delegation will call on President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday evening to formally convey their stance on the issues involved. Pawar has called a meeting of senior Opposition leaders on Wednesday to discuss the evolving situation before a small delegation consisting of the NCP veteran himself, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, CPM’s Sitaram Yechury, CPI’s D. Raja and DMK’s T.K.S. Elangovan meets the President. Emboldened by the success of the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, the Opposition parties are expected to firm up their position and draw up their own plan of action. Pawar responded to the government’s diatribe on Tuesday, saying: “I had said that the APMC (Act) needs some reforms. The APMC Act should continue but with reforms. There is no doubt that I had written the letter. But their (Modi government’s) three acts do not even mention the APMC. They are just trying to divert attention. There is no need to give importance.” The NCP, which fully backed the farmers’ movement and participated in the Bharat Bandh in Maharashtra on Tuesday, said that Pawar’s call for reforms did not mean facilitating a corporate takeover to the detriment of farmers. Former Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda told a media conference in Delhi on Tuesday: “These farm laws do not reflect reforms. They did not discuss these laws with anybody, not even farmers’ unions. Let them withdraw these laws and call a Parliament session to discuss what kind of reforms are needed to help the farmers. These three laws are interlinked and together pose a grave danger to farmers’ survival.” Arguing that the government was promoting corporate houses on the lines of America, Hooda said: “The economy in India rests on agriculture. Many other sectors are linked. Agriculture generates maximum employment…. The new laws will create two markets. One under the APMC where taxes, market fees and MSP will be applicable and the other outside which will be free, unregulated. The new laws allow even hoarding. That will allow big corporate players to control the system and manipulate pricing.” Explaining that the corporate players won’t honour the MSP without a legal compulsion, the former chief minister said the MSP was guaranteed earlier even under contract farming. Explaining that the Congress reforms meant opening more procurement centres, he said agro malls had been opened by his government in Haryana to facilitate the sale of produce by farmers, not to help the corporate groups. The Congress deployed all its strength on Tuesday to help make the Bharat Bandh successful. While it had a big impact in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra, demonstrations were held in most other states. Rahul, who has adopted an uncompromising position on these three laws brought by the Modi government, describing them as a trap that will enslave India’s poor, again tweeted on Tuesday morning: “Modi ji, stop stealing from farmers. Citizens know today is Bharat Bandh. They will support it to make the struggle of farmers successful.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said “this battle is between those who fill your ‘thali’ (plate) and those who fill the ‘thaili’ (bags) of billionaires”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal ‘house arrest’ claim by Aam Aadmi Party||While farmers blocked several highways into the capital, Delhi’s bandh played out outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Tuesday — with his party claiming that he was under “house arrest”, a claim the police denied. At 10.29am, Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party tweeted: “BJP’s Delhi Police has put Hon’ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal under house arrest ever since he visited farmers at Singhu Border yesterday. No one has been permitted to leave or enter his residence.” In neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, the CPM’s Subhashini Ali and Dalit activist Chandrashekhar Azad were confined to their homes by the police to prevent them from joining the bandh. Deputy commissioner of police (North Delhi) Anto Alphonse replied to Kejriwal’s charge with a picture of only five security personnel outside his gate beside a few barricades and a police car. He tweeted: “This claim of CM Delhi being put on house arrest is incorrect. He exercises his right to free movement within the law of the land. A picture of the house entrance says it all.” On the other side of the barricades outside Kejriwal’s gate, the mayors of Delhi’s three municipal corporations — ruled by the BJP — have been on a sit-in since Monday demanding Rs 13,000 crore from the Delhi government. They were joined by senior party leaders, including MP Meenakshi Lekhi, on Tuesday. AAP leaders, who protested near the income tax office on Tuesday morning, as part of the bandh, soon rushed to Kejriwal’s house where they were stopped 100 metres from the main gate. — on the opposite end from where the BJP was protesting. While police offered to take some of them inside, they are yet to explain why all — including MLAs, MPs and municipal councillors — were not allowed. Around 200 police personnel and central forces remained on Flagstaff Road through the day between the BJP and AAP gatherings. His partymen were allowed in through a side entrance after which Kejriwal came out and said, “I wanted to spend some time on the border with the farmers today, not as a CM, but as a sewadar. I wanted to show my support to them by sitting with them for half-an-hour or so. I think they got to know about my plan, and so they did not let me know. But even though I could not go, I was praying from my home for the movement of the nation to be successful.” He added, “The Centre then decided to let the farmers enter Delhi, and they asked the Delhi government for permission to convert nine stadiums in Delhi into jails... But we decided to stand in support of the farmers, which I think helped the farmers’ movement. Since that time, the central government is angry with us for not converting the stadiums into jails.”The “house arrest” evoked scepticism. Activist Smita Gupta wrote on Facebook, “How come it’s become about Kejriwal in Delhi? AAP is beyond belief. Towing the Sanghi distraction from farmers issues.” Entrepreneur and the former head of Twitter’s politics and government department, Raheel Khursheed, also tweeted, “Reminder that Mr Kejriwal supported the suspension of civil/political liberties in Kashmir post Aug 5 2019, perhaps not realising that he too could be at the receiving end of similar measures — albeit much milder in scope & scale. At least for now.” BJP leaders soon disclosed CCTV footage of the chief minister attending a wedding on Monday night, and Alphonse claimed that Kejriwal had left his home at 8pm and returned at 10pm, unobstructed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||High-risk, 50-plus on vaccine priority radar||People older than 50 and those below 50 with certain underlying illnesses could be among three prioritised population groups to receive the Covid-19 vaccine from the government, the health ministry said on Tuesday. It also underlined an infrastructural challenge, saying the existing cold chain network of deep freezers and refrigerators has the capacity to store Covid-19 vaccines to support the immunisation of only 10 per cent of the estimated 300 million prioritised people. The prioritised populations recommended by a national expert group include about 10 million healthcare workers, 20 million frontline workers, and 270 million people either aged above 50 years or with co-morbidities, the ministry said. “These are the (expert group) recommendations. The government has to take a decision on this,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, adding that immunisation for these groups need not be sequential. “When immunisation starts, it can be simultaneous, depending on the availability of vaccines. As vaccine availability increases, immunisation can be (done) in parallel (for) different priority groups, not sequentially,” he said. The expert group has recommended that “every single Indian who needs to be vaccinated will be vaccinated” — a subtle shift from earlier signals from the Centre that the Covid-19 immunisation would be universal, reaching out to “each and every person”. Bhushan said the prioritised groups would include healthcare providers and workers in the public and private healthcare sectors; personnel from state and central police departments, the armed forces, home guard and civil defence organisations; disaster management volunteers and municipal workers. “These groups have been prioritised for their occupational vulnerability,” said a senior official guiding the planned immunisation campaign. “People above 50 and those below 50 with co-morbidities are prioritised because they are at high risk of severe disease and death.” Medical studies worldwide have shown that people with illnesses such as diabetes, high blood pressure or kidney disease are at higher risk of severe disease and death if infected with Covid-19, compared with those without such co-morbidities. The existing immunisation network has around 85,000 pieces of cold chain equipment such as deep freezers, vaccine refrigeration units and transport vehicles, distributed across 28,947 “cold chain” points. The current capacity can accommodate Covid-19 vaccines to support the immunisation of only 30 million people. Bhushan said the ministry had consulted the states and Union Territories and assessed the additional requirements for the cold storage network. He added that additional supplies of equipment were expected to start rolling in from December 10. India’s drug regulatory agency is set to review applications for the emergency authorisation use of Covid-19 vaccines from Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech. Vaccine science specialists expect this regulatory process to take anything from weeks to days, given the urgency to release the vaccines. The Pune-based Serum Institute, which is manufacturing the AstraZeneca vaccine in India, has indicated it can provide 100 million doses of the two-dose vaccine to the government in January. India will need about 60 million doses to cover the prioritised healthcare and frontline workers. Health officials are hoping that the home-grown vaccine jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research, and currently under efficacy trials, too would become available by early 2021. “We’re hoping that at some point, there will be enough vaccines for everybody. But for now our priority is on accessing vaccines for the prioritised population groups,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the expert group on Covid-19 vaccine administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||Lawmakers from US speak up for farmers’ right to protest peacefully||American lawmakers have spoken up for farmers’ right to protest peacefully and urged the Narendra Modi government to hold a “productive” dialogue with them, following in the footsteps of their Canadian and British counterparts. New Delhi had bristled after Prime Minister Justin Trudeau amplified the Canadian lawmakers’ concern but has been silent about the remarks from the UK and the US, apparently drawing comfort from these countries’ governments not having yet thrown their weight behind the legislators’ views. The lawmakers who have spoken up in the US come from both sides of the political divide, as in Canada and the UK. “I stand in solidarity with the Punjabi farmers in India protesting for their livelihoods and protection from misguided, manipulative government regulations,” Republican Congressman Doug LaMalfa, a rice farmer himself, tweeted. “Punjabi farmers must be allowed to protest peacefully against their government without fear of violence. #IstandWithFarmers.” Similar views were expressed by Democrat Josh Harder, who represents a district of California in the House of Representatives. “India is the world’s largest democracy — they owe it to their citizens to allow peaceful protest. I encourage these folks and PM Modi to have peaceful, productive discussions,” he tweeted. Congressman T.J. Cox, a Democrat, said: “India must uphold the right to peaceful demonstration and ensure their citizens’ safety. The rights of farmers protesting must be respected and meaningful dialogue is the way forward.” For Congressman Andy Levin from Michigan, a union organiser, the farmers’ protest  is an inspiration. “I’m inspired by this movement, and I see it as a harbinger of a people power year in 2021!!” he tweeted. Three other members of the House of Representatives — all Democrats — have written a joint letter to the Indian ambassador in the US urging the “Indian government to demonstrate its respect for these crucial democratic freedoms, and to be a model of democratic values in the vital Indo-Pacific region”. Conceding that agricultural policy is an internal matter of India, the three signatories focused on the protests and the clampdown by the Modi government, adding that many of the farmers who faced the force of the state have children, relatives and friends in the US as citizens who have reached out to their elected representatives with concerns about these developments. The letter also articulates their distress over the “actions by the Indian governments that have restricted these (democratic) rights for many Indians; not only for farmers, but also for religious minorities, and human rights organisations”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||End Covid duty, urges junior doctors at Karnataka’s govt medical colleges||Junior doctors at Karnataka’s government medical colleges are demanding to be taken off Covid duty, saying the pandemic shift is denying them the time to pursue the postgraduate courses they have enrolled in. They have also demanded a waiver of this year’s PG tuition fees saying constant Covid duty has turned 2020 into a wasted year for them academically, bereft of lectures, seminars or indoor and OPD experience in their specialities. Both the junior and senior resident doctors are also seeking immediate clearance of their stipend arrears and the introduction of a risk allowance for those among them now serving at the Covid care centres. Members of the Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors met medical education director P.G. Gireesh on Tuesday with their demands. Some 3,000 junior residents (those yet to complete their PG courses) and more than 700 senior residents (who have completed their PG courses) are posted at the state’s 14 government medical colleges, 69 Covid care centres and other state-run hospitals. The PG students among them, enrolled in the government medical colleges, say all of them have been put on Covid duty. They want the government to relocate the Covid care centres out of their campuses and recruit fresh doctors to run them. “We have had no academics for nine months. So, we want the annual fees of Rs 1.10 lakh (which the PG students have already paid) to be carried over to the next year,” a PG student from the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute said. Gireesh, however, told this newspaper the students had “understood the situation” and promised to cooperate with the government. “I told them the stipend dues would be paid soon. But it’s wrong to say they need risk allowance, a fee waiver and the reservation of the medical college hospitals only for non-Covid cases,” Gireesh, a cardiology professor at the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, said. “The government had hiked their stipends in May by 30 to 50 per cent considering that the junior and senior residents were deployed at the Covid care centres. And now they are asking for a risk allowance....” The senior residents are entitled to a monthly stipend of Rs 60,000 and the junior residents, Rs 45,000. Association president L. Dayananda Sagar said the resident doctors were not ready to retract their demands. “We will try and meet the health minister,” he said. Postgraduate medical student C. Namratha said: “For the last nine months, we have only handled Covid cases. We want the government to allow us to complete our courses.” She said Karnataka had enough hospitals to handle “a waning epidemic”. “Lakhs of non-Covid patients have been denied treatment at government medical college hospitals. This amounts to a threat to their lives and a shortage of patients for medical students,” she said. Karnataka has witnessed a steady decline in daily Covid cases, from over 10,000 on October 1 to 998 on Monday. However, the state health department has forecast a likely second wave, owing to the festival season, around January-February. If the PG students want to be taken off Covid duty, why are they demanding a risk allowance? “All we are asking for is a risk allowance for the nine months we have worked at the Covid centres, and letters of appreciation for our services,” Namratha said. PG student Awanna Bagewadi regretted that the fees the Karnataka government charged for postgraduate medical courses was among the highest in the country. “We are paying over Rs 1 lakh a year and yet are unable to complete our academics. If the government doesn’t relieve us of Covid duty, we won’t be able to focus on our specialisations,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
09-12-2020||India||Faces of farmer protest||Joginder Singh Ugrahan, 75, President, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) A former soldier from Sunam tehsil of Sangrur district, Punjab, Ugrahan in 2002 formed what has now become the largest faction of the BKU. The group’s leaders have claimed that almost two-thirds of the protesters gathered at Delhi’s borders are its members. Ekta Ugrahan has been one of the most uncompromising defenders of farmers’ interests in Punjab, and is arguably the most influential secular organisation in the Malwa region of the northern state. It began agitating in September, staging protests outside the homes of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal. Ugrahan’s comrade-in-arms is the union’s general secretary, Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, 70, an activist from Moga district who quit his job as a government school teacher to join the farmers’ movement in the late 1990s. Jagmohan Singh, 64,General secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Dakaunda) An activist since childhood, Singh went to jail before he turned 18. A postgraduate from the border village of Karma in Ferozepur, Punjab, Singh is a qualified acupuncture therapist. He quit his job with the department of cooperatives in 1985 to devote his time to activism, shaken by the anti-Sikh riots in the country the previous year. He joined the BKU-Ekta group in 1993, and split to form the Dakaunda group in 2005. Singh is considered an expert in agricultural laws, negotiations and the history of the farmers’ movement, and is consulted by other groups too. He began protesting in June against the ordinances that preceded the new farm laws, and was instrumental in bringing in several Punjab groups to cooperate with the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella organisation of farmers. Darshan Pal, 70, President, Krantikari Kisan Union, Punjab Pal is seen as an ideologue of the far-Left in Punjab. An MD in anaesthesia, he retired early from the Punjab Civil Medical Service and began organising the peasantry in 2007. Before this, he had been involved with several umbrella groups of Left-leaning activists, including the now-banned Revolutionary Democratic Front (to which the imprisoned professor G.N. Saibaba belongs) and the People’s Democratic Front of India, whose members include the jailed author Varavara Rao and anti-dam activist Medha Patkar. The PDFI had organised several Singur visits by its activists to protest the eviction of peasants to set up Tata Motors’ Nano factory — one of several attempts at reindustrialising Bengal that led to the downfall of the Left Front government in 2011. Gurnam Singh, 64,President, Bharatiya Kisan Union, Haryana Hailing from Charuni Jattan in Kurukshetra district, Haryana, Singh leads the most prominent faction of the BKU in the state. He is known for creative protests, having led shirtless protesters, organised the dumping of potatoes on highways, and climbed up a high water tank last year to force the state government to procure the sunflower crop. His wife Balwinder Kaur contested the 2014 Lok Sabha polls from Kurukshetra on an Aam Aadmi Party ticket, while Gurnam himself contested last year’s Assembly elections as an Independent from Ladwa. Haryana police booked him last week in an attempt-to-murder case after he allegedly got the protesting farmers to drive their tractors through a police barricade on a highway. Hannan Mollah, 74, General secretary, All India Kisan Sabha (CPM farmer arm) Mollah, a former CPM parliamentarian who has been a politburo member of the party since 2015, was elected from Uluberia in Bengal eight times in a row. He has been a grassroots communist since the age of 16 and was elected to his current position in the AIKS, considered India’s largest group of organised peasantry, in 2012. Under Mollah and AIKS president Ashok Dhawale, a 68-year-old doctor from Mumbai known for organising tribal peasants in Thane and Palghar, the organisation has led several large farmer agitations, most notably in Maharashtra in 2018. Mollah was initially not invited to the ongoing talks but the government later relented when the farmers insisted the agitation was not confined to Punjab and therefore its leaders from outside the state should be invited too. The CPM stalwart brings decades of political and parliamentary experience to the negotiation table. Mollah has been booked by Delhi police on the charge of violating pandemic regulations while protesting against the new farm regime. Over the last fortnight, the AIKS has held militant demonstrations against the new laws across India, particularly in Maharashtra. Rakesh Tikait, 51, National spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union Tikait is the son of Mahendra Tikait, one of the farmer leaders who in 1978 founded the BKU, which a decade later led a historic demonstration by lakhs of farmers in Delhi demanding waivers of water and power bills. Rakesh Tikait’s BKU faction joined the current agitation after farmers of Punjab and Haryana faced police action  at Delhi’s borders on November 27. His group’s participation in the talks too happened later than others’. Tikait lost his deposit in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, which he contested on a Rashtriya Lok Dal ticket from Amroha, Uttar Pradesh. He recently rued that defence minister Rajnath Singh was not part of the talks. Tikait, who has been striving to shake off the perception that he is close to the BJP, has got his supporters to block the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border at Ghazipur. He brings to the table the support of sugarcane farmers of Uttar Pradesh, who have tilted towards the BJP since 2014 but are now resentful of the new farm laws that some fear will undermine their bargaining power over sugarcane procurement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
09-12-2020||India||Military veterans stand in solidarity with agitating farmers||A group of 128 military veterans on Tuesday expressed support for the agitating farmers, stressed the “jawan-kisan link” and condemned the authorities’ use of force on the protesters. They urged the Centre to consider the farmers’ demand to repeal the three new farm laws. “The purpose of this statement is to inform (the) protesting farmers that armed forces veterans unconditionally and unequivocally support their rightful demands being conveyed in a democratic and peaceful manner,” the veterans said in a statement. “We stand in solidarity with the peacefully protesting farmers, empathise with them, and support their demands. We condemn the use of force on farmers with tear gas and water cannons.” Admiral L. Ramdas, the former navy chief, issued the statement and it was endorsed by 127 other military veterans. “We understand the pulse of serving armed forces personnel, 80 per cent of whom are from the farmer background and are a part of the very organic jawan-kisan link. Neglecting the importance of this organic link can seriously affect our country’s security,” the statement said. “We strongly urge the government to consider the demands of agitating farmers to repeal the laws since no prior consultation with the primary stakeholders was held.” The veterans pledged to uphold the Constitution and the right of peaceful dissent and democratic protest. “In the larger interest of maintaining the integrity of the social fabric of our country, we strongly urge the government to accept the demands of (the) agitating farmers and agitating workers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
09-12-2020||India||Odisha peaceful on Bharat Bandh day||The Bharat Bandh called on Tuesday by farmers and trade unions against the Centre’s new farm laws passed off peacefully across Odisha. The shutdown partially impacted life. While bus and train services came to a halt, two-wheelers plied on the roads freely. Business establishments downed their shutters. As the Odisha government had announced a holiday on Tuesday, all government offices remained closed. All banks and private offices were also closed. The Congress activists openly supported the bandh. While chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s BJD lent moral support to farmers and organisations that had called the bandh, its workers refrained from hitting the streets. On the other hand, Left activists, farmers and Congress workers organised pickets in different parts of the state. Trains were stranded at different stations across the state due to the agitation by members All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. While road communication was hit due to the bandh in Rourkela, Cuttack, of the Sambalpur and Berhampur, there was smooth traffic flow in the rural areas. Senior minister and BJD leader Padmanabh Behera said, “We are with the farmers. Our party had also opposed the farm bills in the Rajya Sabha. We are eagerly looking forward to the discussion between farmer unions and the Centre on Wednesday.” BJD MP Sasmit Patra said that the party has drawn the Centre’s attention towards farmers’ issues and urged it to allay their apprehensions with regard to the fallout of the new laws. “The BJD has always demanded doubling of the MSP (minimum support price) as suggested by the Swaminathan Committee and will continue to hold this stand,” said Patra. However, the Congress on Tuesday launched a blistering attack on the BJD for not taking an active part in the bandh. “Both the BJP and the BJD are supporting each other tactfully. But here in Odisha, people have extended full support to the Bharat Bandh,” said Odisha PCC president Niranjan Patnaik. He also asked the BJD to explain what it had done for the farmers in the last 21 years. “The BJD is just making a fool out of the farmers. Whatever has been done for farmers has been done by the Congress,” Patnaik added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
09-12-2020||India||Bandh paralyses normal life in Bihar ||The Bharat Bandh against the new farm laws had an extensive impact in Bihar on Tuesday throwing life out of gear as protesters blocked roads while the Opposition parties extended their support. Sporadic incidents of arson and violence also marked the bandh as the police remained just spectators. The protesters adopted unique ways at several places to register their opposition to the farm laws, which they believe, are inimical to the interests of the farmers. Though the bandh call was from 11am to 3pm, people supporting it came out early on a foggy morning and started enforcing it, spreading confusion among the commuters. Marriage processions were also stuck at several places. Several farmers squatted on National Highway 31 in Khagaria district and baked rotis, made garlands out of them and wore them. They asserted that they would join the farmers’ agitation in Delhi if the Centre  does not take back the “black farm laws”. The Opposition Mahagathbandhan (Grand Alliance) put up a joint show in Nawada district with members of the Congress, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Left parties coming out on the streets to enforce the bandh. RJD supporters blocked the highways around Patna by squatting and burning tyres. They also threw vegetables on the road to indicate that the farmers were not benefiting from cultivation. The protests led to a massive traffic snarl on the Mahatma Gandhi Setu connecting the state capital to north Bihar. The RJD had asked its leaders and legislators to protest in all parts of the state, which they did promptly, but focused more on cities and towns. However, party leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav did not join the protest. RJD state unit president Jagadanand Singh had directed the party leaders and workers to adhere to the appeal by the farmers’ organisations to the political parties to desist from using their flags, banners and posters while participating in the bandh so that it remains apolitical. However, most of them used the party insignia while participating in the strike. RJD supporters in Darbhanga took out a shirtless procession during the bandh, while the party MLA from Bodh Gaya, Kumar Sarvajit, handed over roses and paddy stalks to the common people to seek their support for the agitating farmers. The RJD MLA from Belaganj, Surendra Prasad Yadav, got the shops forcibly closed. “The Bharat Bandh was a historic success in Bihar. Apart from cities, its impact was seen in the villages as well. Our party members participated wholeheartedly making it successful. The effect of this bandh would be felt not only in agriculture but also in all sectors of the society,” RJD spokesperson Chittaranjan Gagan said. Former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) held a violent demonstration at the Dak Bungalow crossing in the heart of Patna. They forcibly stopped traffic and also held a few vehicles hostage for some time. The police later intervened and a fight erupted between them but the situation was brought under control. “We have joined the protest on behalf of the farmers of Bihar who are suffering in every manner. They are unable to sell their paddy due to its very low rate in the open market, while the government is not procuring it at the minimum support price (MSP). The new farm laws will help hoarders, big businessmen and destroy agriculture in the state and the country,” Pappu said. The Left parties led by the CPI-ML joined the bandh, blocking national highways and stopping trains at various places in the state, including Darbhanga, Saharsa, Jehanabad, Nalanda, Aurangabad, Bhojpur, Samastipur, East Champaran, Siwan, Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur, Purnea and Supaul. Meanwhile, former minister and ruling Janata Dal United (JDU) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar asserted that the Opposition parties in Bihar took the excuse of the bandh to vent their frustration over defeat in the recently held Assembly elections. “The Opposition parties are venting their frustration over their defeat and seeking revenge by indulging in activities that inconvenience the common people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
09-12-2020||India||Patriotic films for Odisha jail inmates||Jail authorities in Odisha have decided to screen patriotic and motivational films in jails on Sundays to motivate jail inmates to shun the wrong path and to make them stress free. The pilot project will begin from Jharpada jail here. Director general, Odisha Prison Administration, S.K. Upadhya told reporters,  “ All these reform processes have been undertaken as a part of the implementation of Odisha Model Jail Manual 2020.” The jail authority has set up a projector along with a large screen and sound system. “Sitting arrangement has been made for 100 inmates. We will also make efforts to show them films pertaining to human rights, health, legal aid and other issues,” jail officials maintained, adding that musical systems have already been installed in different places in the jail to air  soothing, devotional and spiritual songs to ease the stress and anxiety level  of prison inmates. Officials further said: “ An attempt would be made to give them good moral values so that even after they are released from jail they will not take up the wrong path again. Once the scheme is implemented successfully here at Special Jail in Jharpada in Bhubaneswar, it will be extended to other jails.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb Bhattacharya hospitalised after facing breathing troubles||Former Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya was admitted to a hospital in south Calcutta on Wednesday afternoon as his breathing-related problems aggravated and his health condition is stated to be very critical, officials said in the evening. Bhattacharya, 76, has tested negative for Covid-19, they said. He has been put on ventilator support at the critical care unit of the private hospital, the sources said. "Mr Bhattacharya's RT-PCR test showed he was Covid negative and that is good news. The CT scan of his brain showed old lacunar infarcts. He is undergoing treatment at the CCU," a senior official of the hospital said. "He is presently on non-invasive ventilation (BIPAP) and maintaining an oxygen saturation of 95 per cent. He remains critical but responding to current treatment," he added. "Repeated tests showed an accumulation of carbon dioxide and a lower pH level, following which doctors decided to electively ventilate him after proper consent of family members," the offcial said. "His condition is very critical," he said further. Bhattacharya's pulse and blood pressure are stable and the veteran politician is on IV antibiotics and other supportive medications said a statement released by the hospital. His oxygen saturation deteriorated to 70 per cent in the morning and he became unconscious, following which he was rushed to the hospital. A two-member team of senior doctors was constituted to monitor the health condition of the veteran CPI(M) leader. Bhattacharya, who was the chief minister of West Bengal from 2000 to 2011, has been suffering from COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) and other old age-related ailments for quite some time. He had stepped down from the CPI(M)'s politburo, the central committee as well as the state secretariat in 2018. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her concern over Bhattacharya's health condition and prayed for his quick recovery. "Concerned to hear that former Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee has been hospitalised with breathing problems. Praying for his speedy recovery and wishing him well," she said. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also wished him a speedy recovery. State Urban Development Minister Firhad Hakim visited the hospital and spoke to doctors. After speaking to the doctors, Hakim briefed the chief minister about Bhattacharya's present health condition. CPI(M) state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra urged the people to cooperate with the hospital authorities. "Comrade Buddhadeb Bhattacharya has been admitted for treatment of acute exacerbation of his respiratory problems in Woodland. No visitor is being allowed now. Well-wishers are requested to co-operate with the hospital authority for maintaining strict discipline in this regard," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Nadda launches party campaign from Mamata turf||BJP National President J P Nadda on Wednesday launched the 'Griha Sampark Abhiyan' in the city as a part of the party's 'Aar Noi Annay' (No More Injustice) campaign in poll-bound Bengal. The door-to-door campaign is part of the massive public outreach programme BJP has planned in the run-up to the state Assembly election due in April-May 2021. There was blowing of conch shells and showering of flower petals by women wearing red bordered sarees as Nadda's motorcade reached Bhawanipore area of the city. Party MPs Locket Chatterjee and Arjun Singh accompanied Nadda as his security tried to hold back the crowd when his vehicle negotiated the narrow lane to take him to some of the houses in it. "He gave me a booklet and asked me to read it when I greeted him. There was so much crowd and jostling around," a housewife told reporters later. Nadda visited a few households on Girish Mukherjee Road, a few km away from Cbief Minister Mamata Banerjee's residence, briefly interacted with the locals, heard their problems and requested them to give BJP a chance before boarding the car, party sources said. "No untoward incident was reported," a police officer present at the spot, said. Nadda is in Calcutta as part of a two-day visit to the state and will attend several party programmes, the sources said. On the other hand, in an apparent attack to the BJP without naming it,  Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday alleged that a political party was misusing the Constitution and urged everyone to pray together to save it as well as the country. Referring to the Constituent Assembly meeting for the first time on this day in 1946, Banerjee paid her tribute to all its members who gave shape to the country's Constitution. "On this day in 1946, the Constituent Assembly met for the first time. Tribute to all members of Constituent Assembly who gave shape to India's Constitution. These days, 'A' political party is misusing the Constitution. Let us pray together to save our Constitution. Save our India," Banerjee tweeted. On this day in 1946, the Constituent Assembly had met for the first time in New Delhi in the Constitution Hall, now known as the Central Hall of Parliament. Assembly polls in Bengal are likely to be held in April-May next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Now, government  on prison doorstep||The Bengal government has asked all district magistrates to organise Duare Sarkar camps at correctional homes in the state with thrust on enrolling prisoners in the health insurance scheme of Swasthya Sathi. “As the government has planned to reach out to all, we thought the inmates of correctional homes should not be deprived of welfare schemes. We think that apart from other projects, the all-inclusive Swasthya Sathi scheme will help our inmates get better treatment at private hospitals, too,” said Ujjwal Biswas, the state correctional administration minister. Sources said there were around 20,000 undertrials and 5,000 convicts at 60 correctional homes across Bengal and most of them were not covered by any form of health insurance scheme. Secretary of correctional administration Neelam Meena on Monday evening sent an email to all district magistrates asking for the arrangement of Duare Sarkar camps at jails immediately. Senior officials in the correctional administration are reportedly working on including all inmates in the state’s health insurance scheme despite facing a funds crunch. Prisoners are currently treated at health centres inside jails or government hospitals if the illness turns critical. “We have had to face situations where we admit many inmates to private hospitals to provide them with better treatment. We always have to plan in advance to secure assurance about the availability of funds. If all such inmates are covered under the health insurance scheme, then, we will not have to think twice before sending them to any good hospital,” said a senior official in Birbhum. The Birbhum district administration conducted a Duare Sarkar camp at the Rampurhat subdivisional correctional home on Tuesday morning. Senior government officials, including additional district magistrate (general) Sweta Agarwal and subdivisional officer Jagannath Bhar, were present and handed over Swasthya Sathi cards to three inmates. In Rampurhat, around 55 inmates were enlisted for health insurance and the rest of the 135 prisoners needed other benefits. The officials said a WhatsApp number and an email ID would be provided to family members of the inmates to send their particulars like Aadhaar or PAN cards as proof of address and date of birth. “We have decided to collect the documents virtually in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. If any family can’t avail itself of the facility, they can physically submit photocopies of those documents,” said a senior state government official. Piyush Pandey, the ADG and IG of correctional services, said all jails had been asked to extend all types of cooperation to organise the camps in the presence of senior government officials’ supervision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury invites defectors ‘home’||Pradesh Congress Committee president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Tuesday invited those who had defected from the party to others in Malda to “return home”, a move being seen as a part of the plan to revive the organisation at one of its traditional bases in Bengal. “In Malda and in some other places, many leaders have left Congress and most have joined Trinamul. It is high time you desert Trinamul, which is a sinking ship, and return home. All of you will get due respect and positions in the party,” he said at a meeting. In north Bengal, Malda is considered one of the last districts where Congress still has some support base. Over the last few years, prominent Congress leaders, including Mausam Benazir Noor, had defected to Trinamul. Sources said the party lost two MLAs to Trinamul, which was looked after by Trinamul’s now-rebel Suvendu Adhikari. Adhikari’s distance from Trinamul, sources said, offered an opportunity to the Congress to claw back into relevance in the district with over 56 per cent minority population. “That’s why Adhirda gave a call to party leaders who had deserted the party, to return to Congress,” said a source. It is this district of north Bengal, from where Congress could win a Lok Sabha seat (Malda south) in 2019. Also, out of 54 Assembly segments of the region, the party managed to secure a lead in four segments. At the Malda meeting, Chowdhury was also elated to see over 15,000 people. “Even some of our district leaders here were concerned about the attendance of people as the BJP announced a strike in north Bengal. But I was confident and told them to go ahead with the programme. Congress supporters have proved again that Malda continues to be our place,” said Chowdhury. A Congress insider said that in Malda, many former party leaders who, after joining Trinamul, had developed close relations with Suvendu Adhikari over the years. “Among them, there are some who may prefer to return to Congress instead of following him in case he walks out of Trinamul. This missive is also for them and might give them a new option," he said. On Monday, Chowdhury was in Raiganj in North Dinajpur, another erstwhile Congress bastion, where he had walked in a rally that recorded participation of 10,000-odd supporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||11-year delay in arsenic-free water project||Nearly one lakh residents in the arsenic-contaminated Swarupnagar block in North 24-Parganas are yet to get pure drinking water, because a dedicated water supply project commissioned in 2009 is yet to be made operative by public health engineering (PHE) authorities. The authorities allegedly took 11 years to obtain approvals and funding to include an arsenic removal plant under a joint scheme of the state and Centre. Residents said that the PHE during 2009 had launched a project in Bithari village of Swarupnagar as a deep-tube-well-based water supply project. But, a few days after the commissioning, arsenic was detected in the supplied water. Eleven years on, the people of Swarupnagar are yet to get safe drinking water. Sanjib Sarkar, executive engineer of the PHE’s Barasat division, said: “After arsenic was detected in the water supply, we had to prepare a fresh project report to include an arsenic removal plant. It turned out to be a new project under a central scheme with shared funding by the state government. But delays occurred in obtaining sanctions and funding. Eventually, we completed it last year and tried to make two units operative after trial supply. But, pipelines laid in 2009 were found damaged at many stretches as the project had been abandoned for so long.” The PHE started repairing the pipelines that were also reportedly damaged by efforts to widen roads under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana. According to WHO standards, drinking arsenic-contaminated water for extended periods or being exposed to it can cause cancer and skin diseases, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes, and impact the cognitive development of young adults that may even prove fatal. Srikumar Chakraborty, a resident of Swarupnagar, said: “All 22 blocks are arsenic-prone. In Bithari, the contamination level is 0.0114 mg/liter compared to the acceptable limit of 0.1 mg/litre. The water test report states that water samples do not comply with acceptable standards and are unsatisfactory for drinking purposes in the presence of iron and arsenic.” Sources in the district administration added that most of the 137 deep tube well-based water supply projects in 22 blocks of North 24-Parganas could not be made operative yet either owing to delays in getting approvals from the state government or power supply to operate the arsenic removal plant. Dulal Bhattacharya, local zilla parishad member, said that they ran from pillar to post these 11 years. “But pure water continues to elude us. The Left government was responsible for the commissioning of the project without examining water quality and later the Centre also has its share of the blame.” To address people’s grievances, the state government recently directed the PHE to ensure commissioning of the water supply projects, including that in Bithari, by March next year. “We are trying our best to replace damaged pipelines. We are hopeful to begin clean water supply by March 2021,” Sarkar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Tea belt shuns twin strikes, prefers wage to protest||The tea population of north Bengal did not respond to either of the strikes — the farmers’ nationwide one against the three farm laws or the BJP’s north Bengal strike to protest its supporter’s death —  on Tuesday and worked as usual. On November 26 too, when trade unions had called a nationwide bandh against labour and farm laws, around 80 per cent of tea estates were open. “Almost all the tea gardens were open on Tuesday and attendance of tea workers was the same like any other day. This clearly indicates that the tea workers are not interested in observing a bandh but instead prefer to join their jobs to ensure that they receive the day’s wage. It is a new trend in the tea sector.  Earlier, it was found that a bandh called by parties which have tea trade unions have been a success in the tea belt,” said Soumen Nag, a social researcher in Siliguri. Such a non-responsive attitude of the tea workers have left political parties, particularly the BJP, perplexed. This is because during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had managed to draw huge support from the tea population, both in the hills and in Terai and the Dooars. John Barla, the BJP MP of Alipurduar who himself hails from the tea belt, admitted that the tea belt did not respond to their strike call on Tuesday. “To make the strike a success, it is necessary to reach out to people. Because of the paucity of time, we could not reach the tea workers this time. But I am not ready to buy the theory that the tea population no longer supports us. We will prove our support at the upcoming Assembly elections,” said Barla. Senior tea trade union leaders, who admitted that tea workers were disinclined to support strikes these days, said there might be a number of reasons for it. The workers, they said, have realised that nothing would change for them by observing a day’s strike. Instead they would stand to lose a day’s wage. “Also, some tea workers appear to be disillusioned with the trade unions as over five years have passed by and yet the unions could not make the state government announce a minimum wage rate for the tea industry,” said a union leader. He also pointed that earlier this year tea gardens had remained closed due to the lockdown, resulting in heavy loss in income. “The workers had to bear a loss of income during those days and it seems that now they do not want to lose even a day’s wage. That is why they have chosen to join their work during bandh days,” the leader added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Homes for subsidence victims||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee ended more than a decade-long wait of people, who had lost their residences because of subsidence in coal belt, when she handed over documents of homes built by the state government to five beneficiaries at Raniganj in West Burdwan on Tuesday. “Subsidence is a major problem in the coal belt that has rendered hundreds of people homeless here. This problem was never addressed earlier. Today, we started allotting homes to the people who had lost homes. It was a longstanding demand,” Mamata said during her West Burdwan administrative review meeting in Raniganj. While handing over the papers to the five beneficiaries, Mamata asked West Burdwan district magistrate Purnendu Maji to finish construction of 12,000 dwellings by February next year in the first phase. The district administration has so far completed construction of 3,564 homes in Andal, Barabani and Jamuria blocks. “People who lost their homes here have been waiting for a home for decades. We have to finish the work to provide them with houses  by February. We have arranged Swastha Sathi cards for all, free ration for all and no,w we want to give free homes here,” she said. The rehabilitation project was approved by the Centre in 2009 and a fund of Rs 2,629 crore was sanctioned in the same year following a Supreme Court directive. Former CPM MP and trade union leader Haradhan Roy had filed a PIL in the Supreme Court in 1997 demanding rehabilitation of those affected by subsidence. A master plan on rehabilitation was drawn up by the ECL following the instruction of the Supreme Court. The homes are being constructed under the Centre-funded rehabilitation programme for the people living in the district’s subsidence-prone coal belts. Altogether 29,000 dwellings will be constructed on 400-acre land by the Bengal housing department and Asansol-Durgapur Development Authority where around 1.5-lakh people will be rehabilitated. However, the project has hit a bottleneck with the Eastern Coalfield Limited (ECL) so far allowing construction only on 172 acres. Sources said the ECL had raised objections to the constructions of home on the remaining land as it has coal reserve under it. Since the area is coal-bearing zone, no objection certificate from the ECL is required before carrying out any construction. Local Trinamul leaders said the housing project would give the party an advantage to combat the BJP in the coal belt in next year’s Assembly elections and Trinamul would highlight the ECL’s “non-cooperation” in carrying out the project. “The people here have elected BJP’s Babul Supriyo twice to Parliament but other than making false promises, he has done nothing to address the problem of the subsidence-affected population. It is Didi (Mamata) who did it. In our campaign against the BJP, we will definitely highlight it,” said Jitendra Kumar Tiwari, Asansol mayor and party president in West Burdwan. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP led in all seven Assembly seats in the coal belt. At present, Trinamul has five MLAs, while the CPM has two. Rakesh Nunia, one of those who received papers for his house from the chief minister on Tuesday, thanked ‘Didi’ and said his more than a decade-long wait for a home was finally over. “We lost our home in 2011 following subsidence and have been staying in an abandoned ECL hospital building since then. We have been waiting for a permanent home for a decade. We are thankful to Didi,” he said. At Tuesday’s event, Mamata also handed over a 75-acre plot to 1,572 people who had sold their land for setting up the Kazi Nazrul Islam Airport in Andal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Gunshot kills youth at tourney||A youth watching a cricket tournament at a ground here died after a National Volunteer Force member fired from two pistols and one bullet hit him on Tuesday afternoon. Sheikh Todbir Ali, a 32-year-old farmer of Rananagar village, succumbed to the gunshot while he was being taken to Calcutta for advanced treatment. The alleged assailant, Biswajit Pradhan, has fled. Eyewitnesses said there was a heated argument between Ali and Pradhan when the Jhargram Premier League was progressing.  Pradhan pulled out two pistols and fired at Ali. While one bullet missed him, the second gunshot hit Ali’s temple even as he made a vain attempt to flee. Ali was rushed to the Jhargram Superspecialty hospital and then to Midnapore Medical College and Hospital. Doctors referred him to a private hospital in Calcutta in the evening but he died on the way. Ali’s younger brother Samim said Pradhan, a resident of neighbouring Bachhurdoba village, had also stabbed him after firing from the pistols. Angry residents of Bachhurdoba ransacked and burned portions of Pradhan’s home and blocked the Jhargram-Midnapore highway for over two hours. The sources said Pradhan’s brother worked with Bengal police. The investigators said prima facie, the two youths were known enemies. However, only one of the two pistols was registered in Pradhan’s name. “We are investigating the incident,” said additional superintendent of police (headquarters), Jhargram, Mir Sakir Ali. He said the police had launched a hunt for Pradhan. Organisers of the cricket league, the Jhargram Pratibha Anweshan committee, said they were “disappointed” that such an incident had taken place “at an esteemed venue in the presence of civic volunteers”. The tournament was inaugurated on November 30 by the district superintendent of police, Jhargram, Amitkumar Bharat Rathod. “We want the perpetrator to be brought to justice,” said secretary of the organising committee Tamal Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Police cite ‘shotgun’ wound, CM blames BJP||Bengal police have attributed the death of a BJP worker in Siliguri on Monday during clashes to “shotgun injuries”, pointing out that the law-enforcement agency does not use such a firearm. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee later blamed the BJP for the death for “publicity and propaganda”. Since the death of Ulen Roy, 65, who took part in Monday’s Uttarkanya protest in Siliguri that ended in a clash between marchers and police, the BJP had been alleging that police firing caused his death. The police tweeted on Tuesday: “As per the PM (post-mortem) report, ‘death was due to the effects of shotgun injuries’. Police do not use shotguns. It’s obvious that during yesterday’s protest in Siliguri, armed persons were brought and they fired from firearms. “The deceased received pallet injuries from a shotgun fired from close range by a person standing near the deceased in the protest. This is unprecedented. Bringing armed persons in protest programme and inciting them to fire unheard off. There was a malafide intention to create violence by the use of firearms.” Mamata told a public meeting in Raniganj that that BJP “has gone in a frenzy these days and their leaders spread false information”. “They themselves held the rally and killed one of their own supporters… for publicity and propaganda. You carried pellets and killed a person,” Mamata said. The state government has ordered a CID probe into Roy’s death. BJP leaders held the police responsible for Roy’s death and demanded a CBI probe. The state police are trying to hush up the truth and the   state is trying to conceal facts by assigning a CID probe, several state BJP leaders alleged. “That is why post-mortem was carried out past midnight and the case quickly recommended to CID. We want a CBI investigation. None of our supporters were carrying any such firearm and it seems that the police in Bengal have started using pellet guns now. We will also write to the Union home minister,” said Raju Bista, BJP’s Darjeeling MP. Fresh violence Violence erupted in Siliguri on Tuesday during the 12-hour strike in north Bengal called by the BJP as its supporters and those of TMC tore posters, banners and flags of each other’s parties and clashed at places that prompted the police to intervene.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||For farmers, CM tweaks anti-bandh stand||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday repeated her unconditional support for farmers, lauded their agitation against the farm laws and declared she had “dedicated” the day to their cause, in a marked departure from her anti-bandh stand. Speaking at a state government event in Raniganj, West Burdwan, she said: “We supported this strike as a party, in a shift from our longstanding position on strikes. For only one reason… the issues now we agree wholeheartedly with. Jai kisaan, jai mazdoor (Hail the farmer, hail the worker).” She added they dedicated the day to “our farmers, my beloved brothers and sisters across India, currently agitating to save their livelihood and lives”. “They (the farmers) had called a strike till 3pm. To honour that, I started this programme after that time. I found out about the strike only a couple of days ago, by which time this programme was already fixed,” Mamata added. Speaking in Bengali, Mamata often switched to Hindi, in a clear indication of wanting to reach out to a wider, national audience. Though the Trinamul Congress chief had been avowedly anti-bandh since 2009, she openly endorsed this one. Mamata, now almost fully in campaign mode ahead of the crucial Bengal polls, underscored her empathy for farmers, reminding the audience of her anti-land acquisition movements in Singur and Nandigram, which propelled her to power in 2011. She said her party had launched sit-in demonstrations against the farm laws in every block of the state and rallies would be held in every civic ward. The three-day sit-in demonstration that started on Tuesday by her party’s farm wing, in front of the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road in Calcutta, would end with an address by her on Thursday. “After that, I will announce more and more programmes on this,” she said. At Raniganj, she also brought up other issues such as privatisation or sale of PSUs by the Centre, the alleged divisive nature of BJP’s politics, the “misuse of money” to win elections, the throttling of dissent. “For as long as we are alive, we will keep fighting for the people,” she asserted. Last week, she sent a delegation to the Singhu border and spoke over the phone to multiple groups of protesting farmers, lauding their movement. She also has been in regular touch with the Shiromani Akali Dal, one of the oldest NDA allies which withdrew support over the laws. Her party had also passively supported the 24-hour strike called by central trade unions on November 26 against Modi government’s policies. CPM veteran and Siliguri MLA Asok Bhattacharya chose a different pitch to express solidarity with farmers during the nationwide general strike against farm laws on Tuesday. He played “street cricket” on Hill Cart Road. “Hartal Maney Cricket (strike means cricket)” the senior CPM leader posted on social media with some photographs. The veteran’s pictures, however, drew online flak for their alleged frivolity. Bhattacharya, when told that his posts had not gone down well with many, said he simply wanted to give a message that the nationwide bandh called by farmers, to which the Left had extended support, was successful in Siliguri. “The strike turned deserted streets into a perfect 22-yard for good batting practice. I just wanted to send a message that the strike was a success and so played cricket on Hill Cart Road,” he said. Report by Bireswar Banerjee, picture by Passang Yolmo||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal's recovery rate, inching up for 47 consecutive days||Bengal on Tuesday reported 2,971 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,941 new infections and 49 deaths, with 16 of them from Calcutta. However, the state’s decline in total active cases continued unabated for the 43rd consecutive day since Dashami on October 26. Since Dashami, total active cases fell by 13,440 to reach 23,750 on Tuesday. The state’s recovery rate, inching up for 47 consecutive days now since 87.44 of October 22, stands at 93.59 per cent now. The national rate now is 94.61 per cent. “We (Bengal) had dropped to 28th spot among states in terms of recovery rate. Now we have risen to 21st spot. We would like to be in the top 10 in another month,” said a minister. In the 43 days since Dashami, Bengal recorded over 1.65 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.54 lakh new infections reported. “We were looking to end this year with less than 23,000 active cases and a recovery rate of over 95. While we are on track for the second goal, the first appears a little uphill at the moment,” admitted the minister. The state now has nearly 5.08 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.75 lakh recoveries and 8,820 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.73, behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Of the total toll, 7,389 or 83.8 per cent deaths were attributed to comorbidities. With 44,230 tests on Tuesday, the state’s total test count is past 62.11 lakh at 69,017 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.18 per cent. The state reported 23.72 per cent occupancy in 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.16 lakh telemedicine consultations so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Farmers stay away from fields||The strategy of anti-BJP parties in Bengal to link recent price rise to the Centre’s new farm laws did seem to work on Tuesday as a large number of farmers in southern districts participated in rallies in support of the agitating farmers on the Delhi-Haryana border and stayed away from fields. The fact that the south Bengal farmers took part in the protests and stayed away from their farmland — at a time they remain busy for rabi (winter) crop and potato cultivation — prompted the leaders of Krishak Sabha, the peasant wing of the CPM, to claim success of Tuesday’s strike. They linked the success to their campaign in rural areas pointing out alleged ill-effects of Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. “It was easy to connect the farmers on this particular issue as they are the worst sufferers. The farmers who had sold potato at Rs 8-10 per kg in February and March this year had to buy it by Rs 45 from market in November for consumption,” said Binod Ghosh, a member of Krishak Sabha’s East Burdwan unit. Several farmers who joined the protests said it was their first involvement in organised rallies or a strike. “I am not the worker of any political party, but I went to attend the rally today to oppose the law that did not help us. I sold my produce at Rs 10 a kg in March and I had to buy the crop at Rs 45 a kg a few days ago,” said Taroni Majhi, a 41-year-old sharecropper in East Burdwan’s Khandaghosh. Sources in districts like Birbhum, East Burdwan, Nadia, Murshidabad and Hooghly — which house more than 40 per cent of 72 lakh farmers in the state — said the overwhelming participation of the farmers in rallies was a pleasant surprise to them. Around 1,500 marginal farmers in East Burdwan’s Sargai village of Khandoghosh police station area participated in a rally organised by the Krishak Sabha. At Nanur in Birbhum, around 1,000 farmers took part in a similar rally. The Congress, which is in alliance with the Left Front in Bengal, also held protest programmes across the state. Pradip Bhattacharyya, senior party leader and a Rajya Sabha member, led a rally of thousands from the Quest Mall in Calcutta. Trinamul held protest programmes in all 341 blocks in the state. Trinamul insiders said they were not worried about the fact that farmers joined the rallies organised by the CPM and the Congress on Tuesday. Tea belt defies strikes Tea garden labourers in north Bengal did not respond to either of strikes — one by  farmers and the other by the BJP to protest its supporter’s death in Siliguri —  on Tuesday and worked as usual. Trade unions said the workers’ non-participation in the strike might be because of their realisation that nothing would change for them by taking part in shutdowns and delay in fixing their minimum wages. Additional reporting by our Siliguri bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
09-12-2020||North East||Workers seized in Tripura, taken to Bangladesh||Three workers engaged in construction of the border fence in Dhalai district of Tripura were allegedly kidnapped by suspected National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT) militants and taken to neighbouring Bangladesh. According to police, the Border Security Force, which guards the international border, is in touch with Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB), but till Tuesday evening there was no news about the whereabouts of the abducted workers or any demand for ransom. Dhalai district borders Khagrachari district in Chittagong division of Bangladesh. The incident site under Ganganagar police station is around 70km from Ambassa, the Dhalai district headquarters, and around 140km from state capital Agartala. Additional inspector-general of police (law and order) Subrata Chakraborty told The Telegraph that the workers, two of them non-tribals and another tribal, were engaged under the National Projects Construction Corporation Limited, a government undertaking, for the fencing work. The abducted persons have been identified as Subrata Debnath, Subhash Bhowmik and Ganamohan Tripura. “They were involved in ground-levelling work when they were kidnapped on Monday. Only the three workers were present when suspected NLFT cadres abducted them and took them to the neighbouring country,” Chakraborty said. While the tribal worker is a local, the non-tribal workers used to sometime stay at the BSF border outpost, around 700 metres from the place of occurrence, police sources said. The Indo-Bangladesh border is around 856km long in the state, of which 65km in several patches still remains unfenced in Sipahijala, Dhalai and South districts. Tripura has eight districts. The Opposition CPM questioned how the kidnapping took place despite the presence of the BSF. Monday’s kidnapping was the second since November 27 after a man was abducted from Damcherra along Tripura’s border with Mizoram. A major faction of the NLFT, formed on March 12, 1989 to secure “sovereignty” for Tripura, had laid down arms before the government in August 2019. A splinter group of the Bishwamohan Debbarma faction of the NLFT, which stayed behind after last year’s surrender of 88 cadres and leaders, still operates from across the border, sources said, adding that it is the last surviving insurgent group. They also said the two abductions since November 27 suggest that the outfit might be regrouping and could pose a serious security challenge during the ensuing autonomous district council polls. BSF officials could not be contacted for their response but sources said they were verifying facts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
09-12-2020||North East||Assam doctor in  job fraud case||Police have registered a case against Dr Ajanta Hazarika, additional superintendent of Assam Medical College and Hospital (AMCH) in Dibrugarh, based on a complaint accusing her of promising jobs in lieu of money. The cash-for-jobs case (2150/2020) was registered at Dibrugarh police station in Upper Assam under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 409 (breach of trust) of the IPC on Sunday evening based on an FIR lodged by one Amal Nath. The alleged cash-for-jobs case involving Hazarika came to light when a purported audio clip of a telephonic conversation between her and one of the persons who paid her money went viral on Saturday. She is said to have allegedly collected Rs 22 lakh through her driver from three persons in lieu of jobs in the Northeast Frontier Railway but the nature of the jobs are not known. The surgeon could not be contacted but she had dismissed all allegations before a TV channel. The audio clip was released because she was talking tough when she was requested to return the money, sources said. Hazarika is the second doctor from Assam to have hit the headlines for all the wrong reasons since September when a Guwahati-based doctor Jyotirmoy Das was arrested for allegedly fixing a proxy candidate to take the JEE test on behalf of his son. He is presently in judicial custody. According to Dibrugarh superintendent of police Prateek Vijay Kumar Thube, Nath has accused Hazarika, registrar of the plastic surgery department of the AMCH, of taking Rs 6 lakh from him four years ago with the promise of providing him a job in the NF Railway. “We have started our investigation. We have recorded statements and are also examining the charges made in the telephonic conversation,” the SP said. Both Hazarika and Nath hail from Dibrugarh. AMCH principal and chief superintendent Dr Sanjib Kakoti said he has conveyed the development to the director, medical education, which will look into the incident. He also said Hazarika had applied for leave on Saturday to visit Guwahati. Though no action has been initiated against her, the hospital’s Grade III employees’ association has barred the senior doctor from entering the AMCH till her name is cleared of the alleged wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
09-12-2020||North East||Bodo Front battles anti-incumbency, ally  ||The outcome of the two-phase Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) polls which began on Monday is set to have a bearing on the future of the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) as it battles anti-incumbency and a belligerent ally in the ruling BJP going all out to make its presence felt in the Bodo belt with an eye on the 2021 Assembly polls. The first phase of BTC polls on Monday saw polling in 10 constituencies under Udalguri district (75 per cent) and 11 in Baksa district (78 per cent) amid very tight security. It recorded a turnout of over 76 per cent. In the second phase on December 10, polling will be held in 12 seats in Kokrajhar district and seven in Chirang district. Polling is being held through ballots. Counting of votes will take place on December 12. The BPF has been a formidable force, having ruled the BTC for three straight terms since its formation in 2005 and also holding sway over 12 Assembly seats in the Bodo belt, helping it become a coalition partner, twice in the Tarun Gogoi-led Congress government and then in the BJP-led government in 2016. However, with ally BJP deciding to contest the 40-member council polls on its own despite being partners in the state government, the emergence of the Pramod Bodo-led United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), a “historic” AIUDF-Congress alliance and the presence of Gana Suraksha Party (which espouses the cause of non-Bodos), the BPF’s job of retaining power has become extremely difficult if not impossible, BTC watchers said.under the Sixth Schedule. Anti-incumbency against the BPF too, reflected in the 2015 polls when it finished with 19 seats, has also increased manifold, amplified by the high decibel campaign launched by the BJP which has not let go of any opportunity to project the BPF in poor light. Senior BJP leader and cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, spearheading the ruling party’s campaign in the BTC since October, has publicly accused the BPF of rampant corruption and even mocking its leader Hagrama Mohilary. Sarma has even said that the tie up with the BPF was only till before the 2021 Assembly polls, virtually signalling the end of ties it had forged with the BPF before the 2016 state elections. In comparison, Sarma has been soft against the UPPL or its leader, keeping its doors open for any post-poll possibility, either with the BPF or the UPPL or with both. That the BPF has not pulled out of the alliance despite extreme provocation suggests there could be more than meets the eye, BTC watchers said. BPF has three ministers in the Sarbananda Sonowal government. For the BJP, which had won one seat in 2015 and is contesting 26 seats and supporting a couple of Independents this time round, the BTC has become important in context of next year’s Assembly polls. Winning the BTC polls or holding the key to the formation of the council would increase the BJP’s bargaining power for the 12 Assembly seats in the BTC. Till now, it was the BPF which been calling the shots in the BTC. Going by campaigning, the BJP seems to have won the election, said a BTC watcher, but it is still a tight one to call. “The BJP has gone all out to make a mark and so has the UPPL. But the BPF too is fighting hard and still remains the party to beat as everyone is targeting it. Since there will be division of votes, it will be too tight to call,” a BTC watcher said. When the BTC elections were announced in April but put off because of the pandemic, it appeared to be a fight between the BPF, the UPPL and the Gana Suraksha Party but the postponement saw the BJP step up its presence like never before. The BTC is presently under governor’s rule after the council’s five-year term expired on April 27. “The outcome will have as much bearing on the BPF as it will be on next year’s Assembly polls. Those controlling the BTC always enjoy an edge in the Assembly polls,” said a BPF watcher. The BJP’s manifesto revolves around the new Bodo accord signed in January, offering peace and development to the local populace. The BJP has promised to implement provisions of the accord at the earliest such as increasing the number of council seats from 40 to 60 and exclusion or inclusion of non-Bodo majority villages from the BTC so that every community is properly represented. Sarma’s harping on issuance of land pattas (documents) and the sale and buying of land within a stipulated timeframe if the BJP is voted to power has created a buzz since it is an emotive issue with non-tribals who comprise over 60 per cent of the total population of about 32 lakh in the council which comes||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
09-12-2020||Opinion||More sickness: illness in different forms seems to be taking over the world||Sir — Illness in different forms seems to be taking over the world. The United Kingdom government has said that around 25,000 turkeys will be culled after the ninth outbreak of bird flu among captive birds in England this year. Bird keepers will also have to keep all captive birds indoors and follow other biosecurity measures. While there are assurances that the turkeys will be humanely culled, it is a shame that so many will lose their lives. The source of the infection must be investigated; at a time like this every effort must be made to avoid other large-scale disease spreads.Rania Alam,Mumbai FIRST BUNCH: Kind gesture Sir — It was deeply heartening to read about the Indian army’s gesture in repatriating two girls from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir who had inadvertently crossed the Line of Control in the Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir. Given that armed forces are generally associated with notions of aggression, the army’s actions in this case were truly honourable and exemplary. The young girls are sisters and were identified as Laiba Zabair and Sana Zabair. Before returning home, Laiba is reported to have said that they were treated very well by the Indian troops, who provided them with food and shelter and made efforts to ensure their speedy return to their own home. We must doff our hats to our jawans and their admirable actions for keeping the girls safe. This is why our soldiers are the pride of the country. Mohd. Noor, Calcutta Sir — It is a matter of great pride for us that the Indian army displayed its humanity by ensuring the safe return of two young girls who had strayed into the Indian side of the LoC. Given the history of hostility in the region between the troops of the two neighbouring countries, the two girls must have been terrified upon being detained by Indian troops. Women all over south Asia feel unsafe all the time on account of the actions of men; moreover, in conflict regions, women are the worst sufferers of the fallout of border hostility. The Indian army, however, took every measure to make the girls feel safe and to return them to their side of the border. The troops even gave the minor girls sweets and gifts, and repatriated them from the Chakan Da Bagh crossing point. Will this gesture of goodwill go some way in thawing relations between India and Pakistan?Asifa Iqbal,Calcutta SECOND BUNCH: Heroic feat Sir — It is fitting that essential workers — the nurses, doctors, delivery personnel, grocery-store employees and many others who have consistently risked their lives on the front lines of the Covid-19 pandemic — have won Time magazine’s ‘Person of the Year’ reader poll. These nameless heroes won after garnering 6.5 per cent of the more than eight million votes cast in this year’s poll, which asked readers to select the person or group of people who had the greatest influence on the year 2020. Essential workers as a group beat famed candidates such as the outgoing president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, the chief executive officer of Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, and Pope Francis. It is a heartening sign that essential workers, who have actually done a world of good, were deemed more worthy of such recognition than the likes of Trump and Zuckerberg, whose records on violation with regard to human rights and privacy are less than ideal. The kind of ‘influence’ wielded by big corporates and certain global leaders might be immense, but it is not necessarily a good influence. Corporations, especially, work mainly for profit, often to the detriment of employees and the world at large, be it politically or environmentally. Essential workers, on the other hand, have put their own lives on the line — some of them have even lived away from their families and loved ones for months on end — in order to help their fellow human beings, be it by arresting the spread of the disease or by helping people lead a semblance of a normal life. Ratri Bose,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
09-12-2020||Opinion||Some lessons from Bihar||In the recently concluded Bihar assembly elections, the Left parties won 16 out of the 29 seats allocated to them. The CPIML (Liberation) won 12 out of the 19 seats it contested. Even though the National Democratic Alliance has scraped through, it is undeniable that Bihar has elected an inspiring Opposition with a strong Left contingent at its core. It is worth noting that an analysis in Scroll found that the “CPIML performed as well as the Rashtriya Janata Dal and even outperformed it across four subregions,” indicating “an actual resurgence of the Left, and not just an effect of alliance politics.” Moreover, the CPIML’s performance buoyed up the entire Mahagathbandhan in its areas of influence. The Scroll analysis found that “in the southern regions, where the Mahagatbandhan swept, both the BJP and to a larger extent the Janata Dal (United) were badly defeated by various Mahagatbandhan candidates... Census data reveals that there is a greater Dalit population in the Bhojpur area. The Mahagatbandhan did particularly well in reserved seats this election.” While Bhojpur does have a significantly large Dalit population, it also has a fairly recent history of extreme feudal oppression. Over three decades of anti-feudal assertion led by the CPIML in Bhojpur and southern Bihar counted towards the Mahagathbandhan wins in this region. For the past few years, the discourse in the mainstream media has been full of schadenfreude about the decline of Left politics in India. Even acknowledgements of the popularity of young student leaders on the Left have been used to drive this discourse, pitting the young leaders as ‘charismatic individuals’ against the supposedly outdated Left parties. The CPIML’s performance in Bihar has, once again, proved that such “reports of the demise of the Left in India are greatly exaggerated”. In the wake of the Bihar results, many have asked us what shiny, new, smart ‘Chanakya-niti’ did the CPIML use in Bihar? The answer may sound disappointing. The CPIML has no ‘secret sauce’ or shortcut to offer. Its success comes on the back of many cruel defeats and losses. The CPIML’s work is all about the ‘ABCs’ of the Left. But perhaps those ABCs do need restating with emphasis now. In that spirit, I would like to outline some key features of the CPIML’s work in Bihar. Right from its early days in the 1980s, the CPIML in Bihar acted on the firm Marxist-Leninist understanding that ‘class struggle’ did not operate in an imaginary realm of ‘pure economic struggles’. Instead, struggles for social and political justice were recognized as being integral to class struggle as those for economic justice. So the Marxist-Leninist movement in southern Bihar asserted the right to land and wages; the right for the oppressed communities to occupy public space as equals deserving of dignity; and the right for the oppressed to cast votes and even elect leaders. The struggle for voting rights of Dalits and EBCs in Bihar, a struggle in which the CPIML was the driving force, is comparable in its historical significance to the civil rights movement in the United States of America which fought for African-Americans to avail of their right to vote. For a movement with that history, it is not difficult to see the NRC-NPR-CAA as a ‘voter suppression’ move to snatch away hard-won voter rights; a move to disenfranchise not only the Muslims but the entire oppressed labouring communities. Some wonder how the CPIML’s alliance with RJD could work so well given the sharp contention between the two parties since the 1990s and the early 1990s. The CPIML, unlike the CPI and the CPI(M), did not ally with the RJD when it was in power. Perhaps in large part as a result of this decision, the CPIML retained its independent mass base and political profile, even as the CPI declined rapidly during the same period. But even during that period, the CPIML did not let up in its ideological and political work against the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the Bharatiya Janata Party. The CPIML mass base and rank and file now have no trouble recognizing the dangers posed to democracy by the BJP in Bihar and India: and so an alliance with the RJD has been embraced as necessary and welcome. Third, the CPIML is bold rather than shame-faced and furtive about taking up issues of political injustice. When Yogi Adityanath was telling BJP election rallies that the CPIML was ‘anti-national’ and that thanks to the BJP, the people of Bihar can buy land in Kashmir, the CPIML reminded Bihar’s poor and deprived that what they needed was homestead land in Bihar — and it was the NDA regime that had violently evicted them from such land in order to appease big landlords and corporations. Kapil Mishra and Anurag Thakur campaigned in Bihar branding the CPIML as a ‘break India gang’ for supporting Shaheen Baghs. The CPIML, meanwhile, did not hesitate to remind everyone to vote to defend the Shaheen Baghs which are the most inspiring civil rights and equal citizenship movements of our time. Every CPIML campaign speech urged people to ensure that no Umar Khalid, Sudha Bharadwaj, Anand Teltumbde or Stan Swamy would be wrongfully jailed in Bihar. It is not necessary, or even possible, to replicate the Bihar alliance model in every state where elections are due. The takeaways from the Bihar experience are as follows — that ideological and political resistance to the BJP’s expansion must be the top priority; that strengthening the Left movement is crucial to building a stronger bulwark against fascist politics; and that the Opposition as a whole needs to build grassroots agitations on issues of livelihood, jobs, education, and health as well as against instances of social and political discrimination and injustice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
09-12-2020||Opinion||Plunging down||Data released by the National Statistical Office, which show the gross domestic product for the second quarter (July-September) of 2020-21 declining by “only” 7.5 per cent compared to the second quarter of the previous year, have been hailed in official circles as “good news”; on the contrary, they show the economy being stuck in a quagmire. The first point to note is that while GDP declined by 7.5 per cent, private consumption in real terms fell by even more — by 11.32 per cent — which means that the share of consumption in GDP was lower compared to a year ago. Exactly the same is also true of the first quarter of 2020-21, so that during the entire first half of the current year private consumption has fallen more than the GDP compared to a year ago. This seems strange. When income falls people do not lower their consumption proportionately. They run down cash reserves, or borrow, in order to maintain their consumption to whatever extent possible. The ratio of private consumption to GDP, therefore, is normally expected to increase when GDP falls. The fact that the opposite has happened and the ratio of private consumption to GDP has fallen suggests that the incomes of the working people must have fallen even more than GDP in this period, so that despite running down cash reserves and borrowing, they still could not maintain the share of private consumption in GDP. Put differently, the period of the pandemic when GDP has fallen has also seen a fall in the share of the working people, and a corresponding rise in the share of surplus, in GDP. This must have compounded the misery of vast numbers of working people, to have not just a cut in incomes but a larger than average cut in incomes. The second point to note is that the share of government consumption expenditure in GDP has also declined during the second quarter of the current financial year. Here again, when GDP declines, and the government’s tax revenue goes down, its expenditure, a large part of which consists of salary payments, does not go down to an equivalent extent. One normally expects, therefore, the share of government consumption expenditure in GDP to go up when GDP goes down, that is to behave in a counter-cyclical rather than a pro-cyclical manner. That this has not happened and, on the contrary, this share has actually gone down suggests that the Central government, which has also become the arbiter of state government finances these days, has cut back heavily on all current government expenditures in the second quarter of 2020-21. With consumption, whether private or government, being curtailed so heavily, the recovery, such as it is, has been stimulated by investment, or Gross Fixed Capital Formation. Its share in GDP in the second quarter of the current financial year has been marginally higher than in the second quarter last year. Let us now look at the implications of these findings for the prospects of recovery starting from the trough (the first quarter of 2020-21). Between the first and second quarters of 2020-21, we find that as much as 58 per cent of the increase in GDP from the trough is on account of GFCF alone whose average share is normally around 30 per cent. The recovery in GFCF is not because new investment projects are being taken up in the midst of the decline in GDP. It is because projects that were already being undertaken but had been stalled when the draconian lockdown was imposed by Narendra Modi are now being completed, that too in a hurry before any new lockdowns are announced owing to fresh spikes in cases. The current investment surge is bound to subside unless businessmen decide to undertake fresh investments. Fresh investments, however, depend upon the growth of GDP, and since investment cannot just feed on itself it depends ultimately on the growth of private and government consumption. But this growth has not only lagged behind GDP growth but it also cannot even be sustained at its current level. The growth of private consumption cannot be sustained because households have either borrowed or run down cash reserves for maintaining it. Even if the GDP growth, starting from the trough, continues at its current rate, private consumption growth will still slow down because households will run out of their cash reserves or come up against borrowing limits. Besides, they would have to repay what they have borrowed or rebuild cash reserves, which would impair consumption. The growth of government consumption cannot be sustained at the level witnessed from the trough because the Modi government is loath to offend globalized finance capital that frowns upon fiscal deficits; and the fiscal deficit limit announced in the budget for 2020-21 as a whole has already been exceeded by the end of October. If the government was bold enough to enlarge the fiscal deficit at present, it might actually arouse little opposition from finance because of the context of the pandemic. But the government’s pusillanimity vis-à-vis finance keeps its hands tied. With both private consumption and government consumption not increasing even at the same rate as the GDP, starting from the trough, and slowing down for reasons we have mentioned, investment too will flag after the projects in the pipeline are completed. An autonomous increase in government investment, that is investment not tied to the growth of the market but undertaken on independent considerations, will not occur for the same reason that curtails government consumption, namely fiscal timidity. Hence investment growth will come down, starting a downward spiral of stagnation in the economy, after some recovery from the trough has occurred. An example will make the argument clear. Suppose, starting from the trough, GDP is growing at 15 per cent, with government plus private consumption growing at 12 per cent and investment at 22 per cent. As the backlog of investment projects gets completed, investment growth will come down to, say, 15 per cent, the same as GDP growth. But when this happens, GDP growth itself will also come down, and so will the growth of private and government consumption, which will then curtail investment still further and so on. The economy will proceed on a downward spiral that can go quite deep. In the current scenario, where economic activity is subdued everywhere, exports can scarcely be expected to provide a stimulus for recovery. Such a stimulus will have to come from domestic demand, where the government has to play a major role. Either its own expenditure, whether for consumption or investment, should be delinked from its revenue and allowed to increase, or it should hand over purchasing power to people to spend in excess of their incomes. Indeed, this latter course, which many have suggested, will also provide some succour to the working people who have witnessed a reduction in their share of GDP even in the midst of a fall in GDP. Both these methods for stimulating the economy will require an increase in the fiscal deficit well beyond what the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act permits. But the Modi government’s kowtowing to globalized finance prevents it from doing so, which is why the economy is caught in a quagmire.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
09-12-2020||Opinion||Farm fire: Bandh as solidarity show||The Bharat bandh called by farmers’ unions protesting against the farm laws passed by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre elicited response from many parts of the country. This reaction can be read in two ways. First, the country — not its leadership — shares an emotive bond with the agrarian community. Second, the show of support is also an expression of public anger at the Centre’s shoddy handling of the crisis. The BJP, bolstered by its numerical superiority in Parliament, had passed the legislations without adequate consultations with the Opposition or, most importantly, with aggrieved farmers. Shockingly, when the protesting farmers decided to take their agitation to Delhi, the BJP — this is typical of the party — chose to not only greet them with a show of strength but also discredit the constituency. Farmers — they feed the nation — were equated with separatists and described as stooges of the political Opposition by overt and covert supporters of this regime. But the ruse seems to have backfired. Support for the farmers has intensified, pushing the government on the back foot. The dialogues, including the home minister’s request for talks yesterday afternoon, are an indication of the government ceding some ground. What has added to India’s discomfort is the international response to the protest. India’s petulant reaction to the comments by the Canadian prime minister — the external affairs minister skipped a virtual meeting on Covid-19 chaired by the foreign minister of the North American nation — did not deter Justin Trudeau from reiterating that Canada would always support the right to protest. Several British parliamentarians have expressed solidarity with the farmers and there have been sympathetic noises from lawmakers in the United States of America. The indignation in these nations can be read as part of the growing concern of the international fraternity with the authoritarian reaction of this government towards any show of dissent in a democracy. The BJP must be careful not to let matters deteriorate: it could add to India’s embarrassment. The BJP would also be mindful of the farmers’ protest providing political oxygen to the Opposition. As many as 19 political parties lent their support to the Bharat bandh, even though the farmers’ bodies have wisely decided to keep politicians at arm’s length. Whether this mobilization costs the BJP politically — the Congress had been singed by the anti-corruption protests in 2014 — depends on the Opposition’s ability to build a broader solidarity among its squabbling partners as well as with the voters. At the moment, India’s Opposition appears to be too fragmented for this challenge. This impotency contributes to the Centre’s rigidity and aggression against its own people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
09-12-2020||Opinion||Without law: UP's targeted discrimination||Arrests under the new Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 have begun apace. It is not clear how the fundamental rights of freedom of religion and of the personal choice of consenting adults can be officially set at nought by a state. Although UP’s is not the only government to drum up the myth of love jihad, it is the first to promulgate an ordinance against religious conversion solely for marriage. The targeted discrimination at the heart of the law was made obvious by the police’s unequal treatment of two couples recently: the groom from the minority community in one case was thrown in jail while, in the other case, a woman from that community who had married a Hindu man was escorted home. The ordinance is a formal declaration of some of the regressive and repressive values being institutionalized in UP. These values seek to bar inter-faith unions where the groom is from India’s largest minority community, as well as inter-caste marriages, especially with Dalit men, and also destroy the autonomy of women. The attitude is far from being unique to UP; inter-caste marriages with Dalits lead to violence, murder and suicide in many states where outlawed khap panchayats and the crime of honour killings persist. What is remarkable in UP is the government’s official celebration of this attitude in contravention to the law of the land. Yogi Adityanath’s government is a law unto itself. An official communiqué sent to local intelligence units recently asked them to keep an eye out for ‘illicit love affairs’ between lovers of different castes or communities. The scale of the tragedy of young people in inter-caste marriages is indicated by the fact that, in Bareilly division alone, there have been 42 suicides among 58 people killed in just two years for marrying into another caste. Sixteen people were allegedly killed since January 2019 for this reason — 12 murders and two double murders — with eight suicides and 17 couple suicides. This seems to be on a planet different from the Allahabad High Court, which reportedly ensured relief in November for 117 inter-faith and inter-caste couples whose lives and liberty were being threatened by relatives. How can a state government and its police violate the law in letter and spirit and get away with it?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||IOC helps Ranchi health centres get modern labour rooms||Ranchi district administration has signed an MoU with Indian Oil Corporation for setting up state-of-art labour rooms at primary health centres (PHC) in Nagri and Kuchu on the outskirts of the capital to facilitate safe institutional deliveries in rural areas as part of its endeavour to ramp up government health facilities. At a formal function on Tuesday evening, the oil PSU committed to initially spend Rs 10 lakh for the project under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities, officials said. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said the health has been identified as one of the core sectors by IOC to utilise CSR funds. “Health and education are two priority sectors identified by the district administration as CSR activities. Last month, at a meeting with representatives of private and public sector companies, we had spoken of our focus areas and asked them to channelise CSR funds accordingly,” he said. Ranjan said the administration had originally planned to set up modern labour labours in as many as four PHCs in the district. “But we are initially starting with two centres. We hope to get further cooperation from IOC for the remaining two PHCs in the coming months,” he said. IOC DGM Pramod Ranjan said they have been working with the district administration on various projects in Ranchi, which has been classified as an aspirational district by Niti Aayog. “The recent tie-up is only an extension of the ongoing cooperation,” he said,  adding that last week, IOC donated an ambulance to the district administration which will be stationed at Ranchi railway station, offering 24/7 free service to the needy. Ranchi civil surgeon VB Prasad said that under the aspirational district programme the district administration had signed an MoU with IOC in January for launching 24/7 ambulance services at the railway station. “We are starting with one ambulance,” he noted, adding that the ambulance would be under the care of the district civil surgeon’s office. Notably, the state health department is also focusing on strengthening basic health infrastructure at the grassroots level by roping in various public and private entities to run facilities and tide over the reeling crisis of manpower and resources. Taking the first step, the state chapter of the National Health Mission (NHM) on December 1 handed over the overall operation of a PHC in Chirkunda in Dhanbad district to Ranchi NGO Citizens Foundation. Health department officials maintained that NHM had signed an MoU with the NGO for taking care of 11 PHCs across six districts in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||IIT-ISM to better position, says chairperson||IIT (ISM), Dhanbad Chairperson of Board of Governors Prem Vrat on Wednesday spoke during an online event as the institute celebrated its 95th anniversary. The chairman asked the faculty members, students, researchers and deans to focus on innovation, incubation, creativity, creation of center of excellence, increasing placement and packages, doubling research among other things. Vrat, during his speech, said, “Foundation Day is an occasion for great celebration, it also provides an opportunity to introspect and find new opportunities and directions to consolidate its present achievement and develop strategies to exploit the potential multiplier effect that the brand IIT and brand ISM have to leapfrog at a faster rate to attain top ranks within the IIT system.” “As an IIT, it is an opportunity as well as a challenge because now we have to find a respectable place for IIT (ISM) in the ranking within the IIT system by leveraging its strengths and overcoming its weaknesses to exploit future opportunities that are present in the higher technical education system in the context of the New Education Policy (NEP),” he said. Several students and faculty members attended the event in both online and offline modes, the latter gathering at the conference hall of the administrative building of the institute. “I would like to appeal to the Director, faculty, staff and students to initiate in a mission mode,efforts to make IIT (ISM)Dhanbad in the ranking of top five IITs by the time it celebrates its centenary celebration in five years from now,” Vrat added. “Given the brand of IIT to brand ISM, I am optimistic that due to the multiplier effect of these two brands, we can achieve the fifth rank in the 23 member elite IIT system" claimed Vrat and added it shares similar legacy with IIT at Roorkee and BHU, Varanasi. "I am of the view that we can aspire to be after IIT at Bombay, Chennai, Delhi and Kharagpur and benchmark ourselves with the best practices of other IITs, particularly of IIT Kharagpur,” he said. “A committed task force can work on this mission and start by conducting SWOT analysis of IIT (ISM) Dhanbad and leverage its strengths and treat weaknesses as opportunities to improve,” said Vrat. “A time comparison of key performance indicators with IITs at Kanpur, Roorkee, Guwahati and BHU will help together with benchmarking with IIT Kharagpur,” he advised.. Director of the institute, Rajiv Shekhar and Managing Director, Epiroch Mining India Limited also addressed the function through online mode. Coal India Limited Director (technical) was also present as a guest of honour during the ceremony. In an offline event held at the conference hall of the institute, five employees, who completed 25 years of service, were given long service awards. A team of the Chemical Engineering Department composed of professor Aditya Kumar, Kalpita Nath and Poonam Chauhan was given the Inder Mohan Thapar Research Award (2020).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel awarded for contribution to sports through CSR||Tata Steel has been recognised as the best organisation contributing to sports through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) at the FICCI India Sports Awards, 2020. Tata Steel vice-president Chanakya Chaudhary received the award on behalf of the company at the India Sports Awards ceremony that took place on a virtual platform during ‘TURF’ 2020 -- 10th Global Sports Summit, on December 8. Sports, which has been an integral part of the company’s philosophy, was traditionalised by its first chairman Sir Dorabji Tata, who financed  India’s first Olympic team to Antwerp, Belgium in 1920. Tata Steel in India promotes sporting activities through its encouragement to professional sportspersons, amateurs and its own employees. “At Tata Steel, sports is a way of life. Tata Steel’s association with sports dates back nearly a century and is an integral part of its culture. The local community has always been at the core of the sports activities that Tata Steel supports,” Chaudhary said while receiving the award. “While sports has served as a unique link between Tata Steel’s business and the community outreach, its role in the company’s culture and identity has grown stronger than ever. Through its sports academies and training centres, the company has helped shape some of India’s iconic sporting talents over the years,” the vice-president said. “We are humbled with this recognition from India Sports Awards and it also re-affirms our commitment towards the development of sports and athletes,” he added. Six years ago, Tata Steel started the Tata Steel Kolkata 25K, a 25-km run that has a social cause at its heart – supporting the Tata Medical Centre, a cancer hospital in Kolkata. Tata Steel has also organised running events annually in Jamshedpur and Noamundi (in Jharkhand) and Bhubaneswar and Angul (in Odisha). This year, in view of the pandemic, the company organised its first-ever virtual run. In Jharkhand, it started various sporting academies including the Jamshedpur Athletic Club in 1927, Tata Youth Adventure Centre in 1984, Tata Football Academy in 1987, and Tata Archery Academy in 1996. The company stepped up to the national level when it established the Tata Athletics Academy in 2004. In 2017, the company for the first time stepped into the commercial side of sports when it started Jamshedpur Football Club which competes in India Super League. In the same year, it also came up with the Naval Tata Hockey Academy. Besides these academies. Tata Steel has also established training centres for 18 sports disciplines, including archery, athletics, badminton, basketball, boxing, cricket, chess, football, golf, handball, horse riding. Karate, kabaddi, roll ball, swimming, table tennis, tennis and volleyball. So far, Tata Steel has in its one  Padma Bhushan, 11 Padma Shrees, one Khel Ratna, one Dhyan Chand, six Dronacharyas and 42 Arjuna awardees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||Police arrest wife who planned to kill forest officer ||Hazaribagh Police on Wednesday arrested a woman who had hired three contract killers to murder her husband Sanjay Singh, a forest officer. They had on Monday foiled her plan by arresting the trio, including her boyfriend Naveen Rana. Police were looking for the wife, Rakhi Sinha, who had absconded after they arrested the contract killers who were on their way to Gaya to kill her husband. They were intercepted near Ichak More on Ranchi-Patna highway, and their car got seized. Rakhi had promised to pay Rs.5 lakh for this work and paid Rs.90,000 as an advance money. Police had recovered the amount, which the men had distributed among themselves. Officials said they got an input that Rakhi was in the house of her relative at Shivpuri Mohalla in Hazaribagh town, following which a police team was sent to arrest her. During her interrogation, she confessed to have hired the killers to murder her husband. Sub Divisional officer of Sadar, Kamal Kishore told The Telegraph online that Rakhi was arrested and she had admitted her involvement. He said she also told them that she was having an extra-marital affair with Naveen Rana, one of the arrested contract killers. Naveen told the police that he was a friend of Sanjay Sinha and had developed a relationship with his wife. He said both of them wanted to stay together and hence had planned to do away with Sanjay. Police have forwarded the three contract killers as well as Rakhi to Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Central Jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||IMD forecasts stormy weekend with rain from Sunday||Several districts of Jharkhand, especially those in the western, southern and central parts of the state, are expected to experience unseasonal rain from Sunday. Both IMD’s Ranchi and Patna Met centres issued bulletins on Wednesday forecasting rain in Jharkhand for three days from Sunday, December 13. “Jharkhand will be under the influence of a western disturbance passing through northern parts of the country, leading to formation of a cyclonic circulation. This would help in formation of clouds and moisture incursion into the atmosphere,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He said the impact of the western disturbance would be felt from December 11, Thursday. "The minimum temperatures in several parts of Jharkhand would witness a rise from Thursday due to the effect of the western disturbance passing through north-west India," said Anand. Ranchi Meteorological Centre predicted an increase in night temperatures by two to three degrees from Thursday. Weathermen at IMD's Patna office said that as the disturbance was approaching from the western side, it would bring in moisture from the Arabian sea. “The wind pattern over Jharkhand will change from north-westerly to easterly and this will subsequently result in a change in night temperature. The day reading is expected to witness a slight fall from Friday because of cloud cover,” explained a duty officer at the Patna Met Centre. Meanwhile, several areas of Jharkhand, especially the Kolhan region, experienced early morning fog, resulting in poor visibility. But visibility improved as the day progressed. The Met department also issued a fog alert in several pockets of Jharkhand in the next 24 hours. Met statistics revealed that Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 12.1°C, two notches above normal, while Jamshedpur witnessed 12.6°C, a notch above normal. Daltonganj recorded 11.8°C, two degrees above normal. In Bokaro, Hazaribagh, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Seraikela-Kharsawan and West Singhbhum, the minimum readings stayed one to two notches above normal on Wednesday. Weathermen said the impact of the western disturbance and the associated cyclonic circulation was expected to stay till December 15 after which conducive weather conditions would prevail with the restoration of dry and crisp north-westerly winds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||Lessons for kids to deal with post-lockdown stress||Government school students in Jharkhand will soon be provided stress management classes to tackle post-lockdown anxiety and address behavioral issues that may aggravate once regular classes resume after several months, officials from the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) said on Wednesday. JEPC has already started training around 8,000 teachers in child psychology and ways to tackle restlessness among children with assistance from Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP), said state in-charge of quality education Arvind Kumar. “These 8,000 teachers will become master trainers and train other teachers using online mediums. Counselling of students will start before we resume regular classes at schools, so we can put a check on behavioral issues among children once schools reopen,” said Kumar. However, counselling sessions for students would not be restricted to the ongoing period of offline classes. Stress management lessons for students would become a part of the curriculum once regular classes resume, and every school would try and provide stress management lessons for an hour every day to the students. “We will continue providing stress management classes to students even after the schools reopen. Addressing psychological issues is a gradual process and psychological barriers cannot be removed overnight in one or two online sessions,” Kumar said. The JEPC has also issued SOPs to deal with mental issues among children once schools reopen, said JEPC director Shailesh Chourasia. Every government school in the state would have to follow the SOP, he added. The lockdown triggered mood disorders and behavioral issues in many children across the state, say psychiatrists. They fear that the transition phase from days of lockdown to normal days at schools will also trigger similar psychological issues among children. “Adapting to changes in lifestyle often triggers stress. Many students suffered from anxiety during the early days of lockdown as they found it difficult to adjust with the changes in their regular lifestyle,” said Dr Nishat Goyal, assistant professor at CIP. “Many students may have to deal with similar adjustment problems once they resume normal life, so counselling becomes important at this stage,” he added. So far, around 800 teachers have already been trained to impart stress management lessons in the first lot. More teachers would be trained in days to come, JEPC officials said. “We have selected teachers from each of the 24 districts for the training sessions in a bid to ensure that students in all parts of the state can get benefitted from counselling,” said Kumar. According to the school education and literacy department, there are over 44,000 government schools spread across Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||Divers join efforts to rescue two trapped in flooded coal mine||Eastern Coalfields engaged a team of divers from Cuttack on Wednesday to help rescue the two miners trapped inside a flooded coal mine at Mugma since Tuesday. The six-member team of divers, led by Captain Pranab Kumar Biswal, reached here at 7am and started work from 9am after studying maps of the Khudia colliery. Side by side, work to drain out of water from the inundated mine was also speeded up by deploying a third motor early morning. The miners, Basia Maji (56) and Manik Bauri (58), were trapped inside the mine in the Mugma area after a borehole burst triggered flooding in the wee hours of Tuesday. Former Nirsa MLA Arup Chatterjee, who visited the site on Tuesday to supervise rescue operations, said the burst in the borehole led to water flowing into the mine from an adjoining colliery, leading to flooding around 3.30am. And although two other workers managed to escape, Maji and Bauri got trapped inside. On Wednesday, a team of mines regulator Directorate General Mines Safety, led by Director Mines Safety (Central Zone) Murlidhar Mishra, arrived at the accident site and took details from the colliery officers and workers about the circumstances under which the mishap occurred. Khudia colliery project officer Shailendra Kumar, who was present at the site, along with safety officer C.K. Nayak and others, said, "When we informed the National Disaster Response Force team in Ranchi, they told us that they did not have expertise in mine rescue. Hence, we contacted the Cuttuck team of divers, many of whom are ex-Navy men and have expertise in tunnel rescue." Kumar said efforts to drain out water from the flooded mine were on. “We have decreased water levels in the mine by more than 40 metre since Tuesday,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coal town to get two new sports facilities||Dhanbad authorities are all set to complete work on two different sporting infrastructure facilities, a multisports complex at the Golf Grund and a mega sports complex at Nawadih, within the next two months. This will end the prolonged wait of sports lovers, fitness freaks, yoga enthusiasts and morning walkers, for an open space to workout. At present, around 80 per cent of the groundwork of the sports complex at the Golf Ground has been developed at the cost of around Rs 5.25 crores, while part of the first phase of this comprehensive project has already been completed at a cost of Rs 9.72 crores. On the other hand, renovation work of the sports facility at Nawadih is being carried out at a cost of Rs 4 crores, and the process is in its last stage. This complex is likely to be opened in January. Conceptualised by former Dhanbad mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal, the first phase of the multisports complex will have a roller skating zone, a  children playing arena, an open gymnasium and a yoga training centre.The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation along with a private contractor M/s Pratap and Developers is carrying out the project. On the other hand, a football ground, a basketball court and a hockey stadium are to be developed in the second phase of the project. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Shamsher Singh, a representative of the contractor, said, “We have completed the laying of the jogging track, epimedium laying work, boundary wall repair work, and urinal, toilets and complex construction work, while the remaining work of installation of equipments in the children playing arena would be carried out tomorrow (Wednesday).” The 12-acre stadium, situated less than 500 meters away from the residence of the Senior Superintendent of Police, Dhanbad, was used as a golf course by British officers in the pre-independence era. Later, during the late sixties, it was developed into a shooting range for police and other armed forces of the government. Shooting practice in the ground was stopped in the late seventies due to an increase in population, thereby giving way to morning walkers and football players to use it for their purposes during the eighties. Following the death of Dhanbad SP Randhir Prasad Verma in 1991, the district administration developed a boundary wall around the ground, and renamed it as the Randhir Prasad Verma Stadium. A pavilion and seating area was developed around it in 2001, which was funded by former MP and the SP’s wife Rita Verma. Several local football tournaments including the Randhir Prasad Verma Memorial Football Tournament were organised in the ground periodically by the Dhanbad Football Association. However, it could never be used as a full fledged football field due to the ground’s uneven nature. Regarding the renovation work of the Nawadih sports complex carried out by the building construction department, contractor Santosh Singh said, “Just the repair work of the boundary wall, pavilion and lighting arrangement amounted to Rs 4 crore.” He added that due to the lack of a wall previously, many thefts have occurred in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||Facebook post leads forest dept to launch hunt for deer killers||The forest department on Tuesday launched a hunt for some unknown persons, who killed a deer on Sunday at a village under the Seraikela police station area, in the Seraikela-Kharsawan district about 40 kilometers from Jamshedpur. The search for the hunters of the wild deer began after officials of the department found its remains at the Kandagora village on Monday, suggesting that some locals had feasted on it. However, they could only confirm the killing of the wild animal, perhaps a barking deer, from a Facebook post uploaded by one of the killers. The forest department is now planning to send the remains of the deer to the Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India, to ascertain its species and the way it was killed. Seraikela divisional forest officer Aditya Narayan said various species of deer are found in a scattered way in Seraikela jungle along with other wild animals, including elephants. “Sometimes the wild deer come in close to the human habitat from the jungle, leading the villagers to inform the forest department which then takes care of the animals and drives them away into the jungle. But this time some villagers did not find it necessary to inform the department and instead killed one of the deer, and later feasted on it,” said Narayan while talking to The Telegraph Online. He informed that the forest department on Monday had come to know that some villagers of Kandagora had killed a deer. This led them to start an investigation based on rumours, but the confirmation came on the same night, when they bumped into the Facebook post made by one of the killers. “From the Facebook post, we gathered that three villagers were involved in killing the deer. We are now searching for them and have carried out an extensive drive at the Kandagora village.  As of now none of the three has been detected,” Narayan said. The officer said that given the fact that there is a considerable population of barking deer at Seraikela forest division, the department has assumed that the killed one belongs to the same species. “But we have to get confirmation about its species.This is the reason we want to get the remains of the animal examined at the Wildlife Research Institute. We are also trying to know the method in which the villagers killed the deer. This is why we will ask the institute’s forensic lab to determine it,” Narayan said. He added that after getting the examination report from the Dehradun institute, they will charge the killers under the relevant sections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi sees spike in Covid cases, 67 patients test positive in a day||While at least 188 recoveries against 182 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection caused a marginal drop in the number of active Covid cases in Jharkhand on Tuesday, Ranchi witnessed a spike in the active caseload as fresh cases of infection outnumbered recoveries here, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, Ranchi alone accounts for nearly 45 per cent of the 1,753 active cases of Covid-19 in the state, government figures reveal. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi reported 67 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection, the highest in Jharkhand on the day. Meanwhile, as many as 56 Covid patients recovered from the infection here, taking the number of active cases in the district up at 768, the bulletin further stated. While the active cases dropped, the death toll remained unchanged on Tuesday. As per government data, Jharkhand did not report any Covid-19 casualty on the day. So far, as many as 988 people of died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand, and 355 of them were from East Singhbhum. Ranchi, on the other hand, has reported 203 Covid fatalities so far. At least four Jharkhand districts did not report even a single fresh case of Covid-19 infection on the day. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 14 cases against 13 recoveries, while Deoghar reported 14 cases against four recoveries. Meanwhile, the number of active cases dropped below 10 in Godda and Giridih districts on the day. Active cases dropped in East Singhbhum as well as Dhanbad on the day. At least 19 cases surfaced in East Singhbhum against 34 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 15 cases against 19 recoveries. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 23,107 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the state has collected swab samples of 44.01 lakh people and tested 43.82 lakh of them. Around 19,000 swab samples were still pending for tests. The latest figures released by the government put the Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand at 1,10,639, while the total number of recoveries in the state was 1,07,898. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.52 per cent against the national average of 94.60 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.30 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection was 487.35 days in Jharkhand against the national doubling rate of 228.13 days. Jharkhand’s Covid fatality rate was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
