10-12-2020||Calcutta||Blend of tradition & modernity||New Town now has the prettiest address in town to go sip a cuppa. The New Town Coffee House, opposite Amity University in Action Area II, opened doors to the public last Friday. But so heavy was the footfall in the first weekend that the authorities have decided to take the advance online booking route for entry. The coffee house seats 92 people at a time, with tables placed 4ft apart to ensure social distancing. But Sunday saw close to 800 people make a beeline for the landmark, with footfall peaking from 3.30pm and crowds lingering even at 7pm, the closing time. “This is becoming difficult to manage. Though we are registering names at the entrance and asking people to wait in chairs placed outside they are all crowding at the gate. We will talk to an online booking platform and make provisions for advance booking so that entry gets staggered,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. Such a system was in place before the lockdown at the Biswa Bangla Gate restaurant, with specific time slots given to those logging in. Officials held a review meeting on Monday, the weekly closing day for the coffee house. Lots of suggestions have come, seeking extension of hours in the evening and additions, like Mughlai Paratha, to the existing menu. But the authorities want to wait for the set-up to settle down before imposing more variety on the Cafe Ekante-run kitchen. Proposals are also coming from bands to play, for events to be held as also a cycle stand to be built. The bilaterally symmetrical facade harks back to Raj-era architecture, with eight fluted Corinthian columns lending character to the look. The signage bearing the name hangs from a cast iron hexagonal latticework, supported by cast iron columns, which serves as an entrance canopy, standing under which the first view of the interior can be taken. “The design was so intricate that local grille makers were not confident of taking up the challenge. So we got it done from Hyderabad. The fabricator had to come over after the building was ready to take measurements as a difference of even a millimetre would have created problems in fitting,” said Parinita Hati, the architect who designed the building. If the seating hall lets the eye travel vertically the reason is the extraordinary height of the ceiling — 21ft. The ceiling is supported by an old world feature — kori borga, but made of steel instead of sal wood. The floor has anti-skid, ceramic hexagonal tiles with three-dimensional effect. The central panel of terracotta-hued tiles, a College Street coffee house feature, looks like a fissure, sticking out from the 3,000sq ft black and white surface. Another structural highlight is the cantilever mezzanine floor. “I wanted the ground floor to be visible from the verandah upstairs, just like it is in the College Street coffee house. It is an extraordinary feeling to take in the ambience and activities of the hall below from above,” said Sen, an alumnus of Presidency College, which stood right opposite Indian Coffee House, the iconic meeting place. Though the structure is air-conditioned, Sen wanted ceiling fans too. Thus fans with extended downrods are suspended from the double height ceiling, evoking old world nostalgia. The fans will also ensure circulation of the cold air, which tends to settle at a lower level, across the height and breadth of the hall. Nostalgia reigns in the menu selection too. “Today’s generation has no idea what infusion is. We ordered a cup as it cost two rupees less than milk coffee but saved us for some time from the waiter’s suggestive queries. We have priced it at a minimum — Rs 20 a cup. Where would students get money to pay Rs 140 for a cup of coffee, the usual rate these days at private cafes?” Sen said. Though not currently on the menu, Sen has requested Snehasish Sinha, Hidco’s additional general manager, tourism, for Chicken  Afghani. “When we had some money in our pocket, this was what we indulged ourselves with,” he smiled.  He pointed out that the coffee house has been deliberately positioned in what should evolve into New Town’s college para. “There is Amity University across the road. St. Xavier’s and Presidency universities have opened. Calcutta, Jadavpur, Rabindra Bharati and Vidyasagar universities have been given space here. Netaji Open University is under construction. A law college will come up here, as will the Institute of Company Secretaries of India. Aliah University is close by. There are Narayana School and Bodhicarya Senior Secondary School too. In some years, this place will be teeming with a young and vibrant crowd which will need a place to hang out.” He admitted that the low price points might lead to losses. “We may have to cross-subsidise it but we want people to come here.” Alongside showcasing tradition, technology has been embraced at the coffee house. The place will be wi-fi enabled so that not just students but also people on a work-from-home schedule, wanting to step outdoors, can come and work here. The authorities are also considering setting up a photocopying facility and a stationery shop for the convenience of students. A corner of the coffee house has been set apart for browsing books and magazines. With lounge seating for solo occupants, it will operate as an extension of New Town Library, housed in Nazrul Tirtha. “We have brought 525 books from the library’s stock of 13,000 books, which we will rotate from time to time. We will start lending books also from here. For that, one has to become a member of New Town Library. One can even check for titles of choice from the online catalogue and get it fetched from the main library. Casual visitors can browse books at the table without having to be members,” said Sen. Titbits with the Brew  The illustrations, posters and photographs draw from the city’s cultural, literary, cinematic and culinary traditions. “We want to make the coffee house a part of not just New Town but also of Bengali heritage. One should get a feel of old Calcutta in this corner of new Calcutta. That is why we have focused on city icons like Howrah bridge and Satyajit Ray in the visual representations on the walls,” an official said. The bus runs from either end after every one hour.  Opening Hours: 12 noon to 7pm (Closed on Monday)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Jaya cinema reopens to dismal ticket sales||Jaya Cinema, perhaps the only privately-owned non-multiplex movie hall in the vicinity, reopened last Friday with Christopher Nolan’s Tenet. But things are not looking up. On November 25, the Lake Town theatre had on its Facebook page announced that it would reopen on December 4. “Big films require big screens,” they said. But box office collections by the end of Day 1 or even Week 1 are anything but big. The Facebook page has more than 7,000 followers but not many responded online. “On the first day of Tenet release, we had only 10 per cent audience. Jaya has more than 700 seating capacity but we are now operational with only 185 seats. Still footfall is low,” said Debasis Roy, manager, Jaya Cinema. The hall was closed right through the lockdown and opened during Durga puja. But when the crowds failed to return, they shut down again on November 17. “We have opened now but with Tenet we are selling tickets worth only Rs 1,800-2,000 a day,” said Roy. While multiplexes of Salt Lake and New Town are screening Tenet too, cinema owners maintain that it will take a Shah Rukh or Salman Khan release before their fortunes turn. Also, they fear the crowd might not return to the halls before the vaccine arrives. The Jaya authorities had expected a decent run when Abir Chatterjee-starrer Switzerland released during the Pujas but that sank without a trace. The lack of footfall has also spelt doom for food stalls, tea stalls and snack bars around the complex. “The opening day for any film shows what lies ahead. For Tenet, there has been no crowd, right from Day 1,” said Matthu Nath, who sells tea on the footpath opposite Jaya Cinema. “I remember how other English films used to draw viewers of all ages before the pandemic,” he said. Agree owners of nearby snack counters, like King’s Grill and Urban Masala. “My sales have fallen rapidly. Earlier, people would come for a snack in between shows at the theatre. Unlike multiplexes, Jaya allows the audience to take food inside and during the interval, I used to keep a stack of rolls ready. The crowd would come and gobble up hot rolls in five minutes. I don’t see that happening anytime soon,” said one of the workers at King’s Grill. Roy, the hall manager, said that if footfall remained this dismal they might have to shut down again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Covid-19 patients with medical insurance eligible for discounts||A Covid-19 patient with medical insurance will be eligible for discounts on medicines and consumables if the treatment cost turns out to be more than what the insurance firm has paid, the state clinical establishment regulatory commission said on Wednesday. The commission had in August asked private hospitals to offer at least 10 per cent discount on the maximum retail price of medicines and at least 20 per cent discount on that of consumables to Covid19 patients. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, made the observations while asking Medica Superspecialty Hospital to offer a discount of Rs 1.5 lakh to the family of a patient who died at the hospital on September 3. Banerjee said the hospital had submitted that the patient was not eligible for the discount because she had medical insurance. “But we said that you have to offer the discount since the patient party had to pay the excess amount, which was not paid by the insurance company,” Banerjee told a news conference on Wednesday. The family of a 61-year-old woman who was admitted to the hospital with Covid19 and other ailments complained to the commission that the hospital had overcharged them. The patient was in the hospital for a month, of which 25 days were in the ICU, till she passed away on September 3. The family was billed Rs 25.87 lakh. “When we examined the bill we found that the hospital did not offer any discount on medicines and consumables,” Banerjee said. “The hospital said the patient had medical insurance, so they did not offer any discount. But we said the medical insurers paid only Rs 5 lakh of the total bill. The patient party had to pay the rest. In such a situation, when the patient party has to bear the amount not paid by the insurance company, hospitals have to give a discount on medicines and consumables, according to the commission’s advisory,” he said. After calculating the discount that should have been offered, the commission asked the hospital to offer a discount of Rs 1.5 lakh to the patient’s family. The commission on Wednesday also asked Belle Vue Clinic to return Rs 90,000 to a patient, of which Rs 54,000 pertained to the price of Meropenem, an antibiotic that is being used to treat Covid-19 patients. Banerjee said the hospital had violated the commission’s advisory to private hospitals to supply cheaper antibiotics to patients from its pharmacy unless the doctor prescribed a drug of a particular brand. “The price of Meropenem ranges between Rs 650 and Rs 3,500. The hospital gave the patient Meropenem 31 times at the cost of Rs 3,000 and three times at the cost of Rs 1,250. We told the hospital they have to charge Rs 1,250 for all the times the patient was given Meropenem. The discount on Meropenem alone came to Rs 54,000,” said Banerjee. “The commission asked the hospital to refund Rs 24,000 on other heads and the hospital had deducted another Rs 12,000 because there was some error in their billing system,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Handicraft stores’ revival hope||The handloom and handicraft stores in the city run by NGOs managed to stay afloat through the pandemic but only just. Now, they are back in business with their shutters up for regular hours. With fresh merchandise from their crafts communities, they are planning exhibitions for their clientele to get the touch, feel, buy experience. During the pandemic, the stores took tentative steps towards digitisation through WhatsApp and Facebook but have a long way to go in terms of ecommerce. Kamala, the shop of the Craft Council of India in the city, named after one of the most illustrious patrons of Indian craft, Kamala Devi Chattopadhyay, kicked off the season with a winter exhibition from December 3. Kasturi Menon, the erstwhile Handloom Development Commissioner who looks after the store, is trying her best to revive the flagging sales. “We used to have four events in a year. The first was the Poila Baisakh event which was a complete wash out this year. Then in July, there would be a lifestyle exhibition called Patra where we had functional craft items. For the Puja exhibition, it was just saris from all over the country. And finally the winter exhibition where we would get shawls from Kulu, board games for children during Christmas,” said Menon. Durga Puja this year yielded a sale of Rs 4 lakh as against Rs 17 lakh last year. “We reopened in July, in August we went online, we had a professional photographer take pictures of the store, of the items which were posted on Facebook and also on our customers’ WhatsApp group. Through August, September, October we had sales of Rs 4 lakh and about but then sales have again dipped in November,” said a worried Menon. “Unless sales pick up during the exhibition, we are in trouble.”  Bengal Home Industries Association, an over 100-year-old institution founded by Gaganendrnath Thakur, shut shop on March 20 and re-opened only on June 20. Compared to preCovid times, the shop has lost 75 per cent of its business, said Shankar Bose of BHIA. When asked if the clientele was back, Bose said: “Some of them visited the store before Puja and Diwali but now again we are witnessing a dip in business.” The association is launching an ecommerce enabled website. “Our ecommerce project is in the beta stage, with content uploaded and logistics contracts in place and is undergoing final trials before a rollout scheduled before the year end,” said Bose. Artisana, a shop of the Crafts Council of West Bengal witnessed zero sales this puja though it has been open since August for four days a week for several hours. Located in Bhowanipore, Artisana probably lost out on sales because it was right in the middle of a containment zone. There was some business during Diwali for about Rs 50,000, with terracotta lights done by one of its potters being the largest draw. Some amount of overseas consignments worth around Rs 75,000 have been sent through October and November on order from some of its regular international clientele. “We will be launching our ecommerce site and hope to recover sales once its up,” said Anjum Katyal of Crafts Council.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Tailoring classes for women in Covid crisis||A headmaster in Hingalganj in North 24 Parganas has initiated tailoring training for young women, most of who are qualified but have had no source of income for the past eight months. Of the 17 women who have enrolled for the training, four are postgraduates and four graduates. Some of them used to give tuition but that stopped during the Covid pandemic because parents cannot afford to pay them and have discontinued the coaching, said the headmaster. He plans to have an exhibition for them to sell the products they make, to help them assess the market, open a bank account and generate a livelihood. “There are many in the area who have lost jobs. There are girls who have completed post graduation and graduation but have no jobs. There are homemakers who want to supplement the family income. The idea is to provide them with training and help them earn a living gradually,” said Pulak Roy Chowdhury, the headmaster of Kanaknagar SD Institution. The training is a joint initiative of the school and Mom Sundarban Society, created to work on empowering women in the area. “We do not want to create only labour but also make small businesswomen who would be able to make and sell their products. They should not be the ones who would cut and stitch while middlemen walk away with the profit,” Roy Chowdhury said. The women have started making masks and bags of all kinds — backpacks to shopping bags. The training takes place six days a week from 10.30am to 4am. Soumita Kayal, 25, who has a masters in English has enrolled for the training. She has had no source of income for the last eight months. “I used to teach English to school students for the last two years since completing my graduation but now there is no one who comes for tuition. Since schools are closed, many of them in the villages think why do the children need tuition,” she said. Kayal said the pandemic had made it difficult for young people like her to find a job. “The competition is going up and getting a job is difficult. With this training at least if I can make some money that will enable me to meet my expenses and also maybe give some money to my father.” Like her, 22yearold Monira Khatun, a graduate in Bengali, was doing an internship at a centre in Barasat until the lockdown. “It was a consultancy and they would have sent us to private companies for interviews after the training, but it discontinued during the lockdown,” she said. The tailoring training began with six machines and an initial investment of Rs 80,000. Roy Chowdhury had contributed more than 50 per cent of the amount. An associate professor at Jadavpur University involved with the project was surprised to see the qualifications of the candidates who enrolled. “Some of them scored high marks in masters. But it shows that alternative livelihood is necessary when the normal channels are not available,” said Maroona Murmu, associate professor in the department of history at JU. “Some of these women are educated and once they are able to receive the kind of commercial training that the programme is providing them with they will be able to cater to a bigger market and not just the local market and carve a career out of it,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Car hits app cab, 2 hurt||A couple travelling in an app cab were injured after a private car hit their vehicle from behind on EM Bypass around 2am on Wednesday. The passengers, Himangshu Ghoshal, 60, and his wife Ruma, 50, residents of Hooghly, were admitted to a private hospital off the Bypass, police said. The driver of the private car has been arrested. Both vehicles have been seized, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Parked car theft racket busted||Four men have been arrested on Wednesday for allegedly running a car theft racket that had spread to various states, police said. The gang would steal parked cars from the city and its fringes and sell them to people from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Nagaland and Manipur, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The police have seized three cars — a Toyota Fortuner, a Toyota Innova Crysta and a Hyundai Creta — from them, the officer said. The officer said they were probing how the group stole cars fitted with modern security systems. An officer in the investigating team said they had received information that the racket had been operating from somewhere near Dum Dum and the fringes of Rajarhat. Based on the tipoff, a team from the airport police station had a few days ago raided a garage near the Salua intersection, on the fringes of Rajarhat, where they found the Toyota Innova Crysta. They then traced Mohammed Salauddin, a resident of Maheshtala, in South 24 Parganas, who had taken the car there. Salauddin allegedly failed to produce any documents for the car. “Initially, he said the car belonged to a relative. But after we questioned him, he admitted that he traded in stolen vehicles and had gone to Salua to sell the vehicle,” the officer said. Based on Salauddin’s statements, the team raided a hideout in Maheshtala and recovered the Toyota Fortuner and the Hyundai Creta. The cops also arrested another alleged gang member, Naushad Sheikh. Naushad and Salauddin apparently told the officers that they would steal cars parked along roads in the city and on the fringes. After stealing vehicles, they would drive them to their hideouts and inform people dealing in stolen vehicles in other states. They would arrive in a couple of days and drive away with the vehicles. “Our officers then asked the two to call up their accomplices and tell them that a good SUV was up for sale. A deal was struck for Rs 3.7 lakh,” said the officer. The cops made the two arrested men wait with an SUV, while a team of plain clothes men kept watch from a distance. When two men turned up on Tuesday night to buy the SUV, the cops arrested them. The two have been identified as Mohammed Gufran and Mohammed Jamil, brothers from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh. “More than Rs 3.7 lakh was seized from them,” the officer said. The men from Ghazipur have apparently told the police that they would fix fake licence plates on stolen cars before driving them down to their hometown. “Once there, they would change the chassis and engine numbers and get the vehicles reregistered. They would then sell them for double or triple the price they had paid for them,” another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Live and dead turtles seized in Barasat||Around 1,500 dead and live turtles, stacked in jute sacks and being ferried with onions, were seized from a pickup van in Barasat in North 24Parganas on Wednesday morning. Six men have been arrested. The seizure is the latest in a series of turtle hauls around Calcutta in the past few years. Like in most previous cases, the turtles seized on Wednesday had been caught in Uttar Pradesh, said forest officials. The pickup van had an Uttar Pradesh number plate. All six accused are from Sultanpur in UP. Stuffed in sacks on such a long journey, many turtles had suffocated to death. “We seized 1,295 live and 188 dead Indian flapshell turtles and 17 live Indian peacock shell turtles,” said the divisional forest officer of North 24Parganas. Both species are protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act. Killing them can lead to a jail term of three to seven years. “The turtles were hidden under jute sacks stuffed with onions. Based on a tipoff, the van was intercepted near the Dak Bungalow intersection around 9am,” said a forest officer. The operation was conducted jointly by the forest department and the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau. “The turtles were caught from Sultanpur in UP and were headed towards Bangladesh, via the Bongaon border,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal. “They will be released in an oxbow lake off the Ganga in Purbasthali, in East Burdwan, a popular destination for migratory birds.” Turtle meat is a delicacy in Bangladesh, said a forest official. It is also sold on the sly in markets in Gaighata, Bon¬gaon, Habra and some other places in North 24 Parganas and some areas in South 24Parganas, according to foresters and wildlife activists. A kilo of turtle meat is sold for Rs 600, they said. The Gangetic basin of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are rich in turtles. “Winter, when the water level goes down, is the time to catch turtles from river basins,” an official said. In January 2020, close to 1,000 turtles had been seized from a market in Bongaon. A year before, over 1,500 turtles had been seized in back to back raids in North 24Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Glare on ‘unjustified’ ICU stay||Many Covid patients are being admitted to the intensive care unit or kept there for a prolonged period even if they do not need critical care support, state government officials involved in tackling the pandemic and insurance companies have alleged. Most private hospitals have increased the number of ICU beds for Covid19 patients and many have realised that the demand might not be as much as they had anticipated. Some of the insurance companies said they were regularly seeking justifications for decisions to keep stable Covid patients in ICUs. Insurance firms said they often refrained from deducting from reimbursements because doctors said they felt the patient needed ICU care. At least one private hospital denied the allegation. “We often have to refuse critical patients because of lack of beds. There is no question of keeping a patient in the critical care unit for a longer duration than required,” said Rupak Barua, the Group CEO of AMRI Hospitals and president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. Some of the parameters for sending a Covid patient to the ICU are severe respiratory dis¬tress and requirement of highflow oxygen, and abnormal blood pressure and pulse rate, said doctors. “The reports don’t come to insurance agencies real time. So, we don’t know whether the data related to oxygen saturation, blood pressure and pulse are true or not. One has to be¬lieve what hospitals say,” said an official of an insurance agency. The tariff for an ICU bed in private hospitals varies between Rs 6,500 and Rs 11,000 a day, said officials of these healthcare units. The tariff for a bed in a general ward, on the other hand, varies between Rs 2,500 and Rs 4,000. “Unnecessary and prolonged ICU stay is mostly reported from middle level hospitals and nursing homes. We seek justifications. If the healthcare unit is unable to provide any, we take steps,” said Prabir Mukherjee, the regional head of medical officers, east, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co. State government officials said they had come across many such cases. “The monitoring teams set up by the health department for Covid patients are regularly coming across patients kept in ICUs despite not needing critical care. The hospitals are being asked to shift these patients. In many such cases we have observed that the private healthcare units are not following government advisories,” said Gopal Dhali, the state government’s officer on special duty for Covid19 and head of the School of Digestive and Liver Diseases, SSKM Hospital. A health department official said they had found such cases in government hospitals, too, but the reason was not monitory. “If a stable patient is kept in the ICU, the pressure on doctors and nurses is much less,” the official said. Some insurance officials alleged that a section of private hospitals were taking advantage of the protocol that blocked access of family members and others to Covid patients for health reasons. “Recently we sent two investigators to a private hospital in Calcutta to check on one such case. But they were not allowed to meet the patient. The investigators could not do much other than go through the data provided by the hospital,” said an official of a private insurance company. Chandramouli Bhattacharya, a doctor who is part of the Covid treatment team at Peerless Hospital, said they assess the clinical condition of a Covid patient such as the oxygen saturation level before deciding whether she or he needs to be shifted to the ICU. “Once the parameters improve, the patient is shifted to a stepdown unit,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta police starts drive to sensitise cyclists||Police have begun stopping bicyclists moving on thoroughfares, and asking them to stick to lanes and bylanes, after a long lull. An increasing number of people have been cycling to work since the lockdown was imposed in March. Calcutta police have started a drive to sensitise cyclists that will continue for a few weeks. During the period, cyclists will be counselled to stay off main roads. “After that, they will be prosecuted and booked for petty cases that attract a penalty of a few hundred rupees, if found moving on thoroughfares,” said an officer. Despite a notification restricting bicycles to lanes and bylanes, the police had been allowing them even on thoroughfares on “humanitarian grounds” during the pandemic as a large number of people had no option but to cycle to work in the absence of adequate public transport. However, the resumption of suburban trains and a rise in the number of accidents involving bicycles have prompted the police to launch an awareness drive urging cyclists to stay away from main roads. “We are stopping every cyclist on main roads and asking them to stick to lanes and bylanes. Many of them are surprised as it has become their habit over the past few months to cycle down thoroughfares. We are asking them to stop the practice immediately,” said an officer in the traffic department in central Calcutta. Officers said cycling was not allowed on 62 thoroughfares in the city. In June 2020, following a nod from the state cabinet, the city police had issued a notification allowing cycling on small and medium roads in Calcutta to ease the hardship people were facing in the absence of suburban and Metro trains. “Suburban train services have since resumed. Also, there is adequate public transport,” said an officer in the traffic department, explaining why the police have become strict on cyclists. Another officer said the presence of cycles, and other slow moving vehicles, on thoroughfares not only reduce the average speed of the vehicles, but also make cyclists vulnerable to road accidents. On Wednesday morning, officers of the headquarter traffic guard were seen suggesting alternative routes to cyclists who were caught playing along Central Avenue and Ganesh Chandra Avenue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira to organise its annual convocation on Dec 12||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira will hold the annual convocation on its Belur campus on December 12 following all health and safety protocols. Close to 200 students (undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD) will be awarded their degree certificates during the one and half hour long ceremony. Swami Ekachittananda, the principal of the college, said they had decided to hold the ceremony on the campus as Unlock VI guidelines of the Centre has allowed social, academic and other congregations in closed spaces using up to 50 per cent of the hall capacity and with up to 200 people. “In compliance with the safety protocols, the 200 odd degree recipients will be split in two groups. One group will attend the convocation in Vivekananda Sabhagriha, which can accommodate over 800 people. Still, we will use AshaJyoti Conference Hall for the other group so that maximum physical distance can be maintained,” Swami Ekachittananda told The Telegraph. Jadavpur University, from where 4,000 odd students have graduated this year, will not hold its convocation to avoid a gathering while the Covid pandemic is still raging. Degree recipients can download their degree certificates from digital platforms. A JU official said the recipients could collect hard copies of their certificates from the departments in a staggered way. RK Mission Vidyamandira, which has featured among the top 11 institutions in the National Institutional Ranking Framework over the past three years, will not allow the degree recipients to be accompanied by family members. “This year we will only allow the degree recipients on the campus as a precaution against Covid,” the principal said. A teacher of the college said that unlike previous years, the recipients this year will not be allowed to put up at hostels on the campus. “No one will be allowed to put up at hostels, which are empty because the students are all home. They are attending classes on digital platforms because of the pandemic,” he said. The college has enlisted the names of those who will attend the event on Google forms. The recipients have to wear masks throughout their stay on the campus and their body temperature will be checked by thermal guns. Pravin Srivastava, a former chief statistician of India, will deliver the convocation address virtually. Calcutta University’s pro vice chancellor for academic affairs, Ashis Chatterjee, will award the degree certificates. Swami Divyananda, the secretary of the college, will be present on the occasion. The convocation at RK Mission Vidyamandira is held on the first or second Saturday. December 12 is the second Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
10-12-2020||Calcutta||More Metro trains during non rush hours from next week, epass use limited||The Metro fleet will go up from Monday with more trains in non rush hours, said officials. Also, the epass system will be operational only during the rush hours from Monday. “From December 14, we plan to run 216 trains from Monday to Saturday,” a Metro official said. The number of weekday trains went up to 204 from 190 on December 7. The timings were also expanded. The first and last trains now leave the terminal stations at 7am and 9.30pm, respectively. The additional trains will be run from 11pm to 5pm, said an official. The epass window is also being shortened gradually to make the carrier available for all throughout the day, said sources in Metro. Women, children (15 years and below) and senior citizens (60 years and above) do not need an epass throughout the day. Other passengers need an epass to enter the station except between 7am and 8.30am, and post 8pm. From Monday, epass will be mandatory only from 8.30am to 11am and from 5pm to 8pm. Outside these two rush hour windows, anyone can enter a station without an epass. “The rush hours have been very busy. But around one-third of the slots between 11am and 5pm are usually vacant. Many people who want to travel during that slot are probably thwarted by the epass system,” said a Metro official. But the system would be essential for crowd control during rush hours, he pointed out. The passenger count of Calcutta Metro breached the 1,00,000mark on November 18, for the first time since the resumption of services on September 14 and a week into the resumption of suburban railway services on November 11. The usual weekday passenger count is now above 1,15,000. On Monday, the count was over 1,24,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
10-12-2020||Business||Sensex snaps 5-day winning run, ends 144 pts lower||Snapping its five-session winning run, equity benchmark Sensex ended 144 points lower on Thursday, tracking losses in index heavyweights HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank. The 30-share BSE index settled 143.62 points or 0.31 per cent lower at 45,959.88. The broader NSE Nifty fell 50.80 points or 0.38 per cent to 13,478.30. UltraTech Cement was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by M&M, HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Nestle India, ITC, HUL and Kotak Bank were among the gainers. According to traders, profit-booking emerged at higher levels, dragging benchmark indices lower. The broader indices traded weak along with selling seen in basic materials, public sector and capital goods counters. "During the afternoon session, markets scaled back from lows as traders took some relief from reports that the Asian Development Bank (ADB) raised the growth forecast for India in the current fiscal year to (-) 8 per cent from the (-) 9 per cent projection in September while keeping the outlook for the next fiscal year at 8 per cent," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the red, while Shanghai was in the positive territory. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.76 per cent to USD 49.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||Sensex drops over 250 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 250 points in early trade on Thursday tracking losses in index-heavyweight HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and Infosys amid weak trend in global markets. According to traders, profit-booking emerged at higher levels, dragging benchmark indices lower. The 30-share BSE index was trading 254.72 points or 0.55 per cent lower at 45,848.78. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 79.60 points or 0.59 per cent to 13,449.50. UltraTech Cement was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, ONGC, IndusInd Bank, HDFC Bank, M&M, Infosys and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Maruti, Nestle India, Titan and PowerGrid were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 494.99 points or 1.09 per cent higher at its lifetime high of 46,103.50, while Nifty rallied 136.15 points or 1.02 per cent to its new record high of 13,529.10. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,564.23 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. "Domestic markets do not appear inspiring at the moment as global markets are trading in red," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. US equities finished lower mainly led by selling pressure in technology stocks, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the positive territory. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.53 per cent higher at USD 49.12 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||Burmans may run Eveready if Khaitans exit||The Burman family may consider taking control of Eveready Industries Ltd (EIL), the dry cell battery maker, if the Khaitans decide to exit the company. The Burmans hold close to 20 per cent stake in the Calcutta headquartered EIL, nearly four times more than the existing promoters who manage the company now. Amritanshu Khaitan is the managing director of EIL while his uncle Aditya Khaitan is the chairman of the board. The Burmans, who are promoters of Dabur India Ltd, have also confirmed their intention to corner more shares in EIL but ruled out buying at the current market prices. EIL rose 6.94 per cent to close at Rs 195.75 on the BSE on Wednesday after a media report suggested that the Burmans were getting ready to buy out the remaining shares of the Khaitans. Both sides denied the development. The stock closed at Rs 195.65 on the NSE, after hitting a 52-week high of Rs 206. The average cost at which the Burmans have built up their stake over the past 18 months is between Rs 80 and Rs 100 per share. “(We will buy) at an appropriate price…not at this price!” Mohit Burman, vice-chairman of Dabur, told this newspaper when asked if the Burman family intended to acquire more shares in Eveready. Asked if the Burman family would take control of Eveready going forward, he added: “Only if the Khaitans decide to exit.” The Khaitans have disclosed no plans to move out of the company that the late Brij Mohan Khaitan acquired in 1993. But their options are becoming limited as their equity holding in the company has fallen dramatically. The Khaitans own around 4.4 per cent stake in EIL, down from the 44.11 per cent that they held on March 31 last year. The situation arose after promoter group companies that held shares in EIL defaulted on creditor agreements, prompting the lenders to invoke the Eveready shares that had been pledged with them as collateral. Ironically, Eveready did not have any blotches on its own balance sheet. But the toxic debt had piled up in group firm McNally Bharat Engineering. The promoter group companies pledged their holdings in EIL and bulk tea producer McLeod Russel India Ltd to raise funds and funnelled the cash to mitigate the crisis at McNally Bharat. At one stage, there were several reports that suggested global giants Energizer and Duracell were eyeing EIL’s battery business. While none of these deals materialised, the Burmans started picking up shares from the market. Mohit Burman, who spearheaded the family’s entry into the financial sector (it had partnered Aviva of the UK for its life insurance foray in India), said Eveready was a strong brand with a national presence and this is what attracted them to the company. Unless the Khaitans find ways to creep back into the company, it might become difficult for them to carry on for the long to medium term now that the Burmans have articulated their desire to acquire more shares and take control if the situation turns favourable. So far, however, the relation between the two camps have been extremely cordial. If the Burmans cross the 25 per cent stake threshold, they will mandatorily be required to make an open offer for another 26 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||Go-ahead to public Wi-Fi||In a move to drive broadband penetration in the country, the government on Wednesday approved the setting up of public Wi-Fi networks through public data offices that will not involve any licence, fee or registration. The public Wi-Fi Access Network Interface will be known as PM-WANI. The cabinet approved the setting up of these public Wi-Fi networks involving multiple players — Public Data Office (PDO), Public Data Office Aggregators and app providers. Speaking to reporters after the cabinet meeting, communication minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that businesses can take services from Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio or any such internet service provider (ISP) and use their physical location to provide Wi-Fi to anyone who happens to be nearby. “The Cabinet has cleared the PM-WANI public WiFi project that will unleash a broadband revolution in India and empower the lives of ordinary Indians, much like the PCO model of past decades that drove mass proliferation of basic telephone services,” Communication Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters after the Cabinet meeting. "No licence, no registration, and no fee would be applicable for the PDOs, which could be small shops or even Common Service Centres," Prasad said. The minister also said that businesses can take services from Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio or any such internet service provider (ISP) and use their physical location to provide Wi-Fi to anyone who happens to be nearby. The policy comes at a time when there mounting data demand from consumers strains the telecom networks. Telcos have been complaining that they do not have the spectrum necessary to provide high speeds and serve large amounts of data demand. A high number of public WiFi hotspots could serve increased demand from mobile internet users who do not have fixed broadband connections. Prasad said the Public Data Office (PDO) will establish, maintain and operate Wi-Fi Access Points and deliver broadband services to subscribers, while Public Data Office Aggregator (PDOA) will act as an aggregator of PDOs and perform the functions relating to authorisation and accounting. App providers will be responsible for developing applications to register users and discover WANI compliant Wi-Fi hotspots in the nearby area and display the same within the app for accessing the internet service. A Central Registry will maintain the details of app providers, PDOAs, and PDOs. "To begin with, the Central Registry will be maintained by C-DoT," an official release said. No registration would be required for PDOs, while PDOAs and app providers will get themselves registered with the telecom department through the online registration portal without paying any fee. The registration will be granted within seven days of applying. "This is expected to be more business-friendly and in line with efforts for ease of doing business. COVID-19 pandemic has necessitated delivery of stable and high-speed Broadband Internet (data) services to an increasingly large number of subscribers in the country, including areas which do not have 4G mobile coverage. This can be achieved by deployment of Public Wi-Fi," the release said. Further, the proliferation of public Wi-Fi will not only create employment, but enhance disposable income in the hands of small and medium entrepreneurs and boost GDP (gross domestic product) of the country, it added. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) had held two sets of consultations way back in 2016 - one on a policy for proliferation of public WiFi hotspots, and another on an interoperable framework for these hotspots, involving Aadhaar authentication for users. The Cabinet has also approved the laying of undersea submarine optical fibre cable to provide high-speed broadband to Lakshadweep, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||Cabinet approves job scheme ||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a previously announced job scheme that seeks to encourage businesses to hire new employees. Under the Rs 22,810-crore scheme, the government will provide for two years both the employee and employer contribution to the retirement fund of the recruits. The cabinet approved an expenditure of Rs. 1,584 crore for the current financial year and Rs 22,810 crore for the entire scheme period — 2020-2023, a release said. Employees hired between October 1, 2020 and June 30, 2021 will be  eligible. The government will pay both 12 per cent  of employees’ contribution and 12 per cent employers’ contribution, which .is  24 per cent of wages towards EPF,  in establishments employing up to 1,000 workers. It will pay only employees' share in establishments employing more than 1,000 employees. Employers working with 50 employees or less must hire two recruits to be eligible, while those working with more than 50 employees must hire at least five recruits. An employee drawing a monthly wage of less than Rs. 15,000, who was not working in any establishment registered with the EPFO before October 1, 2020, and did not have a Universal Account Number (UAN) or EPF Member account number before October 1, 2020, will be eligible for the benefit. Any EPF member with UAN drawing a monthly wage of less than Rs. 15,000, who exited employment during Covid pandemic from March 1, 2020, to September 30, 2020, and did not join employment in any EPF covered establishment up to September 30, 2020, will also be eligible . “It is a good step towards supporting the formal sector which is struggling with a cash crunch. A large number of organizations have put off their hiring plans this year because they are wary of taking up fresh monetary commitments,” according to Vivek Bindra who heads start-up Bada Business. “The government’s pledge to bear the EPFO contributions of new employees will encourage many organizations to resurrect their recruitment plans,” he said. Vivek Bindra, Founder & CEO Bada Business, a start-up said. Under the scheme, the government will provide subsidy for two years in respect of new employees engaged on or after October 1, 2020, and up to June 30th, 2021. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as part of the "Atmanirbhar Bharat Package 3.0" had announced the scheme aimed to incentivize the creation of new employment opportunities during the COVID-19 recovery phase. The Cabinet nod would result in the implementation of the scheme. "The scheme will provide benefits to lakhs of people in the formal/organised sector," Gangwar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||RBI rules out more waivers||The RBI on Wednesday ruled out in the Supreme Court any further extension of moratorium on loans which ended on August 31, even as State Bank of India told the top court that any reliefs for distressed sectors can be mutually decided by banks and borrowers. “The prayer for extension of date is not feasible…” senior advocate V. Giri appearing for the RBI told a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, while referring to the plea by several distressed sectors for extending the moratorium on loan till March 31, 2021. Giri, however, told the court that in terms of the RBI circular on loan moratorium the distressed sectors/individuals can approach the banks with their requests, including on personal loans which would be honoured. He said the eligibility of the borrower is clearly mentioned in clause 3 of the circular and stipulates that the eligibility would be on account of stress due to Covid-19. In other words, he said the borrowers need not even carry with them the actual resolution plans for availing the benefit. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for SBI however, questioned the maintainability of the batch petitions seeking reliefs from banks. According to him the court should not interfere in the issue was it would entail over Rs 6 lakh cr to banks if the plea of the petitioners are entertained. “My submission is that these are issues which cannot be decided by hearing parties in the courtroom.  A large number of people have deposited their money. Under Article 32(for enforcement of fundamental right) restructuring of loans cannot be asked for by the petitoners,” Rohatgi argued. The senior counsel noted that banks have complied with the various other directives of the RBI and Finance Ministry as such cannot give any further concessions to the different sectors. He was referring to the waiver of compound interests to borrowers of Rs two crore and below, besides the six months loan moratorium ending August 31. “We have complied with the directives…you (court) have to leave it to the banks, because these are economic policies and I do not think that either the RBI or the Union of India could have done more than this. “There are lakhs and lakhs of small depositors for every big borrower and this court must not lose sight of it,” Rohatgi argued. The court later adjourned the matter to December 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||Sensex crosses 46000, while Nifty breaches 13500||The Sensex on Wednesday scaled the 46000-mark and settled at a new peak, while the Nifty breached 13500, buoyed by progress on the Covid-19 vaccine and hopes of a new stimulus package in the US amid strong portfolio flows. The 30-share Sensex began on a positive note and crossed the 46000-level for the first time. After touching a record intra-day high of 46164.10, the gauge ended 494.99 points, or 1.09 per cent, higher at 46103.50. The broader NSE Nifty rallied 136.15 points, or 1.02 per cent, to its new high of 13529.10, thus extending its record setting run for the seventh straight day. During the session, the index touched its lifetime peak of 13548.90. The gains tracked those in Asia where the Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo stock indices ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in early deals. This came on optimism over the rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine in more countries, despite the disappointing news of rising numbers of cases in the UK and some other countries that  are battling the second wave of the pandemic. There are also expectations that there could be another stimulus package in the US. Another key factor that contributed to the stock market rally has been the spike in FPI investments after October. They invested a massive Rs 60,358 crore in equities last month. So far this month, their net investments stand at Rs 26,217 crore. So far during 2020, they have made net purchases of over Rs 1.34 trillion due to the accommodative policy followed by various central banks. ``Global cues were positive as Pfizer started to roll out its coronavirus vaccine in the UK and as investors tracked the ongoing efforts in the US on additional fiscal stimulus. European markets too hit February highs, joining the global market rally while investors kept an eye on the make-or-break Brexit talks.. Going ahead, the overall structure of the market continues to remain positive given abundant liquidity, developments on the vaccine front and signs of economic recovery. Technically too, Nifty formed a bullish candle on daily scale and continues forming higher highs’’ Siddhartha Khemka, Head - Retail Research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services said. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting 3.37 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, Infosys, Reliance Industries and ITC. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Tata Steel, Maruti, SBI and Bajaj Auto were among the laggards, falling up to 1.29 per cent. The rally was also broad-based with BSE small cap and mid cap indices rising upto 0.49 per cxent whereas Bankex, energy, realty, finance, IT, FMCG and teck indices jumped up to 1.47 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||One coal auction for all grades||The coal ministry is considering the consolidation of all types of electronic auctions done by Coal India to enable a better discovery of prices. Speaking at a session organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Wednesday, Union coal secretary Anil Kumar Jain said the reforms were not yet over. “The grant of mining leases is one reform that has already happened. The next reform that we need to do is in marketing of Coal India’s production,” said Jain. At present, Coal India has four windows for e-auction — spot auction, special spot auction, exclusive non-power sector auction and special forward auction for the power sector. In addition, a fifth window was provided in October to importers. “We want to bring it all into one bucket. Let there be a market discovery of prices. These little buckets are no longer serving the purpose. They are in fact enhancing the price to some sectors,” Jain said adding that the move to put all of them together could bring some sense of “balance and satisfaction” in the market. But industry sources point out that different consumers may have different preferences for coal grades and mines and those necessities have to be taken into consideration while consolidating the auction windows. Incidentally volume booking in e-auctions for the first seven months of the ongoing fiscal ending October at 59 MTs, increased by 28 MTs translating into a growth of 90 per cent and the trend sources indicate has continued in November. Sales through e-auction commands a better premium compared to supply through agreements. E-auction booking during the first seven months of the current fiscal ending October fetched a premium of 10 per cent over the notified price. Jain also said that the government collects around Rs 800 crore per annum into the National Mineral Exploration Trust. The leaseholders contribute 2 percent of royalty to the trust. Coal is the biggest contributor and with the production likely to go up to 1 billion tonnes, with commercial mining coming in and also the mineral sector closely following, Jain said that contributions to the trust can cross Rs 1000 crore which can then be deployed for gathering baseline geoscientific data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||Heritage Foods exits Future Retail ||Heritage Foods has sold its entire holding of over three per cent in Future Retail (FRL) at close to half the price when these shares came under its kitty. Heritage, which is promoted by the family members of former Andhra Pradesh chief minister Chandrababu Naidu, sold its stake in FRL for around Rs 132 crore in the open market to mainly repay its long-term debt. In 2016, FRL had acquired the retail business of Heritage Foods in a share-swap deal following which it issued over 1.78 crore shares to Heritage, which  gave it a 3.65 per cent stake in the Kishore Biyani-led retail firm. These shares were then valued at almost Rs 270 crore. “The company has disposed off its entire holdings/investment of 1,78,47,420 equity shares held in Future Retail. These shares were sold through stock exchange in open market in various tranches and the net amount of Rs 131.94 crore was received by the company,” Heritage Foods said in a regulatory filing today. Heritage Foods disclosed that the sale proceeds shall be mainly utilised to repay the term loans of the company. At the time of acquisition, Heritage Foods ran 124 retail outlets under the brand name Heritage Fresh in Hyderabad, Bangalore and Chennai. Shares of Heritage Foods on Wednesday zoomed over 18 per cent or Rs 50.50 to close at Rs 330.45 on the BSE. Its retail business had posted a turnover Rs 629.70 crore in 2015-16 while the net profit stood at around Rs 110 crore. As part of the acquisition plan, Heritage Foods spun off its retail, bakery, agri-sourcing and veterinary care businesses to a fully owned subsidiary. Subsequently, all these businesses, except veterinary care, was merged with Future Retail. Shares of Heritage Foods on Wednesday zoomed over 18 per cent or Rs 50.50 to close at Rs 330.45 on the BSE. For the quarter ended September 30, the company had posted standalone revenues of Rs 593.32 crore which was lower than Rs 665.91 crore in the year-ago period. Its net profit fell to Rs 99.28 lakh against Rs 14.04 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. In August this year, Reliance Industries had announced the acquisition of retail and wholesale business and the logistics and warehousing business from the Future Group as going concerns on a slump sale basis for lumpsum aggregate consideration of Rs 24,713 crore. Shares of Future Retail on Wednesday settled five per cent higher at Rs 80.65.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||Tatas question Cyrus Mistry status||Tata Sons told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that the National Company Law Tribunal order directing the reinstatement of Cyrus Mistry as chairman of the $ 113-billion group would effectively render the Shapoorji Pallonji group as the majority shareholder if it is upheld. It also insisted that that there had been no mismanagement of the company or oppression of the minority shareholder that would warrant the winding up of the group’s holding company under the existing laws. Continuing his arguments for the second day, senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for Tata Sons told a bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde that the group’s assets rose from Rs 69 crore in 1965 to Rs 58,000 crore, yet the Mistry group had accused the Tata Sons of mismanagement and oppression before the NCLAT. “The valuation of their holding rose from Rs 69 crore in 1965 to Rs 58,000 crore in 2016. Yet they say Ratan Tata ran the company so badly, that it was fit to wind it up in 2016…” Salve told the bench which includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian too. The court is hearing an appeal filed by Tata Sons challenging the NCLAT order of December 18, 2019 directing reinstatement of Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the company. The NCLAT order was subsequently stayed by the Supreme Court in January this year. According to the Tatas, the Mistry group owns only 18 per cent of the shareholding and was only a minority shareholder. Assailing the NCLAT order, Salve said: “With the NCLAT order, the majority is out and the minority is running the company…” . Questioning the petition filed by Mistry in NCLA, Salve asked: “On what basis are they saying there is justification for winding up Tata Sons? So if we go by their claims, it is strange management which has mismanaged the company but still taken its valuation from 1 lakh cr in 2017 to 1.75 lakh crore in 2020.” He was referring to the counter claim of the Mistry group that the latter shareholding  was to the tune of Rs 1.75 lakh cr contrary to the Tata Sons claim that it was just not more than Rs 80000 cr as on today. “Unless the losses were so enormous and there was such lack of probity so that there was no other way except to boot them (Tata Son) out, NCLAT could not have reached the conclusion it did. “In the cross appeal they have filed, they have claimed valuation of 1.5 lakh crores. They (Pallonji) have now asked that they be given 18 percent in all downstream Tata companies and as per their latest application the valuation is 1.75 lakh crores,” Salve submitted. Rejecting allegations of impropriety and mismanagement, the senior advocate submitted that there was no lack of probity in giving Tata Teleservices shares to C.Sivasankaran of Temasek as the prices of the stock had actually gone up. He said Sivasankaran had handled negotiations with Malaysian company in a remarkable manner when Tatas wanted to sell stake in Tata Teleservices and as a result prices went up, so where is the question of lack or probity he asked. The counsel said  giving penthouse to Sivasankaran at discounted rent is also not lack of probity and recalled that even Cyrus Mistry's brother was also given a similar penthouse. “So if we go by their (Mistry group’s) claims, it is a strange management which has mismanaged the company but still taken its valuation from 1 lakh crore in 2017 to 1.75 lakh crore (present valuation),” Salve remarked. The CJI however, pointed out that under Sections 241 and 242 of the Companies Act, a party seeking resolution before the NCLAT need not necessarily seek winding up of a company as it can seek other remedies for running the company. “The Tribunal can then look into the complaint and if it feels that it is just and equitable to wind up company but not expedient to do so in shareholders’ interest, then directions can be passed by tribunal,” Justice Bobde said while pointing out that there is no specific need to plead for winding up of the company. Salve said Tata Sons being a private limited company in terms of the Companies Act 2013 has restricted its members to 50. Cyrus Mistry was initially inducted as deputy exuectie chairman to work under Ratan Tata before he took over from hi. It was the first time someone from outside the family’s Tata Trusts had taken over as chairman of the Tata Sons. According to Salve earlier the practice was to appoint a person from Tata Sons to the board of different Tata companies. However, after Mistry took over he started appointing his own persons to those companies resulting in a disconnect between the Tata Sons and the operative companies, “…the only link being Mr Mistry himself.” The arguments would continue on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
10-12-2020||Business||More spectrum sought for 5G||Telecom operators Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and Reliance Jio on Wednesday said the government should roll out adequate spectrum for 5G services in the country. The demand follows recent reports that the government would be allocating only 175 MHz (3425 -3600 MHz) for 5G after ISRO and the Department of Space raised concerns about allowing the 3400-3425 MHz band for 5G as they need it for their applications. The government had earlier planned to allocate 300 MHz for 5G services. Telecom operators said the current availability of just 175 MHz for all service providers in the 3300-3600 mid band is “grossly inadequate” and would adversely impact the 5G rollout in the country. Jio’s president and group CTO-mobility, Shayam Mardikar, said the right amount of spectrum for 5G is a must in India considering the population density. The quantum of spectrum available has to be the “right size as it impacts the differential experience. In some places where operators have launched 5G with the smaller tranche of spectrum, they are not able to offer a differential experience,” Randeep Sekhon, chief technology officer at Bharti Airtel, said. Rajinder Singh, Vodafone Idea’s executive vice-president of technology, said contiguous spectrum in the right amount and the right band is crucial for the country’s 5G ambitions. The telecom players were taking part in a discussion during the ongoing India Mobile Congress. COAI had recently urged the DoT to ensure at least 400 MHz per telco in mmwave bands (26, 28, 37 GHz) and at least 2x10MHz per operator in sub-GHz bands 600MHz and 700MHz. Networking major Cisco said 100 million subscribers can afford 5G services in the country and demand from the enterprise market for 5G will encourage telecom operators to invest in the 5G market. “Studies have shown that almost 10 to 12 per cent of the overall mobile subscribers today in India can afford a 5G service with a sizable increase in the ARPU to telcos. Over 100 million people can afford a 5G service... that’s a huge latent demand market for the telecom services providers to cash in on,” Anand Bhaskar, managing director, service providers, Cisco India & SAARC, said at the event. .... Along with the enterprise market should sort of provide the right sort of fillip for the service provider to invest in the 5G market which they have already started doing,” Anand Bhaskar, managing director, service providers, Cisco India & SAARC said at the event. Meanwhile, a senior DoT official said there is a need to bring in affordable pricing for the fifth-generation or 5G airwaves, as a part of the Centre's policy initiatives "The policy initiatives required from the government for 5G must include ensuring spectrum availability at affordable prices, lower reserve price, and uniform Right-of-Way policy for fiberisation. Thus, there exists several new opportunities, and the future is bright and exciting," Bharat Kumar Jog, Member (Services) said. Airtel had earlier said it would refrain from bidding for 5G spectrum if the reserve price was high. Telecom regulator Trai has recommended a floor price of Rs 492 crore per Mhz for spectrum in the 3,300-3,600 Mhz band. The Centre is yet to clear the air on the timing of India’s much awaited maiden 5G spectrum sale or the bands likely to be on offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
10-12-2020||Business||Online car financing by Maruti||Maruti Suzuki India Limited on Wednesday launched its online car financing platform “Smart Finance” which will have multiple financiers on board. The platform will offer online finance solutions to salaried customers looking to buy vehicles in the Nexa channel across 30 cities, including Calcutta. Maruti will subsequently extend the service to non-salaried and Arena customers and cover more cities. The platform is hosted on www.nexaexperience.com, comprising eight financiers — HDFC Bank, Yes Bank, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, Cholamandalam Finance AU Small Finance Bank, Mahindra Finance and Kotak Mahindra Prime. The customers can choose a loan product and complete all the finance related formalities, including uploading required documents. The loan will be disbursed immediately for pre-approved loans and within a few hours for others. The Nexa website will act as a facilitator between the customer and the financier providing a the loan offers real time status updates and a hassle free and transparent financing solution. Speaking on the new initiative,  Kenichi Ayukawa, Managing Director and CEO, MSIL, said, “Under the Smart Finance platform, we have partnered with several financiers to provide custom curated personalized loan offers for our customers. The customer gets to customize the EMI, by choosing the loan tenure and interest rate and select a preferred down-payment scheme.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
10-12-2020||Business||Flawed iron ore policy||The government policy to bring only a limited number of iron ore blocks for public auction is creating distortion in the marketplace, Naveen Jindal, chairman of Jindal Steel & Power Ltd, said. “The government cannot be a hoarder. They should bring out a lot of blocks at a time... Why should the government, state or the Centre, bring only a few blocks at a time. Because they want to maximise on their premiums,” Jindal asked. Speaking at an e-conclave organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Jindal said there is too much competition when artificial scarcity is created and people end up paying huge premiums and then they become unsustainable. “Iron ore is our strength but at a particular cost,” he added. Companies such as JSPL which depend on market purchase for iron ore are having a hard time because prices have shot up in the last six months. Those who bid high to corner blocks now find the asset unviable and leave them closed. Out of 19 blocks auctioned off earlier this year, only 5 which were cornered by JSW Steel and AM/NS India, are operational now. The lowest a miner agreed to pay to the government in this round of auction was about 95 per cent of the quarterly price declared by Indian Bureau of Mine (IBM), which is linked to market price, while the highest topped 150 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
10-12-2020||India||Nadda convoy attack staged, claims Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday insinuated that the attack on BJP president JP Nadda’s convoy earlier in the day near Diamond Harbour was staged and denied all allegations against her party. “Every day they (BJP activists) are coming out (for rallies) with firearms. They are slapping themselves and blaming it on the Trinamool Congress. Just think of the situation. They are roaming around with the BSF, CRPF, Army, CISF....then why are you so scared,” she said during an address in Calcutta. On Thursday morning, Nadda’s convoy on Thursday, when it was on its way to Diamond Harbour area in the South 24 Parganas district of Bengal, from the state capital. Sources in the saffron party also alleged that BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya’s car was also totally ransacked in the attack. Several union leaders, including Home Minister Amit Shah slammed the ruling Trinamul Congress over the incident. “Bengal has descended into an era of tyranny, anarchy and darkness under the Trinamool rule. The manner in which political violence has been institutionalized and brought to the extreme in West Bengal under TMC rule is sad and worrying,” Shah tweeted. He has also ordered a probe into the incident, NDTV reported. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar accused the state administration of failing to act in spite of his alerting the chief secretary and the director general of police. “Concerned at alarming reports of anarchy and lawlessness @MamataOfficial indicating ruling party harmads on rampage at BJP President Convoy and political police @WBPolice in support,” he tweeted. “Am sure they have immunity and protection of political police with administration extension of political outfit,” Dhankhar wrote, adding, “Events indicate total abdication of lawful authority.” The incident resulted in injuries to several BJP leaders, including party general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and vice president Mukul Roy. However, Nadda, who was in a bullet-proof vehicle, was unharmed. Police ultimately chased away the protesters and Nadda managed to reach the meeting venue. “What I witnessed today is shocking and unprecedented. West Bengal has become a state characterised by utter lawlessness and intolerance. The administration has completely failed and goonda raj prevails,” Nadda said in the meeting. “This goonda raj cannot be allowed to continue. This is jungle raj, the administration has collapsed.” he added. Dilip Ghosh, whose vehicle was also attacked, claimed that “Bengal has turned into Syria” under the TMC. West Bengal Police however insisted that “nothing happened to the convoy”. “Shri JP Nadda, National President, BJP reached safely at the venue, Diamond Harbour, South 24 Pgs. Nothing happened to his convoy. Few bystanders at Debipur, Falta PS, Diamond Harbour sporadically and suddenly threw stones towards vehicles trailing long behind his convoy,” it tweeted. “Everyone is safe and the situation is peaceful. Matter is being investigated to find out actual happenings,” the police wrote in another tweet. Incidentally, the Diamond Harbour area is represented by Mamata’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
10-12-2020||India||BJP ‘goons attacked’ Manish Sisodia’s house, claims AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday claimed that BJP goons ‘attacked’ the house of Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia. The Delhi Bharatiya Party however denied the allegation, saying their protest was peaceful. Earlier on Thursday, BJP workers staged a demonstration near Sisodia’s residence over an alleged conspiracy to kill mayors and leaders of the party-ruled municipal corporations staging an indefinite dharna demanding payment of dues from the Kejriwal government. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal condemned the incident. “I strongly condemn the systematic, organised and violent attack on Dy CM Manish Sisodia's home. The goons entered his house in police presence when he was away. Why is BJP getting so desperate by the day in Delhi,” he tweeted. AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj in a press conference claimed that the police removed the barricades around Sisodia’s house and did not stop the workers from entering it. He also played a purported video of the outside area of the minister’s residence where a group of people can be seen forcefully entering inside. “BJP goons attacked the house of deputy chief minister while he was not at home. The Delhi Police helped the BJP goons in this act,” he said. The police did not comment anything about the incident immediately. AAP leader Atishi dubbed the incident as a “black day” in the national capital’s political history. “This is a black day in Delhi's political history that the Union Home Minister is now using his party goons and Delhi Police to attack the family of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia in his absence from his residence,” she said during the press conference. Reacting to the charges, Delhi BJP vice president Ashok Goel Devraha claimed AAP leaders were trying to divert attention from the 'conspiracy' to kill BJP mayors and other corporation leaders. “We protested outside Sisodia's residence to make it clear that the BJP workers are capable of answering any form of challenge,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
10-12-2020||India||Govt willing to hold further talks with farmers to resolve deadlock, says Tomar||A day after protesting farmers rejected the government's offer for a written assurance on MSP and amend few provisions in the new farm laws, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday urged union leaders to consider the proposals and said he is ready for further discussions with them. “The government is ready to consider with an open mind any provision in the new laws where farmers have any issues and we want to clarify all their apprehensions,” Tomar said at a press conference here. “We kept waiting for suggestions from farmers' leaders to address their concerns, but they are stuck on the repeal of laws,” he said, while virtually ruling out conceding to the key demand with which thousands of farmers are protesting on various borders of the national capital for nearly two weeks. Tomar said the government has always been ready for dialogue with farmers and it remains so. “We are concerned about the farmers protesting in cold weather and during the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. Farmers’ unions should consider the government's proposal at the earliest and then we can mutually decide on the next meeting, if required,” the minister said. Hours later, the farmers however said that they will block railway tracks if their demand of repealing the laws is not met, and will announce the date soon. Addressing reporters at the Singhu borders, farmer union leaders also reiterated that they will intensify their agitation and start blocking all highways leading to the national capital. “We will block railway tracks if our demands are not met. We will decide on the date and announce it soon,” farmer leader Boota Singh said. “Centre has admitted that laws have been made for traders. If agriculture is a state subject, the Central government does not have the right to make laws on it,” added Balbir Singh Rajewal, another leader. The government fad on Wednesday proposed to give a “written assurance” that the existing Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime for procurement will continue. However, the farmers’ unions rejected the proposal and said they would intensify their agitation until the government accepts their demand for a complete repeal of the three laws. The government has also proposed to make necessary amendments on at least seven issues, including one to allay fears about the weakening of the mandi system. Tomar, who along with his cabinet colleague Piyush Goyal had met senior party leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday night, said the government is ready to provide all necessary clarifications on their concerns about the new farm laws enacted in September, which he said were passed after detailed discussions in Parliament. Goyal, who was also present at the media briefing, said the new laws do not affect the APMC and that would remain protected. Farmers are only being given an additional option to sell their produce at private mandis. The farmer leaders had said on Wednesday there was nothing new in the government proposal and they will continue their protest. Shah, in a Tuesday night meeting with 13 union leaders, had said the government would send a draft proposal on key issues raised by the farmers regarding the three farm laws, even though the meeting had failed to break the ice with farm union leaders who are insisting for repealing these laws. The sixth round of talks between the government and farm union leaders, which was scheduled for Wednesday morning, was also cancelled. In the proposal, sent by Agriculture Ministry Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal, the government said it is ready to consider with an open heart the objections which farmers have on the new farm laws. “The government has tried to address the concerns of farmers with an open heart and with respect for the farming community of the country. The government appeals to the Kisan unions to end their agitation,” it said. On farmers’ fears that mandis would weaken after the new laws, the government said an amendment can be made wherein state governments can register the traders operating outside mandis. States can also impose tax and cess as they used in APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) mandis on them. On concerns that farmers may be duped as anyone having just a pan card is allowed to trade outside APMC mandis, the government said to rule out such apprehensions, the state governments can be given the power to register such traders and make rules keeping in mind the local situation of farmers. On the issue of farmers not getting the right to appeal in civil courts for dispute resolution, the government said it is open to making an amendment to provide for an appeal in civil courts. Currently, the dispute resolution is at the SDM level. On fears that big corporates will take over farmlands, the government said it has already been made clear in the laws, but still, for clarity's sake, it can be written that no buyer can take loans against farmland nor any such condition will be made to farmers. On attaching farmland under contract farming, the government said the existing provision is clear but still it can be clarified further if required. On fear about the scrapping of the MSP regime and shifting of trade to private players, the government said it is ready to give a written assurance that the existing MSP will continue. On demands to scrap the proposed Electricity Amendment bill 2020, the government said there won't be any change in the existing system of electricity bill payment for farmers. On farmers' demand to scrap the Air Quality Management of NCR Ordinance 2020, under which there is the provision of penalty for stubble burning, the government said it is ready to find an appropriate solution. On farmers' demand to provide registration of farming contracts, the government said till state governments make an arrangement for registration, an appropriate facility will be provided at the SDM office wherein a copy of the contract can be submitted 30 days after its signing. On Constitutional validity of farm laws, the ministers said it has the power under Entry 33 of the Concurrent List to pass laws on contract farming and intra- and inter-state trade, and prohibit states from imposing fees/cess outside APMC areas. It had followed legal provisions while enacting the laws and earlier for bringing ordinances, the ministers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||India's aspirations will get fulfilled in new Parliament building, says Modi||Describing the laying of foundation stone of the new Parliament building as a "milestone in India's democratic history", Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said if the old Parliament house gave direction to the country post-independence, the new one would be a witness to the making of a self-reliant India. Addressing the gathering after laying the foundation stone of the new building and performing the ground-breaking ceremony, Modi said many new things were being done in the new Parliament House, which will increase the efficiency of the MPs as modern methods will be incorporated in the work culture. "It is a very historic day. Today is a milestone in India's democratic history," he said. "We, the people of India, will together build this new building of Parliament. This new building will be an inspiration when India will celebrate its 75 years of independence," Modi said. "I can never forget the moment in my life when I had the opportunity to come to Parliament House for the first time in 2014 as an MP. Before stepping in, I bowed and saluted this temple of democracy," he said. If the old Parliament House gave direction to India post-independence, the new building would be a witness to the creation of a self-reliant India, Modi said. "If work was done to fulfil the needs of the country in the old Parliament building, then the aspirations of 21st century India will be fulfilled in the new building," the prime minister said. Priests from the Sringeri Math Karnataka did the rituals for the 'bhoomi pujan' at the new Parliament building site and it was followed by a 'sarva dharma prarthana' (inter-faith prayer). Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, Urban Development Minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh also offered prayers during the ceremony. The new building will have an area of 64,500 square metres. It will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India's democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space. In the new building, the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while the Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for members. The Lok Sabha chamber will have an option to increase its sitting capacity to 1,224 members during joint sessions. This has been done keeping in mind the future increase in the number of members for the two houses. At present, Lok Sabha has a sanctioned strength of 543 members and Rajya Sabha 245. In September this year, Tata Projects Limited won the bid to construct the new Parliament building. The new building will be constructed close to the existing one under the Central Vista redevelopment project. The existing Parliament House building will be suitably retro-fitted to provide more functional spaces for parliamentary events, to ensure its usage along with the new building. The existing building is a massive circular edifice of 560 feet in diameter. The Parliament House Estate is enclosed by an ornamental red sandstone wall or iron grills with iron gates that can be closed when occasions demand. The building has 12 gates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Naqvi praises Centre for addressing farmers' issue 'transparently'||Amid the ongoing protests against three new farm laws, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Thursday said the Modi government was "sensitive" about the demands made by farmers and has addressed their main concerns in a "transparent" manner. He also said that most of the farmers were "satisfied" with the steps taken by the central government, and added that their interests were "safe and secure" in its hands. "The government is completely sensitive about the demands of farmers. That is why it has addressed their main concerns effectively and in a transparent manner. Most of the farmers are satisfied," Naqvi told news agency PTI. Without naming the opposition parties, which have been targeting the BJP government over the farmers' stir, he said, "Unfortunately, defeated dynastic forces are trying to hijack democracy by taking a destructive path." The Minority Affairs minister also accused the opposition parties of confusing farmers for their own political gains. On Wednesday, farmer leaders rejected a government proposal to amend the laws and remained adamant on their demand to scrap the legislation, which they say will lead to the dismantling of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism and mandis (markets) that ensure earning. Naqvi said the central government was "very clear" on the issue of MSP that "nobody is going to touch it." He further said that markets would also continue to exist and farmers' land would be "completely safe and secure". "Nobody can touch farmers' land...The interests of farmers are 100 per cent safe and secured. This is the government's guarantee," he added. The three contentious laws at the centre of the farmer protests are the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. PTI ENM ARU NP||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Modi lays foundation stone of new Parliament building||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone of the new Parliament building here at an event that was attended by leaders from various political parties, cabinet ministers and ambassadors of different countries. Modi also performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the building, which is expected to be completed by 2022. Pujaris from the Sringeri Math Karnataka did the rituals for the 'bhoomi pujan' at the new Parliament building site. The new building will have an area of 64,500 square metres. It will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India's democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space. In the new building, the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while the Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for members. The Lok Sabha chamber will have an option to increase its sitting capacity to 1,224 members during joint sessions. This has been done keeping in mind the future increase in the number of members for the two houses. At present, Lok Sabha has a sanctioned strength of 543 members and Rajya Sabha 245. In September this year, Tata Projects Limited won the bid to construct the new Parliament building. The new building will be constructed close to the existing one under the Central Vista redevelopment project. The existing Parliament House building will be suitably retro-fitted to provide more functional spaces for parliamentary events, to ensure its usage along with the new building. The existing building is a massive circular edifice of 560 feet in diameter. The Parliament House Estate is enclosed by an ornamental red sandstone wall or iron grills with iron gates that can be closed when occasions demand. The building has 12 gates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Need to avoid actions that may complicate border situation, says Rajnath ||In a veiled reference to China's aggressive military behaviour, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said exercising self-restraint in the conduct of activities and avoiding actions that may further complicate situation will go a long way in bringing sustained peace to the region. He was speaking at the ASEAN Defence Ministers' Meeting-Plus (ADMM-Plus), a platform comprising 10-nation ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) and its eight dialogue partners including India and China. Chinese Defence Minister Wei Fenghe was among those who attended the virtual meeting, officials said. In his address, Singh talked about "the current regional environment with visible strains", and appreciated the central role of ASEAN-led forums, including ADMM-Plus in promoting dialogue and engagement towards a pluralistic, cooperative security order in Asia. "As we enhance mutual trust and confidence, exercising self-restraint in the conduct of activities and avoiding actions that may further complicate the situation, will go a long way in bringing sustained peace to the region," he said. Singh's comments came amid the seven-month-long military standoff between India and China in eastern Ladakh and Beijing's increasingly expansionist behaviour in South China Sea and Indo-Pacific. The defence minister also said that the ability of the grouping to collectively respond to challenges based on the fundamentals of freedom, inclusivity and openness in the region will define its future. "Threats to the rules-based order, maritime security, cyber-related crimes and terrorism, just to name a few, remain the challenges that we need to address as a forum," Singh said at the virtual meeting. The defence minister also talked about the outlook on the Indo-Pacific, saying it underscores the impetus to cultivate strategic trust and continuously promote ASEAN centrality in the regional architecture. "The concepts of 'vasudhaive kutumbakam' 'the whole world is one family' and 'sarve bhavantu sukhinah' 'all be at peace' are the core of the Indian civilisation. Therefore, inclusivity, equality and openness are the principles underlining this concept," he said. The defence minister also called for sustained efforts to address the threats of bio-terrorism, transnational trafficking and pandemics, and emphasised on building capacity to address shared security challenges. "Our composition is another pillar of our strength as it includes defence ministries of 18 key countries that are major stakeholders in the regional security dynamic," he said. In his address, Singh also underlined the need for confronting the challenges emerging from the coronavirus pandemic. "Amongst the new challenges that have emerged, COVID-19 has changed the world and left us many hurdles to overcome. Unfortunately, the disruptive effect of the pandemic is still unfolding," the defence minister said. "The challenge is, therefore, to make sure that the world economy moves on the path of recovery and when it does gather steam, to ensure that the recovery leaves no one behind," he added. The inaugural ADMM-Plus was convened in Hanoi in 2010. The defence ministers then had agreed on five areas of practical cooperation to pursue under the new mechanism, including maritime security, counter-terrorism, humanitarian assistance and peacekeeping operations. The ties between India and ASEAN have been on an upswing in the last few years with the focus being on ramping up cooperation in the areas of trade and investment as well as security and defence. Besides 10 ASEAN countries, the ADMM-Plus includes Australia, China, India, Japan, New Zealand, Republic of Korea, Russia and the United States.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Covid: more than 30,000 cases, 412 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload climbed to 97,67,371 with 31,521 fresh infections, while the total number of recoveries surged to 92.53 lakh, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.74 per cent, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll rose to 1,41,772 with 412 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 92,53,306. The active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the fourth consecutive day. There are 3,72,293 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 3.81 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, and 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 15,07,59,726 samples had been tested up to December 9 with 9,22,959 being tested on Wednesday. The 412 new fatalities include 75 from Maharashtra, 50 from Delhi, 47 from West Bengal, 35 from Kerala, 26 from Haryana, 20 each from Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The total 1,41,772 deaths reported so far in the country include 47,902 from Maharashtra followed by 11,900 from Karnataka, 11,836 from Tamil Nadu, 9,813 from Delhi, 8,867 from West Bengal, 7,987 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,045 from Andhra Pradesh and 4,980 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Glimpses from a day at Singhu border||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Lockdown: reduced food intake because of a decline in income||Two of every three respondents belonging to marginalised sections such as Dalits, tribals and backward classes have told a national survey that they have reduced their food intake because of a decline in income post-lockdown. The Right to Food Campaign, a network of civil society groups working on food rights, released on Wednesday the findings of the survey — Hunger Watch — carried out in September. The survey covered 3,994 respondents from 11 states, including Bengal, and tracked hunger among the vulnerable and marginalised communities during the pandemic. The respondents included 2,186 people from rural areas and 1,808 from urban areas. Around 59 per cent were Dalits and tribals and 23 per cent were Other Backward Classes (OBCs). About 45 per cent were daily wage labourers and 18 per cent were farmers. Nearly 62 per cent respondents said their income had fallen compared to the pre-lockdown period. Around 25 per cent said their income in the previous 30 days was half of what it used to be before the lockdown. About 53 per cent reported that their consumption of rice or wheat had decreased, with one in four saying it had reduced a lot. The survey did not specify what it meant by “a lot”, saying the description was based on perception. Sixty-four per cent respondents said their consumption of dal had decreased, with 28 per cent reporting that it had reduced a lot. Seventy-three per cent said they were eating less green vegetables than before, with 38 per cent saying they were eating a lot less. Fifty-six per cent never had to skip meals before the lockdown, but in the previous 30 days one in seven have had to skip meals often or sometimes, the survey found. Seventy-one per cent reported that the nutritional quality of food had worsened. Two-thirds reported that the food quantity had either decreased somewhat or decreased a lot. For about 45 per cent, the need to borrow money for food had increased since the lockdown. About 75 per cent respondents said they had some kind of ration cards, such as the National Food Security Act (NFSA) card or the Antyodaya Anna Yojana card or state ration cards, that gave them subsidised grains. The government has announced 5kg of additional grains and 1kg of pulses per person per month to NFSA card-holders. Nearly 86 per cent of the NFSA card-holders surveyed said they had received the free grains and pulses. At a media conference in Delhi, Deepa Sinha from the Right To Food Campaign said the organisation supported the farmers’ agitation. She said the food security act provided for procurement, storage and movement of grains. “Weakening the minimum support price and procurement mechanism could have serious implications for the public distribution system, pushing it towards cash transfer,” Sinha said. The Right To Food Campaign believes that adequate amount of food cannot be bought with such cash transfers. She demanded universal PDS that provides every individual with 10kg grains, 1.5kg pulses and 800gm cooking oil every month for at least the next six months, up to June 2021. Sinha demanded nutritious hot cooked meals through anganwadi centres and school midday meals for children. She also demanded an enhanced social security pension of at least Rs 2,000 per month for elderly people, single women and disabled persons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Govt offers amendments in writing, farmers reject||Farmers on Wednesday unanimously rejected the amendments offered in writing by the Narendra Modi government to the three contentious farm laws, calling them “insincere” and an insult to cultivators. The farmers also do not see much merit in returning to the negotiating table without a substantial new offer. They feel the government is only maintaining a facade of accommodation without actually yielding much. Since the written proposals were sent to them after a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday, the farmers have decided to intensify the agitation by blocking the Jaipur-Delhi highway till December 12 and targeting the businesses of the Ambanis and Adanis, arguing that these two corporate houses will be the biggest beneficiaries of the three new farm laws. In keeping with the hardening of stance, the farmers have coined a new slogan: “Sarkar ki asli majboori — Adani, Ambani, jamakhori (The government is helpless before Adani, Ambani and hoarding)”. Hoarding by the private sector has been allowed under the new farm laws. Farmers have been advised to give up their Jio phones, SIM cards and other apparatus. Besides, establishments owned by the Ambanis and the Adanis will be picketed and their products boycotted. Also, BJP ministers will be gheraoed. Toll plazas will be “freed” on December 12 across the country in a repeat of what Punjab farmers had done on the national highways running through the state from October 1. As part of this particular exercise, farmers will picket at toll plazas and prevent the collection of levy by allowing vehicles to pass through free of charge. Briefing journalists at the Singhu border after the proposals reached them, farm union leaders said there was nothing new beyond what had been offered at Saturday’s meeting with the government’s interlocutors — agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, food minister Piyush Goyal and junior commerce minister Som Prakash. Detailing what transpired at the meeting called by the home minister, Shiv Kumar Sharma “Kakaji” of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh told reporters that the government was now doing what it should have done before introducing the laws. “Had they held discussions before promulgating the ordinances, they would not be facing this situation.” The amendments that the government has committed itself to in writing are those that were discussed at Saturday’s meeting during which the farmers had iterated that the three laws had to be repealed. In the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, which some of the farmers’ organisations call the “Agricultural Produce Market Committee Bypass Act”, the Centre has agreed to enable state governments to collect market cess/fees on transactions outside the government mandis and allow the local administration to register the trades. Also, farmers will be allowed to go to civil courts for dispute resolution. In the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act (FAPAFS), billed the Contract Farming Promotion Act by farmers, the government has agreed that till the system of registering contracts by the state government is put in place, a signed copy of the contract shall be deposited in the SDM’s office within 30 days of signing. Also, the government has assured that the law will be tweaked to make it clear that farmers’ land cannot be attached under any circumstances. On minimum support price and procurement, the Centre is not willing to go beyond a written assurance that the current procurement levels of the government at MSP will be maintained in future. The farmers have been demanding a legal guarantee for MSP. According to Kirankumar Vissa of the Rythu Swarajya Vedika, these proposals do not address most of the concerns raised by the farmers’ organisations, particularly about removing regulations on traders and companies functioning outside the APMC mandis. In the FAPAFS law, the farmers have questioned the absence of protection for those who enter into contracts with companies. “Thus, despite the attempt by the government to portray itself as reasonable, it is being very rigid in not addressing the key demands of the farmers, and simply playing a public relations game of trying to change perceptions,” Vissa said. New Delhi: The mood was melancholic but the metaphor bucolic. “Murgi baithe raha, anda nahi diya (The hen kept sitting but laid no egg),” All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah said on Tuesday evening, describing what transpired at the meeting called by Union home minister Amit Shah. Mollah, who has attended four rounds of talks so far, added: “They  kept saying ‘amendment’, ‘amendment’, ‘amendment’, essentially repeating what they have been saying. We kept saying ‘repeal’, ‘repeal’, ‘repeal’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Fact-finding report points Delhi violence finger at Amit Shah||A fact-finding report released by the CPM on Wednesday on the communal violence in Delhi in February has held Union home minister Amit Shah responsible for the escalation of the violence and prejudicing the probe. “The role of the home ministry under Mr Amit Shah was in substantial measure responsible for the escalation of the violence,” said the report, titled Communal Violence in North East Delhi, February 2020. The report concluded that “it is incorrect to describe the communal violence as Delhi riots. ‘Riots’ describe a situation where both sides are equally participatory…. However, the offensive was from the Hindutva mobs while the other side, in the main, was desperately trying to save themselves from such attacks…. In almost all areas, there is video evidence of the police siding with the Hindutva mobs.” As many as 53 people were killed — 40 were Muslim and 13 Hindu. The report said: “On March 11, 2020, Mr Shah informed Parliament that he had been in constant touch with top police officials in Delhi, monitoring the situation. The question is, why was curfew not imposed from February 24, when violence escalated? Why was the army not deployed? Even the additional deployment of Delhi police and Rapid Action Force personnel was not only grossly inadequate, but also extremely delayed.” The report, steered by CPM politburo member Brinda Karat and state secretary K.M. Tewari, was undertaken to give context and explanations to the responses of 400 people interviewed by the party’s relief and rehabilitation solidarity committee. The report breaks new ground by listing several specific instances of violence that go against the general narrative pushed by the police and highlights several identical FIRs and confessions cited by the police as well as complaints of torture. Quoting a chargesheet filed in one of the cases — in which several students have been charged with terrorism for allegedly inciting riots by their protests against the new citizenship regime — the report shows that the number of personnel deployed during the riots from February 23 to 27 ranged from 1,393 to 4,756 in a district with a population of 26 lakh. The report adds: “Before any investigation was done, the home minister laid down its findings (in the Lok Sabha on March 11). The subsequent investigation was only to substantiate and validate this narrative. “Shah dismissed the well-documented speeches by BJP leaders that called for shooting traitors or alleging that members of the minority community will invade homes of Hindus to rape and kill. “Then he went on to describe what he thought were the real hate speeches. He said that Congress leaders gave hate speeches on December 14, 2019, at a rally calling upon people to come out onto the streets because it was a do-or-die battle. With this, he not only sought to build the version that it was really the Opposition that incited violence, but more significantly, he blamed the minority community for the violence.” In the Lok Sabha on March 11, Shah called the riots a “well-planned conspiracy” and praised the police for controlling the violence within 36 hours. The Congress and the CPM walked out during his speech. The report describes attacks even on February 28, five days after the killings began. PTI quoted West Delhi BJP MP Parvesh Verma as saying on January 28: “What happened in Kashmir with Kashmiri Pandits could happen in Delhi also. Lakhs of people gather at Shaheen Bagh, they could enter houses, rape and kill your sisters and daughters. The people need to decide now.” The Election Commission of India barred Verma, Union minister Anurag Thakur and BJP candidate Kapil Mishra from campaigning for the Delhi Assembly polls for several days as punishment for incendiary and communal remarks. Veteran police officer Julio Ribeiro had called the police inaction against the trio as “a licence to rant, rave and threaten those who are peacefully protesting perceived wrongs”. Police commissioner S.N. Shrivastava had defended the probe, saying that more complaints of minorities had been registered as FIRs than that of the other community. Besides the speech of Mishra on February 23, the report highlights provocative sloganeering in Shivratri processions of February 21. It added that two Muslim boys were waylaid near the Maujpur-Babarpur Metro station on February 22. The report slammed the Delhi government for delays and partial compensation, and sought an independent probe by a retired high court judge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers undeterred by Covid||Protesting farmers say the fear of contracting Covid-19 cannot deter them. “The government has already tied a noose around our necks with these laws… We cannot afford to be afraid of coronavirus,” said Gagandeep Singh, at the protest for 10 days. Gurvasan Singh, an elderly farmer, said: “We are losing our rights. We do not have time to worry about coronavirus.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||Karnataka Assembly passes cattle slaughter bill||The Karnataka Assembly on Wednesday passed a bill making slaughter of any form of cattle an offence punishable with up to seven years in prison. The ruling BJP pushed through the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, without proper debate in the Assembly amid protests from Congress and Janata Dal Secular members. The bill was passed through voice vote amid chants of ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’ and “Vande Mataram” from the ruling benches. It will now travel to the Legislative Council for its approval, most probably on Thursday before the four-day winter session concludes. While the government was expected to table the bill, the Opposition was taken by surprise when it was taken for voice vote without a proper discussion. An angry leader of the Opposition, P.C. Siddaramaiah of the Congress, told the House that his party would be boycotting the rest of the brief winter session set to conclude on Thursday. The new law that will replace the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964, has broadened the definition of the “cow” to cover all forms of cattle — male and female. Section 4 of the new law prohibits slaughter of any cattle — cow or buffalo — even for traditional customs. While the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964, had also banned slaughter of cows, she-buffalos and calves, it permitted the slaughter of bulls and he-buffaloes above the age of 12 and certified unfit for breeding or agriculture use. The new law provides for jail terms between three and seven years, penalty of Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh, or both, for the first offence. Those booked for a second offence could be jailed for up to seven years, slapped with a fine between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 10 lakh, or both. In contrast, the law that would be replaced soon provides for jail term of up to six months and fines of up to Rs 1,000, or both. While a large number of slaughter animals are transported to neighbouring Kerala and Goa, the new law will limit all such movement to only for the purpose of animal husbandry and agriculture, that too after going through a certification process. Opposition lawmakers led by Siddaramaiah trooped into the Well of the House, shouting slogans against the government, soon after animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chavan tabled the bill in the afternoon. They slammed the government for tabling a bill that was not discussed in the business advisory committee meeting held on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||No need for Covid caution notices: Supreme Court ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ruled that the states and Union Territories are not under any obligation to display caution notices outside the homes of Covid-19 patients and any such directive can be issued only if there is specific directive from the Union government under the Management Act, 2005. The apex court passed the order after recording an undertaking from solicitor-general Tushar Mehta who informed the court that no directive had been passed by the Centre on affixing notices outside the homes of Covid patients and that the health and family welfare ministry had through a circular on November 19 reiterated that there was no need for such a practice. “The Union of India has already issued D.O. letter dated 19.11.2020 extracted above to guide the States and Union Territories, we only observe that no state or Union Territory is required to paste posters outside the residence of Covid-19 positive persons, as of now. The state governments and Union Territories can resort the above exercise only when any direction is issued by the competent authority under the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the apex court said in a judgment. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R.Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah passed the judgment while disposing of a PIL filed by social activist Kush Kalra challenging practice of affixing notices outside the homes of Covid patients in many states, particularly Delhi and Punjab, as being discriminatory and in violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 21. The petitioner had pleaded that directions be issued to stop publishing the names of Covid-positive persons by officials of the health department in the states and Union Territories and also to stop freely circulating their names in welfare associations of colony and apartment complex, which are a serious violation of fundamental rights, right to privacy and right to live with dignity. “Covid-19 positive persons cannot be denigrated merely because they have contracted the illness. Illness of a person cannot be made a reason or ground for discrimination and differential treatment. These are the principles upon which Article 14 (Right to Equality) of the Constitution is founded. Moreover, the Constitution does not and can never permit discrimination on the ground of illness and physical suffering. “Covid-19 with its malefic effects is the most harrowing experience, both physically and mentally. To add to this is the traumatising experience of living in isolation and the severe curtailment of freedom. A Covid-19 positive person is already subjected to restrictions by the State in the form of isolation, which amounts to curtailment of rights under Article 19 (Freedom of Speech) of the Constitution. The State cannot be permitted to affix posters outside residences and circulate names which lead to further curtailment of the rights of such persons guaranteed by Article 21 (Right to Life and Personal Liberty) of the Constitution,” the petitioner had pleaded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||BJP uses Rajasthan poll victory as mandate for farm laws||The BJP on Wednesday used the party’s win in Rajasthan’s rural local body polls to claim it as a mandate for the farm laws, seeking in the process to obliquely dub the ongoing protests as politically motivated. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar was fielded by the party as the Rajasthan panchayat poll results came, dealing a blow to the faction-ridden ruling Congress in the state. “The Rajasthan victory in the local body polls is phenomenal for the BJP. The people, particularly farmers of rural areas, have given a decisive mandate for BJP, defeating the Congress with huge margins,” Javadekar said, stressing the party had won 14 of the 21 zilla parishads. “This is a farmers’ mandate and a vote for the farm reforms.” He refrained from commenting anything on the intensifying farmers’ protest. saying his focus was on highlighting the “meaning” of the Rajasthan panchayat polls. Despite ground reports that farmers from many states had joined the protest, the BJP has been trying to dub it as only a show by farmers of Congress-ruled Punjab. Javadekar went on to mention the local body poll results in Arunachal Pradesh, Hyderabad and the Bihar bypolls to claim it was “only BJP, BJP...,” in all directions. “Be it east, south or north... wherever you go it’s BJP, BJP, BJP...,” he said, stressing that the people of the country were with Narendra Modi despite all the efforts of the Opposition to “mislead and instigate” the people. The Arunachal Pradesh local body polls are still to be counted but Javadekar said the BJP had already won many seats unopposed as no one contested against the party’s nominee. In Hyderabad local polls early this month, he said, the BJP had won 49 of the 150 seats and polled more votes than the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti. Javadekar sought to celebrate the people’s support for the BJP despite all-round gloom, claiming it was a reflection of the people’s faith in the leadership of Modi and rejection of the Congress and other Opposition parties. “Despite corona, despite economic slowdown due to the pandemic, despite migration of labour and despite the instigation by Opposition parties and misinformation campaign against the farm reforms, people of India are standing behind the BJP and also for all reforms under the dynamic leadership of Narendra Modi,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||HC pulls up JNU for holding back dues of professor who protested ||Delhi High Court has set aside Jawaharlal Nehru University’s decision to put on hold the pension payment of a professor for taking part in a ceasework against the policies of the institution. In its verdict on November 23, a single-judge bench of Justice Jyoti Singh referred to three previous judgments of the Supreme Court and Punjab and Haryana High Court and held that pension was not a bounty that the employer could put it on hold. Delhi High Court directed JNU to release the retirement benefits of Prof. Kunal Chakrabarti, a former faculty member at the School of Historical Studies, within four weeks along with 9 per cent interest for the period since his retirement in May last year. Chakrabarti and 47 other faculty members had taken part in a protest on the campus in July 2018 against the policies of vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar. The university had discontinued its policy of deprivation points to students from backward districts during admission to research courses in 2018. The VC had also been accused of ignoring the list of experts suggested by academic bodies of the university for selection of teachers. The protesting teachers had been showcaused as the university had considered their participation in the ceasework as an act of violation of academic rules and regulations. The teachers were chargesheeted in June 2019 but they moved Delhi High Court, which stayed the proceedings and notices against them. Chakrabarti retired in May 2019 and applied for retiral benefits such as pension and gratuity in June that year. In August 2019, JNU responded saying that his retirement benefits would be kept on hold till the chargesheet was finalised. He sought information under the RTI Act about the delay but got no information. Chakrabarti then moved the high court seeking disbursal of dues with 18 per cent annual interest for the period of non-payment. In its affidavit, JNU had said that since Chakrabarti had retired, approval had been sought from the President of India, the visitor of the university, for initiating proceedings against him. JNU informed the court that the gratuity was paid in October 2019 but the pension had been put on hold in view of the showcause notice and the actions proposed under Rule 9 of the CCS Pension Rules. According to the rules, the pension of an employee can be withheld in part or full if he or she is found guilty of misconduct or negligence of duty during service by any departmental committee or the judiciary. In this case, no chargesheet was issued, so no proceedings were pending against Chakrabarti. “Pension is neither a bounty nor a matter of grace depending upon the sweet will of the employer,” the high court judgment said. “Pension is not an ex gratia payment but it is a payment for the past service rendered and it is a social welfare measure rendering socio-economic justice to those who in the heyday of their life ceaselessly toiled for the employer on an assurance that in their old age they would not be left in the lurch,” the judgment added. “I hereby direct the Respondent (JNU) to release the pensionary benefits of the Petitioner, within a period of four weeks from today including the arrears with effect from 31.05.2019. The Petitioner shall also be entitled to interest @ 9% per annum on the arrears of pension,” the court ruled. JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) secretary Moushami Basu welcomed the ruling and hoped similar relief would be provided to the other teachers whose pensions had been put on hold. “We hope the court will take a similar view in all the cases. The university’s actions seek to victimise the faculty members,” she said. This is the second time within a month that the court has made a scathing remark on a decision of the JNU administration and set aside its actions. Last month, it had quashed the advertisement of two faculty posts whose reservation character had been altered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||Odisha cabinet passes resolution for right MSP||The Odisha cabinet on Wednesday resolved to move the Centre for the implementation of the M.S. Swaminathan committee recommendations on minimum support price (MSP) of all crops, which will ensure the doubling of farmers’ income. The state government said it considered MSP as an essential tool for providing income security to farmers and was their basic right. The cabinet passed a resolution to this effect. “Farmers are the soul of our economy, the fundamental strength behind our socio-economic dynamics. The nation and society thrive with the prosperity of farmers. Therefore any overlooking of farmers’ concern is practically suicidal in nature,” the resolution states. The resolution said that the government led by chief minister Naveen Patnaik had prioritised, from the beginning, the issues concerning the farm sector and has taken many initiatives for the welfare of farmers. “The government is working with absolute commitment to double the farmers’ income. Starting from our new Agriculture Policy 2020 SAMRUDHI to various other plans and programmes, we have focused on rapid growth in the agriculture sector. Our objective is to make farming profitable and create massive employment opportunities in this sector,” the resolution said. The resolution talked about a number of game-changing initiatives of the Naveen Patnaik government, including the Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA) scheme, which has enhanced farmers’ income. “In this context, the state government considers MSP an essential tool for providing income security to farmers. The National Agriculture Commission chaired by eminent agriculture scientist Dr M.S. Swaminathan had recommended an MSP 50 per cent higher than the average cost of agricultural production,” the resolution said. “In a country like India, MSP is a basic right of farmers. The farmers brave the fiery sun and the rains to work on the fields so that we can get food. Therefore, if the farmer remains in uncertainty over the value of his produce, then the farmers and farming, including our economy, will come to a crisis. Ignoring the interests of the farmers, it’s impossible to dream big on development.” It said while almost all the sectors were facing a slowdown during the pandemic, it was only the farm sector that had helped the economy survive. “Therefore, farmers’ income must grow proportionate to the growth of income in other sectors. In the agriculture sector, the income enhancement must be considered keeping the cost of production in view. To make farming profitable and protect the farmers from all types of volatility, the MSP must be fixed on realistic basis,” the resolution said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||CJI S.A. Bobde's mom duped of Rs 2.5cr  in Nagpur||Chief Justice of India Sharad Arvind Bobde’s mother was duped of Rs 2.5 crore allegedly by the caretaker of a family property here, a police officer said on Wednesday. The accused, Tapas Ghosh, 49, was arrested on Tuesday night and a special investigation team (SIT) of Nagpur police is looking into the matter under the supervision of DCP Vinita Sahu, he said. The officer said the Bobde family owns Seadon Lawn, the property adjoining their residence near Akashwani Square that is rented out to host various events. The CJI’s nonagenarian mother, Mukta Bobde, is the owner of the property and the family had appointed Ghosh, a resident of Friends Colony here, as its caretaker, he said. Ghosh was managing the property for the last 10 years and looking after its finances, the officer said. Taking advantage of Mukta Bobde’s advanced age and poor health, Ghosh allegedly forged payments receipts of the lawn and duped her of around Rs 2.5 crore, he said, adding the money involved in the case may be more. Ghosh and his wife did not deposit the entire amount they collected by renting out the lawn for various programmes, including marriages, the officer said. When the fraud came to light, the police formed the SIT, which includes officers from the Economic Offences Wing. On Tuesday night, an FIR was registered under relevant provisions of the IPC at Sitabuldi police station, he said. Ghosh, who was questioned by the SIT earlier, was subsequently placed under arrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||Opposition takes repeal plea to President||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday exhorted agitating farmers not to relent at this critical juncture, warning that they would not be able to stand up ever again if they struck a compromise on the farm laws. Minutes after the farmers’ unions rejected the proposals sent by the Narendra Modi government, the Congress leader said: “The government should not nurture misconceptions. Farmers won’t compromise. They have realised there won’t be any future for them if they compromise now. I want to tell the farmers — if you don’t stand up now, you won’t be able to do that ever again. Don’t be afraid. We all are with you. Nobody can harm you. You are Hindustan.” Rahul was talking to the media outside Rashtrapati Bhavan after he and other Opposition leaders submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind. “The farmers have understood that the purpose of these laws is to hand over the agriculture system to friends of the Prime Minister. They will not step back. The government should not expect them to cave in. Kisan darega nahi, kisan hatega nahi (The farmers won’t be afraid, the farmers won’t relent),” the Congress parliamentarian said. Other Opposition leaders, although they were not as blunt as Rahul, also said the Prime Minister had conspired to hand over agriculture trade to corporate houses. Rahul said on Wednesday: “The manner in which these bills were passed is an insult to the farmers. The farmers have now lost faith in the government. They don’t believe this government is acting in their interest.” The former Congress president, not known to sugarcoat his words, had tweeted earlier: “Under Mr Modi Reform = Theft. That’s why they need to get rid of democracy.” In another tweet in Hindi, Rahul asked Modi to “stop the loot”. NCP chief and former agriculture minister Sharad Pawar, who was part of the delegation that met the President along with the CPM’s Sitaram Yechury, the CPI’s D, Raja and the DMK’s T.K.S. Elangovan, said the farming community had to erupt in protest as the laws had been enacted without consultation. Pawar explained: “The bills should have been sent to a select committee of Parliament for wider consultation. Farmers have realised these laws do not serve their interest. There is no mention of MSP (minimum support price) anywhere in the laws.” Yechury, who said more than 20 parties were in support of their stand and only five leaders went to meet the President because of Covid protocol, said: “We asked for repeal of these laws passed in an undemocratic manner. Proper consultation would have prevented this situation.” Raja said: “Whatever discussions are happening now should have happened in Parliament, before the passage of the bills.” Elangovan alleged that farmers were being left to fend for themselves and these laws were a negation of the promise to implement the Swaminathan Commission recommendations. The President, who had refused to meet Congress chief ministers over the farm bills, heard out the Opposition delegation without expressing his views. The memorandum submitted to him said: “More than twenty political parties extended their solidarity with the ongoing historic struggle of the Indian peasantry and extended whole-hearted support to their call for Bharat Bandh yesterday, demanding the repeal of retrograde agriculture laws and the electricity amendment bill.” It added: “These laws passed in an anti-democratic manner preventing a structured discussion and voting, threaten India’s food security, destroy Indian agriculture and our farmers, lay the basis for the abolishment of the MSP and mortgage Indian agriculture and our markets to the caprices of multinational agri-business corporates and domestic corporates. We urge upon you as the custodian of the Indian Constitution to persuade your Government not to be obdurate and accept the demands raised by the anndata (giver of food).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||India’s drug regulatory panel seeks data on vaccines ||India’s drug regulatory panel on Wednesday signalled that it needed more time and data to review the applications for emergency use authorisation of at least two Covid-19 vaccines with risk-versus-benefit assessment as its top priority. The panel under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has sought additional data and will continue reviewing the applications from the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, a top health official told The Telegraph. Three companies — Pfizer, Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech — have applied for the emergency use authorisation of their Covid-19 vaccines and company executives were scheduled on Wednesday to make presentations to the panel. The Pune-based Serum Institute has sought approval for the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine that the company is manufacturing in India, while the Hyderabad-based Bharat-Biotech has sought approval for a homegrown vaccine jointly developed with the Indian Council of Medical Research. The CDSCO panel on Wednesday asked the Serum Institute to update its safety data from India, immunogenicity data from India and the UK, and submit the outcome of AstraZeneca’s application for similar approval with the UK regulatory authority. It has asked Bharat Biotech to submit safety and efficacy data from its clinical trial under way in India. Medical experts familiar with the regulatory aspects of clinical trials said they were not surprised that the CDSCO panel had asked for additional data. “I guess this means the (panel) is working well,” Urmila Thatte, a senior clinical pharmacologist in Mumbai, told the newspaper. The emergency use authorisation process, facilitated by enabling provisions in Indian rules, allows the CDSCO to relax certain data requirements to accelerate approval of candidate drugs or vaccines under health emergency circumstances. The vaccines from Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech represent three distinct vaccine design strategies and, experts say, each application for emergency use authorisation under review in India contains gaps in data that make the decision challenging. “These are all good vaccines — but based on only public domain information, it may be early for any to be approved in India,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and the director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University in Sonipat (Haryana). Pfizer’s vaccine, based on a novel vaccine design platform that uses genetic material called RNA, has shown 95 per cent efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19, but all of its clinical trials data come from outside India. The vaccine has not been tested for either safety or its capacity to generate an immune response in India. The AstraZeneca vaccine — based on a chimpanzee adenovirus platform — has undergone safety and immunogenicity studies in India and the CDSCO panel would have to rely on its efficacy data entirely from its trials in the UK and Brazil. The Bharat Biotech vaccine is a killed version of the novel coronavirus, what experts describe as a “conventional vaccine platform”. Bharat has already generated its safety and immunogenicity data in India but its efficacy trial on 26,000 volunteers is still under way. The two efficacy values of the AstraZeneca vaccine under two different dosing regimens evaluated during the clinical trials in the UK and Brazil, experts say, complicates the decision in India. The vaccine was shown to have 90 per cent efficacy with a half dose first followed by a full dose a month apart, and 62 per cent efficacy with two full doses. The clinical trial by the Serum Institute in India involved only the 62 per cent efficacy regimen. Thatte and other experts say the CDSCO would ideally thus need to review the AstraZeneca vaccine only for the 62 per cent efficacy regimen and not the 90 per cent regimen. “Pfizer, ideally, would need to do a small bridging study in India,” said Gagandeep Kang, a senior microbiologist and vaccine science expert at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. A bridging study involves quickly demonstrating safety and immunogenicity in Indian volunteers — what the Serum Institute has done with the AstraZeneca vaccine. But the Serum Institute study, some scientists underline, while involving 1,600 volunteers is looking at immunogenicity in only 400 volunteers. India’s drug regulatory panel has sought more data from both Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech on their Covid-19 vaccines, signalling what health officials say is its abundant caution during the accelerated approval process. Some scientists expect that the AstraZeneca vaccine could be the first to be approved in India — but only after the UK regulatory authority has done so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||Eco Retreat fest in Odisha||The Odisha tourism department on Wednesday launched the second edition of Eco Retreat Festival at five major tourist places in the state, including Konark, to infuse life into the tourism sector that has suffered badly because of the coronavirus pandemic. The festival, which involves staying in luxurious tented accommodations, will continue till February 28 next year. Inaugurating Odisha Tourism’s flagship programme through videoconferencing, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said, “The Eco retreats will offer tourists an excellent opportunity to discover Odisha’s diverse tourism offerings in style. It will go a long way in encouraging tourists from across India to explore these beautiful destinations set deep in the hinterlands of Odisha. Last year, Odisha had set a benchmark in luxury glamping with phenomenal success at the Marine Drive Eco Retreat at Konark. This time, we have scaled it upto five unique locations.” The Eco Retreat Festival has started at Ramchandi sea beach in Konark, Satkosia Tiger Reserve, Bhitarkanika National Park, Daringbadi in Kandhamal and Hirakud Water Reserve in Sambalpur district. At all these places, tourists will be offered accommodation facilities and services in luxury tented cottages on a par with three-star and five-star hotels during the festival. Luxury tents with thematic ambience have been put up. The tents with double occupancy are priced between Rs 6,000 and Rs 25,000 for one night and two days. Taking a cue from the annual Rann Utsav at Rann of Kutch where the Gujarat government sets up tented accommodation for the tourists, the Eco Retreat Festival plans to showcase the best of Odisha’s food and culture for high-end tourists. Union minister for tourism and culture Prahlad Singh Patel and Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan also spoke on the occasion. Patel said the Eco Retreat at Konark and Rann of Kutch are two glamping events in India that have attracted the attention in the country and outside. This year, a total of 145 cottages of different categories have been put up in five locations. The additional features in the current year at Ramchandi near Konark are sea-surfing sessions, parasailing, e-scooter, open-air restaurant and beach shack. Officials said tourists can make bookings by using the integrated portal ecoretreat.odishatourism.gov.in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan's tigress Sundari care plea||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has urged his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik to ensure proper care of tigress Sundari, currently lodged in an enclosure at Satkosia Tiger Reserve, till it is relocated to Kanha Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh. Odisha had brought Sundari along with another tiger Mahavir in 2018 from Madhya Pradesh as part of India’s first tiger translocation project. Both were released in the Satkosia reserve forest later. While Mahavir died months after his release in 2018, Sundari turned violent and killed two persons. Odisha forest officials then put Sundari inside an enclosure after tranquillising her in November 2018. However, she has not been keeping well. Odisha has already intimated the Madhya Pradesh government to take the tigress back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
10-12-2020||India||Vijayan aide admitted to hospital for third time in a row||A political associate of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who has got himself hospitalised citing Covid-related complications for the third time in a row has put the state government in a bind since he was supposed to appear before the Enforcement Directorate in a gold smuggling case each time he took ill. C.M. Raveendran, an influential CPM leader and Vijayan’s additional private secretary, is receiving treatment at the Government Medical College in Thiruvananthapuram since Tuesday. He got himself admitted soon after the ED served notice on him to appear for questioning in a money-laundering case linked to the gold smuggling racket busted on July 5 at the airport in the Kerala capital. It is the timing of hospitalisation on all three occasions that has cast doubts on Raveendran’s claim and a shadow on the government. Raveendran had tested positive for Covid-19 on November 5, a day before he was asked to appear before the ED. He got hospitalised again on November 26 citing post-Covid health issues just hours after he was served the second notice to appear before the ED the following day. The third notice was served on Tuesday after the ED suspected some “benami” business dealings involving Raveendran. Raveendran’s name is said to have cropped up during the investigations into the attempt to smuggle 30kg of gold from Dubai in a diplomatic bag addressed to the attaché of the consulate-general of the UAE in Thuruvananthapuram. The frequent hospitalisation of Raveendran has put the Left Democratic Front government in the dock although it has accused the central government of misusing its agencies to target those close to chief minister Vijayan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
10-12-2020||India||Adani: We don’t procure grain or decide price||The Adani Group has said it neither buys food grains from farmers nor decides their pricing, at a time protesting cultivators and the Opposition have named the company while expressing fears of a corporate takeover of agriculture. The port-to-energy conglomerate said it only developed and operated grain silos for the Food Corporation of India (FCI). “The company has no role in deciding the volume of storage as well as pricing of grain as it is only a service/infrastructure provider for the FCI,” the Adani Group said in a statement posted on its Twitter handle. The FCI buys food grains from farmers and stores them in silos built through public-private partnership. While private players are paid a fee for building and storing the grains, the ownership of the commodity as well as its marketing and distribution rights belong to the FCI. The FCI, Adani said, controls the procurement and movement of grains for the public distribution system (PDS). Farmers protesting the government’s new farm laws have alleged that the legislation would allow “Adani-Ambani” to take over the sector. They have not said that the corporate groups at present control food grain procurement or movement. Some farm groups have alleged that the Adanis are building storage facilities to hoard food grains and sell them at a higher price later. “We do not own any food grains procured from farmers, and are in no way connected to the pricing of grains,” the Adani Group said. The company said it had been in the business of developing and operating grain silos for the FCI since 2005. It sets up storage infrastructure after winning competitive and transparent tenders floated by the government, the Adani Group said. Private rail lines that the company has built as part of these tenders are to facilitate the movement of grains from the silos to the distribution centres across India, the statement said. The FCI, the Adani Group said, awards such contracts with a view to modernising the storage and transport infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
10-12-2020||West Bengal||JP Nadda’s convoy pelted with stones during Diamond Harbour visit||Stones were pelted at Bharatiya Janata Party national president JP Nadda’s convoy on Thursday, when it was on its way to Diamond Harbour area in the South 24 Parganas district of Bengal, from Calcutta. Sources in the saffron party also alleged that BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya’s car was also totally ransacked in the attack. Vehicles of media personnel, too, were not spared, the sources said. “On our way to Diamond Harbour, TMC supporters blocked the road and pelted Naddaji's vehicle and other cars in the convoy with stones. This only shows the true colour of the TMC,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh told PTI. Later, police intervened and ensured the convoy’s safe passage. The saffron party, earlier in the day, alleged Trinamul Congress cadres of beating up its workers before Nadda’s visit at Diamond Harbour. Banners of the saffron party were torn at the venue of Nadda's programme and some of its workers were also beaten up by the ruling TMC, the state BJP sources said. “The rule of law has ceased to exist in Bengal. The opposition parties are not allowed to conduct their programmes. A jungle raj is going on in the state,” BJP national vice president Mukul Roy said. Local leaders of the TMC denied the allegations, saying that these are “baseless” and “politically motivated”. Ghosh also wrote a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday, and alleged that a "mob" of over 200 people with sticks and bamboo were demonstrating raising black flags in front of BJP's state unit office in Calcutta. Following this, the ministry sought a report from the Bengal government on Thursday on the alleged "serious security lapses" during the BJP president's visit, the circumstances and what action has been taken on it, a home ministry official said. “Today during his different engagement in Calcutta, it was observed that there were serious lapses on security arrangements, purportedly due to negligence and/or casual approach of the state police department,” he said in his letter. He also claimed that some of the protesters climbed on cars parked outside the party's office and raised slogans, and the "police did not intervene to stop them and casually allowed them to come within a close perimeter of Nadda ji's vehicle".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb's health condition improves but still critical||The health condition of former Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya improved a bit on Thursday but remained "critical", hospital sources said. The 76-year-old politician is "still on ventilator support", they said. "His health condition has improved a bit. He is also maintaining a steady PCO2 level and the reading of which is at 42 this morning. This is normal for COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) patients. "He is still on mechanical ventilator support and his condition remains critical," a senior official of the hospital where he is undergoing treatment said. His cardiac condition, pulse rate, blood pressure and oxygen saturation level are currently stable, the hospital said in a statement. "Preliminary investigation, including blood parameters and imaging, didn't show any significant abnormality. Sedation was stopped in the morning as a trial and the patient's sensorium was assessed and found to have improved," it said. A seven-member team of doctors reviewed the health condition of the veteran CPI(M) leader. "He will remain on mechanical ventilation for today and the process of gradual withdrawal from the ventilator support is being planned," the statement said. Bhattacharya was put on the mechanical ventilator support at the critical care unit of the private hospital where he was admitted on Wednesday afternoon as his breathing-related problems aggravated. Talking about his next course of treatment, a senior doctor said that adequate nutrition and other support is being taken care of. "As he is still on the ventilator support, the prognosis is guarded and critical. The doctors are keeping a constant vigil on his health condition and taking appropriate measures," he said. Members of Bhattacharya's family were briefed about his health condition and CPI(M) state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra visited the hospital during the day. The veteran CPI(M) leader's oxygen saturation level is at around 90-95 per cent, and he has regained consciousness, the doctor said. Bhattacharya tested negative for Covid-19 but the CT scan of his brain showed old lacunar infarcts. The CPI(M) leader was initially put on non-invasive ventilation (BIPAP) at the hospital after which his oxygen saturation level improved to 95 per cent. However, his condition deteriorated on Wednesday evening and he was put on mechanical ventilator support. Bhattacharya, who was the chief minister of Bengal from 2000 to 2011, has been suffering from COPD and other old age-related ailments for quite some time. He has been away from public life for the past few years due to his health. He had stepped down from the CPI(M)'s politburo and the central committee in 2015 and gave up membership of the state secretariat in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Covid cases dip below 3,000 for 3 days on trot||Bengal on Wednesday logged less than 3,000 new Covid-19 infections for the third day in a row for the first time since August. Wednesday saw 2,956 new infections, 3,009 recoveries and 47 deaths, including 17 from Calcutta. The state also reported a drop in its total active cases for the 44th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. The total has fallen from 37,190 on October 26 to 23,650 on Wednesday, back almost to where it was 87 days ago, on September 13. In the 44 days since the end of Puja, the state logged over 1.68 lakh recoveries and 1.57 lakh infections detected. “Now the number of new infections is less even on days the testing is at a normal level. The positive confirmation rate has been dropping, in an indication of lower levels of Covid-19 spread,” said a minister. Bengal's positive confirmation rate is 8.17 per cent now, having improved from 8.27 on November 20. With 44,351 tests on Wednesday, the state’s total test count went past 62.55 lakh, at 69,510 tests per million people. The state’s recovery rate has been rising for 48 consecutive days, having risen to 93.64 from the 87.44 of October 22. The national rate now is 94.68 per cent. “Starting next week, we are looking at another cycle of surge in recoveries, when these numbers would look even better,” said the minister. However, the state’s mortality rate is 1.73, still behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Of the total death toll, 7,428 or 83.8 per cent of the deaths were attributed to comorbidities by the government. The state now has nearly 5.11 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.78 lakh recoveries and 8,867 deaths. Bengal reported 23.51 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals, besides over 5.18 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November has shown that the court’s instructions were effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Govt at homes of transgenders||The recent visit of Gulshan Biwi, a 65-year-old transgender, to the state government’s Duare Sarkar (government-on-doorstep) camp at Birbhum’s Rampurhat laid bare a harsh reality — that transgenders largely stay outside the loop of government’s welfare schemes. This prompted Birbhum district authorities to pull up their socks and hand over ration and Swasthya Sathi cards to eight members of the community on Tuesday evening as part of the Duare Sarkar initiative. “I thanked the officials for providing me my first ration card,” said transgender Laila Khatun, 35. “I had thought (before) that people like us cannot get government documents.” Khatun was among the eight transgenders who received the cards from a team of district officials, headed by additional district magistrate (general) Sweta Agarwal, at their home in Rampurhat on Tuesday evening. A district official said the drive to identify members of the transgender community and include them in government schemes would continue as they form a significant part of the state’s population. According to Census 2011, transgenders constitute 6.2 per cent of Bengal’s over 9.3 crore population. Asked why transgenders do not avail of government schemes, a senior government official cited social ostracism. Many transgenders beg on streets, in trains, buses and at traffic signals but do not visit government offices or camps fearing stigma, many sources said. Gulshan agreed: “Young people in our community avoid going to public places because people in general do not like our presence.” Gulshan, who went to the Duare Sarkar camp last Friday, said she had to return as she did not have any identity proof to enrol under welfare projects. “I was surprised when officials arrived on my doorstep and promised to help us get the necessary papers,” said Gulshan. Vijay Bharti, Birbhum district magistrate, said that they were carrying out a demographic survey of people attending Duare Sarkar camps. “This transgender (Gulshan) was the only one from the community to turn up, and it helped us reach out to others,” said Bharti. A district official said the administration at all levels had been asked to find out transgenders and reach out to them as they might feel uncomfortable to queue up at the camps. A senior government official said that the Birbhum experience had been shared across Bengal. “The initiative to reach out to transgenders will be done under Duare Sarkar across Bengal. All districts have been advised to follow the Birbhum model.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
10-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP posts gun clips  to contest  cop version||BJP leaders have uploaded video clips featuring purported state police officers with pump-action guns to suggest that pellets that killed a party supporter in Siliguri on Monday were fired by the law-enforcement agency. “The police in Bengal have lied. We have at least 10 such videos to prove that they use pump action guns. This is just a sample video. We will even knock the doors of the Supreme Court to get justice. They have killed our supporter and now trying to conceal facts,” Kailash Vijayvargiya, the BJP national general-secretary and Bengal minder, tweeted along with a video clip. The police had said on Tuesday that the post-mortem report suggested Ulen Roy succumbed to injuries caused by pellets from a shot gun. The police had added that they did not use such firearms. Trinamul leader and minister Gautam Deb said the gun seen in the video posted by Vijayvargiya was used to fire rubber bullets. “The BJP is known for fabricating real facts. The video that Kailash Vijayvargiya has posted, claiming that the police had fired pellets, does not stand. The gun shown is used for rubber bullets,” the  minister said. BJP information technology department chief Amit Malaviya also uploaded a video clip on social media. “Really? You don’t use shotguns? Then what is this? You killed BJP worker Ulen Roy in cold blood…. Truth is catching up,” tweeted Malaviya, addressing the state police. The police did not officially comment on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP spots trophy and tough test||The BJP has zeroed in on Bhowanipore, the home turf of Mamata Banerjee, as the seat to win in Bengal ‑ and national president J.P. Nadda learnt first-hand on Wednesday the hard work that remains to be done to accomplish the mission. Nadda told party workers at a  closed-door meeting in the evening to leave no stone unturned to ensure the defeat of Mamata, the sitting MLA of the constituency. If Bhowanipore can be won, snatching power in the state will become easy, a source quoted Nadda as telling the party workers. Earlier in the day, Nadda’s outreach was marred by complaints from several residents of a Bhowanipore neighbourhood. In a slum located on Girish Mukherjee Road, at least one of the residents expressed displeasure on record. “He came and went like a thakur (God),” said Rani Halder. “There are 40 families in this slum. Why did he visit only three families? He should have come to at least a few more of us…. None of us got a chance to tell him about our problems. We thought that is what he was here for,” she added. Bimala Jana, whose family Nadda did visit, virtually echoed Halder: “Our men have lost jobs in the lockdown. I wanted to tell him about it, but couldn’t.” Rubbing salt into the wound, Halder contrasted it with a visit from her local MLA about a year and a half ago. “When Didi (Mamata) came here to find out about our problems, she stood with us on the road and spoke to each and every one of us. She gave us a patient hearing. That programme was so much better organised,” said the Bhowanipore resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Vaccine storage class to start in Bengal ||Bengal will start training senior health officials in various districts from Thursday on how to handle cold chains after the Centre on Tuesday asked state governments to ramp up infrastructure to store Covid-19 vaccines and also prepare for the immunisation process. A cold chain is a temperature-controlled unit, where handlers are responsible for storage and preservation of vaccines for immunisations and last-mile delivery. There are 25-40 cold chain centres in each Bengal district where vaccines such as polio or tuberculosis are preserved. “In a video-conference on Tuesday, the central health ministry said Covid-19 vaccines would arrive by the end of this month or early next year. This requires training cold chain operators for appropriate preservation of the vaccines. A team of health officials from the state have recently undergone training in Delhi. They are being sent to districts to train health officials there. Once trained, the district officials will work as trainers for cold chain handlers,” said a senior health department official. The Union health ministry’s virtual meeting with the states was held a couple of days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi told an all-party meeting that the Covid-19 vaccination programme would be rolled out in the country shortly and the government was waiting for the nod of experts. Sources said the Union health ministry had told senior health officials of the states on Tuesday that the vaccines scheduled to be launched in India could be stored in a temperature range of 2-8 degree Celsius. “We have the capacity to store the new vaccines in our cold chains as they can maintain a temperature of 2-8 degrees Celsius. If the new vaccine required a temperature range of -70 degree or more, as in the case of Pfizer’s mRNA vaccine, the government would have had to create new infrastructure,” said a state government official. Health department sources said the districts had been divided into three zones — Burdwan, Presidency and North Bengal — for imparting training. Health officials, including deputy chief medical officers and district level nursing officers, along with representatives of World Health Organisation (WHO), will take part in the two-day residential training camp. The first training of the Burdwan zone will begin on Thursday in Bolpur, where officials of eight south Bengal districts will be trained. The training for officials in north Bengal will start from December 22 in Siliguri, while the schedule for districts under the Presidency range is yet to be drawn up. “Those who will get trained at these camps will impart training to cold chain handlers in the districts concerned,” said Jayanta Sukul, deputy CMOH (III) in Birbhum. Sukul will be among those who will be present at the training session in Bolpur on Thursday. Asked why it required training of cold chain handlers who are already in the job of storing vaccines, a health official said the new vaccine required specific storage mechanism and that needed to be disseminated to ensure that shots didn’t  get damaged. “Maintaining the required temperature range of 2-8 degrees Celsius while storing and transporting the vaccine is important. Such critical inputs need to be conveyed to the cold chain handlers,” he said. “The training will also assess the state of cold chains in a particular district and whether they have the required parameters to store the vaccine,” said a senior health official in Birbhum and added that they needed to clear doubts about “storage and disposal of syringes and other immunisation equipment”. Health officials said training cold chain handlers was a continuous process and held every two to three years. The last such state-wide training was organised in 2017. “This time it is a critical vaccine and we have made necessary arrangements to train officials who will be involved in the storage and immunisation process,” said Asim Das Malakar, the state family welfare officer and joint director of health services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata: Already citizens, why CAA?||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the Matuas were very much citizens of India and nobody could drive them out of the country, her assertion coming at a time some BJP leaders said that the process to implement the Citizenship Amendment Act, which they claimed would help the Matuas, was likely to begin soon. “Many people had come from Bangladesh as refugees...we have accepted you all. This is not just our home…This is your home too...You need no new certificate to stay here. Because you are all citizens. You are being cheated with the offer of citizenship through the CAA,” Mamata said at a rally in Gopannagar near Bongaon. The chief minister stayed firm on her stand against the new citizenship matrix. “There will be no CAA...No NRC. It is a ploy of the BJP to push the Bengalis out of Bengal to make it Gujarat,” Mamata said. “If the CAA is allowed to be implemented, they will ask you for your grandmother’s age, grandfather’s date of birth...Will you be able to submit all these?” she asked, adding that the state government had already ensured their rights as citizens by recognising refugee colonies. “The recognition of the colonies by the state government made you a citizen of this country naturally. So you do not need to be at the mercy of anybody for any new citizenship certificate...Nobody can evict you from here, ” she said. Of over 60,000 people who attended the rally at Gopalnagar Haripada Institution Ground, most were from the Matua community, lower caste Hindus who had fled Bangladesh. Wednesday’s rally was significant as Mamata managed to bring together 23 Matua community organisations, and accept their demands, including a state holiday on the birth anniversary of Harichand Thakur, who had formed the sect, and inclusion of only people from the community in the Matua Development Board. Mamata tried to contrast how she delivered on her promises while the BJP only gave “false assurances”. The Matuas had largely been Trinamul supporters since the change of guard in Bengal, but the BJP had since managed to make solid inroads in the community by playing the citizenship card. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP won in two Matua dominated seats, Bongaon and Ranaghat, coming as a big blow to Mamata and her party. Sources in Trinamul said Mamata was aware that discontent against the BJP was brewing among the Matuas as the CAA remained on paper with the Centre yet to frame the rules. Some BJP leaders like the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said recently that the act would be implemented from January. Later, Narottam Biswas, chief organiser of the Hari Gurchandh Bhakta Matua Mahasangha, said: “Mamata Banerjee is the only one to fight for the citizenship for the Matuas. The CAA cannot be accepted in its present form. It must be simplified unless withdrawn.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP tries to prove Bengali credentials, messes up again||You must be very brave — or stupid — to latch onto Rabindranath Tagore to prove your Bengali credentials and then mess up. The BJP must be very, very brave. The Bengal BJP unit’s official Twitter handle on Wednesday tweeted in Bengali that “Visva-Bharati is Rabindranath Tagore’s birthplace”. Worse, it was attributed to the visiting BJP national president, Jagat Prakash Nadda, who traces his roots to Himachal Pradesh but spent his childhood closer to Bengal in Patna. Tagore was born in north Calcutta’s Jorasanko in 1861 and Visva-Bharati became a university 60 years later. In Bengal, it is next to impossible not to know this. If, by a quirk of fate, you are unaware of such elementary information, you are not expected to advertise it. The tweet, put out at 2.35pm by @BJP4Bengal, was taken down later. In grammatically questionable Bengali, the tweet read: “Rajnoitik drishtikon thekey dharona binimoy kora gonotontreyr shoundorjyo. Poschimbongo tar dharonaguli binimoy jonyo porichito (Exchanging ideas from political perspectives is the beauty of democracy. West Bengal is known for exchanging its ideas).” “Bishwobharoti holeyn Rabindranath Thakureyr jonmosthan (Visva-Bharati is Rabindranath Tagore’s birthplace): Sri @JPNadda #BengalWelcomesNadda,” it added. Sources in the BJP said the fault did not lie with Nadda, whose speech was peppered with eager attempts to underscore the party’s Bengal connect. The mistake was apparently made by someone in the party’s IT cell, whose boss Amit Malviya is now a co-minder for Bengal. “Naddaji did refer to Visva-Bharati and Tagore. His exact words were ‘this is the land… where Visva-Bharati is situated, where Tagore was born….’ He didn’t mean that Tagore was born in Visva-Bharati. Someone’s carelessness in the IT cell is now going to cost us dear,” said a state BJP leader. In a tweet, the official handle of the Trinamul Congress pointed out that Tagore was born in Jorasanko. Then came the unkindest cut of them all: “Bohiragawtodeyr Banglay ashar aagey Banglar sanskriti, itihash o oitijhyo jeney asha uchit (Outsiders should learn about Bengal’s culture, history and tradition before coming to Bengal).” The BJP had drawn attention to its perceived unfamiliarity with Bengal when a bust of Bengal Renaissance stalwart Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar was vandalised last year and an anonymous statue was incorrectly identified as that of revered tribal leader Birsa Munda last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddha admitted  to hospital||Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, 76, was rushed to a south Calcutta hospital on Wednesday with acute breathing problems. He was “critical” and put on invasive “mechanical ventilation”, a bulletin issued by Woodlands Hospital on Wednesday evening. He tested negative for Covid-19 upon hospitalisation. But his HRCT (high-resolution CT scan) thorax showed features of old patches of pneumonia, the bulletin said. Bhattacharjee was admitted to the hospital at 2.40pm after his oxygen saturation level fell to 70 per cent and he became unconscious at home, an earlier bulletin said. “He was put on non-invasive ventilation and his oxygen saturation went up to 95 per cent, but the arterial blood gas test showed accumulation of carbon dioxide and low PH levels. So we had to put him on invasive ventilation after taking permission from his family,” said Woodlands official. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited Bhattacharjee in the hospital. “We want him to get well soon,” she told journalists. Bhattacharjee has been suffering from breathing issues, CoPD and other age-related issues for a while. He was rushed to the hospital last year  with breathing troubles and an acute drop in blood pressure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Online ruckus over stadium ‘name change’ ||Former state minister and Trinamul leader Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury’s apparent decision to name the stadium run by the District Sports Association (DSA) in Malda after his elder brother has drawn flak. He was also reprimanded by officials of the district administration and asked to remove the metallic letters of the new name from at the entrance of the sports arena. The stadium, inaugurated on April 4, 1962 by then Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy, has six galleries including a VIP gallery, surrounding a lush green ground. It has the capacity to accommodate 15,000-odd spectators. On Wednesday, a picture of the stadium’s main entrance with the new name “Subhendu Choudhury Stadium, Malda” surfaced on social media. Soon, comments from people came flooding in, as they questioned the DSA’s decision of suddenly coming up with a new name for the familiar landmark. It was soon learnt that Krishnendu, who is the secretary of DSA, made the move. Subhendu Choudhury was his elder brother and also the former secretary of DSA. He died on September this year of Covid-19 complications. Subhasish Sarkar, another former secretary of DSA, was quick to raise questions. “The new name of the stadium is definitely questionable. Before changing the name, a resolution has to be adopted at a meeting of members. Also, the decision has to be approved by the state government and the administration. No such approval was taken,” he said. Officials of the administration called up Krishnendu and asked him to remove the alphabets which were put at the entrance of the stadium. The former minister, who initially was flummoxed by the reactions, later tried to downplay the change. “It was a minor mistake. Actually, it has been decided to name each gallery block after the name of prominent players and sports administrators of the district. The name was put at the entrance by mistake,” said Krishnendu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Malda youth Held with “madness drug” ||The police seized around 6,000 Yaba tablets — globally dubbed the “madness drug” — from Kadamtala under Kaliachak station and arrested a person in this connection on Tuesday night. Sources said Sakiul Sheikh of Mozampur was heading to Mahadipur under Englishbazar police station in a two-wheeler. A police team stopped him and found him with tablets. “During primary interrogation, the youth stated that he had to deliver the tablets to a person in Mahadipur. We are trying to find out whether these people are carriers or are involved in a smuggling racket,” said a police officer. A case under the NDPS Act has been filed against Sheikh. In a separate incident, three persons were arrested from Mahadipur with 450gm of brown sugar on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Binay turns focus on Dooars||Binay Tamang, the bête noire of Bimal Gurung, on Wednesday held his first meeting with his party leaders from the Dooars in the region itself. The meeting surprised many political watchers because since 2017, when Tamang formed a breakaway faction, had not shown much interest towards the Dooars. But now, with both Tamang and Gurung, who head rival factions of the Morcha and are both aligned to Trinamul, it looks like the Tamang considered it prudent to pay attention to the Dooars. Gurung’s statehood agitation from 2007 to 2017 was active in the Dooars, too. He is likely to address a public meeting in the Dooars this coming Sunday. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Tamang camp) admitted that this was the first time that the party was holding a meeting in the Dooars. “We organised a karmi sabha (workers’ meeting) at a closed hall at Nagarkatta in the Dooars. Earlier, our leader had addressed a meeting in the Dooars on an invitation of another Dooars-based organisation,” said Pokhrel. On Wednesday, Tamang said his party would hold a mega rally in the Dooars by February, “either at Birpara or Jaigoan”. Tamang further pointed out that the people of the Dooars were only being used by political parties. However, he did not utter Gurung’s name during the nearly 40-minute speech at the Adivasi Cultural Centre at Nagarkatta. Tamang raised Dooars-centric issues like the need to improve health infrastructure and set up a parallel bridge to the Coronation Bridge, one of the main connecters between Siliguri and the Dooars. Tamang’s decision to foray in the hills also comes at a time when Gurung is looking at reactivating his party activities in the Dooars. Sources said that Gurung is scheduled to address a public meeting in the Dooars this Sunday at a time Tamang and his deputy Anit Thapa address a public meet at Sukna near Siliguri. Many believe that the Sukna meeting by the Tamang camp will counter Gurung’s meeting at Indira Gandhi Maidan last Sunday. “With Gurung expected to foray in the Dooars (Gurung has not yet come up to Darjeeling but is currently in Siliguri), the Tamang camp also seems to be making efforts to reach out to the Gorkha population in the Dooars,” said a hill observer. It is largely believed that the Gorkha population can influence anything between six to eight assembly seats in Dooars and Terai (another area in the plains.) Unlike the hills, where voices for Gorkhaland statehood is in the majority, the scenario is different in Dooars with a mixed demography. Gorkhas are not in a majority in most areas of the Dooars. “With both factions supporting Trinamul, there seems to be a feeling in TMC that Gorkhas would vote as wished by Gurung or Tamang. However, TMC strategists should understand that Gorkha leaders might not have the last word during the Assembly elections,” the observer added. Tamang formed a breakaway Morcha in 2017 and aligned with TMC. Gurung was on the run but resurfaced in Bengal on October 21 in Calcutta and announced support to TMC and dumped BJP. Additional inputs from our Jalpaiguri correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata to visit north Bengal next week||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will visit north Bengal next week to address party workers and supporters of Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar in two public meetings. Mamata’s visit, Trinamul insiders said, would be significant amid the ongoing BJP-TMC turbulence in the area, with the BJP making it clear that north Bengal, where it won seven out of eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019, was its focus. Party sources said Mamata will reach Uttarkanya in Siliguri on December 14. The next day, she would take a chopper to Jalpaiguri for a public meeting at ABPC Ground. On December 16, she would speak at  the Raas Mela Ground of Cooch Behar. She would then leave for Calcutta via Bagdogra. Earlier, it was decided that as supporters of both Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar would attend the first meeting, the venue would be located midway. “However, our party leaders told us yesterday (Tuesday) that the first meeting would be held in Jalpaiguri town, seven days after BJP’s protest march (held last Monday). It seems the party wants the meeting near where BJP workers had perpetrated violence to pass a message to residents of the region,” said a TMC source. Senior officials of the administration and police and TMC leaders visited the he ABPC Ground in Jalpaiguri, some 35km from Fulbari, where Ulen Roy, a BJP worker, fell to pellets on Monday. In Cooch Behar, the selection of the venue for Mamata’s public meeting is significant, pointed out political observers. “The Raas Mela (or Rashmela) Ground is in the heart of the district headquarters, and more importantly, Cooch Behar South Assembly seat. The MLA of this seat (Mihir Goswami) recently defected from TMC to BJP and it seems the TMC wants to assert its support base here to put pressure on BJP,” said an observer. Goswami joined BJP in Delhi last month, but is yet to step down from the MLA’s post. “We expect the chief minister to guide us on how to take up political activities in this Assembly seat after the changed situation (MLA’s defection),” said a party leader. Additional inputs from our Cooch Behar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker found hanging, party cries foul||A BJP worker from a village in Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar was found hanging inside the deserted premises of a local girls’ school on Wednesday, prompting his wife and the party to accuse Trinamul of murdering and hanging the victim. “Trinamul goons have killed Swapan Das, one of our party workers, in Tufanganj. In Bengal, all types of inhuman acts are being carried out to deal with people who are in opposition,” BJP’s national general secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said a tweet in Hindi on Wednesday. Trinamul leaders have brushed aside the charges and said the BJP was “trying to do politics over dead bodies”. Sources said Swapan Das, 36, a resident of Andaran-Fulbari village of Tufanganj and a known face of the BJP in the area, had been missing since Tuesday morning. Das used to work at a jewellery shop. “We searched for my husband everywhere on Tuesday but could not find him,” said his wife Chumki. “On Wednesday, I came to know his body has been found inside the girls’ school. I suspect that Trinamul supporters murdered and hanged him for being associated with the BJP. I want exemplary punishment for all those involved.” Malati Rava Roy, the BJP district president of Cooch Behar, called it “a planned murder”. “His feet were touching the ground and there were bloodstains. His wife has filed a complaint with the police. We will continue our movement unless the assailants are arrested,” Malati said. BJP workers and supporters alleged this was the second case in north Bengal during the past 48 hours when a BJP worker has been “murdered”. On Monday, they said, Ulen Roy, 65, another party worker from Jalpaiguri dictrict, had died from “police pellets” while he was participating at the party’s protest march — Uttarkanya Abhiyan — in Siliguri as a part of their campaign Ar Noi Annay. BJP supporters also demonstrated in front of the school when a police team reached the spot to recover Das’s body. Later in the day, as policemen took away the body for post mortem, a group of BJP workers assembled in front of Tufanganj police station and demonstrated for a while. Shibapada Pal, the block Trinamul president of Tufanganj and a spokesperson of the party in the district, said no one from the was involved in the incident. “The BJP is trying to do politics over dead bodies. People are watching them and will give them an apt reply,” Pal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
10-12-2020||North East||Mizo Front sweeps council polls, BJP makes gains||The ruling Mizo National Front (MNF) in Mizoram has swept the Lai Autonomous District Council (LADC) elections by winning 20 out of the 25 seats, the first time it has won a majority on its own despite the BJP going “all out” to challenge the ruling dispensation. The results for the December 4 elections, announced on Tuesday, also saw the BJP gain at the cost of the Congress, both of which won a seat each but the saffron party finished second in 11 seats. Three seats were won by Independents. In the last council polls in 2015, the MNF had won eight seats, the Congress 16 and one Independent. Senior MNF leader R. Rohmingliana told The Telegraph that it was a vote for the overall good work being done by the state government, including during the pandemic. He, however, dismissed the BJP’s gains saying it will not grow in Mizoram, a Christian-majority state. In the LADC polls, which recorded a voter turnout of 85.09 per cent, the MNF contests all 25 seats, the BJP 17 seats and the Congress 14. “It is for the first time in 11 LADC polls we have won a majority. It is because of the good work done by our MNF government. Manghmung Chinzah will be the next LADC chief executive member. The BJP tried very hard, went all out. It gained only because of the Congress’s decline. The Congress voters who will not vote for the MNF voted for the BJP. There is nothing to worry,” Rohmingliana said. He is the member-secretary of the seven-member MNF core committee, the highest-decision making body of the party. Though the MNF is part of the BJP-headed North East Democratic Alliance, a group of non-Congress parties, it has no truck with the BJP in Mizoram. By capturing the LADC, the MNF now leads two of the three autonomous district councils in the state, the other being the Chakma council. The BJP heads the Mara council after 20 Congress councillors switched over to the BJP to hand it majority. In August, the MNF had convincingly won elections to the village councils and urban local bodies. If the MNF won a majority for the first time in the council polls, the BJP won a seat for the first time in the LADC, created under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution in 1972. Only 10 of the 22 sitting members won the polls. BJP national spokesperson Mmhonlumo Kikon, a Nagaland legislator, congratulated the MNF and chief minister Zoramthanga for the successful campaign as well as the state BJP team led by Vanlalhmuaka for the “immense effort” they put in not only registering “a first win in the history of LADC” but also increasing the vote share of the BJP in the entire council area which falls under Langtwlai district. “This indicates the relevance of the BJP in Mizoram in a big way. The party will only grow from strength to strength! The party stands committed to fulfilling its promise to the LADC,” Kikon said. Kikon and Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju had campaigned in the LADC with Rijiju asserting that the BJP would go all out to win the council polls. For the Congress, defections to the MNF and then to the BJP last year cost the party dear. Mizoram PCC spokesperson Dr Lallianchhunga told this newspaper that they didn’t have time to “rectify” the situation before the polls because of the defections, a reason for which they did not contest all the 25 seats. Another reason was imposition of a partial lockdown in Lawngtlai district between November 20 and 24 and from December 1 to 5. “Opposition parties were left handicapped, while the ruling MNF ministers and leaders were camping in the LADC area,” he said. Dr Lallianchhunga, however, feels the BJP’s campaign strategy “failed” miserably. “It hoped to garner popular support by using direct funding to the council as an electoral issue but it didn’t work,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
10-12-2020||North East||Tripura CM seeks public opinion on continuation||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Tuesday evening took the fight to his detractors by urging the public to gather at the Astabal ground in Agartala on December 13 and speak their mind on whether he should continue in his post. Deb made the announcement at a news meet in Agartala in response to slogans — “Biplab hatao, BJP bachao (Remove Biplab, save BJP)”, “Biplab hatao, Tripura bachao (Remove Biplab, save Tripura)” — raised by a section of BJP supporters in front of party observer Vinod Sonkar in the Tripura capital on Sunday. “If they want me to leave, I will inform the party leadership and leave. I will abide by the people’s wish. I request everyone to come and share their opinions,” Deb said. The chief minister said the sloganeering by a few people had left him pained and disturbed. Deb said he called for the public gathering on December 13 as he wanted to know whether the people at large think the same way. A group of rebel BJP legislators had recently also visited Delhi seeking a change of guard, a move the MLAs have denied. The BJP had stormed to power with its ally, the Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (IPFT), in 2018 by winning 44 out of 60 seats in the Assembly polls and ending 25 years of Left rule in Tripura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
10-12-2020||North East||Jumbo deaths spur vaccination plan in Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary||The death of two female elephants due to anthrax in Upper Assam’s Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary has prompted the state government to launch a vaccination drive within a 5km radius from where the carcasses were found to “save” the nearby livestock as well as the wildlife from getting affected. The promptness with which the vaccination drive is being launched has a lot to do with the experience of the anthrax outbreak in Odisha’s Simlipal Tiger Reserve in 2016. Dibrugarh divisional forest officer Pradipta Baruah told The Telegraph that the vaccination drive will be launched either on Thursday or Friday. “Around 3,000 vaccine doses are being rushed from Guwahati. We recommended the vaccination drive as soon as we suspected anthrax to be the cause of deaths. We received the confirmation report from Guwahati on Tuesday,” Baruah said. Anthrax is a spore-forming bacteria, leading to fatality within six to 12 hours in animals. It also affects humans, causing high fever, skin infection and digestive problems but can be cured with timely intervention, a veterinarian said. Tinsukia-based Wildlife Trust of India official Dr Khanin Changmai told this newspaper that it took Odisha three years to control the infection in Simlipal. “I was with the WTI in Odisha from 2015 to 2019. It took us three years to find the source. We also went for strict preventive measures. Around 18 elephants died of anthrax in the tiger reserve. When I shared my Odisha experience, the Dibrugarh district administration and the forest department reacted promptly to prevent a repeat and put in place several preventive measures,” Changmai said. He was part of the team that carried out the post-mortem of the two elephants which died under the Joypur range of the Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary. “It is very important to find the source of infection and take all possible preventive measures to check the spread,” Changmai said. There are around 200 elephants in the forest and around 35 in the affected area. The elephant which died on December 3 in the Tarajan area was around 8 to 10 years old and the one that died at Namsang on December 5 was aged between 18 and 20 years. The forest department burnt the carcasses of the two elephants and then fenced an area of 20 metres at both the sites so that other animals cannot come near them and get infected. The carcasses cannot be buried because the anthrax bacteria can become “active even after 10 years” if it is not killed. Therefore, according to revised forest ministry standard operating procedure, the carcasses were burnt. “Besides fencing an area of around 20m where the carcasses were burnt, a 50m area around the two sites has been also disinfected with 10 per cent formalin to check the spread. The authorities will also launch an awareness drive in human habitations in the vicinity of the affected area to prevent its spread,” Changmai said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
10-12-2020||Opinion||Deadly waste||Sir — In its annual audit, Break Free From Plastic has revealed that Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and Nestlé are the top plastic polluters in the world for the third time in a row. Coca-Cola plastic bottles — the biggest offender of the lot — were found discarded in 51 of the 55 nations that were surveyed. While several corporations have claimed to be working towards reducing plastic waste, their actions are clearly not enough. Unless governments strictly implement environmental laws, the situation will only take a turn for the worse.Apurba Dasgupta, Calcutta BUNCH ONE: Headline: Call to action Sir — A nationwide strike called by the farmers’ unions protesting against the three contentious agriculture bills indicates that the struggle against the Centre’s draconian legislations is intensifying (“No coercion on today’s bandh”, Dec 8). With almost all Opposition parties backing the Bharat bandh on Tuesday and many announcing parallel protests in support of the farmers, life came to be partially paralyzed in several big cities including Delhi. However, the response remained lukewarm at best in Mumbai. The trader’s body, the Confederation of All India Traders, and All India Transporters Welfare Association announced that markets across the country, including in Delhi, were to remain open in spite of the strike and that the transport sector would function as usual. The reason cited by the two bodies is that neither farmer leaders nor associations have approached them seeking their support on the issue. Such contentions between the organizations not only defeat the purpose of a bandh but also make life difficult for certain sections of the population without reason. The call for a strike during a pandemic should have been well thought out.C.K. Subramaniam, Navi Mumbai Sir — It was good to see that the Bharat bandh called by farmers protesting against the three new farm laws — they were passed by Parliament in September earlier this year — was observed relatively peacefully throughout the country. The farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are fighting for a total repeal of the three laws which they fear will further marginalize them. So far the Centre has refused to budge on its position. Hopefully both sides will be able to reach an amicable solution soon, and the Centre, at the very least, will ensure that the farmers receive a just minimum support price for their produce.N.R. Ramachandran, Chennai. Sir — Hartals and bandhs have become a part of our daily life. All political organizations, irrespective of their ideological leanings, announce strikes quite often in protest. While it is their Constitutional right to air their grievances and protest in the form of hartals, political parties as well as other associations must always ensure that strikes remain peaceful. Strikes can be inconvenient for the common people in more ways than one and can also lead to immense financial losses. One report puts the estimated financial loss suffered by the Indian economy as a result of the nationwide bandh at Rs 32,000 crore. At a time when our economy has entered technical recession, any financial loss will only add to the miseries of the common people. The Centre must meet the demands of the protesting farmers. It is shameful that in an agricultural nation like ours, farmers have to struggle for months on end to get their concerns addressed.Jubel D’Cruz,MumbaiBUNCH TWO : Rising star Sir — The journey of Thangarasu Natarajan from a nondescript village of Chinnappampatti in Tamil Nadu to the cricket fields of Australia is truly remarkable (“Natarajan shines”, Dec 3). The left-arm pacer stole the limelight during this year’s Indian Premier League with his consistent performance for Sunrisers Hyderabad. He then went on to make his mark at the final one-day international against Australia by picking up two crucial wickets. Natarajan’s rise to prominence from his humble beginnings makes him a player to look out for.Ranganathan Sivakumar, Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
10-12-2020||Opinion||Honey trap: fight against food fraud||Sweetness can leave a bitter taste in the mouth. Researchers from the Centre for Science and Environment have alleged that the honey produced by major Indian brands is adulterated with sugar syrup. That is not all; there appears to be a discrepancy in the results of different tests geared towards the same purpose. The environment watchdog had selected 13 popular honey brands to assess the purity of the product. Curiously, while the samples of almost all the big brands tested at the Centre for Analysis and Learning in Livestock and Food in Gujarat were found to be ‘pure’, 10 of the same brands failed the Nuclear Magnetic Resonance test, which is conducted by a specialized laboratory in Germany and is used globally to check for the use of modified sugar syrups. It stands to reason that assessment standards vary. If the NMR test detected adulteration that the checks in Gujarat could not identify, ought not the Central government to adopt the more stringent assessment model for domestic testing since the matter concerns public health? Making the waters murkier are revelations of the import and use of Chinese sugar syrups that are  ‘designed’ to avoid detection in tests. The CSE has said that its investigators received a shipment of samples containing syrup from a Chinese company that sought to evade the honey testing protocols mandated by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India. In the wake of the recent border hostilities, the Union government tom-tommed its ban on a series of Chinese mobile apps as an economic ‘surgical strike’. Yet, it is evident that Chinese syrups continue to be imported by firms; traders even claim that Chinese companies have helped set up sugar syrup factories in India. It appears that the Centre’s economic surgical strike against China may have missed a few targets. The main worry, however, concerns regulatory oversight. The history of weak implementation of adulteration laws in India does not help either; Maggi was banned by the FSSAI in 2015 for allegedly selling lead-laced instant noodles before the government allowed the brand to return to the market. The battle against food fraud must be fought on two fronts. First, there is a case for raising public awareness so that citizens know that the products they are consuming are safe; second, institutional assessment protocols must be uniform to avoid conflicting results. There is also the additional imperative of assisting beekeeping communities — the maulis of the Sunderbans are an example — whose livelihoods have been decimated by the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
10-12-2020||Opinion||In camera: CCTV in police stations||It has been two-and-a-half years since the Supreme Court ordered closed-circuit television to be installed in police stations to check human rights abuses. Transparency comes reluctantly to India’s law enforcing institutions; hence even the 14 states which responded to the court’s impleading on the earlier order this September could not demonstrate adequate compliance by November 24. The Supreme Court has now ordered that every police station in each state and Union Territory be fitted with CCTV cameras with night vision and audio capacity. To emphasize accountability, the court listed the positions at which the cameras should be fixed in each police station, and insisted that the storage of recorded material should not be for less than one year, although the ideal would be 18 months. Governments are to release funds to make this possible immediately, form oversight committees according to the court’s instructions and submit in six weeks affidavits of compliance in letter and spirit within a fixed time-frame. In each police station, the station house officer would be responsible for the functioning and maintenance of the devices and report any breakdown without delay to ensure quick repair. The detailed instructions indicate the seriousness with which the Supreme Court has invested accountability; more, the insistence of compliance ‘in spirit’ could be taken as an exhortation to accord with the principles of accountable conduct. This order would be deeply heartening for citizens suffering, directly and indirectly, from the violation of rights by the guardians of law. The court extended its order for CCTV installation to the offices of all Central agencies that conduct interrogations and arrests in the style of the police, such as the Central Bureau of Investigation, the Enforcement Directorate, the National Investigation Agency and certain others. The larger sweep of the order this time should not only be seen in the context of the tardiness of police stations to act on the Supreme Court’s 2018 direction, but also, more pertinently for social workers, dissenters, protesters and critics of governmental policies, in the context of the continuing arrests and detentions of students and of activists in various fields. Transparency has become elusive under a ruling regime that thrives on opacity and the exclusion of differing opinions. The Supreme Court’s order has ensured a route for the reassertion of democratic principles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
10-12-2020||Opinion||A case for reform||Gender justice and equality are intrinsic to a democratic society and polity. Various articles of the Constitution, including Article 13, Article 14 and Article 15, uphold these values for all Indian women irrespective of caste, class, ethnicity or religion. And yet, the journey towards gender equality has never been easy in this country. Reform in laws pertaining to marriage and family has been a complex and contentious subject in our religious and patriarchal society. Parliament has framed different laws over the decades in an effort to bring about equality for women. Today, women enjoy nearly equal rights as men, at least legally. But there are exceptions to this; Muslim women lag behind in terms of legal protections. The Constitution grants the right to religious freedom for all citizens. Traditionally, this has meant that laws pertaining to family matters such as marriage, divorce, child custody, inheritance, and property would be based on religious texts. This is where complications arise. Historically, women’s subjugation has been passed off as normal in the name of religion by male religious authorities. This has been true for all faiths. Sati, widow harassment, dowry, triple talaq, polygamy — each of these practices has been justified in the name of religion. It is not surprising that the founding luminaries of our nation were concerned about the marginalization of women even after Independence. Jawaharlal Nehru and B.R. Ambedkar were keen to ensure that women attain equality in marriage, family and society. They anticipated the denial of rights to women on one or the other religious pretext or in the name of tradition. They unsuccessfully tried to bring about a secular law in the form of the uniform civil code. This move was opposed vehemently by sadhus and by some political leaders as they felt that this was an attack on our ancient heritage and civilization. The archives of the Constituent Assembly debates highlight the vociferous opposition to such a law to protect women. Society was perhaps not prepared for it and Nehru was forced to abandon the idea. It features as Article 44 of the Constitution under the Directive Principles of State Policy. But a way was found in the form of a Hindu code bill to give rights to Hindu women. The Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, The Hindu Succession Act, 1956 and more such laws were brought in. Gradually, Parliament passed amendments to benefit Christian women who now enjoy the right to initiate divorce. Unfortunately, Muslim women were largely left out of the ambit of legal protection in the absence of reform in Muslim family laws that are governed by the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act, 1937. This law is insufficient and silent on important aspects such as age of marriage, meher, triple talaq, polygamy, the guardianship of children, women’s share in property and so on. Muslim women’s democratic movement against instant triple talaq has been a historic development in the current decade. Since 2011, more and more Muslim women started speaking out against this arbitrary practice. They highlighted that there is no Quranic sanction for such instant unilateral divorce. Ordinary women joined the movement demanding justice based on Quranic values as well as constitutional principles. They openly challenged misogynist interpretations by the self-appointed guardians of religion who had perpetrated an unjust practice for ages. The women not only mobilized Parliament and the Supreme Court but they also educated the entire community and the country. The conservative clergy has come in the way of honouring gender rights granted by the Quran, women were saying in unison. Several women petitioned the Supreme Court and, finally, triple talaq was declared illegal in 2017. But nothing is devoid of politics in our troubled, multi-faith society. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government supported the abolition of triple talaq. In an affidavit filed on the matter in the Supreme Court, the Centre stated that the fact instant triple talaq is illegal in nine Muslim countries reveals that it is not part of the essential practice of Islam and must be abolished. In its second term, the government passed a law against triple talaq, leading to an uproar within and outside Parliament. One MP termed this law as a plan to fill the prisons with Muslim men. Without going into the motivations of the government in bringing about the law against triple talaq, let us remember that the BJP came to power only in 2014. The Quran had called for affirmative action in favour of women 1,400 years ago. Tunisia, Morocco, Indonesia and some other Muslim countries have worked out progressive jurisdiction on gender. Unfortunately, in India, there has been a nexus between political parties and the conservative, patriarchal clergy that has thwarted any effort to reform Muslim family law. Remember how they joined hands to crush the voice of Shah Bano in 1985? Indian Muslims comprise the largest minority community. The majority of Muslims are poor, educationally backward, and economically deprived. The political representatives lack commitment and competence to alleviate their plight. The community has been in the grip of a conservative clergy, which is clueless on most issues. India has become highly polarized in the last few years. Mob lynchings in the name of gau raksha, discriminatory laws such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the looming National Register of Citizens, harassment through the bogey of love jihad have amplified the sense of fear among Muslims. In spite of the prime minister’s slogan of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vishwas’, the government has done nothing to address the concerns of the community. The conservative ulemas have maintained that religion is the sole prerogative of men. Some sections feel that this is not the right moment to demand reform in Muslim family law. But there is never a proper time for gender justice. The movement for reform initiated and led by Muslim women must be supported by all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
10-12-2020||Opinion||An older root: Organic traditions for BJP in Bengal||Historians researching contemporary events have traditionally banked on newspapers and magazines as primary sources. Those delving into developments after the first decade of this century will probably find that printed sources would need to be supplemented with material drawn from electronic archives. With the growing importance of the electronic media, it is likely that YouTube will acquire a great deal of importance for a future generation of historians. A perusal of the clips from television shows from the second half of 2013 to the victory of Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party in May 2014 will reveal that there was a broad consensus among political pundits on two things. First, it was widely believed that while the momentum was with Modi, the tally of the BJP and its allies would fall short of the majority mark. This deficit, in turn, would prompt the BJP to select a less ‘polarizing’ figure than Modi as prime minister. Secondly, while it was felt that the BJP would do exceedingly well in northern and western India, Modi would fail to make a dent on the imagination of voters in eastern and southern India. The belief that the BJP is primarily a party of upper caste Hindus — with a sprinkling of support from the backward castes — was widespread in the ranks of the punditry. The election results of 2014 and 2019 disproved both assumptions but never entirely. In the run-up to the 2019 polls, it was suggested that 2014 was a freak ‘black swan’ phenomenon and that India would revert to fractious coalition governments. Moreover, despite the BJP’s inroads into Karnataka, the feeling that eastern and southern India are out of bounds for the saffron party remained a firm belief among professional BJP-watchers. Under the circumstances, the BJP’s victory in 18 seats in West Bengal and a majority of seats in Assam came as a rude shock. This shock may well escalate into a larger conceptual turbulence following the BJP’s dramatic showing in last week’s election to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. Although the party lagged behind the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi in seats, it improved its seat tally from four in 2016 to 48 out of 150 seats. In terms of vote share, its tally of 35.56 per cent was only 0.25 per cent (or 8,456 votes) below that of the TRS. The gradual emergence of the BJP as the principal Opposition to the TRS in Telangana may have further punctured the belief that the party cannot be a force outside the Hindi belt, but it still lingers. In West Bengal, the big battlefield for the assembly elections of 2021, the Trinamul Congress has based a big chunk of its campaign on the plank of the BJP being a party of ‘outsiders’. As the fissures within the TMC escalate, the dissidents are being advised to avoid looking at the BJP as an alternative because the party has no links with the culture and ethos of Bengalis. Culture wars are a feature of larger political conflicts and what is happening in West Bengal is hardly unique. However, it is also true that beyond the parameters of electoral politics, there is a perception — promoted in a section of the media — that the ‘progressive’ underpinnings of modern West Bengal are at odds with the BJP’s commitment to Bharatiya sanskriti. This is a view that is shared not only by the TMC and its favoured intellectuals but also by the Left and its fellow-travellers. The argument is facile and based on a narrow, ‘progressive’ interpretation of the past. Apart from the obvious fact that the Bharatiya Jana Sangh — the political precursor of the BJP — was born out of Bengali political impulses, founded by Shyama Prasad Mookerjee in 1952, and won its first Lok Sabha seats from West Bengal in 1951-52, there is the intellectual ancestry of modern Indian nationalism. Despite the implicit suggestion of some historians that West Bengal’s turn to Left politics after Independence was a consequence of the 19th-century Bengal Renaissance, the linear movement is not obvious. The exposure to European ideas did certainly steer a small section of Bengali Hindus in the direction of British Anglican theology — although these influences didn’t necessarily lead to the growth of Christianity — but the deeper impact was that of nationalism. The nationalism that influenced Hindu Bengalis was that which stemmed from the imagery of Bankim Chandra Chatterjee, the Hindu pride of Swami Vivekananda and the political imagination of the likes of Sri Aurobindo and Bipin Chandra Pal. It was inherently conservative in inclination and centred on the creation of religio-political impulses. This strand of political thought was naturally at odds with both Gandhism and the progressivism promoted by the communist parties, not to mention the liberal cosmopolitanism that struck roots in a section of Hindu Bengalis. The dominant hold of Mahatma Gandhi on India’s nationalist imagination led to intriguing developments in Bengal. The leadership of the Mahatma was grudgingly accepted in Bengal but this was not accompanied by the internalization of the Gandhian imagination. What further complicated matters was the Bengali Hindu failure to come to terms with the ‘Muslim question’. As many historians have noted, its heart was with the Hindu Mahasabha but the body remained nominally with the Congress. Subhas Chandra Bose personified the conflicting pulls and pressures on the Bengali Hindu: his political imagination was unquestionably pre-Gandhian, his local political conduct was dictated by alignments within conservative nationalism, and his national profile was linked to the socialist critics of Gandhi. With Partition and Independence, the fog partially lifted and competitive politics was reduced to a straight fight between the ‘progressive’ Left and the conservative Congress dominated by the likes of B.C. Roy and Atulya Ghosh. The electoral growth of the Left from 1967 witnessed two developments. First, the economic basis of conservative politics was undermined by agricultural land redistribution and industrial collapse. Second, whether it was Siddhartha Shankar Ray in the early 1970s or Mamata Banerjee four decades later, the anti-Left forces chose to fight the communists by painting themselves a pale shade of red. The Youth Congress-Chhatra Parishad — the real political mentors of the TMC — for example, incorporated the Congress’s post-1969 Left turn. The BJP in West Bengal, despite its national lineage, is a relatively new formation that grew out of its Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh core. The accretion of its strength, post-1990, drew from various streams. There was first the fallout of the Ayodhya movement, the BJP’s emergence as the principal alternative to the Congress and, most important, the appeal of Narendra Modi. In the past few years, the most significant stream has come from the TMC that — apart from a disappointment with Mamata Banerjee’s post-2016 overdependence on her own family — is at home with the BJP’s old anti-Left credentials and its new populism. If the BJP is to upstage the TMC in the assembly election next year, it has to supplement these tendencies with the neo-conservatism of aspirational India that also finds expression in the growing Bengali Hindu exasperation with economic decline and a new ‘Muslim question’. Integrating these different traditions is the political challenge before the saffron party. There always was and will be a robust and organic Right in the politics of West Bengal. Its character and expression have evolved with time and context.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi Police nab 2 in ATM theft case of 2019||Ranchi Police on Thursday arrested two aides of ATM custodians, who had stolen Rs 4.07 crore cash from the city, meant for 20 ATMs in December 2019. They also recovered cash worth Rs 98 lakh, which is a portion of the stolen amount, from the two arrested men -- Rajkumar Srivastava and Prabhash Kumar. Kumar and Srivastava, though not directly involved in the crime, had kept the amount in their possession. “We had arrested the two prime accused in January 2020 itself and recovered more than Rs.2 crore cash from their possession,” said officer in-charge of Sadar Police Station Saryu Anand, adding that the two were already in jail for the crime. While this kind of thefts are common in the city, this was the first case of ATM custodians fleeing with cash reported in Ranchi, police said. As per an FIR lodged by SiS Cash Services Limited with Sadar Police Station in December 2019, Ganesh Kumar Thakur and Shivam Kumar, both residents of Bihar and custodians of cash supplied to ATMs had fled with over Rs 4 crore. The duo was given the responsibility of supplying cash to at least 20 ATMs in the city, but they fled with the money, the police said. The FIR accused the duo of amassing the money from December 5 to December 14 and fleeing thereafter. Police later found that Ganesh and Shivam were fake names used by the two in a bid to keep their identity undisclosed. “Their real names were Vipin and Subhash Rajak,” said Anand on Thursday, adding that Prabhash, who was arrested on the day, was uncle of Vipin. Rajkumar was a common friend of the two custodians who perpetrated the crime. Several banks across India have given the responsibility of supplying cash to ATMs to SiS Cash Services Limited. The cash stolen in 2019 was meant for 15 State Bank of India (SBI) ATMs and five United Bank of India (UBI) ATMs, the private agency had told the police soon after the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant meets people at his home, listens to their concerns||People from across the state turned up at chief minister Hemant Soren’s official residence on Kanke Road on Thursday to seek his help and intervention in resolving some of their problems centred around pensions and availability of civic amenities. Hemant, who has been busy chairing review meetings of various departments this week, met each visitor individually and listened to their concerns. Most of the problems shared by the visitors were related to electricity, water, road construction, anomalies in pension and schemes for providing shelter to the poor, officials from his office said. “It is the government’s priority to improve civic amenities and basic facilities for the people of the state irrespective of whether they live in cities or villages. Since we were voted to power, we have been trying our level best to address public issues and focus on bridging the gap between the government and the people of the state,” said Hemant. Each of the visitors handed over their concerns in writing directly to the chief minister who assured them of speedy redressal. Mostly women from Saraikela Kharsawan and families from far flung villages of Jharkhand visited the CM residence on Thursday, sources from the CMO said. Some of the visitors also got small gifts for the CM, mostly mementos, which Hemant accepted with grace. Hemant has been one of the most affable CMs in Jharkhand, say experts. Soon after being sworn-in, he won the hearts by his well-meaning gesture of asking for books instead of bouquets. And hardly a fortnight into his tenure at the helm, he started giving due attention to even the smallest of concerns raised by people engaging with officials on Twitter. One of the common complaints against the former Raghubar Das-led government in Jharkhand was lack of access to government heads in the state, political analysts have noted in the past. People from across the state turned up at chief minister Hemant Soren’s official residence on Kanke Road on Thursday to seek his help and intervention in resolving some of their problems centred around pensions and availability of civic amenities. Hemant, who has been busy chairing review meetings of various departments this week, met each visitor individually and listened to their concerns. Most of the problems shared by the visitors were related to electricity, water, road construction, anomalies in pension and schemes for providing shelter to the poor, officials from his office said. “It is the government’s priority to improve civic amenities and basic facilities for the people of the state irrespective of whether they live in cities or villages. Since we were voted to power, we have been trying our level best to address public issues and focus on bridging the gap between the government and the people of the state,” said Hemant. Each of the visitors handed over their concerns in writing directly to the chief minister who assured them of speedy redressal. Mostly women from Saraikela Kharsawan and families from far flung villages of Jharkhand visited the CM residence on Thursday, sources from the CMO said. Some of the visitors also got small gifts for the CM, mostly mementos, which Hemant accepted with grace. Hemant has been one of the most affable CMs in Jharkhand, say experts. Soon after being sworn-in, he won the hearts by his well-meaning gesture of asking for books instead of bouquets. And hardly a fortnight into his tenure at the helm, he started giving due attention to even the smallest of concerns raised by people engaging with officials on Twitter. One of the common complaints against the former Raghubar Das-led government in Jharkhand was lack of access to government heads in the state, political analysts have noted in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Push kids towards outdoor activities, Special Olympics tells parents ||The Special Olympics Jharkhand has issued an advisory to parents of intellectually impaired athletes to allow their wards to participate in outdoor activities, as the Covid-induced lockdown has prevented them from doing so. In view of the pandemic, the athletes have been sitting idle as the Special Olympics Jharkhand has not resumed its training programme. Outdoor activities including cycling, walking and running would keep the athletes tuned and better prepared when the training programme resumes, they said. “We have issued the advisory keeping in mind next year’s state and national competitions. We don’t want our athletes to be slack when we resume our training programmes. A bit of physical activity outside their homes will somewhat keep the boys and girls in shape before training.” said Special Olumpics Jharkhand assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota. He said that most parents are unwilling to allow their children for outdoor activities amid the pandemic. “We have explained to them about the importance of outdoor activities and how it would help their children tune up before the training programmes. Some parents have started respecting our advisory,” Sahota added. Several special athletes from Jharkhand, mostly in Jamshedpur, have won medals at national and international competitions. This was possible largely due to training programmes of the Special Olympics Jharkhand which prepares the athletes for national selection camps. “Another reason for issuing the advisory was to continue the trend of medal-winning exploits of our athletes. We are glad that some of the parents have started allowing their wards to go out for physical activities. We are hopeful that competitions will resume sometime in April next year,” Sahota said. The likes of Priyanshu Kumar, who represented the country’s cycling squad  in the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Abu Dhabi last year, V. Indu Prakash, who was part of the national side for Special Olympics Asia Pacific Cricket Championship in Bangalore earlier this year, and  Sayan Mandal, who donned Jharkhand jerseys in the national roller skating championship in Hyderabad in 2018, have started outdoor activities. The Special Olympics Jharkhand has also asked for the opinion of coaches and parents about when to resume training programmes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Day 3: efforts continue to rescue trapped miners||Work to rescue two trapped miners from the flooded Khudia mine of Eastern Coalfield continued on a war footing for the third day on Thursday, but Basia Maji and Manik Bauri could not be reached All senior officers of ECL Mugma Area, including GM Vibhash Chandra Singh, Additional GM Ajay Sharma, Area Safety Officer C.K. Nayak, Project Officer C.K. Nayak, and Project Officer of Khudia Colliery, were stationed at the site through the day to supervise rescue operations being carried out by eight teams, in addition to a team of divers from Cuttack. A team from the Directorate General of Mines Safety, led by Director (central zone) Murlidhar Mishra, was also at the site to guide rescue teams and ECl officials. A joint team of safety officers of Coal India and Mugma led by chief manager (safety) of ECL Rahul Sinha, and including Senior Manager (Mines/Safety), Ajay Kumar Sharma, also supervised the ongoing rescue work. Sharma said “We will continue the rescue work at night as the special team of divers from Cuttack will enter the mine and will carry out search operations. We are hopeful that with the water level receding, we will be able to rescue the trapped workers.” The ECL administration has also speeded up work to drain out water from the mine by deploying a fourth motor to facilitate movement of rescue teams inside the mine. GM of Mugma Area Vibhash Chandra Singh said, “The rescue effort is going on as fast as possible. We have pulled in all our available resources and expect rescue work to be completed on a positive note.” Asked when the mine was expected to be free of water, he said, “That is very difficult to say. Despite the constraints of working in underground mines, we are working day and night to ensure that the workers are saved.” Four miners were working at night at the Khudia Colliery which got flooded because of a bore hole breach during the wee hours of Tuesday. Two workers Samir Tuddu and Vikash Bhuian managed to escape, but Basia Maji and Manik Bhuian could not.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI to host two-day finance symposium||The Finance Association of XLRI, FINAX, will host the 11th edition of GNOSIS-2020, the flagship national finance symposium on December 11 and 12, which will touch upon issues that have emerged during the pandemic. In a first, the event will be conducted virtually, in view of the pandemic. The theme for this year’s symposium is ‘Ripples of Covid in the Financial Services Industry’. The event will discuss these issues, and their influence on the future of the industry. During its course, discussions will be held on topics including economic outlook of India in the new normal, evolution of investment decision-making strategies in a post-Covid  world, changes in lending practices of banks and government bodies and the emergence of technology and digitisation in the Banking Financial Services and Insurance sectors. Former secretary of the Government of India Aruna Sharma, managing director of AXIS Bank  Amitabh Chaudhary, and Group Country Manager at Visa TR Ramachandran will be the keynote speakers. Guest speakers for the event include chief operating officer of National Payments Corporation of India Praveena Rai, SoftBank India country head Manoj Kohli and CRISIL Ratings senior director Somasekhar Vemuri. The event will also witness participation of students from B-Schools and corporate delegates from leading companies in the finance sector. Panel discussions will be held on topics including ‘Lending Parameters: The Changing of Guard’, ‘Investment Metamorphosis: Changes in the World’, ‘The Dawn of Digital’ and ‘Economic Outlook: After the Dust Settles’. The panels will see participation from stalwarts from sectors including banking, fintech, and mutual funds. FINAX XLRI was established in 1991 and for the past 29 years, it has strived continuously to help and motivate the students interested in and willing to specialise in the finance domain by conducting various workshops, conferences and live projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Four killed, three hurt as SUV rams trailer on NH2||Four persons died and three others suffered injuries during the early hours of Thursday, when an SUV carrying nine construction site workers from Varanasi rammed into a trailer on National Highway 2. The incident happened between Mairakulhi and Chalibangla area, under the Rajganj Police Station area of Dhanbad, about 17 kilometers from the district headquarters. The four deceased persons were identified as Rahul Pandey (28), a resident of Varanasi, who was driving the car; Shalim Sheikh (30), a resident of Birbhum in Bengal, and Anjrarul Sheikh (35) and Atiqul Sheikh (25), both residents of Pakur in Jharkhand. Their bodies have been sent to the Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College for post mortem. The injured persons -- Nabir Sheikh and Rahima Bibi, both residents of Birbhum, and Manjarul Shiekh are undergoing treatment at the same hospital. A team of the Rajganj Police Station, led by officer in charge, Santosh Kumar, reached the accident spot and rescued the trapped persons from the vehicle. Jay Kumar Yadav, am assistant sub-inspector, who was part of the team, said, “All the nine persons involved in the accident were distant relatives SUV on a pool basis from Varanasi, to reach their native places. But their vehicle met with the accident during the wee hours of Thursday.” “The family members of the deceased as well as injured persons were informed and all have reached Dhanbad,” he added. The accident happened near a speedbreaker when the drive of the trailer applied sudden brakes, making the SUV driver lose control. He was driving the car at a high speed and rammed into the trailer. Manjarul Sheikh, one of the injured persons, told The Telegraph Online, “Me, my younger brother and other construction workers used to work together at Varanasi. We had hired the vehicle at the rate of Rs 1,200 per person to reach our destinations. The vehicle left from Varanasi on Wednesday night at around 3 pm but met with the accident.” “All of us were fast asleep when the accident took place so we are not aware how it happened,” Sheikh, who lost his younger brother Anjrarul in the incident, said. Manirul Sheikh, a relative of the injured persons from Birbhum, said, “I reached here this morning after receiving the news about the accident and will soon leave with my relatives, who will be admitted at a private hospital in Birbhum from better treatment.” He had reached the Jharkhand hospital on receiving information about his aunt, Rahima Bibi and  another distant relative, Nabir Sheikh, being injured in the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ignored by centre on Sarna code, tribals plan nationwide stir||Tribal organisations are planning rail and road blockades on January 31, 2021 as there has been no word from the Centre on their longstanding demand for a separate religion code for adivasis ahead of the 2021 Census. The national president of Adivasi Senghal Abhiyan Salkhan Murmu said that joint campaigns would be rolled out with other tribal outfits if the Centre does not agree to their demand for separate Sarna code by December 31. “After meetings with other tribal organisations, we have decided to wait till December 31 to hear from the Union government on the Sarna code. If it continues to ignore our demand, then we will launch another round of nationwide rail and chakka jams on January 31,” he said on Wednesday night. Tribal groups have also decided to hold demonstrations and marches to press their demands in five adivasi dominated states of Jharkhand, Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Assam this month. “Between December 20 to 31, 200 Sarna Dharam raths (chariots) will be rolled out across these states to mobilise the public towards our cause,” Murmu said. Following a series of protests in Jharkhand over the last few months, the state Assembly passed a resolution in November for implementation of a Sarna Adivasi Code and formally sent it to the Union home ministry for inclusion in the survey form before the 2021 Census. On December 6, several tribal organisations, including Adivasi Senghal Abhiyan, Kendriya Sarna Samiti (Ranchi) and Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad held a rail and road blockade agitation. For tribals, a separate Sarna code in the Census is the key to a distinct identity, they say, adding that without it they are being classified as Hindus, Muslims or Christians. Chief minister Hemant Soren has also stressed that tribals, or followers of Sarna were nature worshippers, and hence they deserved a separate place in the Census to retain their identity nationally. In September, churches in the state also threw their weight behind the tribals and wrote to the chief minister in favour of a separate Sarna code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Woman gang-raped by 17 in Dumka, NCW expresses concern||The National Commission for Women on Thursday, expressing serious concern over an alleged rape of a woman by 17 men in Jharkhand’s Dumka district, sent a letter to the state police and asked it to complete its probe within two months. According to a police official, the survivor in her complaint said that she was raped while her husband was held hostage by 17 men, when they were returning home on Tuesday night. The matter came to fore on Wednesday after the victim lodged a complaint in Mufassil police station in Dumka, a Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM)’s stronghold. According to Dumka SP Ambar Lakra, a person named Mangal Mohli has been arrested in the case. “One Mangal Mohli has been arrested in this case while raids are on by special investigation team (SIT) for remaining 16 accused,” he said. The NCW took a suo motu cognisance of the matter, it said in a tweet, adding that it had shot a letter to Jharkhand DGP MV Rao and Dumka SP for time bound probe and appraising the commission of the action taken as per the set protocols. Police sources said that NCW has asked for a detailed report in two months’ time. As the news broke yesterday, Dumka DIG Sudarshan Mandal and SP Ambar Lakra swung into action by visiting the local government hospital to meet the survivor, and initiated a probe by  launching a manhunt against the accused. An official of the Mufassil police station, who did not wish to be named, said that the incident happened when the woman was returning home with her husband from a local village haat. “The survivor, in her late thirties, said that the couple were on their way back to home from a local market when a few miscreants blocked their way and started misbehaving. Thereafter, they forced them upon her, while her husband was beaten and later tied up for protesting. Later, they raped her in turns,” he said, adding that she came to the police station with her husband in the morning to lodge the complaint. “All the culprits were drunk and some have been identified based on the woman’s statement. Soon, everyone will be held as different teams are conducting raids across suspected areas,” the official added. Reacting strongly to the incident, former minister and ex-MLA of Dumka, Louise Marandi snubbed the Hemant Soren government of having surrendered before the criminals. “Since formation of JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government in December last year, over 1,300 incidents rape and violence against women and children have been reported, which expose state police’s inefficiency to control the situation. Strong policing can’t be expected without a strong government at the helm,” she said. Marandi demanded proper security and safety to the woman and her family and formation of a medical board for scientific investigation into the case. In a separate incident, police arrested three persons and detained two others from Khunti district in connection to gang rape of a minor under Karra police station area last month. Informing the media on Wednesday, Khunti SP Ashutoh Shekhar said that those arrested were identified as Anil Pardiha, Ashish Pardiha, and Ajay Dhan. The incident occurred on November 30 when the survivor was returning home after visiting a local fair in Padampur village along with her friends. After registering the case, police formed a seven-member special investigation team (SIT) to crack the case. Police sources said that both the survivor and accused were known to each other. However, the accused plotted rape after she stopped talking to them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid toll inching towards 1000 as three more die in Jharkhand||The Covid-19 toll in Jharkhand inched closer to 1000 on Wednesday as three more patients, including two from Ranchi, died during treatment on the day, figures compiled by the State health department highlighted. Meanwhile, the active cases of Covid infection dropped in Jharkhand as the state reported 202 recoveries against 191 fresh cases. However, active cases increased in Ranchi for the third consecutive day as only 75 patients recovered from the viral infection here in 24 hours, while 97 fresh cases surfaced during the same period. After Wednesday’s test results, at least 790 people were battling the infection in Ranchi, which indicates that around 45 per cent of the 1,739 active cases in the state were in Ranchi, stated government data. The two casualties in Ranchi took the Covid toll in the district to 205, while the toll in Dhanbad reached 96 as one more death occurred there in the past 24 hours, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. As per the bulletin, by the end of Wednesday, as many as 991 people had died of Covid-19 in the state. At least four of 14 districts did not report even a single case of infection on the day, but five districts, including Bokaro, Dhanbad and East Singhbhum, reported a double-digit-spike in the cases. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 14 people were found infected in Dhanbad, while 10 recoveries were reported there. Dhanbad reported 16 cases against 10 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 10 cases against 44 recoveries. As per latest government data, it would take more than 500 days for the number of cases to double in Jharkhand if the current trend continues, while the national doubling rate was 230.84 days. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.30 per cent. The government tested swab samples of 17,929 people on Wednesday and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 44.22 lakh people and tested 44.04 lakh of them. More than 18,000 swab samples were pending for tests in Jharkhand, the NHM bulletin highlighted. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand reached 97.53 per cent on the day, which is higher than the national average of 94.60 per cent. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent, reveals data with the state health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
