11-12-2020||Calcutta||First phase of Duare Sarkar ends||The first round of Duare Sarkar programmes ended in Salt Lake with the last couple of camps happening on Thursday in Ward 34 at the IB Block ward office and in Ward 40 opposite the Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital. Of all the 11 welfare schemes offered by the state government, the most queries and applications were for Swasthya Sathi, a basic health cover for secondary and tertiary care, up to Rs 5 lakh per year per family. An attractive feature of Swasthya Sathi is that it covers all pre-existing diseases. The state government has recently decided to extend Swasthya Sathi benefits to all residents of the state, except those who are covered under any government-sponsored health insurance or assurance scheme. The benefits of the scheme can be availed at all government hospitals and empanelled private hospitals. According to the district-specific list on the Swasthya Sathi website swasthyasathi.gov.in, the private medical facilities in North 24-Parganas near Salt Lake and New Town empanelled for the scheme include The list may change from time to time, with some hospitals being added and some exiting. But most people applying for the scheme seemed to have little idea that the scheme can be availed only at select hospitals. “Most people coming here are asking us if the card is valid at any private hospital and nursing home. We are having to explain that there is a list of private healthcare units and only those will honour the card,” said an official manning the Swasthya Sathi counter at the CJ Block swimming pool where the Duare Sarkar programme was held last Saturday for Ward 29. The next phase of Duare Sarkar will be held in all the wards from December 15 to 24.  Write to us at saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Men share stories of their fight for women’s rights||A tailor had visited his sister-in-laws’ home after she was “beaten up” there. A woman in the house told him that “a little thrashing” by men was common for every woman, including herself. The young man asked whether she would say the same thing if her daughter faced the same treatment after marriage. The woman fumbled for an answer. The 28-year-old was among several staff and volunteers of an NGO — working for women’s rights — who came together on a virtual platform on Wednesday to share their experiences. The NGO, Swayam, is 25 years old. “We have been working with men for the past five years because engaging women alone is not enough to end violence and discrimination they face. We need to involve men as well,” said Swati Sanyal, team leader of urban communities of Swayam. The speakers at “Men for Gender Equality — Be the change!” came from the city and adjoining areas. In their neighbourhoods, they work with young and adolescent boys and men to break stereotypical notions of patriarchy. They campaign against gender discrimination and intervene in cases of domestic abuse. Deep Purakayastha, a rights activist who moderated the session, asked the speakers how it was possible for them to discard an inherent sense of privilege and take part in the movement for women’s rights. Rahool, a Swayam employee who works in central Calcutta, said he had once “committed gender violence”. “I realised it was a mistake but I could never admit it. It was suffocating”. During a Swayam campaign several years ago, he was in the audience. Taking part in a programme, he had to share an experience. He wrote about his “mistake” on a piece of paper. His entry won the first prize, despite being anonymous. An activist familiar with his handwriting called him on the stage and said the writing did not merit the first prize but it was a way of acknowledging his confession. The moderator urged participants to share the challenges that they faced while working for women’s rights. Mridul Molla, a Swayam employee in Diamond Harbour, was taunted by friends when he told them he was working for a women’s organisation. “Get a job somewhere, in the government sector or a private firm. Get a normal life,” a friend told him. Many months later, the friend’s sister, a minor, “ran away” with a man. The friend came running to Molla for help. Molla’s efforts helped the family track down the girl and get her back. “The friend who had never acknowledged my work realised his mistake,” Molla said on Wednesday. Somnath Pal, another Swayam employee in Diamond Harbour, said growing up, he used to tease and whistle at girls along with his group of friends. When he joined Swayam, he became the subject of his friends’ taunts for opposing something he had been a part of for years. The session saw several speakers share personal stories. Raj, a Swayam volunteer in Maheshtala, grew up watching his “abusive” father for many years. His sister not getting an equal share of a special dish was normal, he thought until he was led to Swayam. It took several sessions before his mindset changed. “I would not repeat my father’s mistakes. Now, all of us eat together,” he said on Wednesday. For most of the male volunteers, the change starts inside before it is reflected in the house or the neighbourhood. “Most of the men we recruit are brothers or relatives of survivors or Swayam members. That way, we are able to engage an entire family in a chain reaction. It is imperative that the men start the change in their own homes,” Sanyal told Metro. A change in the mindset leads to rational thinking and questioning gender stereotypes, he said. Sheikh Sabir, a Swayam volunteer in Metiabruz, spoke about a paradox that keeps bothering him. Girls do not need higher education, many of his relatives believe. “But I have seen the same people look for a female gynaecologist when someone in the family gets pregnant or needs medical attention,” said Sabir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
11-12-2020||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University to hold its second convocation on campus ||St Xavier’s University will hold its second convocation on the campus on February 6 with limited attendance and following all health protocols as a precaution against Covid. Among the 472 degree recipients (undergraduate and postgraduate), the university will invite only those who live in the city to the ceremony to maintain maximum physical distancing, “The rest can visit the campus later in a staggered way to collect their degree certificates. Or we can have the certificates delivered to them through courier. They can also download the digital version of the certificates from the National Academic Depository,” an official of the New Town university said. “The assembly, comprising medal recipients, degree recipients, dignitaries, teachers, will not exceed 200. The Unlock VI guidelines say that social, academic and other congregations, in closed spaces with a maximum of 50 per cent of the hall capacity with a ceiling of 200 persons will continue. The medal recipients can come from anywhere,” vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj told The Telegraph. The degree recipients will have to register themselves online if they want to attend the one-and-a-half hour event that will start at 11.30am. “This will help us ensure that the turnout does not exceed 200,” said an official of the university. The university will send its buses to pick up the recipients from home. “We don’t want them to use public transport as that could pose a health risk. The students will be notified about the pick-up service,” said Felix Raj. Earlier this month, the university’s buses had brought students who lacked computers or good internet link at home to the campus to write their semester exams. Since all degree recipients will not be attending the convocation, the proceedings will be streamed live on Facebook and YouTube. “The links will be shared with the students so they can watch the event on their smartphones or computers,” an official said. When asked why the event was not held virtually entirely, the VC said: “If it is completely virtual, it won’t look like convocation.” The degree recipients, he said, will have to wear masks throughout their stay on the campus and their body temperature will be scanned by thermal guns. “Security personnel will see to it that all safety protocols are being adhered to,” he said. The chief minister of Meghalaya, Conrad K. Sangma, will be the guest of honour at the convocation. The Telegraph reported on Thursday that Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira will hold its annual convocation on its Belur campus on December 12 following all health and safety protocols. The decisions by Vidyamandira and St Xavier’s University come days after Jadavpur University, from where 4,000-odd students have graduated this year, decided to scrap the ceremony for this year as the pandemic is still raging.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Worst air on BT Road||The air quality recorded on the BT Road campus of Rabindra Bharati University has been the worst while that of Rabindra Sarobar has been the best in the city, a study of the last fortnight’s results available on the West Bengal Pollution Control Board’s website revealed. The contrast was because of uncontrolled truck movement along BT Road and the absence of much human activity inside Rabindra Sarobar, an official of the board said. The air quality recorded at BT Road’s monitoring station has been poorer than other places for years, the official said. “The air quality remained particularly bad during the night and early morning hours in the station at Rabindra Bharati University. This could be because of the movement of a large number of goods vehicles along the road during this time, when trucks enter Calcutta to unload goods or leave after completing work,” said the WBPCB official. An assistant commissioner of Calcutta police said that over 10,000 trucks ply along BT Road every day between 12pm and 4pm and between 10pm and 8am the next day. A study by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, conducted between 2017 and 2019, found that goods carriers were responsible for 49 per cent of PM10 and 49.5 per cent of PM2.5 in the ambient air contributed by vehicular emission. The state government has told the National Green Tribunal that it will phase out commercial vehicles that are 15 years or older. But old and polluting vehicles continue to ply in the city. Metro studied the daily air quality bulletin between November 26 and December 9. On November 27 and 28, the air quality measured at the RBU station was “poor” while all other stations recorded “moderate”. On December 4, it measured “severe” readings. On December 6, it showed “very poor” air quality while other stations said “poor”. “This shows that besides the overall pollution in the region (Calcutta and its surroundings), there are additional local sources of pollution in the vicinity of BT Road contributing to greater pollution in that area. This could be because of the heavy traffic along BT Road or other sources of emission,” said Sagnik Dey, an associate professor at IIT Delhi’s Centre for Atmospheric Sciences. There is a need to identify the local sources through a survey in the area, said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of Centre for Science and Environment. “It is common for cities to have areas that consistently show more air pollution levels than the general air pollution in the city. There must be a local area action plan to control the additional air pollution contributed by the local sources. This should be in addition to the action plan meant for the entire city or the region,” said Roy Chowdhury. The board has identified some local units that trade in spare parts of old cars, the WBPCB official said. The trading mostly happens at night and the units burn spare parts which emits a lot of pollutants. “We have requested the police to see that the units do not burn anything,” the official said. Rabindra Sarobar, in a leafy south Calcutta neighbourhood, has measured better air quality than the other stations. On November 26 and 29, the air quality was “moderate” at the Sarobar station and “poor” at all others. On December 8, it was “poor” while other stations recorded “very poor” air quality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Chapter-wise blueprint for Madhyamik||The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education on Thursday announced a “blueprint” that provides details on chapter/topic-wise questions and marks in each subject factoring in the reduction in the syllabus necessitated by the Covid pandemic. The state government had last month pruned the syllabuses for the students of Classes X and XII, who will write their board exams next year, as in-person classes could not be held because of the pandemic. The blueprint uploaded on the secondary education board’s website details how many multiple choice questions, very short questions, short and explanatory and essay-type questions each paper could have in next year’s Madhyamik, the dates of which have not yet been announced. The truncated syllabuses had been posted on the board’s website on November 26. “The pattern of questions set on the basis of the truncated syllabus should help the examinees prepare themselves for the next year’s board examinations,” said Kalyanmoy Ganguly, the president of the board. The guideline on English states what types of questions could be set from the reading (seen), reading (unseen), grammar and vocabulary, and writing sections. The guideline on math details the types of questions likely to be set for arithmetic, algebra, geometry and mensuration. An official of the board said the syllabus restructure committee set up by the school education department and the board’s subject experts had finalised the guidelines. The syllabuses of the two classes were reduced following the committee’s recommendation. The board has sent copies of the blueprints to the heads of all institutions affiliated to it. Saugata Basu, the general secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association, said: “We want the board to publish two to three types of model question papers so candidates could prepare better for the exams,” Basu said. Schools have remained shut since the third week of March and the government has yet to announce when they will eventually reopen. A board official said it had been proposed to the state government that next year’s Madhyamik be held from June 1 to 10. “The dates have been suggested keeping in mind that the pandemic is going to continue over next few months and the Assembly elections are likely to be held in April and May,” the official said. “We are not aware of any such proposal,” said Partha Karmakar, the deputy secretary (academic) of the secondary education board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Government frees Covid beds in private hospitals||The state government on Thursday released a number of beds in several private hospitals that it had requisitioned to treat Covid patients. The director of health services issued an order that provided a list of the beds that have been released and the number of beds that are still requisitioned. “The rate of hospitalisation for Covid-19 is gradually coming down.... We have to make beds available for other patients,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of health services. The hospitals where beds have been released include Desun Hospital and KPC Medical College in Calcutta; ILS Golabari, Narayana Hospital Old Building and West Bank Hospital in Howrah; and Sramajibi Hospital in Hooghly. The list did not include AMRI Salt Lake, where 66 beds were requisitioned. Patients on requisitioned beds are treated for free. The hospitals sent bills to the government for reimbursement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Unable to bear financial stress, man hangs self||A 46-year-old executive, who was finding it difficult to repay loans following a pay-cut during the pandemic, was found hanging from the ceiling fan of the study in his flat at Neelachal Abasan, on the Rashbehari connector, on Wednesday evening. Diptendra Mukherjee did not blame anyone for his death in an unsigned note he is believed to have left behind. Police said the note mentions that he was unable to bear the financial stress caused by the pandemic. Diptendra’s wife, a homemaker, was not in their second-floor flat on Wednesday evening. The couple’s 10-year-old child was playing downstairs. His wife returned around 7.30pm and rang the doorbell but no one answered. She entered the flat after breaking open the door latch only to find her husband hanging from the fan by a white stole. Diptendra was rushed to Ruby General Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. Friends said Diptendra used to work as the sales head of a company that offered an online platform to buy insurance policies for a range of items, including houses and vehicles. He had taken a loan to buy the flat in Uttara block (C-2) of Neelachal Abasan nearly five years ago. His mother, sister and brother-in-law lived nearby on New Ballygunge Road. “Diptendra told us that he had spent almost 18 years in the insurance sector. He told friends that his salary had recently been reduced,” said Indranil Ghosh, the president of the Neelachal Recreation Club, located in the housing complex. “We have no clue what spurred him to kill himself. The man was full of life. He used to sing well and was an active member of our club.” People close to the Mukherjees said Diptendra had been upset since the salary cut and had recently taken a personal loan to meet household expenses. The police said they learnt from some of the relatives of the couple that he was finding it difficult to pay the EMIs of the housing and personal loans. On Thursday evening, while family members were busy performing the last rites, some of Diptendra’s friends said the family had recently met to discuss a way out of the loan trap. Apparently there was a suggestion that the couple sell the flat and move into a rented accommodation so that they could repay the loans. The couple even checked out an accommodation a few days ago, one of the relatives said. But Diptendra did not like the idea, the relative said. A 63-year-old man who police said lost his job during the lockdown had died after falling from the roof of his four-storey building on Golf Club Road early on December 4. The police had said Soumitra Sen, who worked in the accounts section of a private firm, killed himself. No suicide note had been found, officers at Jadavpur police station said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Skeleton on Salt Lake house roof||A woman in her late 40s was arrested on Thursday night after a charred skeleton was found on the roof of her house in Salt Lake’s AJ block, police said. Geeta Mahensariya and her younger son Vidur, 22, were arrested after a police team probing a missing complaint lodged by her estranged husband, Anil Kumar Mahensariya, landed at the two-storey house. Anil had mentioned in the complaint that he was not being able to get in touch with his eldest son Arjun. “It is yet to be ascertained whether the skeleton recovered from the roof is of the couple's eldest son,” an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Anil, who runs a garment and footwear business, had separated from his wife in August last year and since been living in an apartment in Rajarhat, the officer said. The couple got married in 1988 and have three children, aged between 20 and 25. Another officer said all three were staying with the mother at the AJ Block house. Two of the siblings who were home were questioned by the police till late on Thursday. “The father tried calling up Arjun several times but could not get in touch with him. He then went to Bidhannagar East police station and lodged a missing diary. He told officers that he suspected that his wife had caused harm to their eldest son,” said a senior officer of the commissionerate. A team of forensic experts visited the house. An officer in the forensic team said they found burnt items on the staircase leading to the roof. “The skeleton seems to be charred. Preliminary investigations suggest the skeleton had been on the roof for several days,” the officer said. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they were trying to find out the sequence of events and were speaking to neighbours to ascertain who all were there in the house during the lockdown triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. The neighbourhood was in a state of shock. Many residents said Geeta was a soft-spoken woman, who used to greet everyone she met. “She was nice to everyone and quite active during Durga Puja and other pujas in our block. This has come as a shocker for us,” said Indrani Choudhury, a resident of AJ block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2020 to be held on digital platform||The celebration of children’s triumph over odds and teachers’ mentorship will go virtual this year in the wake of the Covid pandemic. IIHM presents The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2020, 25th Edition, in association with The Bhawanipur Education Society College, will be held on a digital platform from 11am on Saturday. Close to 200 schools and thousands of students, teachers and parents will be part of the 25th edition of the awards. Many stories of grit and resilience will be shared on Saturday — stories of students who have refused to give up against critical ailments, financial crises and personal tragedies. The list of awardees will include students and schools who have risen up to the unprecedented challenges posed by Covid-19, like turning the campus into a Covid care facility or distributing smartphones among slum children for online classes. The Telegraph School Awards have always left a lasting impression on the minds of the audience who watch students with a never-say-die attitude take the center stage. On Saturday, the awards will be given to students, and schools in 20 categories. Over 20 students will get scholarships. The contribution of teachers and parents will also be recognised. TUNE IN What: IIHM presents The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2020, 25th Edition, in association with The Bhawanipur Education Society College When: Saturday, December 12, from 11am Where to watch live:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Journey saluting young fighters turn 25||Over 5,000 viewers logged in from their phones or computers for an award ceremony that salutes young school-going fighters, which went online for the first time in 25 years. In previous years, a school auditorium could accommodate only 1,500 odd people. Thursday was the prelims of the IIHM presents The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2020, 25th Edition, in association with The Bhawanipur Education Society College. More than 200 students were given certificates of merit, certificates of appreciation and certificates of honour. A trustee of The Telegraph Education Foundation, and the emcee for the programme, Barry O’ Brien, described the 25 years as a “journey of growth”. “These 25 years to recap in a few sentences has been a journey of growth, of growth not just in size, growth in us as people, people who are organising this, who have organised this for 25 years. People who have joined us on the journey. Some have jumped off but many have stayed on with us,” said O’Brien. He said the most important part of the work of The Telegraph Education Foundation is to reach out to those boys and girls who are struggling not just to complete their education but to make ends meet. “Stories, how boys and girls living in far-flung districts and villages have eaten muri before they went to school, ridden on their cycles for a few kilometers or walked, come back to another meal of muri. And then gone on to score 80-85, 90 -95 per cent marks and got admission in some of the top colleges and universities,” said O’Brien. Such stories abound in the school awards year after year. And so it did on Thursday, despite the pandemic. The ceremony acknowledged Subhankar Das of Silver Point School for writing his Class X board exams from hospital, where he was admitted because of a dark patch on his left lung. The boy scored 80 per cent. Priyanka Bhanja Chaudhary, a Class XI student of Agrasain Balika Siksha Sadan, slipped and fell while coming down the stairs last year. She suffered a spinal cord injury and was unable to stand. Three months of treatment and her indomitable spirit saw her back on her feet. Subhankar and Priyanka received The Surrendra Paul Memorial Award for Courage. While students got their due recognition, the award ceremony also acknowledged the efforts of teachers who have given their life or several decades to teaching and the non-teaching staff who look after the gardens and keep the buildings spic and span, pandemic or no pandemic. And then there were schools that care, not one but quite a number. “We know that all schools care. They care for their students, they care for society. We have been and we have always been on the lookout these 25 years that maybe care a little more consciously,” said O’Brien before announcing The Caring Minds Award for ‘A School that Cares’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Survivors fight post-Covid complications||A 26-year-old man who had recovered from Covid-19 three months back suffered a cerebral stroke this week and died at a hospital in Calcutta. The youth’s family members, who did not want to disclose his identity, said he did not have any medical condition before being infected with the novel coronavirus. There have been a number of cases in the city of people suffering a cerebral stroke or a cardiac arrest a few weeks or months after recovering from Covid. Doctors are classifying these, as well as other serious problems like infections in the brain, as some of the severe post-Covid complications. Doctors differ on whether to prescribe anticoagulant drugs to Covid patients when they are being discharged from hospital to ensure they don’t suffer stroke or pulmonary embolism, a condition where blood clots in a pulmonary artery. “Recently, a 57-year-old man who had contracted Covid was discharged from hospital and the family hired a nurse from our organisation to take care of him at home,” said Souvik Bhattacharya, the unit head of Apollo Home Healthcare in Calcutta. “One day the nurse reported the patient had suffered a severe cardiac arrest. He was resuscitated and taken to a hospital, where he died. The man had suffered severe fibrosis of lungs because of Covid,” he said. Pulmonary fibrosis is a condition in which tissues of the lungs are damaged. Bhattacharya said at least 10 per cent of their patients had to be readmitted to hospital because of post-Covid complications. Doctors said that apart from the usual post-Covid complications such as weakness, shortness of breath, body ache and cramps, they are observing embolism or blood clots in different parts of the body and severe infections. “Many people who had suffered from Covid are coming back two to three months after being discharged with complications like stroke and infections. I recently saw two women, one of whom had herpes in the brain and another brain tuberculosis,” said Hrishikesh Kumar, the head of neurology at the Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata. “The natural deduction is that reduced immunity because of Covid was responsible for the herpes and the tuberculosis.” Kumar said he prescribed anticoagulant drugs to some people who had severe Covid to prevent blood clot. “They need to continue with the medicine for some time. During that time, they have to undergo tests which will show whether they have any chance of bleeding,” said Kumar. Some doctors, however, said they were not prescribing anticoagulant drugs. “During Covid, our body’s immune response system reacts and has a tendency to cause thrombosis. So most patients admitted to hospital are given anticoagulant drugs,” said Chandramouli Bhattacharya, an infectious diseases expert and a member of the Covid treatment team at Peerless Hospital. “Anticoagulant drugs reduce chances of blood clot but increases risk of bleeding. So it’s a double-aged sword.” Bhattacharya said apart from blood clot, people were also complaining of breathlessness weeks after discharge, although their X-ray showed improvement and oxygen saturation was well above 93 per cent. Doctors said both the heart and the lungs were getting seriously damaged in the aftermath of the infection. “We have carried out a few autopsies to understand how the coronavirus is causing thrombotic complications,” said Himadri Chakrabarty, a senior physician who is leading a team of doctors across state-run Covid hospitals in Bidhannagar, Baranagar, Dum Dum, Barasat and Barrackpore. “Before discharging the patients, we are doing ECG and then following it up after a gap of four and six weeks. In most cases, we are prescribing breathing exercises along with steroids and even anti-coagulants.” “We are asking relatives of some patients to arrange for oxygen support at home before discharging them. They are being advised to come back for evaluation after six weeks,” said Sandip Ghosh, an assistant professor at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. “A few of these patients are being prescribed anti-fribrotic drugs but there is still debate over use of this medicine.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Fair season set to start as Saras Mela gets nod||Fairs are back. With the state government giving the green light for fairs to resume after a gap of eight months, Saras Mela is set to be organised at New Town Mela Ground from December 23. Organised by the panchayats and rural development department, the fair will have 240 stalls, including 25 food stalls selling finger food and snacks, in the mela ground. Most of the other stalls will showcase handicraft and handloom products by self-help groups (SHG). “The stalls will be more spaced out than usual. We will not allow entry without mask. Thermal checking will be done daily and Covid test will be done for those with high temperature,” said minister Subrata Mukherjee. The department has sought help from the office of the district chief medical officer of health to transfer those testing positive to safe homes. All artisans are being asked to bring medical insurance documents given by their respective state governments. There are also plans for periodic Covid tests but the huge number of the artisans (650-700) might get in the way. Even if that is not possible, the stalls at the fair as also the lodging facilities of the artisans at the Salt Lake stadium will be regularly sanitised. While mask, apron, faceshield and headgear will be provided to the artisans, a stall to sell masks will be set up near the gate. “In case someone has forgotten to wear one, he or she can buy a mask before getting in. Both cheap surgical masks and those made by SHGs will be on offer,” said an official. There will be three pavilions, selling jute products, nursery products and processed food items like jam, jelly, pickles and masala, all produced and packeted by SHGs. For the first time, there will be live demonstrations at the karigar haat. “You will get to experience sights like needlework in progress to produce kantha stitch from Birbhum or chhou masks being made by Purulia mask-makers,” an official said. Till Wednesday, 15 states have confirmed participation. “The number is higher than last year as artisans of all states have been hit by the pandemic and need a market to sell their ware,” said Soumyajit Das, chief executive officer, State Rural Livelihood Mission. The service road in front of the mela ground will also be used to seat individual artisans with their products. So the authorities have decided to use the fallow land next to the ground as well for car parking and the food court. The food court will offer specialities of each district, from momo of Darjeeling to sharbhaja-sarpuriya of Nadia. Rajasthan has also booked a stall, so expect the authentic taste of daal-bati-churma. So has UP which could offer Awadhi cuisine. Goa might also come, sources said, which adds hope of a range of seafood specialities. Another attraction will be the seasonal delights prepared by the SHG women. While pithe puli options will be there in plenty, cakes will come from Darjeeling and home-made chocolates from Hooghly. The West Bengal Comprehensive Area Development Corporation (WBCADC), a unit of the panchayats department, is planning to host a regional food pavilion selling Bengal’s cooked specialities in fish and sweets. If it serves dishes like Ilish Bhapa, Tel Koi, Tangra Kosha, Mourola Chachchari and Pathar Jhol on one hand, on the other there will be a range of sweets made of nolen gur on offer,” said Das, who also heads WBCADC. Cultural programmes will be held with folk artistes from 5pm to 7pm daily. A host of entertainment options will also be there. There will be three selfie zones. “We are trying to bring traditional clothes from the hills which one can wear and get photographed in for a charge. The free-of-cost options will include a cutout of a faceless figure in chhou costume where one can place one’s face in a gap. A cooking competition will see walk-in visitors register on the spot and cook with given ingredients. Children can spend time in an activity centre where they may be asked to do fun things like design their own mask. “Every winter, Saras Mela usually ends up being the last fair of the season as grounds are difficult to get before February. This time we are lucky to be the first off the block,” smiled the official. The fair will continue till January 3. The authorities did try to book Central Park, their usual venue, but did not get the booking on the desired dates. The department of textiles has booked the venue for Banglar Tater Haat from December 22 but there is no clearance yet for the fair from the finance department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Thick fog delays 50 morning flights||Fifty flights were delayed on Thursday morning as fog disrupted operations at the Calcutta airport for nearly five hours. The departure of as many 36 flights and arrival of 14 flights were delayed because of fog-induced low visibility, officials at the airport said. Two flights had to be diverted. This was the second day this season when flight operations were disrupted because of fog. On Tuesday, too, several flights were delayed. Friday morning is also likely to be foggy, the Met office warned. On Thursday, operations were disrupted between 5am and 9.50am as thick fog covered the runway and visibility was 50m or even less, officials said. An IndiGo flight to Delhi was the first to take off, at 9.25am, following the disruption, sources said. A flight of the same airline from Bangalore, which landed around the same time, was the first to arrive. A cargo flight of SpiceJet from Hong Kong was diverted to Hyderabad and a passenger flight of GoAir from Bagdogra was diverted to Bhubaneswar. The Calcutta airport has Category III B Instrument Landing System, which was installed in 2018. The landing system allows flights to operate at a minimum visibility of 50 metre. However, airport officials said many aircraft are not CAT III B-compliant and those cannot land in or take off from the city when the visibility falls below 50 metre. “An intensified flow of moisture into south Bengal, triggered by a high-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal, and a low speed of the northwesterly winds together led to the formation of Thursday’s thick blanket of fog,” a Met department official said. A similar fog cover is expected over the next two days, the official said. “The high-pressure system is still strong and moving towards the Bengal and Odisha coastline.” Like it has been doing for the past three days, the fog kept the day temperature below normal. Despite the minimum temperature being two notches above normal, Calcuttans felt a hint of chill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Variety picks on buffet plate||Craving hot chicken stew but unsure of venturing into Dacres Lane in the middle of the pandemic? Longing for authentic Chinese noodles but not confident about travelling all the way to Tangra? Take a trip to New Town’s Holiday Inn any Saturday evening and you’ll be served the four cuisines that define Calcutta food — Bengali, Mughlai, Chinese and Anglo Indian. “We had this buffet spread in mind for long and had done all the homework too but then the lockdown started,” says general manager Jaidev Dutta. During the lockdown, the hotel served as a quarantine home and their restaurant Social Kitchen opened to public in June. “Initially we were unsure of how such a buffet would fare given the pandemic but the Pujas dispelled our doubts. This Puja, we actually did better business than last year,” Dutta says. Thus encouraged, Social Kitchen has launched Saturday night buffets. Among starters will be everything from cutlets and Fish Batter Fried to Galauti Kebabs and Dimer Devils. “The Anglo Indian cuisine doesn’t get talked about much but it has some delicious recipes. Many now-popular dishes are modifications of European ones too,” says Dutta, pointing at Jalfrezi and Mulligatawny Soup, a rich lentil-based broth. The live counter has quintessential street food — phuchka, Chicken or Vegetable Stew with bread, tea with malai toast or Bapuji cake. “None of the dishes on our menu are new. Rather, they are old favourites that we are nostalgic about and perhaps, don’t get a chance to snack on in our fast lives anymore,” said one of the chefs, Debarpita Das. For the main course, take your pick from Basanti Pulao, luchi, Narkel diye Chholar Dal, Mochar ghonto and Chingri Malaikari. “The menu will change every week although we’ll have to keep biriyani and chowmein constant,” smiles Dutta. So Schezwan Noodles, Veg Manchurian, Metiabruz-style Mutton Rezala will all be on offer. The dessert section will boast of Anglo Indian-inspired pastries, Chinese Darsan and ice cream, Bengali Nolen Gurer Rosogolla and Mughlai-inspired Gulabi Phirni with rose essence or Daal Badam ka Halwa made of moong daal. And don’t miss the signoffs with some typical mouth fresheners — colourful aniseed (mouri)and the dark, black salt lozenges usually sold in buses and local trains. “This menu is curated for working class people and so we have kept the prices within their reach,” says Dutta. The buffet costs Rs 943. With alcohol, the price is Rs 1,179.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||New Town to get own radio channel||New Town is set to get a community radio channel of its own. A state-of-the-art set-up has been created on the fourth floor of Nazrul Tirtha where two studios are operating — one for audio and another for video recording. A definite step was taken in this regard on Wednesday morning when the first lot of programmes was uploaded on the Facebook page of Radio New Town. “This year, because of the Covid situation, people could not organise cultural programmes in their localities even during Durga puja. We had invited the best performers from blocks and housing complexes to record their programmes at our studio. They did so with a lot of enthusiasm. Some were so good that we are thinking of calling them back for more shows,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. According to sources, 19 groups had expressed interest to come for recording. But one backed out due to Covid infection in the group and another did not have a production ready. So 17 finally turned up for recording in mid-November. An app is being developed which will be available on Google Playstore for downloading. Radio New Town will play on it. And once the app broadcast starts, the Facebook reach will be used to publicise the radio’s shows. A radio frequency has been applied for.” We hope to receive it by the end of next year.” Once that happens, Radio New Town will operate as a full-fledged FM station. The authorities also plan to let out the studio for private recordings. Explaining the need for an administrative body to operate a radio channel, Sen pointed out: “We need multiple channels to inform, educate and communicate with citizens. We can pass on information on Covid,  dengue, solid waste segregation and recycling, events and facilities, business club and Snehodiya, timings of the facilities we run and so on. It will also provide us a window for showcasing local cultural talents.” The authorities have injected a competitive element in the first round of webcast. Over four days starting from Wednesday, the programmes recorded by the residents are being uploaded. While seven are already up, programmes of five each will be uploaded on Friday and Saturday. “For 10 days after uploading, people would be able to ‘like’ the programmes on the Facebook page. The housing complexes or blocks drawing the most number of likes will be given prizes,” Sen said. Hidco has also entered into a content-sharing agreement with the Community Radio JU, run by Jadavpur University. “We will offer them all the programmes that we air. They are educative for children, be it discussions on well-known personalities or hygienic habits to develop during Covid or on textual subjects,” said Imankalyan Lahiri, convenor of Community Radio JU. Till the app is ready, the programming on Radio New Town will be Facebook-based. “Even big FM channels now have a Facebook component and record programmes simultaneously for both radio and social media. This is a new trend,” said Sen. The first programme to go on air on Wednesday morning was by 1CA and 1CD Blocks. Tapas Adhikari of CD Block sang a reworked version of Bhupen Hazarika’s Ami ek jajabor, with the changed lyrics reflecting the plight of migrant labourers during the lockdown and villagers displaced by Cyclone Aila, alongside narration by Runushree Raha of CB Block. Class IX student Sparsh Pandey presented an agomoni song. Chandana Roy of CB Block put up a stand-out performance in a solo act as the mother of an assaulted daughter. The programme ended with a group dance choreographed by CA Block’s Sarmistha Mukherjee. “The residents have been repeatedly asking me the date of the webcast ever since they went for the recording. This is an exciting opportunity for us,” said Neelmoni Seal, general secretary of New Town (1CA to 1CD Blocks) Residents’ Welfare Association. On Friday, programmes by the residents of CA Block, PS Ixora, Sankalpa, Uniworld City and Unmesh will be uploaded while it will be the turn of AL-AK-AI Blocks, CD Block, Greenwood Park , Greenwood Sonata and Hiland Willows Cypress on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Off for a vacation||Sreemoyee has had enough. After months of near-house arrest, she broke free for her birthday last weekend. “My husband and I picked up three friends and we drove off to Deulti, a good two-hours away. We didn’t do much there, just enjoyed the sunset, but even that felt so rejuvenating,” says the teacher who lives behind City Centre 2. Ditto with Ajay K. Das. “One fine morning, my wife and I hopped into the car and drove wherever the wind took us,” says the CK Block resident. They drifted into Bantala, relished fresh khjurer rosh from the villagers and stumbled upon a resort in Sundargram. “It was a lovely trip and has given us the confidence to do more of these from now on.” Das and Sreemoyee Kaushiki Basak Dey are not alone. Tired of staying home, residents are now taking off on holidays, mostly by car. “And why not,” asks Anandita Banerjee of AD Block. “If we maintain protocol we shall be safe. The other evening I went to Park Street and the crowd there would put Saptami evenings to shame. The crowd at Sector V’s Decathalon was long enough to make me contemplate leaving without buying too. If people have started going around the city without worries, what’s the harm in vacations?” Darjeeling, if not Alaska Our neighbours are crying copious tears at their 2020 travel plans having evaporated in thin air. Bhaswati Sengupta of DB Block was to visit Alaska, Shiksha Jha of Kankurgachhi Leh-Ladakh and Naina Maheshwari was to ‘remarry’ her husband in Goa for their 10th anniversary in November. “When we got married destination weddings hadn’t come into vogue so we wanted a ‘white wedding’ this year where I would walk down the aisle in a gown,” sighs Naina, a resident of Panache, in Mahisbathan. While she’s upset, she made the best of the situation by driving the extended family down to Puri. Others are doing the same, hopping over to Puri and Purulia, Digha and Darjeeling. Somek Choudhury, a food blogger from Lake Town, was to take clients on food trails to Lucknow, Ladakh and Puducherry this year but when it all fell through, he conducted tours to Tajpur, Purulia and Santiniketan instead. “We started going out in August. Back then, these spots were deserted and one was actually safer there than in the city,” says Somek, who is taking another group to Darjeeling for a week-long trail on Christmas Eve. This time, however, he’s sure it won’t be deserted. “The hotels there have been hounding me to confirm bookings as their rooms are filling up fast.” There are also those like Shekhar Bajaj who are planning ‘work-ations’. “Work from home can be work from anywhere. I don’t need to go to office for the next six months so have opted for a work-ation in north Bengal for a fortnight. I can work during office hours and enjoy the place afterwards,” says the IT sector employee from GC Block. Planes, trains, automobiles “Public transportation cannot be trusted at this time, especially if you have elderly people travelling with you,” says Sanchita Sarkar of Baisakhi Abasan. So for their group of 23 people, they hired a bus. They visited Udaipur, Tajpur and finally Mandarmani. “We might visit relatives in Dinajpur in January. If that happens we’ll do Pelling and Darjeeling too and once again shall prefer bus over train.” Jhumpa Karmakar visited Purulia with 11 relatives and they too hired a bus. “Since we had the entire bus to ourselves we sanitised it ourselves to be sure of safety,” says the DA Block resident. But Anandita preferred to fly to Darjeeling. “A bus would have meant 12 hours with strangers, besides pit stops at dhabas that could be crowded. Compared to that, a 45-minute flight seemed safer,” says the IT sector employee. Covid protocols Those taking off are taking all sorts of precautions to ensure safety. When Bhaswati visited Bawali rajbari during Diwali, everyone with her carried their own towels and blankets. Karmakar had to stop her kids from jumping into the pool at the Purulia resort they put up in. “We saw other tourists swimming but we thought it would be risky,” she says. Shiksha only mustered courage to visit Darjeeling after some relatives made the trip and assured her of the hill station’s safety. When Avinaba Mukherjee drove to Kolaghata with a couple of friends they checked sanitisation procedures thoroughly before checking in. “We even visited the kitchen,” says the Ultadanga resident. But when they visited Tajpur some weeks later, they found tourists roaming without masks. “We headed to the farthest shack on the beach and partied in seclusion,” he says. Flight travel has its own stringent protocol. “The airhostesses were in PPEs and passengers sitting in the middle seat had to wear them too,” says AE Block’s Sayan Munshi, who flew to Jaipur with his wife recently. “The two of us sat on adjacent aisle seats and wore face shields throughout the flight.” Highs and lows Given the slump in the tourism industry, FC Block’s Nilanjan Brahma said they got lucrative deals for the hotel they booked in Mandarmani. Naina enjoyed the beach at Puri but says the pandemic robbed her of the Jagannath temple visit. Sayan, however, says there has never been a better time to visit the Taj Mahal. “My wife Sanjukta has visited the monument twice before, when it got tens of thousands of visitors a day. Now the number of visitors is capped at 5,000 and so it was as if we had the massive premises all to ourselves,” he smiles. When Covid catches up When Brahma flew to north Bengal for work, he came down with Covid. “Three of my associates had flown back and all of us got it,” he says. “Thereafter when my kids were hankering us to take them to Mandarmani, we decided to take our own car. No more public transport for us,” he says. Sengupta speaks of a friend who went to Tajpur in a group of 15. “Each and every one of them returned with Covid-19,” says the lady, who herself is a doctor. Another Sector II family was all set to fly to the Maldives but their plans were marred when they went in for the mandatory Covid tests before taking off. “My primary school-going son tested positive,” says his mother, still in isolation. “We cancelled the trip altogether. What if we test again and someone ends up positive?” Naina was keen to have her white wedding in the Maldives too but cancelled when she heard they would need to be tested before returning to India. “In case we test positive, we will have to stay in the Maldives for a fortnight at our own expense. We can’t take that risk,” she says. Propa Chakravartty was all set to cook biriyani with her friends and head to any empty patch in New Town for a picnic last month. “But then my friend came in contact with someone who tested positive. He went into isolation and our picnic went into the backburner,” sighs the BL Block resident.“I’m now trying to arrange a trip to Simlipal forest which is absolutely desolate.” Then again, some are taking the plunge post-Covid. “My parents got Covid but once they recovered I took them to Tajpur,” Anandita says. Sayan, his wife and two children have all recovered from Covid too. “So when my father received an invitation to a wedding in Agra, he suggested Sanjukta and I go instead, since we had already recovered and were hopefully immune,” he says. Industry speak The tourism industry is grateful for the turn of fate. “We have been severely hit by the pandemic but things are finally picking up,” says a spokesperson for Das Travels in GC Block. “More people are venturing out now that train services have resumed and our packages are all booked from mid-December till January end.” But the most popular options are self-driven road trips within 300km and with close-knit groups. “We are booked right through January. Hotel bookings, flight bookings and cab bookings are also on. A lot of enquiries are happening over phone and social media. People want to know if we are taking bookings. This is a good sign,” says Shabari Debnath of Cyrus Tourism in Baguiati. The Camellia Group has hotels in Santiniketan and Puri, and Rupa Datta, director, hospitality division, says booking are picking up gradually. “September onwards is usually peak season in both places but this year is different. Corporate conferences have also started,” said the CL Block resident, who herself visited the Simlipal forest area a while back. Pulak Bhadra, the vice-president of the Tour Operators’ Welfare Association of Bengal, said he had predicted that business would significantly improve in winter. “People were getting fed up at home.” But lesser known spots are drawing more footfall. “Tourists are avoiding congested places,” he said. Debashis Sen Roy, a resident of Midland Park, happens to be vice- president of The Supreme hotel in Visakhapatnam. He says 60 per cent of their guests come from Bengal. “We are getting many enquiries but conversion rate is low, restricted to those who are driving down. Trains have resumed but the train with the most suitable timings, Yesvantpur Express, is not running yet. There’s only one direct flight now too,” he says. And finally the resort within our twin townships — Eco Island in Eco Park — is fast filing up too. “We take bookings up to a month in advance and December is nearly choc-a-block,” says Snehasis Sinha, assistant general manager, tourism, Hidco that looks after the property. “People take heart from the fact that it is a government property and hence sanitisation will be thorough. They don’t have to drive too far and know that social distancing can be maintained since it’s such a sprawling area.” Additional reporting by Showli Chakraborty and Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
11-12-2020||Business||Sensex ends 139 points higher||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 139 points higher on Friday following gains in ICICI Bank, ITC and NTPC amid persistent foreign fund inflows. After touching its all-time intra-day high of 46,309.63, the 30-share BSE index settled 139.13 points or 0.30 per cent up at 46,099.01, just shy of its closing record. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 35.55 points or 0.26 per cent to 13,513.85. It hit a lifetime high of 13,579.35 during the session. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 6 per cent, followed by NTPC, Tata Steel, ICICI Bank, ITC, Titan and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, Axis Bank, M&M, Tech Mahindra, Asian Paints and Bajaj Finserv were among the laggards. Domestic equities remained resilient but erased some gains towards the second half as concern over probable no-deal Brexit weighed on investors' sentiment, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. European markets saw a sharp gap down opening on this concern. "PSU banks, metals and FMCG continued to attract investors, while profit-booking was visible in pharma, IT and automobile counters," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were in the red, while Hong Kong and Seoul ended in the positive territory. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a negative note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 0.56 per cent to USD 49.97 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Sensex jumps over 250 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex rose over 250 points in early trade on Friday tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC and ICICI Bank amid persistent foreign fund inflows. After touching its record intra-day high of 46,212.53 in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 249.43 points or 0.54 per cent higher at 46,209.31. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 73.20 points or 0.54 per cent to 13,551.50. It hit a high of 13,553.80. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 6 per cent, followed by SBI, NTPC, Bajaj Finance, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, HDFC and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Tech Mahindra, Infosys and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 143.62 points or 0.31 per cent lower at 45,959.88. The broader NSE Nifty fell 50.80 points or 0.38 per cent to 13,478.30. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,259.98 crore on a net basis on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities look good at the moment. FPIs continue to remain as a key driving force for the markets. Given the dovish tone of global central bankers, improved prospects of sound earnings growth and weak dollar index, we believe FPIs flow should remain benign in subsequent periods," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, a sharp rise in Brent price and input prices can pose a near-term threat for earnings recovery, he said. "US equities ended mixed as sharp rise in weekly jobless claim data and slow progress on fiscal stimulus weighed on investors' sentiments despite satisfactory progress on vaccine approvals and distribution process. However, extension of the asset buying program by EUR 500 billion in European Central Bank (ECB) policy bodes well for global equities especially emerging markets," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the positive territory. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.04 per cent higher at USD 50.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||United Spirits gets new CEO||United Spirits Ltd (USL), a part of global liquor giant Diageo, on Thursday appointed Hina Nagarajan as the company’s new CEO with effect from July 1, 2021. Incumbent Anand Kripalu will step down on June 30. At present, Nagarajan is the managing director of the Africa Regional Markets (ARM) at Diageo and will join USL as the CEO-designate from April 1, the company said, adding she will take over formally from July 1 and will be a member of the Diageo executive committee. She will report to John Kennedy, the president of Diageo Europe and India. Nagarajan will be based in Bangalore and will work closely with Kripalu to ensure a smooth transition, the company said. In her current role, she leads Diageo’s ARM comprising operations in Ghana, Cameroon, Ethiopia, the Indian Ocean, Angola and several other countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Supreme Court to hear cap on audit cases||The Supreme Court has transferred to itself a batch of writ petitions pending in the high courts of Calcutta, Kerala and Madras challenging certain guidelines issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India restricting the annual auditing of accounts by chartered accountants to a maximum of 60 in a year and also imposing disciplinary action against them for “professional misconduct” for the violation of certain other guidelines. The chartered accountants have challenged the regulations in the high courts “on the ground that it violated their fundamental right to carry out their profession guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution”. The ICAI had moved the apex court for the transfer of the petitions in different high courts to the top court for an authoritative pronouncement on the issue to avoid any conflicting verdicts. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subash Reddy and M.R. Shah agreed with the ICAI saying it involved public interests, not only chartered accountants but also the citizens. Accordingly the court passed the judgment: “The guidelines which are impugned in the High Court and consequent disciplinary proceedings initiated against various chartered accountants throughout the country is an issue of public importance ... We are satisfied that to settle the law and to clear the uncertainty among tax professionals and citizens, it is appropriate that this Court may transfer the writ petition...” The interim orders passed in the writ petitions which are being transferred shall continue till any other order is passed . Under chapter VI of the Council General Guidelines, 2008 of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, the specified number of tax audits by a chartered accountant is set at 60 in a financial year whether in respect of corporate or a non-corporate assessee. If the threshold is exceeded, there are disciplinary provisions and a member can be held guilty of professional misconduct. CAs said capping the number of tax audits may be seen as infringement of efficiency. If auditors are able to complete the entire audit work as restricted by the 2008 guidelines, they may also be unemployed for the rest of the year. (With inputs from the Calcutta Bureau)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Walmart sets $10bn India-made export target||US retail giant Walmart on Thursday committed itself to triple goods exports from India to $10 billion annually by 2027. The Bentonville-based firm said its new commitment to export “$10 billion of India-made goods each year by 2027” is expected to provide a significant boost to MSMEs in India, alongside ongoing efforts such as the Flipkart Samarth and Walmart Vriddhi supplier development programmes. The expansion in sourcing will include developing new suppliers in categories such as food, pharmaceuticals, consumables, health and wellness and general merchandise, along with apparel, homeware and other key Indian export categories, the company said in a statement. Walmart Inc president and CEO Doug McMillon said as an international retailer that brings value to customers and communities worldwide. Walmart understands that local entrepreneurs and manufacturers are vital to the success of the global retail sector. “We see huge potential for Indian suppliers to grow their businesses by leveraging the unique scale and global distribution opportunity Walmart provides,” he added. McMillon said “by significantly accelerating our annual India exports in the coming years, we are supporting the Make in India initiative and helping more local businesses reach international customers while creating jobs and prosperity at home in India”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Nokia and Vodafone Idea in enterprise deal||Nokia has partnered Vi Business, the enterprise arm of Vodafone Idea, to offer future ready services that will help enterprises to digitally transform and improve their efficiency, reduce operational costs and enhance security. As the adoption of future-ready network solution increases, this partnership will help jointly offer differentiated propositions in cutting edge technologies such as Fixed Wireless Access (FWA), private wireless and gigabit passive optical networks (GPON), a Nokia release said. Meanwhile, the government will soon announce spectrum bands crucial for the rolling out 5G services and is holding consultations with different ministries, a senior telecom department official said on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||UPL stock tanks over whistleblower charge||The shares of agrochemical firm UPL were clobbered on Thursday amid reports of a whistleblower complaint alleging that the promoter is siphoning out funds from the company. On the Bombay Stock Exchange, the UPL scrips were down 10.94 per cent to Rs 438.45. On the National Stock Exchange, the scrips fell 11.29 per cent to Rs 437. During intra-day trade, the stock had fallen to Rs 416.05 apiece, the biggest single-day drop since March 23, 2020, before recovering later in the day. The whistleblower has alleged that UPL entered into rent deals with a shell company owned by its employees and paid crores of rupees in rent for properties held by the latter. UPL chief executive officer Jai Shroff denied the allegations in an interview with a television channel on Thursday after the reports came out. He said that the complaint was from 2016-17 regarding a house where he lived. “The auditors reviewed it and was put to rest in 2017. It was an arm’s length transaction and there were no related party issue,” Shroff said. He said that J.Sagar and Associates had reviewed all the documents related to the rental of the house. Company clarifies The company, in a clarification to the exchanges, said there was no new complaint against it and denied that the whistleblower was a member of the board as reported. “An identical whistleblower complaint was received by the audit committee of UPL on June 2, 2017. The whistleblower committee, which comprised only independent directors, was constituted by the audit committee to investigate the allegations and all the contents of the complaint were fully disclosed. “It undertook a detailed review, including each related-party transaction (RPT), with the help of an independent law firm, and had concluded two-and-a-half years back that those transactions were at arm’s-length and in compliance with the applicable laws. Thereafter, the complainant was duly informed about the findings of the audit committee and the matter was closed,” the company said in the statement. “UPL believes and reassures that all corporate governance norms and applicable laws have been duly complied with. UPL will evaluate all possible legal options available with it to defend its position and image,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Competition Commission of India raids 3 cement firms||The Competition Commission of India (CCI) has initiated an investigation against cement companies in India, including ACC and Ambuja Cements. The anti-trust body had on Wednesday conducted raids at the offices of UltraTech Cement and two subsidiaries of the world’s largest cement maker LafargeHolcim, two sources close to the matter told Reuters. Swiss-based LafargeHolcim in a statement to Reuters confirmed officials visited the Mumbai offices of ACC and Ambuja Cements and said the companies were fully cooperating with the authorities, but could not comment further as the matter is ongoing. Several officers of the CCI were involved in search operations conducted simultaneously at multiple locations in India, late into the evening, the sources said, asking not to be named because of the confidential nature of the raids. Searches were also conducted at Shree Cement Ltd, a third source said. In a regulatory filing, ACC said it has acted and continues to act in compliance with competition laws and is fully cooperating with the investigation and providing all the necessary information to the authorities. In a separate filing, Ambuja Cements said it has a “long-standing commitment to fair competition as reflected in its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics”. Shares of Ambuja Cements and ACC took a beating on news of the raids. The stock of Ambuja Cements closed at Rs 248.35, 1.80 per cent down after declining 2.96 per cent to Rs 245.40 during the day on the BSE. ACC dipped 1.46 per cent to close at Rs 1,631.95 after it declined 2.24 per cent to Rs 1,619.05 during the day. Among others, UltraTech Cement shares tanked 3.59 per cent to Rs 4,962.90 and those of Shree Cement 2.91 per cent to Rs 23,705.50 on the BSE. India is the second-largest cement producer in the world and accounted for more than 8 per cent of the global installed capacity in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Arcelor Nippon to double capacity||The Mittals plan to double their bets on India as their maiden venture in the country completes a year in operation. Dilip Oommen, CEO of AMNS India (ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel), said the company would like to expand capacity at Hazira to twice the existing size and look for opportunities elsewhere. Speaking at an e-conclave organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Oommen said: “We are quite bullish on the future of the steel industry in India. While we are expanding our pellet capacity to 20 million tonnes, we want to double the production at Hazira in stage one and then we will look at opportunities.” Mittals acquired Essar Steel for Rs 42,000 crore through a litigious insolvency process and partnered Japan’s Nippon Steel, which picked up a 40 per cent stake, to manage the asset. The asset is capable of producing 8.3-million-tonne steel now and Oommen said the plant was operating at 100 per cent capacity. However, there are a few loose ends the company may tie up before converting the intent to action. It has set its eyes on the captive port linked to the steel plant and stake claim on the asset which is owned by Essar’s erstwhile owners. Moreover, it is fighting a court battle to secure a pipeline in Odisha to carry iron ore slurry from the mine to the pellet plant at Paradip. It is also trying to win over creditors of a secondary steel producer Uttam Galva Steel through a bankruptcy process. V-Shaped recovery Participating in the conclave, director (commercial) of SAIL, Soma Mondal, said there has been a V-shaped recovery in steel demand. “Two major developments are defining steel demand, one is government intervention through various schemes, including Atmanirbhar Bharat, and adequate liquidity in the market,” Mondal, who is tipped to take over as the chairperson of the public sector behemoth, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Mukesh Ambani welcomes grandson||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani on Thursday became a grandfather after a son was born to his eldest son. “Shloka and Akash Ambani became proud parents of a baby boy today in Mumbai,” a statement from the Ambani family spokesperson said. Akash married diamantaire Russell Mehta’s daughter Shloka in March 2019. Ambani, 63, and his wife Nita have three children — twins Akash and Isha, 29 years old, and Anant, 25. The Ambani family is said to have returned to Mumbai just before Diwali last month after spending considerable time abroad. “Nita and Mukesh Ambani are delighted to become grandparents for the first time as they welcomed the great-grandson of Dhirubhai and Kokilaben Ambani,” the statement said. “The new arrival has brought immense joy to the Mehta and Ambani families,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Tata Sons spurn Cyrus Mistry truce offer in Supreme Court||Tata Sons on Thursday told the Supreme Court that Cyrus Mistry’s Shapoorji Pallonji group wanted to acquire pro rata 18 per cent share in all the companies run by Tata Sons as a severance package for the group’s 18 per cent in Tata Sons — which was “nonsense”, not acceptable to the company. Winding up his arguments for Tata Sons, senior advocate Harish Salve told a bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde that R.N. Tata as chairman emeritus has to be kept in loop for the smooth functioning of the company which was not done by Mistry when he was at the helm. According to Salve, “they wanted 18 per cent share in all the group companies at the time of severance but they (Pallonji group) are kind enough to say we (Tatas) will have the control of the companies. Such an argument is not tenable and is just a nonsense”, Salve told the court. The bench also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian is hearing an appeal filed by Tata Sons challenging the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal’s (NCLAT) order of December 18, 2019, directing the reinstatement of Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the company. The Supreme Court subsequently stayed the NCLAT order in January. He said Ratan Tata cannot be faulted by the Pallonji group as all that the he wanted was that certain issues that arose should have been discussed, particularly with regard to the appointment to the board of directors. The Chief Justice pointed out that the resentment against Tata’s participation is that he did not have any authority to demand anything in a particular way and yet he was asking the board to discuss about how things are being done. Salve said nominee directors have to vote in favour and they — the nominee directors — are representing the trust of which Ratan Tata is the chairman, “so what’s so wrong in that?” The senior counsel said allegations for misconduct are primarily related to downstream companies, not Tata Sons. Mistry views Senior advocate C.A. Sundaram appearing for Cyrus Investments and Sterling Investments said the group was forced to move the tribunal for the winding up proceedings as the business was being run in a manner prejudicial not just to minority shareholders but to the company itself. “Tata Sons is only an investment company. It invests in the group companies. It does no other work. Tats Sons board takes decisions on what direction the group companies should take. That is why functioning of group companies become important,” he said. But when it came to the question of group companies, the Tata Sons as a majority shareholder effectively takes all decision even with regard to the group companies, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
11-12-2020||India||Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala to quit if no MSP provided for farmers||Haryana's Deputy Chief Minister, Dushyant Chautala, a key BJP ally, on Friday promised to resign from his post if he is unable to secure the minimum support price (MSP) guarantee for farmers. The remark comes a day after the farmers protesting at the Delhi border rejected the Centre's written assurance that the support price system will not be scrapped and insisted on repeal of the three contentious agriculture laws. "Our party's national president already made it clear that MSP must be ensured to farmers. The written proposals given by the Central government to the protesting farmers include a provision for MSPs. I will work to secure MSP for farmers as long as I am in power. I will resign from my post the day I am unable to fulfil the promise," Chautala told NDTV. Chautala, whose Jannayak Janata Party formed a government in Haryana in partnership with the BJP in 2019, said he is in touch with the Centre to push for the farmers' demands. "Chaudhary Devi Lal (late former Haryana chief minister) used to say the government only listens to farmers till the time they have a partnership in the government. Today, I and my party are constantly putting the farmers' views in front of the Centre. I am in touch with the Union Minister through telephone and putting my views about the possible solutions of farmers' problem," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
11-12-2020||India|| Result of China’s actions: MEA on LAC standoff||India on Friday claimed that the military standoff between the country and China over that last six months is a result of actions taken by the latter, which sought to bring in a “unilateral change” in the status along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava made the comments while addressing a press conference that sought to seek his stance regarding the Chinese foreign Ministry’s allegations that India was responsible for the standoff. “Our position has been very clear and has been articulated several times in the past. The situation that we have seen since the last six months has been a result of the actions of the Chinese side which has sought to effect a unilateral change in status along the LAC in eastern Ladakh,” Srivastava said. “These actions are in violation of the bilateral agreements and protocol on ensuring peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the India-China border areas,” he added. A Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson on Thursday blamed India again for the border standoff in eastern Ladakh. “We have taken note of the Chinese side’s statement that it observes ‘'strictly the agreements between the two sides and is committed to resolving the border issue through dialogue and safeguarding peace and tranquillity’ in the border areas. We expect that the Chinese side will match its words with actions,” Srivastava noted. Since early May, Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a tense border standoff in Eastern Ladakh along the LAC, despite several rounds of diplomatic talks. Srivastava said the two sides have continued to maintain communication through diplomatic and military channels. “It is our expectation that the further discussions will help both sides to achieve an agreement on a mutually acceptable solution for ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC in the Western sector and full restoration of peace and tranquillity as early as possible,” the MEA spokesperson highlighted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
11-12-2020||India||Vaccine: AstraZeneca to use Sputnik V component for its trial||Pharmaceutical firm AstraZeneca has accepted an offer from the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to use one of the two components of its Sputnik V vaccine in its clinical trials, the institute said on Friday. On November 20 this year, RDIF and Gamaleya Institute had proposed the pharma giant to use  one of the two components (human adenoviral vectors) of the Sputnik V vaccine in the clinical trial of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine, Russia's sovereign wealth fund said in a statement. “AstraZeneca accepted RDIF's proposal and will begin clinical trials of its vaccine in combination with Sputnik V's human adenoviral vector type Ad26 by the end of 2020,” the statement said. “This research will allow AstraZeneca's scientists to study the possibility of boosting their vaccine's efficacy through the application of this combined approach,” the RDIF said. “The decision by AstraZeneca to carry out clinical trials using one of two vectors of Sputnik V in order to increase its own vaccine's efficacy is an important step towards uniting efforts in the fight against the pandemic,” RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said. AstraZeneca had previously come under scrutiny when it accepted a manufacturing error in its vaccine. “These preliminary data indicate that the vaccine is 70.4% effective, with tests on two different dose regimens showing that the vaccine was 90% effective if administered at a half dose and then at a full dose, or 62% effective if administered in two full doses,” the University of Oxford, with which AstraZeneca had partnered, said in a statement. It also faced a slew of questions last month when a Chennai-based volunteer complained of facing neurological and psychological problems after receiving a trial shot of the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Bengal headed for showdown with Centre over Nadda convoy attack||The Bengal government on Friday decided not to send its secretary and police chief to New Delhi in compliance with Union Home Ministry's order following an attack on BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy a day earlier. Chief Secretary  Alapan Bandopadhyay wrote to Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, saying he has been directed to request the Centre to “dispense with the presence of the state officials” in a December 14 meeting, indicating that he was acting under orders of the state government. The Union Home Ministry has summoned Bandopadhyay and DGP Virendra on December 14 for an explanation on the law and order situation in the state, following Governor Jagdeep Dhankar’s report on the attack on Nadda, allegedly by "goons" of the ruling Trinamul Congress. Dhankhar, who alleged at a press conference in Calcutta that violators of law in Bengal have the protection of police and administration and any resistance by the Opposition is quelled, was asked to submit a report after Nadda's convoy was attacked with stones and bricks in Calcutta's Diamond Harbour on Thursday. The governor's report following the violence in Diamond Harbour, the Lok Sabha constituency of Banerjee's nephew Abhishek, gives a detailed analysis of the law and order situation in Bengal and the state government's response to political violence and other crimes, the officials said. In his letter, Bandopadhyay referred to the MHA’s summons to him and the DGP. “Kindly refer to the letter whereby the Chief Secretary and the Director-General of Police, Government of West Bengal, have been requested to attend a meeting on December 14, 2020, at 12.15 PM in your chamber to discuss the law and order situation in the State of West Bengal, including the incidents regarding certain Z-category protectees,” the chief secretary wrote in his letter. “While further reports are being obtained and compiled, in the circumstances, I am directed to request you to kindly dispense with the presence of the State officials in the meeting, considering that the State Government is already addressing this issue with utmost seriousness,” the two-page letter read. Bandopadhyay said that the state government, following the Union Home Secretary’s December 10 direction, had arranged for security cover for the convoy on Thursday. “The incidents regarding Z-category protectees are already being examined at our end. The West Bengal Police had provided a bulletproof car and a pilot to Shri J.P. Nadda, which was in addition to the escort (vehicle by State, personnel by CRPF) and PSOs (CRPF) he is entitled as a Z- category protectee,” he said. The DIG (Police) of the range was stationed in the area to supervise the arrangements personally. At the same time, 4 Additional SPS, 8 DySPs, 14 Inspectors, 70 Sls/AS1s, 40 RAF personnel, 259 constables and 350 members of auxiliary forces were deployed on the route and at the venue at Diamond Harbour, the letter read. “While the central protectees had their own central protection arrangements, these arrangements were made over and above the same from the end of the State,” Bandopadhyay said and requested to be excused from attending the meeting. Noting that three cases have been registered in connection with Thursday's violence, including two for vandalism, he said, seven persons have already been arrested. A day earlier in Calcutta, the governor slammed the state government over the deteriorating law and order situation and said the chief minister must desist from repeated remarks calling the BJP a party of outsiders. Such statements, he said, would weaken the national fabric. “I have sent my report to the Central government, the contents cannot be shared on account of propriety,” Dhankhar told reporters at the press conference in Raj Bhawan. “The governor will vindicate his oath, come what may,” he asserted. Dhankhar also alleged that the “non-responsive” stance of the chief minister towards the Raj Bhawan is an indication that governance is not in accordance with the Constitution. Describing Banerjee's comments on the attack on Nadda's convoy as "most unfortunate", he said, "I take very serious note of the statement that emanated from the honourable chief minister. How can a responsible chief minister, believing in rule of law...Constitution, believing in Bengali culture, talk the way she did." Banerjee had mockingly distorted Nadda's name at a rally in Kolkata on Thursday and termed the attack on his convoy a "staged act". Cars of several party leaders, including that of BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh which were part of the convoy, were also damaged in the attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Kisan union moves SC against farm laws||Bhartiya Kisan Union Bhanu, a farmers association, has moved the Supreme Court seeking to intervene as a party in a pending plea challenging the constitutional validity of the newly enacted three contentious farm laws. A bench headed by Chief Justice Justice S A Bobde, on October 12, had issued a notice to the Centre by agreeing to test the validity of the laws on the pleas filed by RJD lawmaker from Rajya Sabha, Manoj Jha and DMK Rajya Sabha MP from Tamil Nadu, Tiruchi Siva, and one by Rakesh Vaishnav of Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress. The application, filed through advocate AP Singh, said, "The Acts were passed hastily without adequate discussion... Inherent weaknesses of the agricultural sector cannot be addressed by way of monetization of farmers." It added that despite multiple representations sent by various Kisan groups, the government is not ready to consider their problems. The system needs strengthening of APMC system, MSP and financial support, the plea suggested. The three laws -- Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- took effect from September 27 after President Ram Nath Kovind's assent. Several petitions are already pending before the Supreme Court, which includes ones filed by DMK MP Tiruchi Siva, RJD Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha, Rakesh Vaishnav of the Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress and Bharatiya Kisan Party, against the three farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Home ministry summons Bengal chief secretary, police chief after Nadda's convoy attack||The Union Home Ministry has summoned Bengal's chief secretary and police chief on December 14 for an explanation on the law and order situation in the state, a move that follows Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar's report on the attack on BJP president J P Nadda's convoy, officials said on Friday. Dhankhar, who alleged at a press conference in Calcutta that violators of law in Bengal have the protection of police and administration and any resistance by the opposition is quelled, was asked to submit a report after Nadda's convoy was attacked with stones and bricks in Calcutta's Diamond Harbour on Thursday. Bengal's two top officials, Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and Director General of Police Virendra, are expected to be asked to explain the law and order situation in the state as well as steps taken to prevent political violence and other crimes, officials said. The Home Ministry is yet to receive a report from the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government on the "serious security lapses" during Nadda's visit to the state, they said. The governor's report following the violence in Diamond Harbour, the Lok Sabha constituency of Banerjee's nephew Abhishek, gives a detailed analysis of the law and order situation in Bengal and the state government's response to political violence and other crimes, the officials said. In Calcutta, the governor slammed the state government over the deteriorating law and order situation and said the chief minister must desist from repeated remarks calling the BJP a party of outsiders. Such statements, he said, would weaken the national fabric. "I have sent my report to the Central government the contents cannot be shared on account of propriety," Dhankhar told reporters at the press conference in Raj Bhawan. "The governor is not a post office...he will not fiddle around in Raj Bhawan when human rights are being violated," he said. "The governor will vindicate his oath, come what may," he asserted. Dhankhar also alleged that the "non-responsive" stance of the chief minister towards the Raj Bhawan is an indication that governance is not in accordance with the Constitution. Describing Banerjee's comments on the attack on Nadda's convoy as "most unfortunate", he said, "I take very serious note of the statement that emanated from the honourable chief minister. How can a responsible chief minister, believing in rule of law...Constitution, believing in Bengali culture, talk the way she did." Banerjee had mockingly distorted Nadda's name at a rally in Kolkata on Thursday and termed the attack on his convoy a "staged act". Cars of several party leaders, including that of BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh which were part of the convoy, were also damaged in the attack. Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted that "Bengal has descended into an era of tyranny, anarchy and darkness under the Trinamool rule... The manner in which political violence has been institutionalised and brought to the extreme in Bengal under TMC rule is sad and worrying". The ruling TMC in Bengal on Friday hit out at the union home ministry for summoning the state chief secretary and director general of police for the attack on BJP national president J P Nadda's convoy and accused the saffron party of trying to create a situation where the central government can interfere in matters related to the states. Senior TMC MPs Saugata Roy and Kalyan Banerjee alleged that Nadda's convoy had "convicted criminals" and goons who carried weapons with the malafide intention to instigate violence. "What the central government is doing by sending a letter (seeking report) from the state government is unconstitutional. The MHA summoning the chief secretary and DGP is unacceptable. The BJP and the central government is trying to create a situation where they can interfere with the federal structure," Bandopadhyay said at a press conference here. The provocative speeches by BJP state president Dilip Ghosh are leading to a vicious situation, he said and claimed that Nadda was accompanied by "convicted criminal and armed men of BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee's presidential memoirs to be launched next month||A new book by late former president Pranab Mukherjee will recount his fascinating journey from growing up under the flicker of a lamp in a remote village of Bengal to walking the rampart of the Rashtrapati Bhavan as the first citizen of India. The memoir, titled "The Presidential Years", will be globally released in January 2021, publisher Rupa Books announced on Friday. The fourth volume of Mukherjee's memoirs recollects the challenges he faced in his years as the President including the difficult decisions he had to make and the tightrope walk he had to undertake to ensure that both constitutional propriety and his opinion were taken into consideration. "A towering figure of Indian politics, Pranab Da would always insist that he would 'melt into the masses without leaving a track behind'. Today, he leaves behind an unmatched legacy, some of which is reflected in the highly anticipated fourth volume of his memoirs. "If he were still alive, he would have been thrilled to note the widespread excitement among readers to read this extremely well-written autobiography. It's so personal in a tone that to me it almost seems like the former President is sitting in his study with a cup of tea (and shingara) and narrating his story," said Kapish G. Mehra, managing director, Rupa Publications India. In the memoir, Mukherjee reveals the relationship he shared with two politically opposed prime ministers during his tenure as the president. "While Dr Singh was preoccupied with saving the coalition, which took a toll on governance, Modi seemed to have employed a rather autocratic style of governance during his first term, as seen by the bitter relationship among the government, the legislature and the judiciary," Mukherjee wrote in the book. He also presents a critical point of view for the Congress party, in which he was a senior leader for over five decades. He candidly refutes the view of leaders of the party, who believed had Mukherjee become the PM in 2004, the party might have averted the 2014 Lok Sabha drubbing. "Though I don't subscribe to this view, I do believe that the party's leadership lost political focus after my elevation as president. While Sonia Gandhi was unable to handle the affairs of the party, Dr Singh's prolonged absence from the House put an end to any personal contact with other MPs," he wrote. Filled with rare photos and handwritten notes, the memoir offers a rare glimpse into the life of one of the most important and admired politicians of contemporary India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Dharmendra 'sad' for farmers, urges govt to act ||Veteran actor Dharmendra on Friday said he was pained to see farmers suffering and urged the central government to find a solution to their protests over the farm laws. The tweet comes a week after the 84-year-old actor put out a similar post on Twitter. "I am extremely in pain to see the suffering of my farmer brothers. Government should do something fast," Dharmendra wrote. Last week, the actor had urged the government to resolve the protests soon, citing the growing number of coronavirus cases in Delhi. "I request the government... please quickly find a solution the farmers' problems... the number of corona cases are on a rise in Delhi... it is painful," Dharmendra had written in a post. The veteran actor, however, soon deleted the post, without any explanation. When a user posted the screenshot of the tweet, wondering what prompted the actor to delete the tweet, Dharmendra said, "I deleted the tweet because I felt saddened by comments like these. You can abuse me to your heart's content, I am happy that you are happy. "Yes, I am sad for my farmer brothers... The government should find a solution fast, nobody is listening to us," he wrote. Farmers from different states have been camping at Delhi's Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla (Delhi-Noida) border points for nearly two weeks now to demand a repeal of the farm laws enacted in September. On Thursday, farmer unions threatened to block railway tracks across the country and all highways leading to Delhi if their demands are not met. The announcement came a day after farmers' leaders rejected the government's offer to amend the new agri laws and give a "written assurance" on continuing the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system. Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of MSP and do away with mandis that ensure earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their crop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Rahul attacks govt over farm incomes||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday attacked the government, alleging that it wants the income of farmers in the country to be as low as that earned by those in Bihar. The former party chief cited a media report that claimed that an agricultural household in Punjab earns the highest in a year, while it was lowest in Bihar. "The farmer wants his income to be as much as that of farmers of Punjab. The Modi government wants the income of all farmers of the country to be as much as that of Bihar farmers," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The survey cited by Gandhi showed that an average Indian agricultural household earns Rs 77,124 in a year, with Punjab farmers earning Rs 2,16,708 annually and that of Bihar only Rs 42,684. Congress has been attacking the government over the new farm laws and has alleged that these will lower farmers' income. The party has also been alleging that the farm laws seek to end the minimum support price regime and abolish the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act. The government has claimed otherwise and has said that the legislations will help increase farm income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Top child rights body says no to PUBG relaunch in India||As popular gaming app PUBG eyes its relaunch in the country, India’s top child rights body NCPCR has said it will not be appropriate to do so unless legislations are in place for such online games, according to officials. In September this year, the Centre had banned 118 Chinese mobile apps in India with PUBG being one among them. The government had said these apps “are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. However, the app, which was earlier distributed by China’s Tencent Games in India, has sought permission from the government for its relaunch. In a meeting called to discuss the proposal, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) chairperson Priyank Kanoongo “strongly recommended” against the relaunch of the mobile app in India until appropriate legislations are in place for such online games, the officials said. He later confirmed that an internal meeting was indeed held to discuss the matter. “It was an internal meeting and prima facie, the NCPCR is not in favour of recommending such games in the country,” Kanoongo told PTI. During the meeting, it was also pointed out that the game led to loss of many lives in the country, a senior official said. No response had been received from PUBG to queries sent by PTI on the matter till the time of filing this report. According to reports, India accounted for a significant portion of PUBG MOBILE's downloads and users. Days after the government ban, PUBG had announced that Chinese company Tencent Games would no longer be authorised to distribute the PUBG MOBILE franchise in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Bengal governor's report  on law and order situation received, confirms Centre||The Centre on Friday received a report from Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on the prevailing law and order situation in West Bengal, a day after BJP president J P Nadda's convoy was attacked in the state, officials said. The state government, however, has not sent any report as sought by the Union home ministry on "serious security lapses" during Nadda's two-day visit to Bengal. "The home ministry has received a report from the West Bengal governor on the law and order situation in the state," an official said. Asked about the contents of the report, the official said that it is under examination. It is learnt that the governor gave a detailed analysis of the prevailing law and order situation in West Bengal and the state government's response to political violence and other crimes. The report from the governor was sought after Nadda's convoy was attacked on Thursday in Diamond Harbour, the Lok Sabha constituency of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew Abhishek Banerjee. On December 6, Dhankhar had alleged that the Trinamul Congress (TMC) government in West Bengal is distancing itself from the rule of law and the governance in the state is "getting away" from the path of the Constitution. "I am deeply disturbed, concerned, worried and pained that the governance in West Bengal is getting away from the path of the Constitution. It is distancing itself from rule of law," he had said. The governor had also tweeted on Sunday: "High time @MamataOfficial to ensure governance in accordance with the constitution and render police & administration "politically neutral". CS & DGP @WBPolice non-responsive stance ignoring lawful accountability, letter & spirit of the constitution is fraught with serious consequences". Union Home Minister Amit Shah had termed the attack on Nadda's convoy a "sponsored violence", and alleged that the state has "descended into an era of tyranny and anarchy" under Trinamool's rule. Nadda's convoy was pelted with stones when he was travelling to Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district to address a rally there. Cars of several party leaders including that of BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh which were part of the convoy were damaged in the alleged attack. Another official said that the Union home ministry is yet to receive a report from the West Bengal government on the alleged "serious security lapses" during the BJP president's visit. Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla had also spoken to the West Bengal chief secretary on Thursday on the allegations of BJP's state unit chief Dilip Ghosh. Ghosh in a letter to Shah had alleged that "during his (Nadda's) different engagements in Kolkata, it was observed that there were serious lapses on security arrangements, purportedly due to negligence and/or casual approach of the state police department". He had also alleged that a "mob" of over 200 people with sticks and bamboos were demonstrating raising black flags in front of the BJP's state unit office in Kolkata. Ghosh claimed that some of the protesters climbed on cars parked outside the party's office and raised slogans. "The police did not intervene to stop them and casually allowed them to come within a close perimeter of Nadda ji's vehicle," he affirmed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Strong winds, light rain likely to improve Delhi's air quality||Delhi's air quality was recorded in the poor category on Friday and is likely to improve significantly over the next two days due to a predicted increase in the wind speed and light rain. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 271 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 284 on Thursday. The neighbouring cities of Ghaziabad (AQI 330), Greater Noida (322) and Noida (310) recorded air quality in the very poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the air quality is likely to improve significantly on Saturday and Sunday owning to better ventilation conditions and rainfall. The India Meteorological Department said the national capital and its neighbouring cities are likely to receive light rainfall on Friday and Saturday under the influence a fresh Western Disturbance passing over the Himalayas. The maximum wind speed is predicted to be 15 kmph, favourable for dispersion of pollutants, it said. After the Western Disturbance withdraws, icy cold northwesterly winds blowing from the snow-laden Himalayas will bring temperatures down in the plains, the IMD said. The minimum temperature is expected to drop to 8 degrees Celsius by Monday, according to an IMD forecast. The city recorded a minimum of 10.9 degrees Celsius on Friday. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 29 degrees Celsius. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Less than 30,000 fresh Covid cases, 414 casualties in a day ||India recorded less than 30,000 fresh Covid-19 infections on Friday, the second time this month, which pushed its caseload to 97.96 lakh, while the total number of recoveries surged to 92.90 lakh, according to the Union health ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 97,96,769 with 29,398 fresh infections, while the death toll rose to 1,42,186 with 414 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. India had recorded a daily rise of 26,567 cases on December 8. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 92,90,834 on Friday, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.84 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the fifth consecutive day. There are 3,63,749 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 3.71 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, and 90 lakh on November 20. The 414 new fatalities include 70 from Maharashtra, 61 from Delhi, 49 from West Bengal, 27 from Punjab, 26 each from Haryana and Kerala, and 24 from Uttar Pradesh. The total 1,42,186 deaths reported so far in the country include 47,972 from Maharashtra, 11,912 from Karnataka, 11,853 from Tamil Nadu, 9,874 from Delhi, 8,916 from West Bengal, 8,011 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,047 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,007 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
11-12-2020||India||‘Trade’ logic fuels farmers' suspicion||The protesting farmers on Thursday claimed vindication of their stand that the new farm laws were pro-corporate rather than pro-farmer after food minister Piyush Goyal said the bills had been enacted to encourage trade in food. “The government’s agenda is out in the open now. This is the first time the government has admitted that these laws are for trade and commerce,” Bharatiya Kisan Union president Balbir Singh Rajewal told reporters at the Singhu border. Goyal’s comment had come at a news conference, held jointly with agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, where he tried to answer the charge that the new farm laws intruded on a state subject and were therefore unconstitutional. “On the law itself, some arguments were sought to be made that the law could not have been enacted by the Centre. Very categorically, none of the laws is in the state list,” Goyal said. “They are part of the concurrent list and trade is what is being sought to be encouraged by these laws. Therefore there should be absolutely no doubt in anybody’s mind that the Centre has the power to enact laws under the concurrent list for trade, particularly in foodstuffs, which has been very elaborately defined in the concurrent list.” Goyal added: “And there are several Supreme Court orders which have further elaborated on this subject, and therefore the Centre is very competent to enact these laws.” The farmer union leaders were quick to latch on to Goyal’s statement, having already opened a front against corporate groups who they think would benefit from the three new laws. “This is an admission,” Rajewal said. Another farmer leader, Darshan Pal, said: “We had never asked for privatisation of agriculture.” A third farmer leader, Buta Singh, dismissed as “crocodile tears” the government’s expressions of concern for the farmers protesting amid the pandemic and the cold. “What does the government lose if it repeals these bills when it claims to be worried about our welfare? It’s clear the farmers don’t want these laws,” he said. Farmer leaders described the two ministers’ news conference as a propaganda effort and reaffirmed they would continue with their agitation. The farmers are also upset at the continuing vilification of their agitation by government members and supporters. On Wednesday, Union minister Raosaheb Danve alleged the protests were being fuelled by Pakistan and China. “One of our sons died in Kashmir on the border. His father is here, participating in the protests. Where is the minister?” Rajewal said. Goyal and Tomar, however, were careful not to criticise the farmers or allege that they were being instigated. Their stock reply to the question whether the farmers were being incited was that this was for the media to investigate. The ministers’ news conference seemed mainly an attempt to project the government as being reasonable and open to further negotiations. Tomar urged the farmer leaders to decide on a date for negotiations. However, asked whether the government was open to repealing the new farm laws, he replied: “No law is entirely bad; we are ready to look into their apprehensions with an open mind.” Tomar was similarly evasive when asked whether the farmers’ demand for a law guaranteeing a minimum support price (MSP) would be accepted. “These new laws have nothing to do with MSP. The MSP will continue, so there is no cause for worry,” he said. The Supreme Court Bar Association on Thursday condemned the use of “brute force” on the protesting farmers and quoted a statement variously attributed to Edmund Burke, Voltaire and others: “I may completely disagree with what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it.” The protesters had faced batons, tear gas and water cannons apart from barbed wire and barricades during their march to Delhi. In a statement, association honorary secretary Rohit Pandey urged the government to uphold and protect the constitutional rights of all citizens to protest peacefully.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
11-12-2020||India||Prime Minister extols India as the 'mother of democracy'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday cited rising vote percentages as proof of India’s thriving democracy as he laid the foundation for a new Parliament building, days after a Supreme Court rap on his government and a globally condemned crackdown on protesting farmers. “Today is a milestone in India’s democratic history,” Modi said after performing a “bhoomi pujan” (earth worship) guided by priests from the Sringeri Math in Karnataka. The Prime Minister extolled India as the “mother of democracy”. Two days ago, Modi’s acolyte and Niti Aayog chief Amitabh Kant had said India was “too much of a democracy” that made tough reforms difficult to execute. The new Parliament building, to be built at an estimated cost of Rs 971 crore, is part of Modi’s pet Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project to redevelop Lutyens Delhi that many activists have described as unnecessary and harmful to the environment. This was the second high-profile bhoomi pujan the Prime Minister has performed recently, the first being that for a Ram temple in Ayodhya that too has attracted charges of symbolising pride and lavish ostentation amid the pandemic distress all around. On Monday, the Supreme Court had censured the Centre for continuing construction and tree relocations for the Central Vista project despite the matter being under its scrutiny — seeing in it a lack of “deference” — but allowed Thursday’s ceremony. The court is considering a slew of petitions questioning the project’s legality. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee questioned the need for the project and the expenditure on it. “Stunt-baji, all the time. Thousands of crores on statues, thousands of crores on a new Parliament building,” she said in Calcutta. Mamata added: “Let them, I don’t object. But I think there was no need for a new Parliament building right now. That money could have been given to the farmers of this country, for instance. The existing Parliament building was sufficient for now.” Modi, addressing a select gathering of about 200, insisted that a “New India” needed a new Parliament building. He said the current structure, built during colonial times, had become too old and should be “put to rest”. “The old (Parliament) building gave direction to India after Independence and the new building will be a testament to a self-reliant India,” he said. The Prime Minister claimed India had developed democratic traditions even before the West. He cited historical texts and stone inscriptions as evidence, and said the world would soon accept India as the “mother of democracy”. He said that while democratic procedures were withering in many countries, democracy’s roots were strengthening in India. As evidence, he pointed to a rise in voting percentages, “particularly the increased participation by women and the youth”, but gave no figures. After his paean to democracy, the Prime Minister urged each citizen to pledge to make the “national interest” supreme over the next quarter century so the country reached new heights by 2047 when it celebrated 100 years of independence. The government wants to complete the new Parliament building by 2022, coinciding with 75 years of independence. “Friends, we the people of India should pledge that for us, no interest should be above the national interest. We the people of India should pledge that for us, the country’s concerns should be greater than our own concerns,” Modi said. Against the backdrop of the farmers’ agitation, Modi cited Guru Nanak’s stress on talking and listening. Mindful of the upcoming Bengal polls, he referred to Swami Vivekananda and Rabindranath Tagore, portraying them as advocates of unity and the national interest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
11-12-2020||India||Forces used to rig polls: J&K alliance||Leaders of the seven-party alliance fighting for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status have accused the government of using the armed forces to rig the ongoing District Development Council elections in favour of a particular party. The claim was made on a day police roughed up three journalists after they had interviewed a candidate who was allegedly not being allowed to vote. Three journalists covering the fifth phase of the elections in south Kashmir on Thursday had to face the police’s wrath for interviewing a candidate, Nisar Ahmad Mir, who along with his supporters were allegedly not allowed to vote. Fayaz Ahmad, a stringer with ETV Bharat, said he and two other colleagues, Mudasir Qadri of News18 and Junaid Ahmad of TV-9, were beaten up while covering the DDC elections at Srigufwara village in Anantnag. The journalist said some people had approached them with the request of interviewing Mir, who along with two dozen voters had allegedly been stopped by the police from voting. Their claim could not be independently confirmed. “After recording the byte of the candidate, the SSP came to the polling station and started beating us…. He told them (police) to book us under the charge of instigating people to hurl stones,” Ahmad told reporters. Anantnag SSP Sandeep Choudhary did not respond to calls and a WhatsApp message from this newspaper asking about the allegations. The journalists were detained for hours at Srigufwara police station and when Junaid’s health deteriorated, he was shifted to hospital. The journalists said their equipment was also seized. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti tweeted: “Everything & anything that involves stating the truth is being criminalised in J&K.” Earlier, Mehbooba had alleged that the security forces had cordoned off Matribugh village in Shopian and were not allowing people to come out to vote “under the pretext of inputs about the presence of militants”. “In a brazen display of power, armed forces are being used to rig this election & favour a particular party,” she said, apparently referring to the BJP. People’s Conference leader Imran Ansari hinted that grenades were being used to deter voters, hours after five civilians were injured in a grenade attack in the Pattan area that went to polls on Thursday. “Today’s grenade attack at Singpora Pattan raises many questions. Listening to SSP BARAMULLA’s news byte in which he says there is no militant presence in his jurisdiction. To me it seems a conspiracy so that voters don’t come out to vote in huge numbers. Impartial enquiry needed,” Ansari, whose party is part of the alliance, tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
11-12-2020||India||Trial nod for homegrown RNA vaccine||Two years ago, Sanjay Singh, a biochemist and chief executive officer of a Pune-based biotechnology company producing drugs for cancers and strokes, turned his attention to a new “platform” to design personalised vaccines against breast cancer. Singh, working with his long-term research collaborator in the US, Steve Reed, set out to design vaccines based on the genetic material called mRNA and tailored to stimulate patients’ immune systems into attacking their own breast tumour cells. But when the novel coronavirus emerged earlier this year, Singh at the Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals and Reed, CEO at the Seattle (Washington)-based HDT Bio, redirected their research to design an mRNA vaccine against the infection. Their candidate vaccine is now set to undergo human safety studies in India and the US. India’s drug regulatory panel on Wednesday approved human safety studies on the Gennova-HDT construct, the country’s first homegrown candidate Covid-19 vaccine that uses a similar mRNA platform as the Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines but promises to remain stable between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius. The panel under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation gave the approval after examining encouraging results from studies on mice, rabbits and pigtail macaques, suggesting the candidate vaccine is able to generate an immune response against the coronavirus. The human safety trial in India will offer the candidate vaccine to 120 volunteers — 60 in the 18-55 years age group, and 60 in the 56-75 years age group — at two sites: the King Edward Memorial College and Hospital in Pune and the Government Medical College, Aurangabad. If the candidate vaccine is found to be safe in human volunteers, Gennova hopes to conduct an immunogenicity study on 500 volunteers to determine if it is able to generate an immune response against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The US National Institutes of Health had in September this year approved $8.2 million to support pre-clinical and clinical studies of the candidate vaccine. “This looks like a promising mRNA candidate from India,” said Govindrajan Padmanabhan, a senior biochemist formerly at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, and co-chair of a panel under India’s biotechnology department overseeing funds for research on Covid-19 vaccine efforts. The biotechnology department, a unit of the Union science and technology ministry, had provided Rs 20 crore to Gennova for laboratory and pre-clinical studies on the candidate vaccine. “They’ve stabilised their mRNA vaccine between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius — these are standard temperatures for most current vaccines. This would help in easy distribution,” Padmanabhan said. The mRNA vaccine from the US-based Pfizer collaborating with the Germany-based BioNTech has shown 95 per cent efficacy while the mRNA vaccine from the US-based Moderna has shown over 94 per cent efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19. The Pfizer vaccine requires long-term storage temperatures of around minus 70 degrees Celsius while Moderna’s vaccine requires temperatures of minus 20 degrees. The Gennova-HDT candidate vaccine can remain stable for up to two months between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius, the temperatures in standard refrigerators used in homes and hospitals. “mRNA vaccines have advantages over traditional vaccines,” Singh said. “They can redesigned rapidly — if a virus mutates, we can redesign and get a new vaccine within 45 days.” Scientists say mRNA vaccines can be designed and produced relatively quickly because they are fully synthetic — entirely designed in the laboratory — and do not require host material such as eggs or bacteria for their growth traditionally used to make vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
11-12-2020||India||Centre open to doubling JEE Main attempts||Students could be allowed to have more shots at the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main for selection to engineering courses from next year. During a virtual interaction with students, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal promised to consider their demand for an increase in the number of chances from two to four. “Some students suggested an increase in the number of chances at JEE Main. We will examine this with seriousness. If it is possible, we will take a decision. Your suggestions have strength,” Pokhriyal said. A media release issued by the education ministry suggested that JEE Main could be held four times from 2021, once a month from February to May. Now, the entrance exam is held twice — in January and April. The top 2.5 lakh scorers of JEE Main are allowed to take the JEE Advanced, which is conducted by the IITs for selection to BTech courses. The NITs admit students on the basis of the JEE Main score. The media release said the syllabus for JEE Main 2021 would remain the same as the previous year but question options would be increased. In JEE Main, a student is required to answer 75 questions, 25 each from physics, chemistry and mathematics. The number of questions will be enhanced to 90, 30 from each subject, and the students will be asked to answer 75 questions. Students have been demanding a reduction in syllabus in the JEE Main and the medical National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has pruned its syllabus by 30 per cent for Classes IX to XII because of difficulty in conducting classes during the pandemic. The media release said the syllabus for the NEET was being finalised in consultation with the ministry of health and family welfare and the National Medical Commission. During the interaction with Pokhriyal, students iterated the demand that the CBSE board exams be deferred because of the pandemic. The exams are usually held from mid-February to the third week of April. Some students also demanded that the practical exams in the science subjects for the Classes X and XII board exams be scrapped next year as pupils have not been able to attend practical classes in schools. The minister did not give any assurance on these demands. Sanjeev Kumar, a parent and property dealer, said later that the exams should be held as usual. “This year, classes have not been held. Children are depending on private tuition. If the exams are delayed, the tuitions will continue and parents will have to pay till the exams are held. It will be a burden on parents whose income has come down,” Kumar said. The Mann School principal Srinivasan Sriram said opinion was divided among parents about the timing of the board exams. “Have we done justice to the extent that the students can be assessed through board exams? Also, has every student across the country been equally treated? I do not think the assessment through board exams this year will reflect the true potential of the child. In the interest of the students, the exams will have to be deferred. Let us first have a few days of school for students.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
11-12-2020||India||Central Vista project: ‘Palace’ on ‘ruins of liberal democracy’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s sermon on democracy at Thursday’s groundbreaking ceremony for the new Parliament building prompted the Opposition to accuse him of hypocrisy and mock his Central Vista project as an attempt to build a “palace” for himself. Apart from charging Modi with wanton disregard for democratic culture, Opposition leaders questioned the rationale behind starting the vanity project when the country was grappling with a pandemic, economic recession and social and political crises ranging from joblessness to the farmers’ agitation. Opposition parties have all along denounced the Central Vista project — which envisages new homes for Parliament, government offices, and dignitaries like the Prime Minister and Vice-President — but Thursday’s criticism was sharper because of Modi’s eulogy to India’s democratic traditions. Opposition leaders accused the Prime Minister of hypocrisy, saying his track record suggested he was anti-democratic and dictatorial. “Dear Prime Minister, Parliament is not mortar & stones. It envisions democracy, it imbibes Constitution, it is economic-political-social equality, It is compassion & camaraderie,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted. “It is aspirations of 130 crore Indians. What would a building built upon trampling of these values represent?” Surjewala added: “Modi ji, history will record that when lakhs of farmers were fighting on the streets for their rights, you were building a palace for yourself in the garb of Central Vista project. In a democracy, power is not for fulfilling personal whims but a medium of public service and welfare.” Rahul Gandhi too directed a jibe at Modi on the occasion of National Human Rights Day. “Modi government is snatching the fundamental rights of the poor. This is a crime against humanity. We will have to honour the rights of every section of the society for a better future for India,” he tweeted. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “The foundation for a new Parliament building was laid on the ruins of a liberal democracy.” CPM leader Sitaram Yechury was blunt: “Mr Modi is giving a moral lecture on the ‘values’ & ‘culture’ of democracy while in practice destroying democracy mercilessly, assaulting all dissent & preventing our youth from even choosing their life partners: diabolic doublespeak.” No Congress leader attended the bhoomi pujan ceremony, and sources said that other Opposition parties too stayed away. The Congress ran a social media campaign questioning the Prime Minister’s decision to go ahead with the project amid widespread opposition and national crises. “This desperate desire to build bigger & scream louder comes from a deep-seated insecurity that one will never live up to great leaders and governments of the past that helped mould the incredible democracy being torn apart today,” the Congress said. “What good is a fancy new Parliament building when all the tenets of a Parliamentary democracy are being destroyed by this govt. Lakhs of Indians have died, thousands are getting sick every day, our health infrastructure is collapsing under the pressure of this pandemic & the Prime Minister is spending thousands of crores to feed his ego.” The party posted a video explaining why the country didn’t need a new Parliament building at this time. “It is believed change is always good. But change without reason and rationale can inflict wounds that will make generations suffer,” it said. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh, who had likened Modi’s obsession with the Central Vista plan to authoritarian leaders’ craving to leave their own architectural legacy, on Thursday questioned the project’s aesthetics too. “Well, the existing Parliament building built by the Brits bears a remarkable similarity to the Chausath Yogini Temple in Morena in Madhya Pradesh, while the new ‘atmanirbhar’ Parliament building bears an eerie likeness to the Pentagon in Washington DC,” Ramesh said. Manish Tewari wondered whether the similarity with the Pentagon was deliberate. When the decision to go ahead with the project was announced amid the coronavirus threat, Ramesh had tweeted: “It is not just insensitive but obscene to be thinking of the New Central Vista project now. It should be put on hold indefinitely. There are more pressing uses for the thousands of crores of rupees that will be spent to satisfy one man’s ego.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
11-12-2020||India||Odisha BJP leader questions Pari special investigation team||BJP’s Odisha in charge and former Union minister D. Purandeswari on Thursday met the parents of the five-year-old Pari, who was kidnapped and murdered last July, in their vi   llage in Nayagarh district and assured them that her party would fight for them till they get justice. Soon after meeting the parents — Ashok Sahoo and Saudamini Sahoo — Purandesw  ari launched a scathing attack on the Odisha government for its failure to give due justice to the family. Even she questioned the formation of special investigation team (SIT) formed by the Odisha government to probe into the matter. “The SIT and its head have no judicial powers. Without the requisite power, how can they investigate such a sensational murder case? We suspect of the involvement of the organ smuggling racket,” she said. She said: “As minister Arun Sahoo who hails from Nayagarh district has been accused of shielding the accused involved in the case, a CBI probe only can reveal the truth.” Soon after meeting the parents, she joined a sit-in protest launched by the BJP district unit in front of the Nayagarh district collector’s office. Earlier, BJP National spokesperson Sambit Patra had met the bereaved family. Meanwhile, the BJP announced to organise a padayatra across the state from December 15 demanding justice for Pari. Pari went missing on July 14 while playing near her house. Later her skeletal remains were found dumped in the bushes behind the house. As the police failed to initiate any criminal action in the matter Pari’s parents attempted suicide by setting themselves ablaze in front of the Odisha Assembly on November 24. Ever since the issue has been in focus. In a related development, the Orissa High Court on Thursday directed the Nayagarh SP to provide security to local sarpanch Soumya Ranjan Pradhan within seven days and inform the court about the threat perception to Pradhan within 15 days. Pradhan shot into limelight after he publicly claimed that minister Arun Sahoo had given protection to the prime accused involved in the case. Later apprehending threat from the minister, he had approached the High Court seeking security cover for him and his family members. “Every one is aware of the gruesome murder. I will always stand for the truth and not be cowed down,” Pradhan told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee critical but showing signs of improvement||The health condition of former West Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee remained critical on Friday but he has shown signs of improvement in almost all clinical aspects and is alert at present, the private hospital where he is undergoing treatment said in a bulletin.  The veteran CPI(M) leader, who has been suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and other old age-related ailments, was admitted to the hospital on December 9 as his breathing-related problems had aggravated.  Bhattacharjee has shown signs of improvement "in almost all clinical aspects, he is conscious and alert at present," the bulletin said.  He communicated with his wife and daughter "satisfactorily" this afternoon and his blood pressure, pulse and oxygen saturation are stable, it said.  The 76-year-old leader is currently on non-invasive ventilation.  According to the bulletin, intravenous (IV) fluids, IV antibiotics, IV steroids and other supportive medications are on and some more time is needed "to say he is completely out of danger."  Bhattacharjee who was the chief minister of West Bengal from 2000 to 2011, has been away from public life for the past few years due to ill health.  He had stepped down from the Politburo and the central committee, the top decision-making bodies of the CPI(M), in 2015 and gave up membership of the state secretariat in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Seven held in Bengal for attack on Nadda's convoy||Seven persons were arrested in Bengal on Friday for their alleged involvement in the attack on BJP national president JP Nadda's convoy a day ago, a senior police officer said. Four persons were arrested from Falta, and three from Usthi police station area, both in South 24 Parganas district, he told news agency PTI. All seven of them were booked under various sections of the IPC for rioting, obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions and other offences. Nadda's convoy was pelted with stones on Thursday morning by alleged TMC workers at Sirakol in Diamond Harbour area of South 24 Parganas district, where he had gone to address a rally. Several BJP leaders including its Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya suffered injuries, sources in the saffron party claimed. Two suo moto cases were subsequently lodged against unknown people for carrying out the attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Dhankhar warning to Mamata: Don't play with fire ||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar Friday said he has sent a report to the Centre in the backdrop of the violent attack on the convoy of BJP chief J P Nadda, and castigated Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee over the deteriorating law and order situation. Pulling her up for her repeated remarks calling the BJP a party of outsiders, Dhankhar asked her to desist from such politics as would weaken the national fabric. He said it is shameful that the attack on Nadda occurred on International Human Rights Day. "I have sent my report to the central government whose contents cannot be shared on account of propriety," he told a press conference at Raj Bhawan. He alleged the violators of law in Bengal have the protection of police and administration and any resistance by the opposition is quelled. "The governor is not a post office...he will not fiddle around in Raj Bhawan when human rights are being violated," he said, and asserted "the governor will vindicate his oath, come what may." It is the duty of the governor to protect the Constitution, he said. Dhankhar said the chief minister is also under constitutional obligation and has to act in accordance with the Constitution. Referring to Banerjee's remarks calling the BJP a party of outsiders, Dhankhar said, the citizenship of India is one and insider-outsider politics should stop. A section of bureaucrats, he alleged, is acting as "political servants" despite getting paid from the state exchequer. "Accountability will be enforced," he said, and asked Banerjee "not to play with fire". "The law and order situation in the state has been worsening with each passing day. Despite cautioning the chief minister and the administration nothing has happened," he said. Dhankhar said the "non-responsive" stance of the chief minister towards the Raj Bhawan is an indication that governance is not in accordance with the Constitution. Underlining that distancing of governance from the rule of law cannot be accepted in democracy, he said, "unconstitutional parameters is at an alarming level making it extremely difficult for me to conclude that governance in the state is according to the constitution." Terming the attack on J P Nadda's convoy on Thursday as most "unfortunate and a slur on democracy", he said, "the violators of law in Bengal have the protection of police and administration". "Present political scenario in Bengal is that any opposition is ruthlessly suppressed...the human rights were in flames yesterday." Describing Banerjee's comments on the attack on Nadda's convoy as "most unfortunate", he said "I take a very serious note of the statement that emanated from the honourable chief minister. How can a responsible chief minister, believing in rule of law...Constitution, believing in Bengali culture talk the way she did." Banerjee had uttered distorted versions of the BJP chief's surname at a rally in Calcutta on Thursday and termed the attack on his convoy a "staged act".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata flags BJP’s blunder on Tagore||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday appealed to “all lovers of Bengal’s civilisation” to protest “a bigger lie” by BJP that Rabindranath Tagore had been born at Visva-Bharati. She was referring to the BJP Bengal unit’s official Twitter handle issuing a tweet on Wednesday with a quote, attributing it to the party’s national president J.P. Nadda, stating that Tagore, one of the foremost Bengali icons, had been born in Visva-Bharati. Addressing the culmination event of the Trinamul Congress’s three-day sit-in near Gandhi statue in Calcutta on Thursday in favour of the nationwide farmers’ agitation, Mamata said: “Such mega liars, let me give you one example…. Their (the BJP’s) babus held a meeting even yesterday (Wednesday) and said Rabindranath Tagore was supposedly born in Visva-Bharati, at Santiniketan. Tell me, what can be a bigger lie, a bigger attempt to alter history?” BJP sources had said Nadda — whose speech was peppered with attempts to substantiate his party’s Bengal connect — did not actually say so in his speech but the mistake was made by its IT cell. The tweet, put out at 2.35pm on the microblogging site by the @BJP4Bengal handle, was taken down later. But by then, many netizens and Trinamul Congress had noticed it, and taken screenshots of the faux pas for circulation. “He was born in 1861  and Visva-Bharati came into being 60 years later. If he was born there, what about Jorasanko Thakurbari (Tagore’s actual birthplace in Calcutta)?” the Trinamul supremo asked. “Those who can come up with such gigantic lies about even Rabindranath Tagore, what do you expect them to do about you and me? They have shamed Bengal…. I appeal to all lovers of Bengal’s civilisation, culture… members of the civil society, everyone… protest, resist, roar,” she said. “Demand answers. Changing Tagore’s birthplace, smashing Vidyasagar’s statue, wrongly identifying Birsa Munda… this brand of fake politics cannot go on for long,” said the Trinamul chief. Such incidents have allowed Mamata to portray the BJP as the bohiragawto (outsider) trying to invade and ruin Bengal, a charge that has become a staple of her speeches in the run-up to next year’s Assembly polls. “You had planned the Vidyasagar vandalism…. Will not tolerate every lie. Enough is enough. Tagore’s birthplace, the controversy the BJP has created, the malicious propaganda…. They are manipulators and violators of history. Trying to attack the very backbone of Bengal and its culture,” said Mamata, ordering her party to take this to the people during a 10-day outreach exercise at the grassroots from Friday. “Bishwokobi (Tagore), forgive them; for they do not know what they are doing,” she added, in a Biblical reference. “They want to eliminate Bengal from India.” A minister said Mamata would increasingly weave such elements into her campaign against the BJP and refer to attempts to deify “controversial” figures that the saffron ecosystem considers iconic — such as Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Deendayal Upadhyaya — often at the cost of more widely accepted icons with inclusive, secular philosophies, such as Tagore and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb still on ventilation||Former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, 76, stayed on ventilation on Thursday, but his pulse, blood pressure and cardiac condition are stable, and oxygen level in blood is normal, Woodlands Hospital sources said. He had been hospitalised on Wednesday with breathing problems. A medical bulletin shared by his party said Bhattacharjee was “on sedation and ventilated, oxygen saturation is 95%”. A Woodlands official added that both oxygen as well as carbon dioxide levels in his blood — an issue which had kept doctors worried since Wednesday — had improved and was normal. He also added that preliminary medical investigations and imaging did not show any “significant abnormality and his cardiac condition was currently stable”. The medical board formed to treat Bhattacharjee met on Thursday morning to discuss on the next course of action. Bhattacharjee’s daughter Suchetana Bhattacharjee and CPM colleagues Surjya Kanta Mishra and Fuad Halim were present at the meeting. “Sri Bhattacharjee will remain on mechanical ventilation for today and the process of gradual withdrawal of ventilator support is being planned,” the hospital official added. “He (Bhattacharjee) is presently on IV fluids, IV antibiotics, IV steroids and other supportive medications. He is on Ryles tube feeding,” the hospital bulletin read. A doctor treating Bhattacharjee said his condition was more critical this time than when he was hospitalised in 2018. “We had to put him on ventilation with the family’s consent yesterday (Wednesday). He is improving. Our next challenge is to safely bring him out of ventilation.” A source in the CPM said that senior leaders were in constant touch with the hospital management and the doctors. Younger leaders from the SFI and DYFI are present at the hospital round the clock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Rank jump despite dip in cases||Bengal on Thursday reported a dip in its total active cases for the 45th day since Dashami on October 26, but was ranked third among states with the most number of active cases, after Maharashtra and Kerala. Bengal’s total active cases fell from 37,190 on October 26 to 23,451 now. A minister explained the apparent contradiction between dip in active numbers and jump in rank. “We have not been doing badly. Others, such as Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Delhi have been doing relatively well over a fortnight or so, which is why our position has deteriorated,” he said. Bengal logged 2,951 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,801 new cases and 49 deaths on Thursday, with 19 from Calcutta. The recovery rate rose to a new high of 93.7 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.73 per cent. The national recovery rate now is 94.77 per cent, and national mortality rate 1.45 per cent. Of the total toll, 7,470, or 83.8 per cent were attributed to comorbidities. In the 45 days since the end of Puja, the state has recorded over 1.71 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.6 lakh new cases found. For the fourth successive day the state reported less than 3,000 new infections, the first time since August. “We are back on track for ending the year with less than 23,000 active cases and a recovery rate of over 95,” the minister added. The state now has over 5.13 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.81 lakh recoveries and 8,916 deaths. With 42,152 tests on Thursday, the state’s total test count went past 62.98 lakh, at 69,978 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.16 per cent now. Bengal reported 22.88 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.21 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Convoy nautanki by BJP and boss: CM||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday accused the BJP and its chief J.P. Nadda of “nautanki (drama)” to grab headlines whenever their programmes flop in Bengal, alleging Thursday’s Diamond Harbour incident was “staged” by the saffron camp, hours after the BJP used it to claim the collapse of law and order in Bengal. The chief minister, at a sit-in demonstration of her party at Mayo Road in Calcutta in solidarity with farmers’ agitation, also named Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government in her accusation. “Every single day, this chief minister, that Union minister, this leader, that leader, coming here… they have no work at all…. From the Union home minister (Amit Shah) to Chadda, Nadda, Phadda, Bhadda, Gadda… all of them, coming here for programmes,” said Mamata, apparently furious over the BJP’s deployment of a battery of heavyweights in its quest to conquer Bengal in the state polls next summer. “Whenever they conduct something, and they won’t get decent crowds here, so they will stage incidents. Nautanki, so that national news pays them enough attention,” added the Trinamul Congress chief. “Who was waiting and watching, with cameras, on the road? Such precise angles, such capture of key moments. Even how the last car of the convoy is allegedly getting hit, who recorded that? Was it all planned?” The diatribe from Mamata, also the state home minister, came hours after the state police issued a statement asserting everyone was safe. In the afternoon, senior officials of the Diamond Harbour police district visited the spots where some vehicles in Nadda’s convoy were allegedly attacked with stones and brickbats, and spoke to a few witnesses. A detailed report would reach the state home department by Friday, sources said. Ahead of the report, the state police came up with two tweets that said Nadda had reached the venue safely. “Shri JP Nadda, National President, BJP reached safely at the venue, Diamond Harbour, South 24 Pgs. Nothing happened to his convoy. Few bystanders at Debipur, Falta PS, Diamond Harbour PD, sporadically and suddenly threw stones towards vehicles trailing long behind his convoy,” the police tweeted. “Everyone is safe and situation is peaceful. Matter is being investigated to find out actual happenings,” the police said in a second tweet. “Even if a small incident took place, although I don’t see how that’s possible…. I have told police to probe everything. We will not tolerate every lie. Enough is enough,” said Mamata. She demanded answers on the size of Nadda’s convoy. “Why do you have scores of cars in your convoys, when I can manage with two or three? It is a safety issue… I am saying this from a place of genuine concern. You, the BJP, should control this,” she said. The chief minister asked why the state government had to shoulder the blame of any security lapse when such leaders bring their own security cover, manned by central forces personnel. “Even the most unimportant, uneducated leaders, even goons of your party get at least four security personnel… with big guns, from the Centre. Only central forces, CISF, CRPF, commandos…. How then do they touch your cars, despite all that?” she asked. “You don’t rely on our security cover, you only take central forces. You don’t even let the state know and provide security cover on your own, although law and order is a state subject. But whenever there is a problem, you will abuse the state,” she added. Mamata also accused the BJP-led Centre of using diversions to distract whenever it finds itself in a corner because of its “anti-people policies”. “The Narendra Modi babu government only does drama, stages incidents, manufactures videos, sends to all media houses. The media is powerless. The journalists have no fault. The owners have all been purchased. If the owners don’t obey, their channels will be blacked out,” she alleged. Citing instances of “diversionary tactics”, she said: “When the anti-citizenship matrix movement was at its peak, the Delhi riots… the accurate casualty count is yet to be released…. Similarly, with the farmers’ movement… some nautanki. Now they might say Pakistan attacking, Israel attacking, Nepal attacking, forget the farmers,” she added. “This is a huge game by the BJP. This is how Hitler rose, as did Mussolini, Ceausescu… all of them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP: 2 more injured by pellets||Leaders of the BJP in Cooch Behar and Alipurduar have claimed two more supporters  who had joined Uttarkanya Abhiyan protest march in Siliguri on Monday were injured by police pellets. Since Monday, the party has claimed that police fired pellets that fatally injured BJP supporter Ulen Roy, 65. According to party sources, Amardip Roy, a BJP leader of Haldibari block in Cooch Behar, was admitted to the super-specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri on Wednesday evening with pellet injuries and shifted to a private nursing home in Siliguri on Thursday. “He was hit by pellets on his abdomen and hand. Initially, he was taken to the local hospital in Haldibari and shifted to Jalpaiguri where doctors confirmed pellets were still lodged in his body. He is under treatment in Siliguri now,” said Palen Ghosh, the Jalpaiguri district president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. BJP leaders in Alipurduar said Jogesh Roy, one of their supporters from Tapsikhata on the outskirts of Alipurduar town, was hit by pellets and rubber bullets. Jogesh , an ex-serviceman, claimed that he was hit by two rubber bullets in the abdomen and four pellets on the chest. He showed the rubber bullets and a pellet. “After the march, I took a car and visited a doctor at Falakata. I did not go to any nursing home in Siliguri as police had started detaining our supporters,” said Jogesh. Suman Kanjilal, a district secretary of BJP in Alipurduar, added: “Police have fired pellets at our men and denied it blatantly. We suspect some more of our supporters suffered similar injuries.” The police, in their tweets on Monday and Tuesday, said water cannons were fired and tear gas shells burst but not pellets. They said that Roy died of pellets from a shotgun at “close range” and accused people of bringing firearms to the protest. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused the BJP of killing their own man for “propoganda”. On Wednesday, BJP leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya and Amit Malviya posted videos of purported policemen with pump-action guns in a bid to prove police pellets killed Roy. Trinamul minister Gautam Deb said the gun in the clip posted by Vijayvargiya was the kind that fired rubber bullets. Second autopsy The police filed a petition with the chief judicial magistrate’s court, requesting the order for a second autopsy on Ulen Roy is recalled. The plea said three doctors were present and videography of the process had been done in the first post-mortem, like what the court stated in its order for a second-one, to justify the recall. The court will hear the case on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Abhishek ups ante on ‘outsider’ ||Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Thursday called BJP leaders Amit Shah, J.P. Nadda and Kailash Vijayvargiya “bohiragawto (outsider)” and said they didn’t know the culture and tradition of Bengal “BJP leaders demand that they not be tagged as outsiders. They can’t name me even after I dared them to take my name from the Diamond Harbour rally on November 29. They can only utter bhaipo (nephew). But I am taking their names — I am calling out that Kailash Vijayvargiya is an outsider…Amit Shah is an outsider. J.P. Nadda is an outsider,” the Diamond Harbour MP told a rally in Hooghly’s Arambagh on Thursday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had laid the pitch for Trinamul’s “outsider” campaign as she has been consistently attacking the BJP for sending “outsiders” to the state and accused them of being unfamiliar with Bengal’s culture and tradition. To assist the state unit in the run up to the 2021 Assembly elections, the central leadership of the BJP divided Bengal into five zones and appointed leaders from outside the state to head them. Those who have been appointed to take care of the five zones are Vinod Kumar Sonkar, Vinod Tawde, Dushyant Kumar Gautam, Harish Dwivedi and Sunil Deodhar. Lambasting the “outsiders” for their lack of knowledge about Bengal’s culture, language, tradition and icons, Abhishek referred to the 2019 incident when a group of people came out of a poll rally, which had then BJP president Shah at its head, and vandalised the statue of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar. “It is a party where people can’t read Bengali, write Bengali and can’t even speak the language. They don’t know the culture and tradition of Bengal. Will you (crowd) not question the party on that? Those who vandalised the bust of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar will not be able to answer your query?” he said as the 20,000 strong crowd at the Garhbari ground in Arambagh shouted in affirmation. Abhishek also referred to the attack on the convoy of BJP national president J.P. Nadda and other party leaders, who were on their way to Diamond Harbour to attend a meeting on Thursday. “Today BJP’s J.P. Nadda went to Diamond Harbour and fell into a ditch. What can I do? I can’t take responsibility for the spontaneous agitation by the people,” Abhishek said. While daring the BJP leaders for a debate, he asked Trinamul workers to highlight the development projects undertaken by the Mamata government during the party’s reach out programme in the next few months. “I am ready to participate in a debate with any BJP leader from Delhi or Bengal. We will show what our Didi (Mamata) has done for Bengal in her 10 years’ (of her rule) and contrast it with what their (Narendra) Modi has done for the state in these seven years. (Will tell them) how many international honours and appreciations Bengal has received and (ask them) how many the country has received (under Modi),” he said. The MP asked Trinamul leaders and workers to take the BJP head on and seek a report card of the Narendra Modi government when BJP leaders would visit them. Without naming Nadda, who claimed that the BJP would win over 200 Assembly seats in Bengal, Abhishek said Trinamul would emerge victors in not less than 225 constituencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Stones hit Nadda convoy in Bengal||Stones were thrown at several cars in the convoy of BJP national president J.P. Nadda en route to Diamond Harbour on Thursday. The BJP described it as an example of the “lawlessness” in Bengal, and Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted that the Centre was “seriously looking into the matter”. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused the BJP and Nadda of indulging in “nautanki (drama)”. A Trinamul MLA said a convert to the BJP had made abusive gestures at a crowd gathered to protest the farm bills, triggering the incident. Residents at the Shirakol crossing, a little over 32km from Calcutta, said they were relieved that the incident did not snowball. Over 40 per cent of the population in the area is Muslim, and mischief-mongers could have fomented trouble elsewhere in the age of fake news. “The police did well to contain the situation,” a teacher said. Nadda — travelling in a bullet-proof car — reached the venue as scheduled and unhurt. “Shri J.P. Nadda… reached safely at the venue…. Nothing happened to his convoy. Few bystanders at Debipur, Falta PS, sporadically and suddenly threw stones towards vehicles trailing long behind his convoy,” Bengal police tweeted. “Everyone is safe and the situation is peaceful.” The BJP claimed that at least 17 cars and 127 bikes were damaged and 35 bikes could not be found. The party said its Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and national vice-president Mukul Roy were injured. “Today I could reach here only because of the blessings of Ma Durga,” Nadda said while addressing party workers at Diamond Harbour’s Radio Station ground. Nadda was on a two-day trip to the state to prepare the BJP for the upcoming polls. “What I saw today on my way here proved the lawlessness and intolerance prevailing in this state. Trinamul goons left no stones unturned to stop us,” he said during his speech, delivered on the home turf of Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee who represents Diamond Harbour in the Lok Sabha. Several BJP leaders blamed three Trinamul legislators — Giasuddin Molla, Saokat Molla and Sonali Guha — for the incident at Shirakol. Giasuddin, the local MLA, said he and the others had assembled for a protest programme against the farm bills. “The incident shouldn’t have happened. Saokat-da was continuously asking the crowd to be peaceful and let the convoy pass,” Giasuddin told The Telegraph. He said the crowd reacted because Rakesh Singh, a Congress turncoat now in the BJP, had made abusive gestures at the people gathered for the Trinamul programme. The Union home ministry has sought a report from the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Sacked contract workers strike to get re-hired||A group of contractual workers engaged earlier for the third rhino habitat of Bengal resorted to an indefinite sit-in demonstration at a forest range office since December 8 to demand they be hired back. The protest made official work at the Pundibari forest range office on the outskirts of Cooch Behar grind to a halt. Protesters said that three years back, 32 contractual workers had been engaged to ready the habitat but since July2020, they were told that their services were no longer required. “Initially, we used to receive Rs 6,800 a month that eventually reduced to Rs 6,300 a month. On July 1, we were told not to join our job and then seven months’ salary was due. That is why we launched this indefinite sit-in demonstration and want us to be re-hired,” said Shibu Sarkar, one of the agitators. Sources in the forest department said that in 2018, the workers were hired on temporary basis. On July 1, an order reached local forest officials saying that they could not be engaged any more. “Most of them are local residents. Recently, the state forest department appointed Ban Sahayaks (forest assistants) where locals were supposed to be recruited. None of these youths was recruited which has further aggrieved them,” said a resident of the area. “We are trying to persuade protesters to withdraw their agitation and have informed our senior officers,” said Sanjit Kumar Saha, the divisional forest officer, Cooch Behar. Jumbo roadblock In Naxalbari of Siliguri subdivision, residents of Chowpukuria came out on Asian Highway–II on Thursday and blocked it for one-and-a-half hours, alleging loss of life and property due to elephant depredation. Residents under the banner of All India Krishak Sabha — the CPM farmers’ front — demanded that the forest department create a wildlife squad for the area to tackle this problem. “Around 100 elephants are wandering in the locality for past couple of months. The herd raids villages and tea gardens, damages property and even kills people. People are spending sleepless nights. A wildlife squad should be formed and posted to tackle elephant depredation in and around Naxalbari,” said Jharen Roy, president of Krishak Sabha’s Darjeeling district unit. The blockade, which halted traffic movement along the highway for one-and-half hours, was lifted when foresters reached the spot and assured them of appropriate steps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
11-12-2020||West Bengal||‘Witch-hunt’ with rods kills one, injures two||A man was killed and two women seriously injured when people attacked them for “practising black magic” at Maynakhola, a locality adjacent to Bhagatpur tea estate under Nagrakata police station of Jalpaiguri district on Wednesday night. Police rescued the women, Chameli Oraon and Korio Kewar, neighbours aged over 50, currently under treatment at Malbazar hospital. Mongra Oraon, 60, who the attackers had alleged was their “mentor in witchcraft”, died on spot after being beaten by iron rods and sticks. Nine persons have been arrested. Sources said for past few months, some residents suspected Chameli and Korio were “practicing black magic” that made people fall ill. On Wednesday night, a group of people went to these women’s homes and caught them. Others asked Mongra, who also stayed nearby, to come out and accused him of being the mentor to the women. They took all three of them to Maynakhola, an adjacent locality, and started beating them with iron rods and sticks. As some residents informed Nagrakata police, a team went to the spot and managed to rescue the women. Mongra, however, died on the spot. Policemen recovered his body and carried raids to nab attackers. Nine persons were arrested in this connection. Amir Minz, Mongra’s nephew, accused some villagers of lynching his uncle. “They should be punished,” he said. The incident put the administration and the police on alert as such “witch-hunts” are rarer now in north Bengal tribal belts. “We will soon start an awareness campaign in the area so that people do not fall prey to such superstitions. Police have been asked to take stringent steps against all involved in Wednesdays crime,” said Bipul Kumar Mondal, the BDO of Nagrakata. The arrested were produced at a local court in Jalpaiguri on Thursday. Five were sent to judicial custody and four to police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Woman found dead, finger at 3am call||The body of a 19-year-old married woman, who had allegedly been raped and murdered, was recovered from an area behind her home in a village in Murshidabad’s Daulatabad block, around 15km from here, on Thursday. The victim’s mother filed a complaint of rape-and-murder at Daulatabad police station but did not name anyone in connection with the incident. She, however, suspected that a person who had made a call on her daughter’s mobile phone around 3am on Thursday. Around six months ago, the teenager had got married to a mason, who is a resident of Murshidabad’s Raninagar. The girl had come to live at her mother’s place a month ago when her husband left home for Kerala where he works at a construction site. The girl’s father died a year ago and her mother runs the family by working at a bidi factory. The teenager’s younger sister said that around 3am someone called on her mobile phone. “She took the call and stepped out of home while talking on the mobile phone. I thought it was a call from her husband and she had stepped out to avoid speaking in front of me. I went back to sleep.” When the family woke up in the morning, they could not find her. They started looking for her and found her lying dead on the patch of land behind their home. Prima facie, it looked like she had been raped and killed. The mother of the deceased said she had a “genuine suspicion” that the untimely caller was behind the crime. “It won’t take much time for the police to identify the killer. I have genuine suspicion that the person who had made the call on my daughter’s phone killed her. I demand justice for the heinous crime.” Murshidabad superintendent of police K. Sabari Rajkumar said probe had started. “The mobile phone of the deceased has been seized and it will help identify the person who had made the early morning call. We hope to arrest the killer soon,” the district police chief said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Minister inspects ‘BJP’s vandalism||State tourism minister Gautam Deb visited the state–run motel, Pather Sathi, located at Fulbari on Siliguri’s southern tip which was allegedly ransacked by BJP supporters during the party’s Monday protest march Uttarkanya Abhiyan and said that Trinamul would highlight the saffron party’s vandalism during its campaign. The minister also inspected the damaged traffic guard office near Naukaghat — also allegedly vandalised by the saffron camp on Monday — and Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) officials to assess the damage. The properties are located within the ambit of the Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat, of which Deb happens to be the Trinamul MLA. “That the BJP supporters had perpetrated violence is evident from the damage caused to Pather Sathi and to the traffic guard office. The attack also hit the earnings of a self-help group of underprivileged women who run the services of Pather Sathi,” Deb said after inspecting the damage. The Pather Sathi building has two double-bedrooms, a dormitory, dining space and kitchen. Sources of the SJDA, which owns the building, said a preliminary estimate of the damages puts it around Rs 10 lakh. Along with the building off Asian Highway II, and a couple of kilometres ahead of the India-Bangladesh border, BJP supporters also ransacked a bus and a couple of bikes in Fulbari area. Deb said during the past few years, Fulbari had emerged as a new township near the international border, with private health clinics, educational institutions and industrial estates. “Unfortunately the BJP, which does not have any concrete issue, indulged in vandalism and created unrest in the area for political mileage,” Deb said. He said they would highlight before people the destruction. “We will ensure that people know what the BJP has done in the name of a protest march,” he said. Trinamul sources said festoons, banners, hoardings and leaflets, with pictures of the damaged structures and violence during BJP’s Monday’s march and Tuesday’s north Bengal strike would be prepared soon. “Those would be displayed across the region and leaflets distributed among people to show how BJP cadres fomented tension in and around Siliguri. These will also be shared on social media so that more and more people can learn about the destruction,” a Trinamul insider said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
11-12-2020||West Bengal||A Taj for hills to cap off Covid year on a high||Political instability in the hills and the worldwide pandemic notwithstanding, the Ambuja Neotia Group in partnership with the Taj group are ready to open the first of the five planned properties at the picturesque Makaibari tea garden in Kurseong from December 14. Industry veterans feel this development will be a game changer for Darjeeling tourism. The 72-room Taj Chia Kutir Resort & Spa at the world-famous Makaibari tea garden, spread over 22 acres, is fully ready. The entry of the Taj group in the region is expected to give a fillip to high-end tourism. “We are delighted to partner with IHCL under the “Taj” brand…….This partnership will give a strong impetus to the development of tourism in eastern region,” said Prosenjit De, vice-president of hospitality, Ambuja Neotia Group. Indian Hotels Company (IHCL), South Asia’s largest hospitality company, is owned by the Tatas, and manages properties under the Taj, Vivanta and Ginger brands. Suresh Periwal, advisor, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network, who has been in the industry for the 52 years, said that entry of the “Taj brand” would be a game-changer. “Taj is an internationally known brand and the presence of such brands can be a game changer. It will definitely make the presence of Darjeeling even stronger in the international tourism map,” said Periwal. The Ambuja group has invested around Rs 150 crore in the Makaibari property, providing a much-needed investment for hill tourism. The Kurseong property, complete with heated swimming pools — a not-too-common option in the hills, international culinary choices and other high-end amenities, is also looking at promoting wellness tourism. Darjeeling was considered a health sanatorium by the Britishers. Of late, resorts are being set up in tea gardens of Darjeeling hills but this Kurseong property is the largest so far in terms of occupancy. The group also has properties in other parts of the region and plans to create a circuit to show the diversity in the region. “The plan is to set up a circuit right from Calcutta to Dooars to Darjeeling to Sikkim and other places in the region,” said V.S. Dwivedi, director, AN Group. Construction in Kurseong started in 2017 but the hills were soon closed for 104 days due to the Gorkhaland agitation. Things had barely limped to normality when came the Covid pandemic. “Our dateline was delayed by six months,” said Dwivedi. The four other properties which are being developed by Ambuja Group and will be operated under the Taj brand are being set up near Gangtok and Patna and two in Calcutta. The total investment in these five properties is estimated at Rs 800 crore. “Taj Guras near Gangtok and the one in Patna should be operational by 2022 while the Calcutta projects should be completed by the second quarter of 2021,” said Dwivedi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
11-12-2020||North East||Assam unions launch fresh anti-CAA agitations, demand rollback||Eighteen Assam organisations on Friday launched fresh protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), demanding its repeal and release of jailed KMSS leader Akhil Gogoi who was taken into custody during the protests last year. Unions including the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, All Assam Students Union (AASU), Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad, Lachit Sena, besides students, and youth organisations of ethnic communities, took out protest rallies across the state. This time too, the agitation began from Sivasagar, the same place from where it was launched last year before getting halted due to Covid-19. Mentioning that the CAA was against the identity, language and cultural heritage of the indigenous people of the state, the protestors were demanding that the act be revoked. Leaders of the organisations during their addresses said people will give a “fitting reply” to the ruling BJP government in Assam in the next Assembly elections for “betraying the people by imposing the CAA upon them despite protests, since its introduction in Parliament till its enactment”. The AASU, which had launched the six-year long anti- foreigners Assam Movement (1979-1985), has called for a 'Rono Hungkar' (clarion call for war against CAA) from Saturday on the first 'anniversary' of the anti-CAA agitation. The AASU hoisted black flag at its headquarters here and displayed such flags in seven northeast states under aegis of the North East Students Organisation demanding roll back of the CAA, AASU chief advisor Samujjal Bhattacharya told reporters. “The government has to repeal the anti-Assam law that has claimed the lives of five Assamese citizens, including innocent students. The families of the deceased people and the AASU will continue to seek justice,” a press release by the union, issued jointly by its president Dipanka Kumar Nath and general secretary Shankar Jyoti Baruah, said. Five persons had lost their lives during the anti-CAA protests in Guwahati last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
11-12-2020||North East||Stay on environmental clearance accorded to Oil India||Gauhati High Court has stayed the environmental clearance accorded to energy major Oil India Limited for exploration and drilling for hydrocarbons at seven locations in Dibru Saikhowa National Park spread over Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts in Upper Assam. Acting on a public interest litigation plea filed by advocate Mrinmoy Khataniar and mountaineer Amarjyoti Deka, a bench comprising high court Chief Justice (acting) N. Kotiswar Singh and Justice Manish Choudhury on Monday stayed the environmental clearance accorded on May 11. D. Das, R.S. Chowdhury and H. Betala represented the petitioners. Khataniar told The Telegraph that the court ordered a stay on the environmental clearance for non-compliance of a September 7, 2017, Supreme Court order which required Oil India to conduct a biodiversity impact assessment study. He also said the high court after being prima facie satisfied that Oil India had failed to carry out the apex court order also stayed the exploration and drilling for seven hydrocarbon projects in the Dibru Saikhowa National Park. The park is located close to the Baghjan Oil India well which suffered a blowout in May, posing a threat to the local ecology, including the park which is known for its white-winged wood duck, tiger, feral horses and capped langur. The well, located around 530km east of Guwahati, was capped last month and subsequently abandoned on December 3. An Oil India official told this newspaper that the company stands committed to carrying out the biodiversity study before carrying out ERD (extended reach drilling) operations at seven locations. “So far we have not carried out any activity. We are in touch with the state biodiversity board which will conduct the study for us,” he said. Oil India will be using the ERD technology by which they will drill seven wells and reach the target depth underneath the park without entering the eco-sensitive zone, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
11-12-2020||Opinion||Maximum cities: quality of life||Oft-ignored factors can make a marked difference in the quality of human life in urban settlements. This was borne out by the findings of researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, who brought out an urban quality of life index that is adapted to reflect the diverse ground realities in Indian cities. Such indices often draw their conclusions from a disproportionate emphasis on factors such as economic and infrastructural amenities, including housing, employment and transport facilities. This survey does lay emphasis on civic resources and economic conditions: many of its findings are based on a number of expected denominators, such as water supply, employment rate, electricity and the rate of literacy. What is interesting, however, is the index’s new focus on certain qualitative parameters for specific constituencies that, in turn, reveals structural anomalies: these include gender parity, women’s safety and the environment. Gender equality, for instance, has been taken into account for the first time. Mumbai tops the list, followed closely by Delhi, Calcutta and Chennai in terms of urban life quality. The inclusion of gender parity as an assessment category has had a significant effect: had it not been considered, then cities such as Delhi, Jaipur and Indore would have ranked higher, with Mumbai ceding its top spot. The new parameters offer a more holistic picture of urban Indian living while pointing out stark differences in the socio-cultural milieu of cities: Jaipur, the survey found, has the highest rate of crime against women, while Calcutta has surpassed the average score on gender equality and has the lowest gap in literacy between men and women. The survey points to a common, disturbing pattern that binds cities. The exclusion and other challenges faced by women and, indeed, other vulnerable sections have traditionally not been integral to policies designed to improve standards of urban living. There is a case for the rest of urban India to emulate Calcutta’s accomplishments on this count. This is all the more important in a nation that was ranked the most dangerous country for women only two years ago. The road to a truly sustainable, inclusive quality of urban life, however, will require progress being made in many other areas of concern. The speed and scale of urbanization is bringing with it severe disruptions: loss of biodiversity, climate change, ageing populations, the rising burden of diseases, widening income gaps, growing pollution and primitive waste management are causing cities to struggle to meet public demands of a prosperous future. The findings of the survey must be used to sensitize not just civic authorities but also urban developers so that they are able to engage with the needs of city dwellers while ensuring urban development intersects with socio-economic justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
11-12-2020||Opinion||Curious case: Facebook in yet another controversy||Sir — Facebook is embroiled in yet another controversy. The Federal State Commission and over 40 states in the United States of America have accused the social media service company of trying to establish its monopoly by buying up its rivals illegally. Breaking the law in order to secure market dominance is detrimental to healthy competition. But it is difficult to nail an organization as big as Facebook since it is likely to use its financial power to hinder the investigation. The US, however, has a history of successfully punishing errant companies by breaking them up. One must wait and watch how this case turns out. Sandhya Guha, Calcutta Sir — Sankarshan Thakur must be congratulated for speaking the hard truth in his article, “Out of step” (Dec 3). It is true that the series of brutalities in Kashmir, the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens, laws against the so-called ‘love jihad’, among others, are not merely imposed on Indians by the government; rather it is Indians themselves who have voted and re-elected this regime, with its goal of exercising majoritarianism, to power. In fact, a large section of the Indian electorate seems to welcome this show of muscle power, ensuring overwhelming support for the ideological group which has a history of inciting violence — the riots following the rath yatra and the demolition of the Babri masjid are examples. Instead of raising questions about why the government was engaged in the ‘Namaste Trump’ event, the NRC-CAA row and the toppling of Madhya Pradesh government through the back door when it should have been focusing solely on nipping the pandemic in the bud by creating necessary infrastructure and declaring a lockdown much before it actually did — with at least 7-10 days’ notice, people started banging pots and plates in response to the clarion call of the prime minister, Narendra Modi. Thousands of people were left to walk back home, and over a hundred of them died on the way, of starvation, ill health or in accidents. Surely Indians have lost all sense of compassion; why else would they not pose any question to the authorities or their own conscience? Just because the government of the day is appeasing the Hindutva constituency with the Ram mandir and cow politics, the promise of undermining the minority communities through the abrogation of legislations regarding Kashmir, the implementation of the NRC and the CAA, the invocation of ‘love jihad’, can all scandals and failures — fatal assaults on the freedom of speech of dissenters, inability to tackle Chinese aggression, rising unemployment, failing economy — be condoned? The less said about the government’s performance in fighting Covid-19 the better. Indeed, people get the government they deserve. The devotees of muscle and majoritarianism must live with these “achchhe din”. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — In his article, Sankarshan Thakur has raised some very pertinent questions. Of course the government has to be held accountable for its failures, but the more important question is why are citizens of India so complacent? What is required to move people to protest against the ruling dispensation at the Centre at the ballot? The future of the country truly depends on the electorate. However, it is interesting that following the prime minister’s recent visit to Varanasi for Dev Deepavali, the BJP secured only one of the three legislative council seats in the constituency. This means that the dazzling light-and-sound show by the riverside has not succeeded in blinding everyone. Soumita Choudhury,Howrah Sir — As always, Sankarshan Thakur’s article made for delightful reading. However, it seems that he chose not to touch upon the alleged clearance of slums in the city to make way for all the glitz of Dev Deepavali. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party is set to decide for the people what they should or should not eat. The proposed blanket ban on cow slaughter in Karnataka is a case in point. However, it appears that the party does not have the gall to impose a similar ban in Goa. P.T. Mallik,Calcutta Sir — Mukul Kesavan’s article, “The case of Ulysses” (Dec 6), reminds one of how sublime the novel, Ulysses, is, given its tapestry of allusions and its multiplicity of voices. In fact, James Joyce took delight in the complexity of his masterpiece, suggesting that it could give Ulysses a sort of immortality. Joyce was himself of the opinion that he had “put in so many enigmas and puzzles that it will keep the professors busy for centuries arguing over what [he] meant”. The novel is about to turn a century old, and we are still deciphering its nuances; so Joyce was probably correct. The tussle over the publication of Ulysses raged on in two continents for years. It ultimately helped change the way courts analysed obscenity cases and resulted in the expansion of the scope for free speech for authors. The final episode, “Penelope”, allegedly owing to its candid sexual imagery, was the focus of the 1933 obscenity trial, United States versus One Book Called Ulysses. Chiranjib Haldar, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
11-12-2020||Opinion||Hollow pledge: upholding dignity, equality||A steady rise in cases of atrocity against Dalits reflects the deep-seated caste bias in India. Public servants are not immune to this prejudice. The manner in which local authorities approached the gang rape and mutilation of a Dalit woman in Hathras is a testament to the bias. The officials delayed registration of the crime, attempted to pressurize the victim’s family, participated in the destruction of evidence, and prevented the media from covering the case. By not taking appropriate action against these officials, the State is deviating from constitutional and international guarantees of protection, dignity and substantive equality. The Constitution recognizes ‘caste’ as a marker of discrimination against citizens. Article 15(4) and Article 16 enable the State to undertake affirmative action for marginalized communities, including Dalits. Parliament has implemented policies such as reservations for Dalits in public educational institutes and government jobs to uplift them socially and economically. The Constitution, thus, strives for ‘substantive equality’ — a multidimensional view of equality — in a bid to redress historically created systemic disadvantages, combat prejudice and stigma, prevent political exclusion and accommodate structural changes. The Supreme Court recognized the constitutional vision of substantive equality in State of Kerala vs N.M. Thomas. It acknowledged that people were not created equally, and that the claim for equality was a protest against unjust and unjustified inequalities. Thus, the State had the power to enact affirmative action to ensure a level playing field for India’s various caste groups. The Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 is another manifestation of the goal of substantive equality. It provides special protection to SC and ST members from humiliation and harassment. It criminalizes acts of public servants who neglect their duty to protect SCs and STs. Those charged under this statute do not have recourse to anticipatory bail. In State of MP vs Ram Krishna Balothia, the bar on anticipatory bail was recognized as an important protection for SCs and STs by the apex court; otherwise, the accused would misuse their liberty to terrorize their victims and prevent an investigation. Cognisant of this fact, Parliament had overturned a decision by the Supreme Court to grant additional protection to public servants in cases under the Act. This parliamentary intervention is an acknowledgment that Dalits continue to endure horrors. The Hathras officials who burnt the body of the victim and refused to file the complaint had not been charged under the Act. India has ratified several human rights treaties that impose international obligations. In its latest cycle of the UNHRC Universal Periodic Review, the Indian delegation had “noted” nine caste issue-based suggestions. However, Dalit rights activists say that there has been no further information on how the government seeks to implement these suggestions to end caste-based violence. Human rights, in parlance of international law, are achieved through obligations of conduct and of result. Where the former would require “action... calculated to realize the enjoyment of a particular right... [t]he obligation of result requires States to achieve specific targets to satisfy a... substantive standard.” Honouring substantive equality would remain a hollow promise unless it is implemented to satisfy the standards of social, economic and political equity. For a State to eradicate the core of discrimination, it must counter it through the language of human rights entrenched in constitutional and international law. It must give life to this language through actions of its machinery to implement these laws faithfully.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
11-12-2020||Opinion||The contrarian view||A retired Pakistani general and one-time director-general of its Inter-Services Intelligence has recently written a novel, Honour Among Spies, a thinly-veiled depiction of contemporary Pakistan politics, civil-military tensions, India-Pakistan relations, the war on terror and so on. The author, Asad Durrani, had acquired some notoriety in Pakistan when he co-authored The Spy Chronicles with A.S. Dulat, the former head of India’s external intelligence. This book was a series of conversations between the two on India-Pakistan conflicts and on Kashmir. This public act of intellectual cooperation of a Pakistani general with an Indian spymaster was unusual, as was a frank discussion on Kashmir with an Indian. The fact that the book was published in India muddied waters further in Pakistan and in the resulting dust-up General Asad Durrani was investigated and his pension temporarily stopped (he had retired in the mid-1990s). General Durrani followed up with a second book, Pakistan Adrift — in part autobiographical and covering Pakistan’s political and military history post 1989. His treatment was critical of the army brass, Pakistan’s political class and of the army’s political role in general. The latest foray is in a different genre — being a novel. Yet, for observers of Pakistan, its central characters are close enough to real-life figures — Indians and Pakistanis, generals and politicians alike. While General Durrani’s opinions and motives have been debated, his books, especially the latest novel, mark him out as a contrarian — although perhaps one who has come to contrarian positions much after he left the army. We have a more striking example of another dissident general from the 1950s. This was the famous ‘General Tariq’ who was responsible for Pakistan’s failed attempt to nullify the Maharaja of Kashmir’s accession to India decision by capturing Srinagar. ‘Tariq’, named after a famous Islamic military hero credited with the conquest of Spain, was the self-styled name of Akbar Khan, the planner of the strategy of tribal raiders backed by Pakistan army personnel infiltrating the Kashmir Valley in October 1947. The strategy failed but enabled Pakistan to gain a toehold in Mirpur and Muzaffarabad, which it retains. General Akbar Khan’s book, Raiders in Kashmir, was published originally about half a century ago and was clear proof of the planning and high-level government involvement that were behind the raids that led to the first India-Pakistan war. In the aftermath of the war, Akbar Khan was an embittered and ambitious man blaming the government for not committing fully to the Kashmir struggle. In 1951, he along with many others were accused and tried for mounting a military coup. This was the famous Rawalpindi Conspiracy case, which included, among the conspirators, the poet, Faiz Ahmed Faiz. Their sentences for lengthy prison terms were subsequently reduced or pardons given. Akbar Khan found himself a free man by the mid-50s although he was dismissed from the army. He was back as a minister post 1971 in Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto’s government. His Raiders in Kashmir is a bitter diatribe against Pakistan’s government and the army chief, General Ayub Khan, and others for their failure to pursue the Kashmir cause with greater vigour. “Ayub Khan”, he wrote, “could give Pakistan the world’s first Field Marshal without even being in the field.” He went on to cite Ayub’s successor thus: “Yahya could top it by giving India the world’s second one!” — referring, no doubt, to General Sam Manekshaw being designated as Field Marshal for his role in the 1971 operations and military victory. Akbar Khan’s fanciful claims about Kashmir and his giant-sized ego earned him a large share of detractors. Ayub Khan was dismissive of him and those of that ilk, attributing rapid promotions in the new Pakistan army as having raised unwarranted expectations and created a number of ‘Unhappy Bonapartes’. The 1965 war also generated, although much after the event, a few contrarian views. The idea of a glorious victory against a larger army is jealously preserved in Pakistan. In 2002, Lieutenant General Mahmud Ahmed published a detailed history of the 1965 war tellingly entitled Illusion of Victory. This remains possibly the most detailed military history of the 1965 war written in either country. It was, however, never ever distributed or sold in any significant numbers basically because the Pakistan army bought up all its copies to prevent its distribution. The author was also a former DG, ISI and, in fact, held that post when the 9/11 attacks took place in the United States of America. He was to be replaced soon thereafter because of his perceived Islamist leanings and Taliban sympathies. His treatment of 1965 was a realistic, if unwelcome, assessment of Pakistan’s strategic failures: “The greatest casualty of the 1965 War was perhaps our modesty. We prided ourselves over achievements which were doctored for public consumption to boost the national morale. We began to believe what was meant only for the sake of propaganda... The price of undeserved glory was paid barely six years after the 1965 war [when] the bitter harvest of humiliation was reaped in East Pakistan in December 1971.” Relating the 1965 war — to many a high watermark in Pakistan’s history — with the depths of 1971 was a contrarian perspective and marks the author as a dissentient. Incidentally, he was one of the ‘Kargil clique’ — the generals around Pervez Musharraf when that misadventure was planned and executed. General Mahmud Ahmed went on, post retirement, to become a preacher consolidating his reputation as an Islamist general. The 1971 war has been a fertile terrain for literary activity especially from Pakistani military officers. Over the years, most of the principal actors have written their accounts. One of the generals who did so wryly noted, “History, it is often said, ‘is written by victors’. In the case of East Pakistan, it has been written by the losers.” On the whole, however, these are not in the nature of dissident views so much as exculpatory. While there are some others, dissentient narratives from senior military officers in Pakistan have remained relatively rare. This is especially so in the context of the vast literature that the study of the Pakistan army has generated. In large part, this is obviously because the regimen of the military ensures that public articulation of dissidence is rare even long after retirement. Yet, each such contrarian view has generated enormous attention even in the cases when the protagonist is writing a very long time after he had a substantive role as a participant in events. In some significant part, this is because the role of the military in politics in Pakistan and all of its consequences has a timeless quality to it. It is like an endless loop that repeats its crests and troughs. Each high and each low may appear momentarily like a beginning or an end but, in fact, is only one more moment in a rhythmic sequence in some obscure metre. Another well-known military dissentient, Asghar Khan, not a general but an air marshal, gave a title to one of his books that summed it up: We’ve Learnt Nothing From History. The author is a retired diplomat and is currently Director General of the Indian Council of World Affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
11-12-2020||Opinion||Alien address: son-of-soil credentials||Faith can move mountains. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s faith in its ability to deepen its roots in Bengal’s political soil has, naysayers would argue, now brought about a tectonic shift in the birthplace of Bengal’s foremost icon, Rabindranath Tagore. The official Twitter handle of the state unit of the BJP recently declared Visva-Bharati, the university that the poet set up, to be the birthplace of Tagore. Of course, none can blame the BJP for trying to prove its son-of-soil credentials in poll-bound Bengal. An organic connection between a political party and the people of a state is known to generate favourable political capital. The Shiv Sena’s hold on the Marathi manoos in Maharashtra, or the electoral success of the two principal Dravidian parties in Tamil Nadu, can be attributed to these political formations being seeped in specific cultural ecosystems. The BJP’s desperation to prove its indigeneity may have something to do with its discomfort with the charge levelled by the ruling Trinamul Congress that the BJP remains unfamiliar with Bengal’s ethos and consciousness. The accusation cannot be dismissed easily. Even though it is true that the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, the BJP’s political ancestor, was founded by a Bengali — the BJS also won parliamentary seats in Bengal — the BJP had not been able to cash in politically on this lineage. The demise of the Left Front and the signs of disaffection with Bengal’s ruling party have now kindled an interest within the BJP to try and belong to Bengal. But is the BJP truly at home in Bengal? Apart from displacing Tagore from Jorasanko, his bona fide birthplace, the BJP has also been credited with vandalizing a bust of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar, yet another venerated figure in Bengal’s hall of fame. Brushing up on the state’s history — not the history that is peddled by the BJP — may help the party. The culture war that is being waged in Bengal can be expected to intensify as the elections draw near. The sparring goes to show that India remains a federation of states that take great pride in their distinct histories and cultures. The BJP’s political ascendancy has sparked off increasing conflicts between a uniform, unilateral cultural and religious template and diverse regional ethos unwilling to cede their autonomy. An electoral verdict — no matter which way it goes — is unlikely to put an end to this skirmish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||Three state sports officials in national athletics panel||Three sports officials from Jharkhand have made it to the national panel of announcers of Athletics Federation of India (AFI). Shyam Kumar Sharma (Jamshedpur), Biswajit Patra and Md Farid (from Bokaro) took part in two virtual training workshops organised by AFI in July and August which was consequently followed by a screening test of a few candidates. Sharma, Patra and Farid cleared the screening test and were subsequently inducted in the AFI’s panel of announcers. The trio will be on duty (as announcers) in national and international athletics competitions. “I received the news about my selection late night on Thursday. I am glad to be part of the national panel. I have been working as an announcer in the district and state-level events and am now looking forward to a stint in national competitions,” said Sharma, who is convenor of district sports cell  and selection panel of East Singhbhum District Athletics Association (ESDAA). The training workshops were followed by seminars addressed by expert announcers from India who also shared their experience and how to go about with the job, he informed. They also shed light on the changes that have taken place in global athletics and also about new techniques. “My knowledge has been enriched after attending the seminars. I feel proud to get an entry to the AFI’s panel of announcers. I would try and do a good job,” added Sharma, who is also a sports teacher in a government school. Indian Olympic Association (IOA) treasurer and president of Jharkhand Athletics Association (JAA) M.K. Pathak, state association secretary C.D. Singh, athletics coach Arvind Kumar, former East Singhbhum district sports officer MM Prasad and Anita Kerketta, present incumbent Budan Pahan and ESDAA president M.N Purty have congratulated Sharma on his success. Sharma is in the field of sports for several years now. He plays a vital role in conducting sports competitions organised under the banner of the state sports department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||IIT(ISM) terminates over 200 students for non-payment of fees||The IIT (ISM) has suspended as many as 214 of its students over non-payment of the monsoon semester fees or registration fees, announcing the decision in a December 9 notification. The list includes 13 students from B.Tech, 32 from M.Tech, research scholars, and several others from MBA and dual degree programmes. The notification, issued by Dean of Academics Dr Chirenjeevi Kumar, however has a provision for the students to appeal for their reinstatement. They can fill up a special application form available on the academic page of the website of the institute. “The result of the monsoon semester of the terminated students would be released only if their appeal for reinstatement is approved by senate,” read the notification, which also carried the names of terminated students with details of their academic programmes. JK Patnaik, the Deputy Director of IIT (ISM), told The Telegraph Online, “Majority of the terminated students included research scholars. Of these are 115 Junior Research Fellows and 43 PhD students. All necessary formalities, including sending of repeated reminders for the students, have been followed before terminating them.” In August this year, students of the institute joined those of other IITs in a campaign, demanding the reduction of fees in view of the economic hit faced by most families due to Covid-19. IITians had sent messages on Twitter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal with a hashtag “#reduce_IIT_semesterFee”. “Aren’t all affected by Covid 19 have been demanding significant reduction in the fee..,” a tweet reads. “Our parents have lost jobs and they pay my major margins. We beseech the public educational institutions to conduct a deferral/cancellation of the fees for this semester,” says another, sent by an IIT (ISM) student. The institute had waived off hostel charges to some extent, apart from reducing other fees in view of the economic constraints faced by families due to the pandemic. However, the students had demanded further reduction of their semester fees, with many of them not submitting them. Several others were unable to pay registration charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||More trains to from Ranchi and Tatanagar from mid-December ||South Eastern Railway (SER) has decided to run more trains to Mumbai, New Delhi and Yesvantpur (Bangalore) from Ranchi and Tatanagar stations in view of steadily rising demand from passengers. The 02260 Howrah-Mumbai Special train will be introduced from December 14, a Monday. The train will leave Howrah daily at 2 pm and reach Tatanagar station at 5.48 pm. After a two-minute halt, the train will leave for its onward journey and reach Mumbai the next day, ie, Tuesday, at 9.20 pm. The return train (02259) will leave Mumbai every Thursday from December 17 at 6am. The train will reach Tatanagar the next day, ie, Friday, at 8.25 am. The return train will reach Howrah at 12.30 pm on Fridays. The train will also have stops at Santragachi, Kharagpur, Chakradharpur, Rourkela and Jharsuguda. A special train has been introduced between Ranchi and New Delhi. The 02241 Ranchi-New Delhi Special train will leave Ranchi station every Wednesday from December 16 at 6.10 pm. It will go via Bokaro Steel City and reach New Delhi the next day, ie, Thursday, at 11.10 am. The 02241 Ranchi-New Delhi Special is a bi-weekly train which, apart from Wednesday, will also run from Ranchi on Saturdays. The return train, 02242 New Delhi-Ranchi Special, will leave New Delhi every Monday and Friday w.e.f December 18. The train will leave New Delhi  at 4.10pm and reach Ranchi at 9.05am the next day. The state capital got another special train. The 08609 Ranchi-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Special will leave Ranchi at 9.05 pm every Wednesday from December 16. It will go via Muri and Bokaro Steel City, and reach Lokmanya Tilak Terminus at 7:25 am every Friday. The return train, 08610, will leave Lokmanya Tilak Terminus at 4.40 pm every Friday from December 18. It will reach Ranchi at 6.25 am every Sunday. As per a circular issued by Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway, the 02889 Tatanagar-Yesvantpur ( Bangalore ) Express is also beginning service. The train will leave Tatanagar railway station every Friday with effect from January 1. It will leave Tatanagar at 6.35 pm  and reach Chakradharpur  at 7.30 pm, Rourkela at 9.05 pm, Jharsuguda at 10.40 pm and Yesvantpur at 3.45 pm the next day. The return train, 02890 Yesvantpur-Tatanagar  Special, will leave Yesvantpur every Monday from January 4 at 8.30 am. It will travel via Jharsuguda,Rourkela and Chakradharpur, before reaching Tatanagar, the originating station at 5.25 pm the next day, ie, Tuesday. The SER headquarters has also appealed to passengers to strictly follow all health protocols before undertaking journeys in the wake of prevailing pandemic. Passengers were asked to provide accurate mobile numbers while buying a railway ticket to receive SMS alerts about cancellations, change of timings etc. SER chief public relations officer Sanjay Ghosh said, "Passengers are requested to kindly converse with National Train Enquiry System (NTES) App for updates, stoppages and timings before undertaking journeys. Passengers may also call 139 for any assistance."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tribals rue state government’s inaction on Pathalgadi cases||Rights activists have started organising themselves to discuss the status of Pathalgadi cases filed against 200 tribals, only 60 per cent of which had been withdrawn, signalling a growing disenchantment with the government of Hemant Soren who was able to unseat the BJP by projecting the JMM-led coalition as a champion of tribal rights. On Friday, Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a conglomeration of tribal and rights bodies, organised a state-level seminar in Ranchi to discuss the issue and concluded that the ruling JMM-led government was not honouring its promise of protecting tribals from police atrocities. On 29 December 2019, after taking oath as chief minister, Hemant announced the withdrawal of all cases against tribals for having launched Pathalgadi, a tribal ritual of honouring their ancestors by erecting stone slabs that had effectively prevented the entry of district administrations in places like Khunti and Seraikela-Kharswan and West Singhbhum. The chief minister’s announcement was met with widespread appreciation and support. The former government, headed by Raghubar Das, had come down heavily on the Pathalgadi movement and responded with police action after which several cases were filed against those who took part in the stir, including several adivasi village heads. Cases were filed against 200 named and over 10,000 unnamed people for alleged abetment and obstruction of public servants from discharging their duty, creation of public nuisance, criminal intimidation and sedition. However, now, a year later, the cases are yet to be withdrawn and many adivasis continue to be in jail, activists pointed out. "Right to Information applications filed in the last few months show that there are 30 FIRs, spread across Khunti (23), Saraikela-Kharsawan (5) and West Singhbhum (2) districts, related to Pathalgadi cases," the Mahasabha noted in a statement. "District committees, comprising deputy commissioners, SPs and public prosecutors, have recommended withdrawal of only about 60 per cent of the cases (excluding two related to the Kochang gangrape incident). The Khunti district committee has recommended removal of only section 124A/120A/B from seven cases. Regarding action on the recommendations sent by the districts, the home department has simply said that it is ‘under process’," it added. According to the rights body, the Hemant government’s announcement of withdrawing all Pathalgadi cases indicated that it acknowledged the failure of the earlier government to understand the idea behind the movement and, therefore, undo the damage done. "However, the recommendation of districts to withdraw just over half the cases and subsequent delays indicate that the political decision of the government is yet to fully translate into action on ground," the statement noted. "During the Vidhan Sabha election campaign last year, the Mahagathbandhan, led by Hemant Soren, had flagged the then BJP-led state government’s repressive policies and relentless attacks on adivasis, mentioning police atrocities and incidents of lynching. But it is disappointing to note that neither has the Hemant government acted on earlier cases of violations nor has it shown a firm commitment to check violations under its leadership," noted tribal activist Dayamani Barla said at Friday’s seminar. The activists also added that in the last year, rights violations against tribals have continued, the most glaring instant being the severe assault on 20 adivasis of Chiriyabera in West Singhbhum in June 2020. "Eleven people were severely beaten and three sustained grievous injuries. The CRPF, accusing the villagers of being Maoists and enraged by their inability to respond in Hindi, beat them up using wooden sticks, batons, rifle butts and boots. Even though the victims clearly told police at the hospital that they were brutally beaten by CRPF personnel, the FIR filed by police obscures many facts and makes no mention of the role of the CRPF in the violence," the manch said. The FIR, the activists added, was yet to be rectified. No action had been taken against the CRPF personnel and the victims were yet to receive compensation, despite several representations to the DC, SP and DGP. Cases under the stringent UAPA have been on the rise too. "It is disappointing that the Jharkhand government is yet to check the blatant misuse of UAPA by police. Several daily-wage labourers and farmers of Lalpania (Bokaro) who have been vocal against exploitation of adivasis and moolvasis were booked as Maoists and under UAPA in the last few years. They are still struggling to get bail," the statement said. Under the earlier government, at least 24 people, most accused of selling / consuming beef or cattle theft, were lynched. The pattern seems to continue under the current regime, the activists rued. "In July 2020, adivasis were beaten up by a mob on suspicion of selling / consuming beef in Dumka and Jamshedpur. In September 2020, seven adivasis of Simdega were beaten, tonsured and made to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’. In several cases, victims are yet to be paid compensation and there is an attempt by the police to shield the perpetrators. The government is yet to implement Supreme Court’s order in Tahseen Poonawala case on the subject including provisions such as speedy trial, grant of interim compensation within 30 days, investigation to be monitored by SP and so on," the statement said. The Mahasabha reminded the Hemant Soren government that it won a decisive mandate against the BJP-led government’s repressive and anti-people policies. "It is expected that the government stands firmly with the people against all forms of exploitation and human rights violations. We sincerely hope that the government reins in security forces and makes the state apparatus pro-adivasi and pro-people," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||Vaccine: Bokaro administration asks hospitals to send lists of health workers||The Bokaro district administration on Friday directed all private hospitals to make the list of health professionals and workers in their institutions available, so that they can be inoculated with the Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase. The district health department has started its process to figure out the number of such workers at government hospitals for their immunisation. Bokaro Civil Surgeon Dr Ashok Pathak said the state government will provide vaccines for Covid-19 based on the lists sent by the districts. “In the first phase, vaccines will be administered to all health care workers, both of government and private institutions,” he said. Deputy Development Commissioner Jai Kishore Prasad convened a meeting in this regard with representatives of private hospitals. Apart from the representatives and Prasad, the meeting was attended by Pathak and Bokaro District Data Manager Kanchan. The commissioner, in the meeting, asked the attendees to work in tandem and keep track of all aspects while launching the vaccination drive. He reiterated that health professionals working in hospitals will be the first ones to get inoculated as soon as the doses arrive. Pathak informed that to get going with the vaccination process, Aadhar or Voter ID card details will be taken from each individual for their registration. Following this, an OTP will be generated for the vaccine. He added that this will ensure there is no discrimination of any kind and the vaccination will be done on the basis of identity proof and phone number given in the database.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||Lalu Prasad's bail hearing on fodder scam deferred by six months||The Jharkhand High Court on Friday deferred RJD boss Lalu Prasad's bail plea hearing in a fodder scam case by six weeks, in keeping with the request of his lawyer. The case pertains to fraudulent withdrawal of over Rs 3.13 crore from Dumka treasury when Prasad was the chief minister of undivided Bihar. Devarshi Mandal, Prasad's counsel, said he needed six weeks to respond to a supplementary affidavit filed by the CBI on Thursday, and collate verified documents on the RJD chief's judicial custody. The CBI counsel, too, agreed to the proposal, following which the court slated January 22 as the next date of hearing in the case. The central investigation agency had on Thursday filed a supplementary affidavit in the court, contending that Prasad has violated jail manual norms. The CBI also said that his health condition was stable now, and he should be discharged from Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi and sent to Birsa Munda jail to serve his sentence. The former Bihar CM has secured bail in three other cases related to the Rs 950-crore scam. On March 24, 2018, a special CBI court had sentenced the former Bihar CM to 14 years' rigorous imprisonment in the Dumka treasury case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi logs more than half of the fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||More than half of the total Covid-19 cases reported in Jharkhand on Thursday were from Ranchi, figures compiled by the state health department revealed. However, after reporting a rise in the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection for three consecutive days, Ranchi on Thursday witnessed a marginal drop in the count of active cases as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection here. At least 95 of the 173 fresh cases of infection surfacing in Jharkhand on the day were reported from Ranchi, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. However, Ranchi also reported 98 of the 220 Covid recoveries registered in the state in the past 24 hours, the bulletin added. The total count of active cases in the state dropped to 1690 on the day, and at least 785 of them, around 46.5 per cent, were in Ranchi. As per government data, four of the 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day. Barring Ranchi and Palamu, all the remaining 22 districts reported a spike of less than 10 in Covid cases, the NHM bulletin released on Thursday night stated. While East Singhbhum reported nine cases against 28 recoveries, Dhanbad reported six fresh cases against 11 recoveries. As per government data, only six districts reported 5 or more cases of Covid-19 infection on the day. Bokaro reported nine cases against 20 recoveries, while Palamu reported 11 cases against seven recoveries on the day. Meanwhile, two more Covid-19 patients, one each from Ranchi and Bokaro, died during treatment on Thursday, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 993, figures with the NHM stated. Thursday’s casualties take the Covid mortality rate in the state to 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. While the Covid mortality rate in the state has remained less than 1 per cent since October, the recovery rate has improved significantly. As per government data, Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate on Thursday was 97.58 per cent. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 19,504 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 44.51 lakh people and tested 44.33 lakh of them. Around 18,000 swab samples were still pending for tests by the end of Thursday. As per figures with the health department, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.13 per cent against the national average of 0.29 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 529.24 days against the national average of 239.87 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||Newborns escape hospital fire in Jharkhand||A major tragedy was averted as more than 20 newborns had a miraculous escape when the sick new born care unit (SNCU) at a private hospital caught fire on Thursday morning (8am) in Godda, around 330 km from Jharkhand capital Ranchi. According to Godda town police station officials, in all 21 newborns were kept at the SNCU of the single storied (G+1) Sunrise Hospital in Godda. At around 8 am smokes started billowing from near the air-conditioned units of the SNCU and in a few minutes smoke and flames could be seen all across the SNCU. “However, timely action by the staff on duty along with nursing staff helped all the 21 new borns to be transferred from the SNCU with oxygen support to the ground floor and also douse the flames using the fire extinguishers kept at the hospital by the time fire tenders arrived at the spot. Though it is too premature to ascertain the real reason for the fire but short circuit is being assumed as the likely reason,” said a police official preferring anonymity. Godda deputy commissioner Bhor Singh Yadav, confirmed that no casualty has taken place in the fire mishap. “All the new borns are safe and have been shifted to SNCU at Sadar Hospital and few private hospitals. The SDO Godda, Rituraj has been asked to probe into the incident and submit a report. After the report appropriate action would be taken against the management of the hospital,” said Bhor Singh Yadav. Nine newborn have been kept at the Sadar Hospital while 12 new born have been kept in two private hospitals. The hospital does not have an emergency exit and has only one staircase. Several attempts to contact the owner of the hospital Dr M. Junaid Alam failed to evince any response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
