12-12-2020||Calcutta||Leander Paes at the launch of India’s first smart e-cycle ||Tennis icon Leander Paes, who has floored many an opponent on the court, was himself grounded while riding a battery-operated cycle at the parking lot of Metro Cash & Carry on Friday. Paes was the star attraction at the launch of the battery-operated e-cycles made by a private company. Paes aced a better part of the ride but lost control while climbing down the stage and fell off the cycle. But true to his comeback spirit, he was back on his feet within a few seconds.  Pictures by Sanat Kr Sinha||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
12-12-2020||Calcutta||A year on, anti-CAA cry unmuted||Close to 1,000 people protested against the Centre’s citizenship matrix in the heart of the city on Friday, shattering a long lull triggered by the Covid pandemic. Deafening roars of azaadi and “we will not show papers” posters made a comeback on busy roads as the protesters marched from Moulali to Esplanade where they staged a meeting. Many of the marchers had come from the districts, like Nadia and Murshidabad. Some of them reached Calcutta last night. December 11 was chosen because the Citizenship Amendment Act was passed by Parliament on the same day last year. The campaign against the citizenship troika — National Register of Citizens, National Population Register and CAA — was at its peak when the coronavirus brought everything to a grinding halt. The rally was organised by Anti-NRC People’s Movement, a joint platform of 21 organisations campaigning against the citizenship thrust. Groups of people started arriving at the meeting point — Ram Leela ground on CIT Road in Moulali — on foot, mini vans and buses. A mini-truck parked on the road became a makeshift stage for speakers. “The Narendra Modi-led government has used the pandemic and lockdown as a tool to stifle dissent and bring another series of anti-people laws like the labour code and farm bills. The government had kept the NRC-NPR-CAA combine in the cupboard like mothballed woollens but they would bring it out any time. We should be alert,” said Prasun Chatterjee of Azaad Gana Morcha. The BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said on Sunday that the Centre might implement the CAA from next month to confer citizenship on a large section of refugees living in Bengal. “From infiltrators to termites, we remember every word that was used to describe us, citizens of this country,” said Kasturi Basu of Humans of Patuli. A group of youngsters from Janaganamana Sanskritik Manch performed a series of songs — most of them tweaks of popular Bengali songs. “Batashe bohichhe bish, bukete lagilo chot, raja je kohilo heshe NRC eshe gechhe (The air is filled with poison, the heart wounded. The king says smilingly that NRC is here),” said one song. The opening lines of another song: “Tora je ja bolish bhai, raja’r shosta mojur chai (No matter what you say, the king wants cheap labour).” Almost every speaker said the citizenship thrust mirrored blatant religious discrimination and its main objective was creating a vast pool of cheap labourers for big companies. “This government has sold itself to big corporate houses and will turn people languishing in detention camps into cheap labourers,” said Chandan Bhattacharjee of the Sramik-Krishak Ekta Manch, who had come from Jaynagar in South 24-Parganas. The rally started from Ramlila Maidan in Moulali around 2.30pm and its head reached the front of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation headquarters on SN Banerjee Road around 4pm. Tricolours and large banners fluttered under the canopy of trees dotting the road that connects Moulali with Esplanade. A third of the marchers were women, who often out-shouted the men in sloganeering. “System error… Not found — Hindurashtra,” read one poster. “We want rights, not riots,” read another. A police officer put the number of marchers at over 500 but organisers said more than 1,000 people had turned up. “It is a big number because many people, even in Calcutta, are still not ready to join a large group for fear of the virus,” an organiser said. Many marchers on Friday had posters of political prisoners like Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam and Varavara Rao. The protesters demanded their “immediate release”. Banojyotsna Lahiri, a Presidency and JNU alumna and a friend of Khalid, walked in the rally on Friday. “In Delhi, a protest march is usually limited to the stretch between Mandi House and Jantar Mantar. It is extremely tough to protest anywhere else. Being able to walk in a rally through a residential area like this is a big deal. With people watching from their balconies and shopkeepers coming outside stores, the protest becomes so organic,” she said. Arup Majumdar, the convener of the Anti-NRC People’s Movement, said a section of people opposed to the citizenship matrix were now more bothered with livelihood problems posed by the pandemic. “Since there is no strong narrative on the part of the government right now, they think the NRC-NPR-CAA is not on Modi-Shah’s immediate agenda. But the BJP will suddenly strike with these tools, maybe just before the Bengal election. If we do not step up the vigil now, we cannot do much then,” said Majumdar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
12-12-2020||Calcutta||Refund orders issues to two city hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday asked R Flemming Hospital to return Rs 3 lakh to a Covid patient and Horizon Life Line to return Rs 2 lakh to another after it found that the city hospitals had overcharged the patients. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said they found that Horizon Life Line had charged more than the government capped rates for personal protection equipment (PPE) and doctors’ consultation fees. Regarding the complaint against R Flemming, he said that the bill generated by the hospital was not justified given the fact that the patient had stayed most of the days in a general bed. “A man from Salboni got admitted at R Flemming Hospital on September 26 and was treated at the hospital for 11 days. The hospital said he was in ICU for two days. Even with two days in ICU, the bill cannot be as high as Rs 5.4 lakh,” said Banerjee. “We have asked the hospital to pay the patient Rs 3 lakh,” he said. About Horizon Life Line, Banerjee said that the patient had lodged an overcharging complaint with the commission. “The state government had fixed Rs 1,000 as the PPE rate for one day. The hospital charged the patient Rs 83,000 as PPE charges for 13 days. Besides, they also took Rs 12,000 as doctors’ consultation fee,” said Banerjee. The state government has capped consultation fees of doctors treating Covid-19 patients at private hospitals at Rs 1,000 a day. “We have asked the hospital to offer a discount of Rs 2 lakh to the patient,” Banerjee said. The commission on Friday also asked Desun Hospital to return Rs 52,000 to a patient. “The patient was admitted to the hospital at 4 am on October 16. The patient was shifted to one of the government requisitioned beds at Desun Hospital at 9.40 pm the same day, but the hospital charged them for two days,” Banerjee said. Patients at government requisitioned beds are treated for free.  “The hospital should have charged for only one day, but Desun charged Rs 1.04 lakh for two days,” said Banerjee. “We have asked the hospital to keep Rs 52,000, and return the rest,” he said. The commission also asked All Asia Medical Institute to pay Rs 60,000 to a patient’s family as compensation. “The complainant had alleged that her mother developed bedsore when she was discharged from the hospital, but the hospital said she was admitted with grade I bedsore. The discharge summary of the previous hospital from where the patient was brought to All Asia Medical Institute had no mention of bedsore,” said Banerjee. “We have asked the hospital to pay the patient Rs 60,000,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
12-12-2020||Calcutta||Biker flung off VIP Road flyover||A 64-year-old biker was grievously injured after he was flung off the saddle on the VIP Road flyover and fell on the road 35ft below on Friday afternoon, police said. Safiar Rahaman Mallick, a resident of Kaikhali, was thrown off the motorcycle after it rammed into a guard rail along the parapet of the overbridge. Mallick was spotted by passing motorists and shopkeepers near the Baguiati bus stand, an officer of the Baguiati traffic guard said. They informed traffic policemen posted nearby who took the man to a private hospital off VIP Road. According to a doctor of the hospital, Mallick is admitted to the ICU as he has suffered a haemorrhage in his brain. The incident happened on the airport-bound flank of the flyover. While Mallick fell off the flyover, his motorcycle remained on the flyover and another police team recovered it. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate’s traffic wing said there was a mark where Mallick’s bike hit the parapet of the flyover. “The cause of the accident is still not clear,” said the officer. A helmet lay near the spot where Mallick fell.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
12-12-2020||Calcutta||Son killed with grinding stone in Salt Lake||The mother and son arrested by Salt Lake police after a charred skeleton was found on their rooftop told policemen that they used a grinding stone to kill the eldest son of the family and then burnt his body using a combination of ghee and camphor to mask the smell, a police officer said. Geeta Mahensariya and her younger son Vidur, 22, were produced before a Salt Lake court on Friday on murder charges as well as destroying evidence. The court sent them to five-day police custody. Geeta and her younger son Vidur were arrested on Thursday night after a police team probing a missing complaint lodged by her estranged husband, Anil Kumar Mahensariya, landed at the two-storey house in AJ Block. The cops are also probing the role of Geeta and Anil’s daughter. According to an officer of Bidhannagar commissionerate, Geeta and Vidur were questioned for hours on Thursday night. Initially they told cops that they knew nothing about the skeleton but broke down during the questioning. “They told us that they killed Arjun by hitting him on the head using a grinding stone used to pound spices. They burnt his body using a combination of ghee and camphor so that the smell did not alert neighbours,” said the officer. The officer added that the initial forensic report indicated that the bone structure of the skeleton was that of a young male. According to the officer, they had found some burnt remnants of clothes on the first floor and there were ashes and other charred remains on the flight of stairs leading to the roof.  “It seems that they had used a large cauldron to burn the body on the first floor. They wrapped up the remains in a bedsheet and carried it to the roof.” Geeta used to stay in the two-storey AJ Block house with Arjun, Vidur and her daughter while her estranged husband Anil was staying at an apartment in Rajarhat since August 2019. According to an officer, they are also trying to find out the exact motive behind the killing. “We are probing every angle of this case.” Anil Kumar Mahensariya had taken an office space in central Calcutta for Arjun to start a business but he had stopped sending money for Vidur and his daughter’s education, said the officer. Both Geeta and Vidur were produced before a Salt Lake court on Friday. There were charged under various sections of the IPC including 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) among others. Inside the court, Sabir Ali the public prosecutor, said that police custody was required as the two would be needed by the cops for crime scene reconstruction in the days to come. “The police also need to question them in custody,” Ali said. The defence lawyer of Geeta and Vidur, on the other hand, said Geeta has been suffering from psychiatric issues for the past several years and was on medication.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
12-12-2020||Calcutta||20-mark ISC project work in more subjects||The ICSE council has decided to introduce project work carrying 20 marks in Indian languages, Elective English and several other subjects for students appearing for Class XII (ISC) examinations in 2021. In a letter on Friday, Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), informed heads of schools presenting candidates for the ISC 2021 about the change. “Please note that from ISC Examination Year 2021 onwards, instead of one theory paper of 100 marks, there will be two papers in the following subjects, comprising a theory paper of 80 marks and project work of 20 marks,” Arathoon said. The subjects are: Indian languages, Elective English, Classical Languages (Arabic, Sanskrit, Persian), Modern Foreign Languages, Electricity & Electronics, Engineering Science, Geometrical and Mechanical Drawing, Geometrical and Building Drawing. Indian languages include Hindi, Bengali, Urdu, Malayalam and other languages that students who choose a second language paper for the Plus II course study. In January, the council had announced 20-mark projects in English language, English literature and Mathematics for the 2021 ISC examination. The council has said it will share the sample question papers with the schools shortly. Several school heads feel the introduction of project work in these subjects would ease the load for students. “This means students will get three hours to appear for the 80- mark theory paper. The 20-mark project would make the subjects more scoring for the students,” said Sujoy Biswas, principal of Rammohan Mission High School. “It is going to help students, especially this year, when there is no face-to-face learning. Students will also be able to expand their scope of learning,” said Seema Sapru, principal of The Heritage School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
12-12-2020||Calcutta||Private hospitals free to reduce Covid beds||The chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has said private hospitals are free to reduce the number of Covid beds if they wished so. Several private hospitals were mulling to reduce the number of Covid beds as number of non-Covid patients was in the rise. Some hospitals said they would seek an informal approval from the government before reducing beds. The commission had asked all private hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds ahead of Durga Puja and Diwali, when many had apprehended a rise in the numbers of Covid patients. “It is the decision of private hospitals whether they want to reduce the number of Covid beds. We cannot tell them how many beds they should reserve for Covid patients. We had earlier appealed them to increase the number of Covid beds and the hospitals responded to our call,” Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said on Friday, when Metro asked him whether private hospitals needed the commission’s permission to reduce Covid beds. Officials of several private hospitals in Calcutta said they were thinking of reducing the number of Covid beds since the rate of hospitalisation has fallen and the number of patients with other illnesses is rising steadily. “People who did not do elective surgeries for months because of Covid-19 are now coming to hospitals. Winters are usually the time when most elective surgeries are performed. So there is a need to increase the number of non-Covid beds,” said a senior official of a private hospital. Officials of another private hospital said they will wait for a few days before deciding whether to reduce the number of Covid beds. “Though occupancy has gone down but we want to wait and see whether this sustains for a month or so. The transformation of a Covid unit to non-Covid is easy, but the opposite is not that easy,” an official of a private hospital in south Calcutta said. Some private hospitals said they would seek the government’s approval before reducing Covid beds. “Though we are not bound by dictates of the government, still we would like to take its approval,” said an official of a hospital off the EM Bypass. Around 20 of the 150 Covid beds at Peerless Hospital have remained vacant for last fortnight. At RN Tagore Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 45 out of 130 Covid beds have remained vacant for the last one month. About 85 per cent of the 270 beds in the three units of AMRI Hospitals have been staying vacant for some time. An official of Medica Superspeciality Hospital, however, said they did not have any vacant Covid beds. The bulk of vacant Covid beds at private hospitals were general beds. The rate of occupancy for critical care beds was higher, officials said. The government on Thursday released a number of beds in several private hospitals that it had requisitioned to treat Covid patients. “The rate of hospitalisation for Covid-19 is gradually coming down.... We have to make beds available for other patients,” Ajay Chakraborty, the director of health services, had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
12-12-2020||Calcutta||High Court quashes teachers’ recruitment process||The high court on Friday quashed the process initiated by the School Service Commission for recruiting teachers in nearly 15,000 vacant posts in upper primary schools. Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya directed the commission to start the recruitment process afresh following the guidelines framed by the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE), according to which candidates with a BEd degree should get first preference. Justice Bhattacharya has set a deadline for the state. The commission should start the process on January 4. The verification of candidates and preparation of merit list should be completed by May 31, and the recruitment process by August 14. The NCTE, which regulates teacher education in India, had in 2009 made the BEd or an equivalent degree compulsory for applying for teaching jobs at primary (till Class IV) and upper primary (from Classes V to VIII) schools. The human resource development ministry (now known as the education ministry) had allowed candidates without a BEd degree to sit for the TET (teacher eligibility test) till March 31, 2014 and had initially expressed its unwillingness to extend the cut-off date. Later, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had written to then HRD minister Smriti Irani, requesting her to allow untrained candidates to write the exam one more time. The NCTE, which functions under the ministry, finally accepted the state government’s plea. “The NCTE suggested that trained candidates should be given preference during the recruitment as well,” said an official of the school education department. The judge on Friday gave the liberty to the commission to conduct interviews of the candidates virtually. The process for recruiting teachers in upper primary schools had started in 2014. Finally, on October 16, 2015, the test for selecting candidates for recruitment in the 14,740 vacant teaching posts was conducted. Last year, on October 1, the department had prepared a merit list of 26,000 candidates based on their score in the written test, with academic weightage factoring in among others whether the candidate is BEd qualified and performance in the interview. “The merit list can have more names than the number of actual posts,” said an official of the state’s school education department. Soon after the publication of the merit list, a large number of candidates moved high court last December alleging that even though they have a BEd degree, their names did not feature on the list while less qualified candidates had been selected. “This prompted my clients to move court,” advocate Firdaus Shamim, the lawyer for the petitioner candidates, said after the order. When asked, an official of SSC said generally additional marks are given to BEd qualified candidates while recruiting teachers in schools. “But in many cases, it has been noticed that untrained candidates are getting higher marks than that of trained candidates, after putting together performance in the written test, academic score and interview score. Therefore names of untrained candidates featured in the merit list as well,” he said. Advocate Shamim countered his comment and said: “Discrepancies have been found in the list.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
12-12-2020||Calcutta||Actress Arya Banerjee found dead||Actress Arya Banerjee, daughter of late sitarist Pandit Nikhil Banerjee, was found dead on the second floor of her house in Jodhpur Park on Friday. She was 35. There were no injury marks on her body, police said. Arya had made her debut in Bollywood with Dibakar Banerjee’s Love Sex Aur Dhokha in 2010. She had also acted in Dirty Picture in 2011. The actress, also called Devdutta, was alone in her house — 346, Jodhpur Park — on Friday. The police said she had possibly vomitted some food, portions of which were found on her nose and face. She was found lying on the floor with her face down. Cops who broke open the door found some blood droplets on the floor. “Primarily there appears to be no foul play. The exact cause of death will be known when the post-mortem report reaches us,” a senior police officer of Lake police station said. Some of Arya’s neighbours have told the police that the actress had been living alone during the Covid pandemic. Recently, Arya had hired a domestic help. Chandana has told the police that she had been calling Arya’s phone since 10am on Friday, but she hadn’t responded. Later, when she went to the flat, no one answered the door. “She was getting her food through app-based delivery platforms for some time now. She used to spend time with her pet dog. Neighbours said she didn’t mix with anyone in the locality,” the police said. The help has told the police that Arya would have limited interactions with her. “We are trying to find out who would visit the house for any work. Her call details are being scanned to see if she was in any distress and if she had received any food from outside in the last 24 hours,” the police said. A masters in classical music, Arya had dabbled in modelling before moving to Mumbai where she did a three-month acting course in Anupam Kher’s acting school. In 2013, Arya had walked the ramp for a leading fashion designer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
12-12-2020||Calcutta||Race to city on hay boat||A group of water sports enthusiasts has built a boat of bamboo, leaves and hay and is rowing it from Behrampore to Calcutta. The eight-day adventure should culminate at Outram Ghat on December 12. “Hay is a difficult material to use as it gains a lot of weight once soaked in water and tends to sink... We have 11 people on board, making it heavier. We have run tests and found that the boat will not last much longer than eight days and so we are racing against time to reach Calcutta by then,” said Arshad Ali Mandal, one of sailors who also built the boat. Maintaining time has been a challenge as the boat has been getting stuck in silt. The worst scare was on December 8 around Fulia. “There was an island ahead and we were trying to veer to its left. But the current was too strong and we got dragged to the right. There was so much silt in the water that we got stuck,” said Puspen Samanta, the coxswain and team leader. All 11 sailors got off and tried to push the boat free, in vain. The team is carrying with it a kayak that one of them then rowed to the nearest village to seek help. “But it was getting dark and villagers were reluctant to get in the cold water. We stayed on the boat that night and survived on biscuits and 3litres of drinking water among us,” said Samanta. The next morning, villagers brought them water and muri and helped them push the swan-shaped boat free. The team, however, rues the loss of 22 hours and is now rowing round the clock, hardly sleeping or cooking on the gas they are carrying on board. The team is having to sail through the night, but fog is reducing visibility to about 5m. “We are using Google Earth for navigation but the app isn’t able to caution us about boulders and silt,” said Samanta. “On December 9 we narrowly escaped ramming into an electric pole erected in the waters. A few inches off and we would have sunk like the Titanic.” The expedition has been organised by Jagacha Yuva Sakti, a Santragachhi-based swimming and rowing group and is supported by the Outram Ghat-based Sea Explorers’ Institute. The group has been holding such trips since 2014, using boats made of leaves, empty bottles and fibre to navigate rivers and even the sea once to reach the Andamans. Their intention is to raise awareness about keeping the waters clean and this year, also about Covid safety protocols. “The amount of plastic in the water was marginally less this year, but people still use the river as a dustbin,” said Aseem Mandal, who is maintaining a logbook of the bio-diversity and socio-economic conditions they witness. “Every day we are seeing between 20 and 40 carcasses of cows, dogs, goats, ducks and chickens floating in the water.” Aseem is an instructor at the National Disaster Response Force. All others on board are seasoned mountain climbers or water sports enthusiasts. Rudra Prasad Halder has conquered the Everest and Kanchenjungha, Tapas Chowdhury is recipient of the Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award (for water adventure). The team also has a lady member, Keka Jana. “I have participated in several kayaking and rafting expeditions and have the fitness required to match the men. It’s a strenuous journey but I’m enjoying it,” says the 40-year-old swimming trainer. The 65ft x 7ft boat, on its 350km voyage, is enduring much wear and tear. The team has been cutting leaves from trees in the jungles and replacing the damaged portions of the structure. They are using solar panels to charge their phones and lights and have cordoned off a corner in the boat to use as a toilet. The waste will be treated and disposed later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
12-12-2020||Business||Food and petrol prices to stay high||Retail inflation probably fell in November from October but remained above the Reserve Bank of India’s target, amid high food and petrol prices, a Reuters poll of economists showed. Retail inflation has stayed above the central bank’s comfort zone of 2-6 per cent for seven consecutive months, a streak not seen since August 2014. The December 4-9 poll of 48 economists forecast a drop in inflation in November to 7.10  per cent from 7.61 per cent in October, which was the highest since May 2014. If realised, November’s rate would be above 7 per cent for the third consecutive month. “Inflation for November is likely to be lower than October as there was some moderation in prices of vegetables in particular as well as pulses,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings. “On the upside, petrol prices had increased which worked in the other direction,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
12-12-2020||Business||Auto sales increase 12.73% in November||Riding on the back of festive demand, passenger vehicle sales increased 12.73 per cent to 2,85,367 units in November against 2,53,139 units in the same month last year, industry body Siam said on Friday. The figures are despatches by the car companies to the dealers. This is the fourth consecutive month rise in passenger vehicles and two-wheeler sales after production and sales came to a halt in April. Companies  have increased inventory at dealerships expecting retail sales to stay strong beyond Diwali and Dhanteras. According to the latest data by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam), two-wheeler sales rose 13.43 per cent to 16,00,379 units, compared with 14,10,939 units in the same month last year. Last month, the country’s largest car maker Maruti Suzuki India witnessed a 12.3 per cent increase in its dispatches to dealers at 1,56,244 units. Similarly, Hyundai Motor India saw 9.42 per cent increase in dispatches at 48,800 units. In the two-wheeler segment, Hero MotoCorp reported a  13.83 per cent rise in dispatches to 5,75,957 units, while Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India witnessed 10.54 per cent rise in dispatches to dealers last month. Motorcycle sales were at 10,26,705 units against 8,93,538 units in November 2019, up 14.9 per cent. Scooter sales were up 9.29 per cent at 5,02,561 units from 4,59,851 units a year ago. Sales of two wheelers have picked up faster compared to the other segments because of  the quicker recovery in demand in the rural and semi-urban areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||Economy likely to improve in second half of fiscal||Economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj on Friday said the second quarter GDP figure was much better than market expectations and the economy will further improve its performance in the second half of the fiscal. The economy contracted 7.5 per cent in the second quarter of the fiscal against a 23.9 per cent contraction in the first quarter. “So we are positive. We are cautiously optimistic on the economic front. And we are hoping that our third and fourth quarter performances will be far better than the second quarter,” Bajaj said at the Ficci meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||Covid vaccine hope fuels crude spike||Oil prices steadied on Friday, and were set for a sixth week of gains as progress towards the novel coronavirus vaccination programmes fed hopes that demand for fuel would rebound next year. Brent was down 7 cents, or 0.1 per cent, at $50.18 a barrel at 1418GMT, after rising above $51 a barrel on Thursday to an early-March high. US oil was up 4 cents, or 0.1 per cent, at $46.82 a barrel, having risen almost 3 per cent in the previous session. Promising vaccine trials have helped lift some gloom over record increases in the number of new coronavirus infections and deaths. Britain began inoculations this week and the US could start vaccinations in the coming weekend. “The optimism seems to continue unscathed because of the back-to-back approvals vaccines are getting and the quicker-than-thought rollout of the first campaigns in key markets,” Rystad Energy analyst Paola Rodriguez-Masiu said. A big jump in US crude stockpiles last week served as a reminder that there is still plenty of supply available, but it was all but ignored as bulls ran through the market this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business|| Canara Bank raises Rs 2000cr||State-owned Canara Bank on Friday said it has raised Rs 2,000 crore equity capital by issuing over 19 crore shares to eligible investors. LIC has emerged as the largest investor in the bank’s qualified institutional placement (QIP). The sub-committee of the board at its meeting held on Friday approved the allotment of 19,32,36,714 equity shares to eligible qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) at an issue price of Rs 103.50 per equity share, aggregating up to Rs 2,000 crore, Canara Bank said in a regulatory filing. The QIP had opened on December 7 and closed on December 10. The allottees — who were allotted more than 5 per cent of the total equity shares on offer — include Life Insurance Corporation (25 per cent), BNP Paribas Arbitrage (9.11 per cent), Nippon Life India Trustee Ltd (8.81 per cent), Societe Generale (7.91 per cent) and Kuber India Fund (6.16 per cent). Following the QIP, the paid-up equity share capital of the bank stands increased to Rs 1,646.74 crore, comprising 1,64,67,38,220 equity shares of the face value of Rs 10 each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||Economist warns on rise in inequality in India||The handsome 25 per cent rise in corporate profits in the September quarter amid a sharp contraction in GDP was on the back of wage squeezes, leading to a rise in inequalities in India, economist Nouriel Roubini said on Thursday. This rising inequality is “dangerous” politically and socially because only a few people in the economy are benefitting, the economics professor at New York’s Stern School of Business said. Roubini said earnings of listed entities have risen 25 per cent in the September quarter, which means that wages and income are getting “squeezed, if not collapsed”. “The number of unemployed or partially unemployed people is spiking, profits have been rising when GDP has been falling, so income inequality is rising,” he said at an event organised by the NSE. He also said inflation has tied the hands of the RBI, and advocated stronger action from the fiscal policy front to help those affected. “Help the poor, help the migrant, help the disadvantaged, try to provide credit support and credit lines to small enterprises that are at risk of collapsing,” he suggested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||EU to cut carbon emission by 55%||After an all-night negotiating session, European Union leaders agreed on Friday morning to cut net carbon emissions by 55 per cent in the next decade from levels measured in 1990, overcoming the concerns of nations still heavily dependent on coal and taking a critical step in the effort to become climate-neutral by 2050. European leaders, who are keen to position themselves as at the forefront of the global fight against climate change, had failed in October to reach a deal on an even less ambitious target of 40 per cent. But after an agreement on a $2.2-trillion budget on Thursday  evening — with billions earmarked for member states to spend on the transition to a greener economy — momentum for a consensus environmental policy gathered speed. Shortly after dawn, Charles Michel, the head of the group of the EU leaders, announced the news on Twitter. “Europe is the leader in the fight against climate change,” he wrote. “We decided to cut our greenhouse gas emissions of at least 55 per cent by 2030.” The decision on the new target comes just in time for the United Nations climate summit this Saturday, where it will be announced by Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission, the bloc’s executive arm. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said it was “worth losing a night’s sleep” over the climate deal. “I don’t want to imagine what would have happened if we hadn’t been able to achieve such a result,” she said during a news conference on Friday, following the meeting. Still, the details and the language in the agreement were kept vague after many hours of often tense negotiations, leaving it up to the commission to hammer out the specifics. The overnight discussions on climate, which has been declared as one of the European Union’s top priorities, have been obstructed by the familiar divisions between the wealthier western European countries pushing for more ambitious targets, and a handful of eastern European states, led by Poland, that depend heavily on coal. They fought for more detailed provisions on how Brussels would support them in the transition, asking for the new rules to take differing circumstances into account. In a gesture toward eastern European governments, the EU leaders decided the target has to be reached by the bloc collectively —  effectively giving coal-dependent countries more time to transition their energy consumption. For the first time, emissions from forests and land use will be included in the target, which climate activists say might weaken the outcome. The legal provisions that would ensure compliance still need to be worked out in the coming months and the agreement has to be endorsed by the commission and the European Parliament. The New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||Airbnb shares hits $100bn m-cap||Shares of Airbnb Inc more than doubled in their stock market debut on Thursday, valuing the home rental firm at just over $100 billion in the biggest US initial public offering (IPO) of 2020 and capping a bumper year in which investors flocked to tech stocks. Airbnb opened at $146 on the Nasdaq, far above the IPO price of $68 per share that raised $3.5 billion for the company. The stock hit a high of $165 and closed at $144.71. The IPO is the culmination of a stunning recovery in Airbnb’s fortunes after the firm’s business was heavily damaged by the Covid-19 pandemic earlier this year. But as lockdowns eased, more travelers opted to book homes instead of hotels, helping Airbnb post a surprise profit for the third quarter. The San Francisco-based firm also gained from increased interest in renting homes away from major cities. “I don’t think this summer too many people expected to see an Airbnb IPO this year,” Airbnb chief executive Brian Chesky told Reuters in an interview. “We were planning on going public, we put our IPO on hold and this has been the most unbelievable journey. It’s been quite a comeback for our hosts and for what I hope will be travel,” added Chesky, whose Airbnb stake is now worth around $11 billion. Founded in 2008 as a website to take bookings for rooms during conferences, Airbnb’s listing was one of the most anticipated US IPOs of 2020, which has already been a record year for market listings. Record label Warner Music Group, data analytics firm Palantir Technologies and data warehouse company Snowflake Inc have all gone public in the past few months. At the start of trading on the Nasdaq, Airbnb had a market capitalisation of $86.5 billion, eclipsing that of online travel agency Booking Holdings Inc and hotel chain Marriott International Inc. Including securities such as options and restricted stock units, Airbnb's fully diluted valuation came to $100.7 billion, more than five times the $18 billion Airbnb was valued at in a private fundraising round in April at the outset of the pandemic. Airbnb’s worth was estimated at $31 billion in its last pre-Covid-19 private fundraising in 2017. The eye-popping rise in Airbnb’s stock on its debut comes just a day after the share price of food delivery company DoorDash Inc doubled in their first day of trading.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||Banks to exercise tighter scrutiny on loans||Banks are exercising caution and factoring in more information about borrowers before disbursing loans to prevent fresh credit slippages. Axis Bank CEO Amitabh Chaudhry on Friday said that the granularity of lending parameters considered by the banks has increased manifold. On the corporate side, a more in-depth look into the profile of the promoters is taken into consideration. This includes leverage at the holding company level, the number of businesses and how they are managed and how many members of the family are involved in the business among others. “Banks are doing a much more detailed analysis and a look into the history of promoters in general. It is driven by banks generally becoming more cautious,” Chaudhry said at a session organised by XLRI Mumbai chapter and moneycontrol. “When banks look at lending opportunities, the lens we use now is differentiated significantly by segments,” he said. Chaudhry cited the example of the hospitality industry where micro elements such as the mix of guests, location and type of property and historical seasonality of occupancy among others are increasingly taken into consideration which are typically explored by equity investors. “Because banks have suffered in the past, we could become equity investors of tomorrow if we don’t get into the level of granularity. Debt will become a non-performing loan if we do not go and analyse some of the parameters in depth,” he said. Banks are also increasingly looking at short-term data such as daily and weekly sales volume, footfall, credit card behaviour, enquiries on loan, salary trends across sectors for a robust underwriting. Chaudhry said that availability of digital data such as Aadhaar, UPI, GST has helped the banks to increase the level of granularity. The cautiousness of the banks is based on the current macroeconomic situation and also stress tests of credit risks of RBI indicate that the GNPA ratio mayt increase 8.5 per cent in March 2020 to 12.5-14.7 per cent by March 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||States seek policy body outside Niti Aayog after 6 years||The Niti Aayog which replaced the decades-old Planning Commission with much fanfare in 2014 appears to have already outlived its usefulness to the states, who now want a new institutional arrangement for policy dialogue with the Centre. Finance Commission chairman N. K. Singh said there was a need for another forum for the ongoing consultations after the abolition of the Planning Commission. “With the abolition of the Planning Commission, many economists and policy makers have argued about an institutional vacuum. While the National Development Council (NDC) is performing an important function, the States have pleaded for a credible institution acting as a link for a policy dialogue with the Centre,” Singh said at Ficci’s 93rd annual general meeting. The NDC is the apex decision making body presided by the Prime Minister and whose meetings are attended by the chief ministers themselves. In its statement of objectives, the Niti Aayog had given priority to co-operative federalism and the active involvement of the states in its activities — but after six years the states seem to think otherwise. The Narendra Modi- government had abolished the Planning Commission in one of its first decisions after coming to power in 2014. “We need to give serious consideration for a consultative forum for credible policy dialogue between the Centre and the states,” Singh said. He said the Niti Aayog has emerged as a credible think-tank and their work in the sphere of Centre-state relations needed to be recognised. However, the States are keen to have a different kind of a policy-based consultative forum. “This is an area that deserves the serious consideration of policymakers.” Besides the setting up of such a forum, Singh stressed the need for dialogue in five other areas to reinforce federal trust. He suggested a committee  for revisiting Schedule VII of the Constitution, which deals with the division of subjects among  the Union, state and concurrent lists. He said there is a need to revisit the entire area of Article 282 of the Constitution which deals with grants for the public purpose. The legitimacy of all centrally sponsored schemes (CSS), which are in the domain of the states emanates from the use or misuse of Article 282, he said. Based on the internal exercise of the 15th Finance Commission there are approximately 211 schemes, sub-schemes under the 29-umbrella schemes. “Considering that the States often protest that these schemes are ill designed and not suited to their specific needs and entails significant financial outlays by them, no State has really decided to abandon them,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||Factories hum back to life igniting hopes in a Covid-battered economy||Factories across the country have hummed back to life and electricity plants have continued to sparkle, igniting hopes of a recovery in a Covid-battered economy. The only blip: the hewers of minerals have continued to languish. Data put out by the government’s statisticians showed that the index of industrial production (IIP) for the month of October climbed to 128.5 — its highest level since November last year — reflecting a year-on-year growth of 3.6 per cent over October 2019’s level of 124.0. The performance of the overall index was a lot better than the consensus estimate of around 1 per cent ahead of the announcement. The surge was propelled by 14 of the 23 sub-groups in the manufacturing sector that chalked up positive growth. Plants making other transport equipment showed the highest growth of 26.6 per cent, followed by electrical equipment (20.3 per cent), motor vehicles and trailer makers (17.7 per cent), and rubber and plastic producers (15.5 per cent). A downbeat performance was seen in paper and paper products (-20.2 per cent), coke and refined petroleum products (-17.3 per cent), printing and reproduction of recorded media (-12.6 per cent), apparel production (-11.8 per cent), and beverage manufacture (-11.3 per cent). The IIP is tilted in favour of the manufacturing sector, which has a weightage of 77.63 in the 100-point index. Electricity generation — which has the smallest weight of 7.99 in the IIP — continued to shine and registered growth of 11.2 per cent, far higher than  the 4.9 per cent recorded in October when it turned positive for the first time this fiscal. Growth in power generation has clambered above the pre-Covid level of 8.1 per cent recorded in February, reflecting rising power consumption in homes that now double as workplaces. Mining is the only industry group that continued to falter, contracting 1.5 per cent year-on-year. “The indices of industrial production for the mining, manufacturing and electricity sectors for the month of October 2020 stand at 98.0, 130.7 and 162.2 respectively. These Quick Estimates will undergo revision in subsequent releases as per the revision policy of IIP,” said the statement issued by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation. Aditi Nayar, principal economist with Icra, said,  “While the IIP growth stood at an eight month-high, and displayed its best performance since the pandemic struck, the pace of the improvement in October 2020 was feebler than expected. Coming on the base of a 6.6 per cent contraction in October 2019, the 3.6 per cent growth in IIP in October 2020 is decidedly modest, and suggests that caution in the interpretation of the strength of the economic recovery is still warranted.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||India||India on track to achieve Paris Agreement targets, will exceed expectations: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said India is on track to achieve its Paris Agreement targets and will exceed them beyond expectations, adding that the country has cut down its emission intensity by 21 per cent over 2005 levels. Addressing the virtually held Climate Ambition Summit 2020, he said the conference marks the fifth anniversary of the Paris Agreement -- the most ambitious step in the fight against climate change. “Today, as we are looking to set our sights even higher, we must also not lose sight of the past. We must not only revise our ambitions, but also review our achievements against targets already set,” Modi said. “Only then can our voices be credible for future generations,” he added. He said that in 2047, India will celebrate 100 years as a modern, independent nation. “To all my fellow residents of this planet, I make a solemn pledge today. Centennial India will not only meet its own targets, but will also exceed your expectations,” the Prime Minister noted. “We have reduced our emission intensity by 21 per cent over 2005 levels,” Modi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Hours after Modi’s assurance, farmers go for hunger strike||Farmer leaders on Saturday stuck to their demands and announced that their representatives will sit on a hunger strike on December 14. A nation-wide strike has also been called on the same day. The leaders, addressing a press conference in the Singhu border, said that they are ready to hold talks with the government but will discuss about the repealing of the laws first. Thousands of farmers will kick off their “Delhi Chalo” march with tractors from Rajasthan’s Shahjahanpur through the Jaipur-Delhi Highway at 11 am on Sunday, farmer leader Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu told the media. He also said that their mothers, sisters and daughters will also join the movement soon, in a bid to make the agitation even ‘bigger’, and arrangements have already been made for their stay at the protest sites. The move comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, earlier in the day, said that the new laws will benefit the farmers and the government is committed to their welfare. During the press conference later in the day, farmer leader Pannu said that farmers from other parts of the country are also on their way to join the protesters at camping at various borders of the national capital. “If the government wants to hold talks, we are ready, but our main demand will remain the scrapping of the three laws. We will move onto our other demands only after that,” he said. The union leaders also said that their representatives will sit on a hunger strike between 8 am and 5 pm on December 14. Pannu alleged that the government tried to weaken their agitation, but that the protesting farmers did not let that happen. The farmer leader vowed to keep the protest peaceful. “The government tried to weaken our agitation by dividing us (various farmer unions). I want to say that the ongoing agitation is fully under control of 32 farmer unions. We will fail every government attempt to divide us,” he added. The government had on Friday asked the protesting farmers to be vigilant against their platform being misused, saying some “antisocial” as well as “Leftist and Maoist” elements were conspiring to spoil the atmosphere of the agitation which has been going on for over two weeks now. “We do not know about the presence of anti-social elements in our agitation. The government is trying to distract the farmers. By saying all this, it is trying to malign our movement. And if it thinks there are any such elements in our protests, it should catch them. We have not stopped the government,” BKU leader Rakesh Tikait told PTI Photographs of some protesters at the Tikri border seen holding posters demanding the release of activists arrested under various charges had gone viral, prompting Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to say that these “antisocial elements” are conspiring to spoil the atmosphere of the peasants’ movement under the guise of farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Amid farmers’ protest, support emerges for new laws||As thousands of farmers protest against the three central farm laws at the Delhi borders, a delegation of 29 peasants from Haryana met Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday, extending their support to the legislations. They even threatened to carry out agitations if those are rolled back. Bharatiya Kisan Union's (Mann) Haryana state leader Guni Prakash led the delegation and submitted a “letter of support” to Tomar on the three laws passed by the Parliament in September. They demanded that the government should carry on with the legislations. “We will also protest if the government repeals the laws. We have given a memorandum to all districts,” Prakash told reporters, following the meeting. He also sought to know why the previous government did not implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission till 2014. “Everyone has a right to protest. They have, so do we. We are in support of the three laws, but this protest is being led by Leftists and those who are violent,” Prakash said. The BKU leader claimed that the ongoing protests are no longer a farmers’ movement. “It has taken a political colour. Farmers will get real freedom through these three laws,” he said. This was the second group of farmers from Haryana that met Tomar and extended support to the farm laws. The first group had met the minister on December 7. No breakthrough has been achieved during the six rounds of talks between the Centre and the agitating farmers so far, as the farmers have stuck to their demand for a repeal of the laws, despite the government sending them a draft proposal to amend specific issues without abolishing the legislations. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reassured farmers that the Centre is committed to their welfare and the new farm laws were aimed at boosting their income by giving them alternate markets. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and scrap the mandis (wholesale markets), leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Minor girl gang-raped in UP’s Muzaffarnagar||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two men in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar district, on Saturday, said police. The minor had gone missing for some hours, after which her family began searching for her. She was found in an unconscious state on the roof of a nearby house in the village under Budhana police station limits on Friday evening, they said. She was also bleeding. A case has been registered against the two men under Indian Penal Code Section 376D (gang rape) and the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Circle Officer (CO) Girija Shanker Tripathi told PTI. The two accused were arrested, the CO said. In his police complaint, the minor's father alleged that the accused took her to a nearby house and raped her. He said they left her on the roof of the house in an unconscious state. The family members rushed her to hospital, the girl's father stated. Earlier this week, on December 7, another seven-year-old girl had been gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur area. The accused in this case had lured the minor child with a chocolate towards a tubewell, where he raped the child.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Violence breaks out at iPhone-making plant in Bangalore ||Workers of a Taiwanese technology giant that makes iPhones and other IT products went on a rampage at its Bangalore plant on Saturday over issues related to payment, police said. Large number of workers of the Wistron Corporation hurled stones, broke glass windows, damaged vehicles, furniture, computers and laptops, a police officer said. The Karnataka government strongly condemned the violence at the manufacturing facility in Narasapura Industrial Area in Kolar district, about 50 kilometers from the state capital. The violence, which erupted at around 6 am during the morning shift, resulted in the arrest of 132 people. “The information we received is that the employees had problems related to their salary payment,” Inspector General of Police Seemant Kumar Singh told reporters after visiting the Wistron facility, adding investigations were on. Video footage showed a violent group overturning vehicles, setting them on fire, breaking glass windows in the office leaving a trail of destruction. Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan said strict action will be taken against the miscreants. “Whether employees are anyone else, whoever is responsible for attack on the factory and damaging its property, they will face stringent action,” he said, calling the incident unfortunate. A detailed investigation would be carried out to identify the reasons for the unrest among the workers, the situation that enraged those in the morning shift and cover aspects related to payment of salary. Narayan said that the employees should have resorted to the Labour Commissioner or the Deputy Commissioner of the district if they were facing such issues, instead of taking law in their hands. He added that the officials of his department are in contact with Wistron officials. The company has however not commented on the incident as of now. Wistron manufactures iPhone 7 for Apple, IT products for Lenovo and Microsoft among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Amid protests, PM assures farmers of the benefits of new laws||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reassured farmers that the Centre is committed to their welfare and the new farm laws were aimed at boosting their income by giving them alternate markets. Without directly referring to the farmers’ agitation at the Delhi border over the new legislations, Modi said agricultural reforms as part of government efforts are aimed at removing roadblocks. He added that the new laws will also bring in technology and investment into the farming sector. “Reforms will help draw investment in the agriculture sector and benefit farmers," he said at the annual meeting of industry body FICCI in New Delhi. "The aim of all government reforms is to make farmers prosperous,” the prime minister said. Passed in the previous Parliament session, the new laws will give farmers an opportunity to to sell or buy crops outside their designated mandis, Modi said. “Farmers have now options to sell their crops in mandis as well as to outside parties,” he said, adding, “While mandis are being modernised, digital platforms are also available to farmers to buy and sell their produce.” “All these efforts are directed towards improving the farmers' income so that they become prosperous. When farmers prosper, the country will prosper.” Thousands of farmers from states including Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against these legislations for 17 days now, demanding their repeal. They fear that these laws will prompt the government to stop making direct crop purchases at minimum state-set prices, called minimum support price (MSP). The government has so far refused to heed to their demand but has promised to continue the MSP-based procurement. “After the implementation of recent reforms, farmers will get new markets and new opportunities and they will get the help of technology. The country's cold storage infrastructure will become modern,” Modi said. “From all these, there will be higher investments in the agriculture sector. The maximum benefit of these reforms would be to small and marginal farmers who earn their living from small plots of land,” he added. Modi opined that the government has taken several steps to reform the agriculture sector. “Today the agriculture sector has become more vibrant than the past,” he said. Listing his government's farmer-friendly measures, Modi said the government has encouraged producing ethanol from sugarcane. “This ethanol is blended in petrol to cut India's oil import dependence and gives farmers remunerative prices for their crops,” the PM said. Modi said farmers will get technology and benefit from access to the market. Expressing dissatisfaction over the limited participation of India Inc in the agriculture sector, the Prime Minister asked industries to show their interest and increase investment in the sector. “Unfortunately, the India Inc has not made adequate investments in agriculture and private players did not explore the sector to its full potential, rather they worked in a limited fashion”, he said. Rural areas offer huge scope for agro-based industries. "Policies of the government are designed to promote rural agriculture based economy," he said. "The government is committed to protect the interests of farmers through its policies and intentions." Modi said the agriculture sector and allied sectors like agri infrastructure, food processing, and cold chain had been working in silos. "These are being removed."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||MEA non-committal about future of India-China border standoff||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said India was being tested in the seven-month-long border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh and expressed confidence it will rise to the occasion and meet the national security challenge. In an interactive session at the FICCI's annual general meeting, Jaishankar also said that what has happened in eastern Ladakh was not actually in China's interest as it has significantly impacted public sentiment in India. Calling the "events" along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) very disturbing, the external affairs minister said they have raised some very "basic concerns''. When asked whether it will be a long-haul or a breakthrough is expected soon, Jaishankar said: "I would not go into prediction zone at all whether it is going to be easy or not, and what will be the timelines and so on." "I also believe that what has happened is not actually in the interest of China. Because what it has done is -- it has significantly impacted public sentiment (in India). Professionally, I have seen the evolution of how the Indian public feels about China over the last many decades and I am old enough to remember much more difficult days, especially in my childhood and in my teens," he said. Jaishankar said a lot of work had gone into developing the relationship on both sides. "I do not believe that the events of this year have helped at all. In fact I think the real danger is that the goodwill which was so carefully developed will dissipate." "But I also would say that, yes, we are being tested. I have every confidence that we will rise to the occasion; we will meet that national security challenge. But beyond that, at this time, I would really frankly keep my own counsel," Jaishankar said. The armies of India and China are locked in a tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh since early May. Both sides have held multiple rounds of military and diplomatic talks. However, no breakthrough has been achieved yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Leftist, Maoist elements infiltrating farmer agitation: Piyush Goyal||As the farmers' protest against new farm laws entered its 17th day, Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said the agitation no longer remains a farmers' movement as it has been "infiltrated by Leftist and Maoist elements" demanding the release of those put behind bars for "anti-national activities." This, he said, was clearly to derail agriculture reforms brought by the government. Goyal, however, did not say if the government had or is planning to take any action against any person belonging to banned outfits seen at the protests. "We now realise that the so-called farmer agitation hardly remains a farmers' agitation. It has almost got infiltrated by Leftist and Maoist elements, a flavour of which we saw over the last two days when there were extraneous demands to release people who have been put behind bars for anti-national (and) who have been put behind bars for illegal activities," Goyal, the Minister for Railways, Commerce and Industry and Food and Consumers Affairs, said at FICCI's annual meeting. The demands being raised on a farmers' platform to release so-called intellectuals and poets clearly demonstrate that the effort to derail farm law improvements is probably in the hands of certain elements who are not good for India, he said. "I would urge all well-meaning business leaders and all well-meaning intellectuals who are involved with Ficci, who are on this webcast, to talk about the benefits of these farm laws, to understand the law. Should you have any apprehension, please talk to us," Goyal said. The minister assured that these laws are for the benefit of nearly 100 million farmers across the country. He said this is a government that has been committed to farmer welfare, which has almost doubled procurement under minimum support price or MSP, which is "wrongly sought to be portrayed as being under danger." "This is a government that has ensured that farmers get 50 per cent over their cost of production. "This is a government that has increased the agricultural budget nearly six times, never before increased to today nearly USD 20 billion, Rs 1.34 lakh crore invested in the agricultural sector," said the minister. Goyal urged industry leaders to educate the farmers in their sphere of influence. He urged them to "explain the benefits, explain how these laws without...in any way touching the past systems, open up new opportunities to do trade and commerce and business for our farmers so that they can go in for more investment. "Explain to them how these reforms will spur investment in rural India, there will be R&D, more opportunities for value addition and, therefore, farmers can increase their income," Goyal urged industry leaders. Responding to Goyal's comments, Former Ficci president and Vice-Chairman of Bharti Enterprises Rajan Bharti Mittal said, "Clearly, you can see when you do the tough reforms like the farm bills, please don't step back. The industry will back you up." Besides, talking about reducing compliance burdens, Goyal said efforts were on to create the first genuine single-window system in terms of compliances, ease of approval process. "We intend to come up with a much easier process to meet with compliances, while simultaneously working across ministries to see if we can reduce the burden of compliances," he added. Speaking about the proposed Brand India initiative, the minister said it is an idea where the government and the industry will partner with each other and develop both on the Make in India side and overall Brand India side. "We are also looking at branding India. It is time now that India demonstrates to the world its leadership position and commitment of quality," said the minister. He observed that under the Brand India initiative, consumers both in India and internationally will be educated about products which are made in India. "We are pushing all industries to certify the Make in India products," Goyal added. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has worked tirelessly and inspired the nation with his vision, simplicity and courage to think beyond the past limitations and willingness to embrace change. The minister said the government will identify areas where the country has competitive and comparative advantages, where we can become global players and contribute to global trade in a bigger way. Observing that the tyre and rubber industry can become a great business leader in the years to come, he said the Centre will encourage rubber plantation through the support of private investment and give adequate support to the tyre industry so that it can grow and flourish. "We have identified another 24 sectors on which work is going on by industry leaders who are working together to come up with actionable agenda to add nearly 200 lakh crores worth of manufacturing in India in the next 10 years," Goyal said. Describing start-ups as the backbone of the New India, Goyal said start-ups and their ecosystem are encouraging innovation and promoting young entrepreneurs. He urged the industry to support start-ups by providing them financial support, hand-holding, opportunities and mentorship. Referring to Aatmanirbhar Bharat, he emphasised that "we are not at all suggesting that we are anti-imports", and that it is about India improving its quality and scale of production.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Fire accident in Hyderabad factory injures eight ||Eight people were injured in a fire accident in a chemical factory in Hyderabad, on Saturday. The incident took place at Vindhya Organics Pvt Ltd in industrial Development Area, Bollaram of Hyderabad, news agency ANI reported. "Four fire engines were rushed to the spot as thick fumes were seen billowing after the explosion inside the factory," Sangareddy divisional fire officer V Srinivas told reporters, as reported by NDTV.com. The blaze was almost brought under control and efforts to fully douse the fire were on, police said. The injured have been shifted to hospital, they said, adding further details would be known after the fire-fighting operation is over. Television footage showed fire and smoke emanating from the scene soon after the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth turns 70, supporters throng his residence||Superstar Rajinikanth turned 70 on Saturday and his fans thronged his residence here to celebrate while Prime Minister Narendra Modi and a host of leaders extended their wishes. Many supporters and fans who gathered outside his home, wore T-shirts with a brightly embossed image of the actor and his political catchphrases like 'Ippo Illaina Eppovaum Illai' (Now or never) as they appeared swept by political fervour with their favourite star's recent announcement of party launch. On December 3, Rajinikanth announced the launch of his political party in January 2021 ending years of suspense and speculation on his political entry. Assembly elections are due in Tamil Nadu in April-May next year. The jubilant fans cut a cake shouting 'Thalaiva Vaazhga' (Leader livelong) and they distributed sweets to the people in many places. Several fans, including women who arrived at his home since early morning to wish him personally were disappointed when they were told that Rajinikanth was not available and his absence was confirmed by his public relations team. Many supporters offered prayers at places of worship and some brought 'prasad' from temples to the actor's home. 'Aatchi Matram, Arasiyal Matram Ippo Illaina Eppovum Illai,' (Political/regime change, now or never) and 'Thalaivarum Mudalvarum Neeye' (You are our leader and chief minister) were among the slogans found printed on the shirts of the actor's supporters. The fans stuck wall posters as well hailing him in many parts of the city and in the vicinity of his residence in the upscale Poes Garden area. 'The fearless,' The future of Tamil Nadu' were some of the choicest words picked by Rajinikanth's followers to describe him. On his twitter handle, Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the actor. 'Dear @rajinikanth Ji, wishing you a Happy Birthday! May you lead a long and healthy life.' Chief Minister K Palaniswami tweeted wishing the actor a long and healthy life. DMK chief M K Stalin spoke to the actor over phone and wished him. In his Facebook page, the Dravidian party leader extended his best wishes. BJP national general secretary and party in charge of Tamil Nadu, C T Ravi were among others who wished him. '#HappyBirthdayRajinikanth' was the top trending tag on Twitter. His supporters also used a common 'DP' (Display picture) in social media to symbolise his evolution from a noted actor into a much-adored top star, whose political entry was being eagerly awaited by his followers. Born Shivaji Rao Gaekwad on December 12, 1950 he was christened 'Rajinikanth,' by ace Tamil filmmaker K Balachander in whose 1975 flick 'Apporva Raagangal' he debuted, in a supportive role.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||How many more deaths will it take to repeal the laws, asks Rahul||The Congress on Saturday cited a media report to claim that 11 farmers had died in the last 17 days while protesting against the new agri laws, with former party chief Rahul Gandhi asking how many more sacrifices will farmers have to make to get the legislation repealed. At least five rounds of formal talks have taken place between the Centre and representatives of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, protesting on various borders of the national capital for over two weeks, but the deadlock has continued with the unions sticking to their main demand for the repeal of the three contentious laws. "How many more sacrifices will the farmers have to make to get the agri laws repealed?" Gandhi asked in a tweet in Hindi, tagging a media report which claimed that 11 protesting farmers had lost their lives in the last 17 days due to various reasons such as ill health or a mishap. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that despite the "martyrdom of 11 farmer brothers in the last 17 days, the Modi government is not relenting". "They (government) are still standing with their 'money providers' not with 'annadaatas' (food providers)," he alleged in a tweet in Hindi. "The country wants to know -- 'Is Rajdharma (constitutional responsibility) bigger or Rajhat' (stubbornness)?" Surjewala asked, tagging the media report that Gandhi also cited. Farmers are protesting the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Economy recovering faster than expected, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that recovery is faster than expected and economic indicators are encouraging. Addressing the 93rd Annual Convention of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry., he said India prioritised saving lives during the Covid-19 pandemic and the government's policies and actions were oriented towards that. The Prime Minister said that when one sector grows, its effect is seen in several other sectors. "But imagine what would happen when unnecessary walls are erected between industries. No industry will grow as fast as it should," PM Modi said. He then pointed specifically towards the controversial farm laws brought in by the central government in September. "Agriculture and its related sectors such as agricultural infrastructure, food processing, storage, cold chains had seen walls between them. Now these walls are being removed. These reforms will give farmers new markets, advantages of technology, and help bring investments. It is my country's farmers who will benefit the most from all this," he said. Amidst protests by farmers over the new farm laws, Modi said the government is committed to protecting the interest of the farming community through its policies and intentions. The government has taken various initiatives to improve the income of people engaged in the farm sector, he said, adding that farmers now have options to sell their crops in mandis as well as to outside parties. The government at any cost is committed to protect the interest of farmers through "its policies and intentions", he emphasised. Expressing dissatisfaction over the limited participation of India Inc in the agriculture sector, the Prime Minister asked industries to show their interest and increase investment in the sector. Frankly speaking, he said, "Unfortunately, the India Inc has not made adequate investments in agriculture and private players did not explore the sector to its full potential, rather they worked in limited fashion". Citing an example, he said, "The private sector's participation is not as per the desired level in cold storage and fertiliser manufacturing". The Prime Minister further said that India has been through ups and downs in 2020 but things have improved fast. There is a road map for recovery, he added. Addressing the convention, the Prime Minister said tax terrorism and Inspector Raj are things of the past. India is now among the few nations which have implemented faceless assessment and faceless appeal with regard to tax matters, Modi said. Even the corporate tax in India is very competitive after the moderation affected last year, he added. With regard to foreign capital inflows, he said India has seen record FDI and foreign portfolio investments during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||On birthday, Yuvraj wishes for swift resolution of farmers' issues ||Former India all-rounder Yuvraj Singh on Saturday turned 39 but instead of celebrating his birthday this year, the 2011 World Cup hero hoped for a "swift resolution" to the ongoing farmers' issues through dialogue. Yuvraj also urged people to take necessary precautions against coronavirus as the country continues its fight against the pandemic. "Birthdays are an opportunity to fulfil a wish or desire and this birthday rather than celebrating I only wish and pray for a swift resolution of the ongoing talks between our farmers and our government," Yuvraj said in a Twitter post. "Undoubtedly, farmers are the lifeblood of the nation and I truly believe that there is no problem which cannot be resolved through peaceful dialogue," he added. The 2011 World Cup-winning star also distanced himself from his father Yograj Singh's unsavoury comments made earlier this week during a protest rally. "As a proud Indian, I am indeed saddened and upset by the statements made by Mr. Yograj Singh. I wish to clarify that his remarks have been made in an individual capacity and my ideologies are not the same in any manner," Yuvraj said. "I also urge everyone to continue taking precautions to fight against Covid-19. The pandemic is not over yet and we need to continue to be careful to defeat the virus completely," he said and ended the post with 'Jai Jawan! Jai Kisan! Jai Hind!' Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are camping at various Delhi border points, protesting against the new farm laws, which they claim will dismantle the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporate houses. In a show of solidarity with the farmers, some sportspersons from Punjab and Haryana, including Khel Ratna awardee Vijender Singh, have threatened to return the national sports awards they had won. The agitating farmers' concern is that these laws, aimed at reforming the sector, will eliminate the MSP and mandis that ensure their earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their produce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Security beefed up at Delhi borders after farmers' announcement to intensify stir||The Delhi Police has increased security arrangements at the city's border points following the announcement by agitating farmers to block the Jaipur-Delhi and the Delhi-Agra Expressways on Saturday to further intensify their protest against the Centre's new agri laws. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at various areas on Delhi's borders for the last 16 days and demanding that the legislation be withdrawn. The police have made adequate arrangements and these include multi-layered barricading and deployment of personnel. Measures have also been taken to ensure commuters do not face inconvenience at places were protest are being staged, a senior police officer said. The Delhi Traffic Police has deployed its personnel across important border points to ensure commuters do not face difficulties and is constantly updating people about open and closed routes on its Twitter handle. The developments come after farmer leaders on Wednesday rejected a government proposal to amend the new agri laws and announced they would intensify their agitation by blocking the Jaipur-Delhi and the Yamuna expressway by Saturday. In a tweet, the traffic police on Saturday informed commuters about the closure of the Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Mangesh borders. Since these borders are closed, it suggested that motorists take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad,Saboli and Singhu School toll tax borders. "Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road. So, commuters have been advised to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and National Highway-44," the traffic police said. Due to the ongoing farmers' protests, it said that both the Chilla and the Ghazipur borders are also closed for traffic from Noida and Ghaziabad. "The Chilla & Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests. People are advised to take an alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara & bhopra borders," it tweeted. "The Tikri and the Dhansa borders are also closed for traffic movement but the Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrian movement," the traffic police said in a tweet. Those going towards Haryana can take Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders as they are open, the traffic police said. The government had asked farmer groups to consider its proposals for amending the laws to address their concerns and said it was open to discussing its offer further whenever the unions want. Farmers leaders on Thursday also announced they would block railway tracks across the country if their demands were not met by the government and would announce a date for that soon. At least five rounds of formal talks have taken place between the Centre and representatives of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, protesting on various borders of the national capital for over two weeks, but the deadlock has continued with the unions sticking to their main demand for the repeal of the three contentious laws. The sixth round of talks between the government and farm union leaders, which was scheduled for Wednesday morning, was cancelled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Covid tally crosses 98 lakh mark, recovery rate close to 95 per cent||India's Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 98.26 lakh with 30,006 new cases in a day, while 93,24,328 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 94.88 per cent on Saturday, according to the Union health ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 98,26,775 and the death toll climbed to 1,42,628 with the virus claiming 442 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate further declined to 1.45 per cent. There are 3,59,819 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 3.66 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a cumulative total of 15,26,97,399 samples have been tested up to December 11 with 10,65,176 samples being tested on Friday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20. The 442 new fatalities include 87 from Maharashtra, 60 from Delhi, 50 from West Bengal, 29 each from Kerala and Punjab, 23 from Haryana, 16 from Karnataka and 14 each from Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. A total of 1,42,628 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,059 from Maharashtra followed by 11,928 from Karnataka, 11,870 from Tamil Nadu, 9,934 from Delhi, 8,966 from West Bengal, 8,025 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,049 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,036 from Punjab and 4,148 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Carbon emission cut during pandemic but not enough to limit climate change||A number of global climate reports released recently have pointed to a “record drop” in carbon dioxide in the atmosphere in 2020 because of reduced economic activities caused by the pandemic. The reports, however, have warned that the world is still heading towards a temperature rise in excess of 3°C this century unless the countries become more ambitious and effective with their emission cuts. Carbon dioxide is the main greenhouse gas triggering climate change. The reports have listed India among the countries with the maximum emission cuts due to Covid-induced restrictions. They have also recognised India’s “high” rank in climate performance over the last year. The Global Carbon Project, which is part of the Future Earth research initiative on global sustainability, said in a report on Friday that “global fossil CO2 emissions are expected to decline approximately 2.4 billion tonnes of CO2 in 2020 (-7 per cent), a record drop”. “The decrease in 2020 emissions appears more pronounced in the US (-12 per cent), EU27 (-11 per cent) and India (-9 per cent), with the extensive Covid-19 restrictions enhanced by pre-existing trends, and least pronounced in China (-1.7 per cent),” the report said. However, the report warned that “cuts in global emissions of the order of 1 to 2 billion tonnes of CO2 are needed each year between 2020 and 2030 to limit climate change in line with the Paris Agreement goals”. The Emissions Gap Report 2020, released recently, stated that the “world is still heading for a temperature rise in excess of 3°C this century — far beyond the Paris Agreement goals of limiting global warming to well below 2°C and pursuing 1.5°C”. The report points out that “governments should pull out all the stops to implement a green recovery and strengthen their pledges before the next climate meeting in 2021”. The report has reminded that despite the pandemic, “the year 2020 is on track to be one of the warmest on record, with wildfires, droughts, storms and glacier melt intensifying”. Earlier, the Climate Change Performance Index (CCPI), 2021, released by Germanwatch and New Climate Institute together with the Climate Action Network (CAN International) had also pointed out that the dip in greenhouse gas emissions in 2020, induced by the pandemic, might turn out to be temporary if no structural changes were made. The report has given India a “high” rank — 10th — one place lower compared to last year but above most developed and developing countries in climate performance. It, however, warned that overall none of the countries are on track to achieve the goals finalised in the Paris Agreement. While China, the biggest emitter of greenhouse gases, was placed at 33, second biggest emitter US is at the bottom of the list. “The report does not consider the equity and CBDR (common but differentiated responsibilities) factors which are critical in the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change process. If those are considered, India would have performed better,” Ravi Shankar Prasad, additional secretary in the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change, told The Telegraph. “The reports clearly underline the importance of giving high priority to climate change along with Covid recovery…,” said Harjeet Singh, global lead of climate change at ActionAid International. Sanjay Vashisht, director of the Climate Action Network, South Asia (CANSA), said: “While India is doing well on solar, but it’s continuing expansion of fossil fuel could defeat climate solutions and sustainable development gains.” “India’s performance is both by default and design. On one side an extremely low per capita emission value due to high population size helps, but we also should recognise the solar power transition in the last decade,” said Chandra Bhushan, a climate change expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Kerala MP vouches for state healthcare policy||Rabindra Sangeet helped. So did Bade Ghulam Ali Khan. Perhaps the  video clips of Diego Maradona’s matches, too. But the biggest takeaway for M.B. Rajesh, Kerala CPM state committee member and former MP, was how the famed public healthcare system in the southern state lived up to its name when he tested positive for Covid-19 last month. “My experience reaffirmed my belief that a robust public healthcare system and efficient governance are indispensable,” the politician wrote in a Facebook post that detailed his stay at the Palakkad district government hospital in north Kerala. He was discharged on November 30. Critics would say Rajesh, belonging to the ruling Left Democratic Front, is expected to say little else about the state machinery, run by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, that won international acclaim in the initial months of the Covid outbreak in India.  Since then, the number of cases has risen in Kerala and attention has been deflected from the government’s effort by controversies, such as a gold smuggling scandal, on multiple fronts. But Rajesh’s post, which names and thanks many healthcare professionals who took care of him at the state-run hospital, does make a compelling case. “Today morning, a journalist from Delhi had called to discuss the civic elections in Kerala. What she told me during the course of the conversation shocked me. The bill of a patient who was treated for 14 days in a renowned private hospital in Delhi apparently touched Rs 40 lakh. A patient had to spend Rs 8 lakh in Mumbai. Yesterday, a friend sent me a complaint and a bill in a private hospital in Kerala that charged a patient Rs 8.13 lakh for 14 days,” “It is against this backdrop, I stayed 10 days in the district hospital and returned home Covid-free after spending a negligible amount,” wrote Rajesh who resisted attempts by some well-wishers to get him shifted to “better” hospitals in Kochi, the commercial capital of Kerala. “See, what would have happened if I was treated outside Kerala? Or in a private hospital in Kerala? It would have broken the back of even a middle-class person like me, with a reasonable economic background,” the former MP added. In private hospitals, the treatment costs vary according to the condition of patients, and the bills usually are high if admission to the intensive care unit is required. Rajesh, 49, also indirectly reminds citizens of the need to help the government in times of crises. “My father who retired from the armed forces, my wife and sister who are teachers and I had donated a month’s salary to the chief minister’s relief fund. I have received in return service that is far more valuable than what we gave. I was personally witness to that,” he said in the Facebook post. The CPM leader makes no mention of it but a state scheme to defer six days’ salary of government employees each month for five months had ignited controversy. The government eventually withdrew a decision to extend what came to be known as the “salary challenge”. In the Facebook post, Rajesh wrote: “I have given speeches on how the state government was always with the people. Now, my own experience has proved that.” Rajesh shares with Bengalis two of their greatest loves —  Rabindra Sangeet and Maradona. So much so that he turned to Rabindranath Tagore for emotional support during the bleak hospital days. Such musical succour became all the more necessary when the hospital stay was made bleaker by the death of the Argentine genius, whom the communist politician adored as much for his Left leanings as for his football. “I have been a Rabindra Sangeet fan for several years, thanks to a friend who has studied it. I don’t follow Bengali too well but love the genre,” Rajesh, now convalescing at his home in Palakkad, told The Telegraph on Friday. “When it comes to Rabindra Sangeet, I listen to all the singers — I have no favourites.” Rajesh added: “I used to slip into some kind of depression in hospital, especially at nights when I couldn’t sleep. That’s when music came into play.” He said he drew strength also from listening to recordings of classical vocalists Bade Ghulam Ali Khan and Kumar Gandharva and the flautist Hariprasad Chaurasia. A coincidence of sorts had compounded for him the “shock” of Maradona's death, four days after Rajesh had been admitted to hospital on November 21 with suggestions of pneumonia along with Covid-19 and a low oxygen level. “I had been asked by the Mathrubhumi newspaper to write a piece on Maradona's football and politics. While I immediately agreed since I often write on sports, I tested positive the following day (November 17),” Rajesh said. “I didn’t learn about his (November 25) death until I got the morning newspaper the day after from a nurse. I was shell-shocked to see the headline,” Rajesh said. “As a huge fan of Maradona since my teens, I was quite emotional the whole day and kept watching video clips of his matches on my mobile.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Support for farmers grows in spite of vilification campaign||Support for the farmers’ movement has grown so far in spite of a vilification campaign by gimlet-eyed propagandists loyal to the Narendra Modi government. More farmers are heading towards Delhi from other parts of the country. Besides, the participation from Haryana, where the farmers are massed along the Delhi border at various points, is now vying with that from Punjab. The Punjab farmers are keeping the agitation energetic by getting people by rotation. The first batch of farmers who have been here for a fortnight are returning home but a new set is coming in daily to relieve them and keep up the momentum. Haryana, which has a BJP-led coalition government, is getting restive. This was reflected in mass resignations from the panchayati raj institutions in solidarity with the farmers. In Hisar alone, 35 members of the panchayati raj institutions resigned on Thursday amid suggestions that elected representatives from Fatehabad, Sirsa, Jind and Kaithal are likely to follow suit. The impact on the ground has been perceptible. Dharmendra, the actor and former BJP parliamentarian whose son Sunny Deol has been fighting shy of taking an unequivocal stand, was compelled to tweet: “I am extremely in pain to see the suffering of my farmer brothers. Government should do something fast.” The Right-wing storm-troopers will find it difficult to pounce on Dharmendra, especially since his wife Hema Malini and Sunny are sitting BJP parliamentarians now. With the government claiming that the farmers’ organisations have walked away from the talks, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said: “Farmers’ organisations are always ready for talks and have responded each time the government has called. It is the government which is adamant on continuing with not repealing the three acts and the Electricity Bill 2020 which is the main demand of the farmers.” Further, the farmers’ union leaders underlined that they had engaged with the government even though members of the ruling establishment, including a Union minister, had cast aspersions on them and called them names. “Who is vitiating the atmosphere? Us or them? We are exercising our democratic right by protesting peacefully, yet we are called Khalistani and what not,” said a farmer leader. The government’s camp followers have latched on to the observance of International Human Rights Day at the Tikri border on Thursday as evidence of the farmers’ agitation being hijacked by “Left extremists”. Farmers’ union leaders have distanced themselves from this event and iterated their call to keep contentious issues out of the movement, which is essentially a broad coalition of organisations from across the spectrum. The International Human Rights Day event was organised by the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Ugrahan) and saw their members hold up posters of people the Right wing describes as “urban Naxals”. Asked about the emergence of posters of civil rights activists like Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Navlakha at the protest in Tikri, farmers’ union leader Darshan Pal said some unions had decided to observe International Human Rights Day at the protest site. Conscious of how this would be used against the agitation, the peasants’ leaders are said to have iterated on Friday at their daily meeting the need to keep such issues out of the joint movement against the three new farm laws. “We have been very careful about keeping politicians from using our stage. Though they have visited us to extend solidarity, not one has been allowed to address the gathering,” a union leader said. While several retired bureaucrats and veterans from Punjab have already expressed solidarity with the farmers, on Friday they had Constitutional Conduct — a collective of former civil servants — pick up the cudgels for them. In a statement, Constitutional Conduct said: “The protests have spread across many states and are being supported by several other groups even though a largely complicit media refuses to report their true magnitude and reach. “In our capacity as former civil servants who stand up for constitutional freedoms, we would like to emphasise our support for the democratic and constitutional right of peaceful protest being exercised by farmers and others. It is time that the ruling dispensation listens carefully to the demands being made and demonstrates its respect for democratic traditions, procedures and practices by engaging in dialogue inside and outside Parliament.” Referring to the haste in which the farm laws were enacted, the retired bureaucrats noted: “Time was not given to debate the bills and they were railroaded through Parliament; the demand for a division in the Rajya Sabha was not accepted and a voice vote was held amid tumult and confusion, leading to suspicions about the procedure employed….” About the vilification of those who dare to differ with the government, they said: “The facile option of labelling all those who disagree with one or other of the actions of the government as ‘anti-national’, ‘pro-Pakistani’, ‘award-wapasi gang’, ‘urban Naxals’ and ‘Khan Market gang’ is chosen to avoid substantive discussion and debate, the very heart of the democratic process, and to vilify and criminalise dissent.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Karnataka considers Covid cap at IAF show||The Karnataka government has recommended a cap on allowing general public at Aero India 2021 in view of a second wave of Covid-19 forecast for early next year. With the showcase aerospace exhibition slated for February 3-7, the state health department has written to the defence ministry about limiting the presence of visitors by providing a “virtual” alternative. The health ministry has in the letter to the director of the defence exhibition organisation recommended that people who usually flock to the exhibition in thousands could be restricted by allowing some to attend physically and others to view the events online. The decision to restrict the number of people at the event held every year at the IAF base in Yelahanka in north Bangalore was based on the health ministry’s technical advisory committee report that warned of a second wave of Covid-19 in January-February. A defence ministry official, who cannot be named, told The Telegraph on Friday that a final decision on limiting the entry of general public would be taken by the ministry. “We have two more months to go for the event. So the decision will come closer to the event itself,” the official said. “At the moment, we (in Bangalore) are going ahead with full-scale preparations for the event. Since it is a very dynamic situation, we are ready to make any changes in plans in keeping with the Covid guidelines,” the source said. While the initial days of the event are restricted to delegates and participants, thousands of people turn up on the last two days, especially to watch the aerobatic displays. A health ministry official said the Covid guidelines at that time would dictate the number of people who could be allowed to enter the venue. “We can only hope against a second wave of the pandemic. Since the situation is very fluid, we will be monitoring the daily Covid cases before recommending the number of people that can enter the venue,” said the official. The daily Covid numbers have steadily climbed down from over 10,000 in early October to over a 1,000 in the last few days. “We can relax the suggested restrictions if this downward trend continues and a second wave does not happen,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Third survey to look for Covid antibodies||India’s health research agency has planned a third nationwide survey during January to determine the proportions of people infected by the novel coronavirus amid speculation whether the infections themselves have slowed down the epidemic. The survey under discussion between Indian Council of Medical Research officials and epidemiology specialists is likely to adopt the same methodology as the earlier surveys and look for antibodies to the coronavirus in 400 households each from across 70 districts. The fresh exercise will for the first time specifically look for antibodies that could indicate possible protection from future infections from SARS-CoV-2, the microbe that causes the coronavirus disease, researchers familiar with the discussions have told The Telegraph. Health officials and researchers guiding India’s Covid-19 vaccination strategies have suggested earlier that people who are already protected through antibodies might not need to be vaccinated although this is an idea still under discussion. The earlier surveys had suggested that the number of people unknowingly infected by the coronavirus had increased over 10-fold within three months from around 6.4 million in early May to around 74.3 million in early August. Scientists said these were closer to the true burden of infections and not the lab-confirmed cases — less than 50,000 in early May and less than 2.5 million in early August. But India’s epidemic has shrunk since mid-September with a near-steady fall in the number of daily new cases in many states and a steady reduction in the number of active cases from over a million in mid-September to around 363,000 on Friday. “More than four months have elapsed since the last snapshot — we again want to find out what proportions of Indians have already been infected ,” D.C.S. Reddy, a senior community medicine specialist and member of the ICMR’s Covid-19 epidemiology and surveillance group, told this newspaper. The decline in the new infections has prompted some experts to suggest that the epidemic is slowing down because so many people have already been infected that they themselves serve as barriers to the spread of the virus. Some researchers have cited epidemiological calculations to suggest that when the proportion of infected people crosses 60 per cent, a phenomenon called herd immunity protection sets in, and the epidemic itself stops, giving way to a smaller trickle of infections. “We currently see uneven patterns of infections in different states — through this new survey, we’ll try determine whether there is, as predicted, a correlation between high infection prevalence rates and fewer infections,” Reddy said. An independent single-city survey in Pune — examining different areas of the city — had last month turned up evidence of such a correlation. Areas with infection prevalence levels of over 60 per cent had significantly fewer new infections than areas with lower infection prevalence levels. The scientists have also proposed that the third survey should also look for antibodies specific to the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein that the virus uses to enter human cells. The presence of these spike protein antibodies is indicative of protection from future infections. The second survey in August had revealed prevalence differences across urban and rural areas — 15.6 per cent in urban slum areas, 8.2 per cent in urban non-slum areas, and 4.4 per cent in rural areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Kashmir sessions judge accuses HC judge of bail obstruction||A principal sessions judge in Srinagar has passed an order complaining that a high court judge obstructed him from granting bail to an individual, kicking up a controversy over the judiciary’s functioning in post-370 Kashmir. In the order, judge Abdul Rashid Malik recused himself from hearing a plea for anticipatory bail from Srinagar resident Sheikh Salman, saying Justice Javid Iqbal Wani had directed him, through a phone call by his secretary, not to grant bail to Sheikh. Sheikh faces several charges including attempt to murder. Several lawyers in Srinagar told The Telegraph that Malik’s order was unprecedented and appeared to support allegations about senior judges and the executive increasingly interfering in the functioning of the lower courts. However, they cautioned that there was more to the matter than met the eye. A lawyer underlined that Sheikh’s detention was related to a “normal crime” rather than to the events of August 2019 when Jammu and Kashmir lost its special status and hundreds were arrested under the stringent Public Safety Act. “He (Sheikh) had assaulted a young man and brazenly posted a detailed account of his bravado on social media, which earned him an FIR,” the lawyer said. When the case came up before Malik on December 7, he passed an order saying: “At 9.51am, the undersigned received a call from Mr Tariq Ahmad Mota, secretary to Hon’ble Mr Justice Javid Iqbal Wani. “The following were the contents of his mobile call: ‘I have been directed by Hon’ble Mr Justice Javid Iqbal Wani to convey you to make sure that no bail is granted to Sheikh Salman. If there is any anticipatory bail pending, the direction is the same’.” Malik wrote that “for the aforesaid reasons, the undersigned expresses the inability to hear the matter”. “This application is submitted to the learned registrar judicial, High Court of Jammu and Kashmir, with a request that the same may be placed before the chief justice as the matter involves the liberty of the person,” the order said. It directed the petitioner’s counsel to appear before the high court registrar judicial. Sources said the application was forwarded to Chief Justice Geeta Mittal on December 9, the day she retired. She referred the case back to the district court, where another judge granted bail to Sheikh. Justice Wani has not reacted to the claim. Mota said he had “no comments” to offer. A Srinagar lawyer, who requested anonymity, said there was nothing unusual in the matter except for a judge choosing to put a private conversation on record. “These things happen in Jammu and Kashmir as much as they happen in any other part of the country. It’s not clear what is transpiring behind the curtains, particularly since it happened in the last week of the chief justice’s tenure,” he said. “But the judiciary has been in crisis in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of (Article 370 provisions).” High Court Bar Association spokesperson Ghulam Nabi Shaheen parried questions about the incident but said judges had stopped acting independently since the August 2019 clampdown. “They (the judges function) at the dictation of unseen forces. Out of hundreds of habeas corpus petitions, the judges have taken up only a few,” Shaheen said. “In the past two to three months, you cannot point out a single habeas corpus case that has been heard by any judge. The Supreme Court has been clear that habeas corpus petitions should be disposed of in a week’s time. But that is being violated.” Shaheen said the courts claim that 167 such petitions had been disposed of, but most of them had become fractious as the detention periods had expired by then. Justice Wani is the son-in-law of former High Court Bar Association president Mian Abdul Qayoom, a separatist ideologue who was among the thousands arrested in connection with the events of August 2019. Wani is the lone Kashmiri Muslim to have been elevated from the Bar to the bench during the six years of the Narendra Modi government. As additional advocate-general last year, Wani had opposed the release of his father-in-law, a Public Safety Act (PSA) detainee. Lawyers said hundreds of habeas corpus petitions, mostly challenging PSA detentions, were pending with the courts. “The cases are listed after inordinate delays and when they come up for hearing, they are adjourned. Many cases have not even been heard. There are outside, unseen forces (behind) it,” Shaheen said. The registrar judicial, Masrat Shaheen, refused to comment on Malik’s order but denied that habeas corpus petitions were not being heard. “I don’t think so. Lots of cases have been disposed of,” Masrat told this newspaper. She said she “won’t comment” when asked whether those cases alone had been disposed of where the detention period had already expired.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||India||Panel rejects govt's request for dropping reservation assurance||A parliamentary panel has yet again rejected the government’s request for dropping an assurance given in the Lok Sabha for introducing reservation in admissions to private higher educational institutions. The Lok Sabha Committee on Government Assurances (2019-20), headed by BJP MP Rajendra Agrawal, has in its ninth report submitted in Parliament on September 20 rejected the request of the department of higher education under the education ministry to remove the quota assurance. In its request, the government had cited a pending case in the Supreme Court. “The ministry has requested the committee to drop the assurances on the ground that the matter is sub judice. The committee feels that the matter of reservation in private unaided educational institutions is a social justice and empowerment measure and is needed to be brought to its logical conclusion. The ministry is required to apprise the committee of the final outcome of the matter along with the directions of the Supreme Court in this regard,” the committee said in its remarks to the government’s request. A similar committee of the Rajya Sabha had in 2016 accepted the government’s request to drop the assurance. The then HRD ministry had made the request to both the committees in 2015 and kept renewing the plea before the Lok Sabha panel. The Lok Sabha panel had earlier rejected the pleas in 2016 and 2018. If the assurance is dropped, the government would be free from the parliamentary obligation of explaining the delay in introducing the promised quota. The assurance had been made in 2006, 2011 and 2013 in response to questions by parliamentarians who had enquired about the implementation of the 93rd constitutional amendment of 2005 that had created the scope for quota in admission for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes in private educational institutions. The assurances had been made by then junior HRD minister D. Purandeswari in 2006 and 2011 and again by junior HRD minister Shashi Tharoor in 2013. Through the 93rd constitutional amendment, Article 15(5) was inserted into the Constitution that said nothing shall prevent the State from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for SCs and STs in admission to educational institutions, including the private ones. The UPA government had in 2006 enacted the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act providing for reservation in admissions to centrally funded institutions. The NDA government brought a bill in 2019 for another amendment to the Constitution to introduce a 10 per cent quota for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) in admissions to government and private educational institutions. Earlier in 2011, Allahabad High Court had held reservation in private institutions as unconstitutional. The Centre has challenged the judgment in the Supreme Court. The matter has been heard thrice. Anil Wagde, an Ambedkarite scholar and member of the Global IIM Alumni Network that is working for reservation in faculty posts in the premier B-schools, said the government was not interested in reservation in private institutions. “The request for dropping the assurance clearly shows the government is not interested in introducing reservation in the private sector. Had the government been sincere, it should have asked for speedy hearing in the pending case in the Supreme Court,” Wagde said. He said students coming from socially backward sections bring with them diverse experiences and deeper understanding of societal problems. An email this newspaper sent to the education ministry on the Lok Sabha panel’s rejection of the plea did not elicit a response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||India||Cry against  namaz arrest of Amity activist||Several human rights activists have condemned the continued incarceration of Faisal Khan, the national convener of the Khudai Khidmatgar, for offering namaz at a temple. Khan was arrested from Delhi on November 2, four days after he had offered namaz on Mathura’s Nandbaba temple premises. While initially the temple priest, Kanha Goswami, had said he was impressed with Khan’s knowledge of the Hindu religion and allowed him to offer namaz on the verandah of the shine, later he had filed a police complaint allegedly under the influence of Hindutva groups. The rights activists held an online media conference on the occasion of International Human Rights Day on Thursday evening. Sunita Viswanath of Hindus for Human Rights said: “Khan is a Muslim Gandhian peace activist. He was arrested because he offered namaz, which means Muslim prayer, in the courtyard of a Hindu temple. “The truth is that the priest had invited him to pray there, but four days later the same priest filed a police complaint against him.” Colin Gonsalves, Khan’s legal counsel, said his client had said he would go outside to offer namaz but the priest had insisted that he pray on the temple premises. “Khan’s background establishes his credibility and the improbability that he would do anything to encourage divisions between communities... He has been visiting temples and has been received warmly,” Gonsalves said. Documentary-maker Anand Patwardhan said: “We are in a very peculiar situation, an unprecedented one. So we can’t completely be sure that having a strong case means that we will win.” A pre-recorded speech of Rajmohan Gandhi, biographer and grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, was played at the media conference. He spoke about the history of the Khudai Khidmatgar, an organisation that works for social harmony and was founded by freedom fighter Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan, and said: “Most Hindus would like their Muslim brothers and sisters to enjoy dignity and equality. I urge them to speak out and demand justice for Faisal Khan, and for all who are being denied their rights.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||India||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) urges SC to quash the new farm laws||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), one of the organisations spearheading the farmers’ protest, on Friday urged the Supreme Court to quash the new farm laws and the amendment to the Essential Commodities Act, saying these would “corporatise” farming and lead to “cartelisation” that would ruin cultivators across the country. In its petition, the BKU said it had earlier made representations to all states and Union Territories, too, to urge the Centre to withdraw the legislation but it had not got any response despite the protests since November 26 at Delhi’s borders. The petition filed through advocate A.P. Singh has assailed the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, as being arbitrary, illegal and unconstitutional, and hence liable to be struck down. “…These acts are illegal and arbitrary because they would pave the way for cartelisation and commercialisation of agriculture produce,” the petition complained. The petition comes against the backdrop of DMK Rajya Sabha MP Tiruchi Siva filing a petition in the Supreme Court challenging the new farm legislation. Besides Siva, advocate G.S. Mani and certain other individuals have also filed petitions challenging the new laws. The petitions are likely to be tagged together and taken up for hearing anytime next week. The BKU petition said: “The implementation of the acts in its current form will spell disaster for the farming community by opening a parallel market which is unregulated and gives enough place for exploitation of the Indian farmers… “Without agriculture produce market committees acting as a protective shield around the farmers, the market would ultimately fall to the corporate greed of multinational companies who are more ‘profit-oriented’ and have no care for the condition of the poverty-stricken farmers….” According to the petitioner, the new laws seek to corporatise agriculture and usher in an unregulated and exploitative regime because Indian farmers are mostly illiterate and would not have the knowledge to negotiate the best possible terms with a private company. This, the petition said, would lead to unequal bargaining positions in negotiating farm agreements with corporate houses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||India||Farmer leaders criticise Union minister's 'anti-national forces' statement||Farmer leaders on Friday criticised Union minister Pratap Chandra Sarangi’s statement that anti-national forces are behind the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws. Sarangi, the Union minister of state for animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries, had said earlier on Friday: “No one, neither the farmers nor their leaders, is above the law. The farmers have been instigated to organise the agitation. There is no ground for agitation. Anti-national forces are behind the agitation. These reforms are for the good of farmers.” Soon after Sarangi made the statement at the BJP party office, state convener of the All India Kishan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Suresh Panigrahi, termed Sarangi, who hails from Odisha, as anti-farmer. “Farmers are agitating for their rights. Lakhs of farmers, including those from Odisha, are camping in Delhi to get their rights. At this point one has no right to make such a statement. The Modi government is run by corporates and the farm bills have been brought at the behest of corporates,” said Panigrahi. “We will not budge an inch from our demand. The Centre has to repeal the laws. We will intensify our agitation across the state on this issue,” he added. Nimai Ray, a 56-year-old farmer, told The Telegraph: “When Anna Hazare was leading the anti-corruption movement in New Delhi, the then central government had maintained that the agitation was backed by the anti-national forces. At that time, the BJP was backing Anna Hazare’s movement. Now they have to explain whether they were with the anti-national forces at that time.” He added: “A big conspiracy has been hatched to bring the corporates into the farm sector. Now the farmers are struggling hard to expose that conspiracy. The corporates have made the government their shield to enter into the farming sector.” Earlier, Sarangi also said: “The farmers have got independence because of the farm bills. The dalal (middleman) forced them to sell their produce at a lower price. They are creating all sorts of troubles for the farmers in the mandis. The farmer leaders who are spearheading the agitation had never launched an agitation to free farmers from the clutches of dalals. They are forcing the farmers to continue the agitation so that they never get independence.” He further said; “A farmer can sell his produce in any part of the country through an e-marketing system. Farmers should get the right to sell their produce at a profitable price. This is a revolutionary law. The farmers have got all the independence. Those who are doing dalali (brokerage) they would only face losses. Others will be benefited.” Targeting the agitation, Sarangi said: “All the farmers of the country are not in Delhi for the agitation. They are not representatives of all the farmers. Many farmers’ organisations have already welcomed the move (passing of new laws).” “In democracy, there is a right to agitation. People have turned democracy into anarchy. There is a difference between anarchy and democracy,” he said, adding that the agitation is politically motivated. The Union minister also maintained that the central government has clarified that there is no possibility of changing the ownership of land. “The law is clear on this issue. On contract farming, no one can force a farmer to accept it,” he said. On the issue of farmers spending nights under the open sky in the chilly winter of Delhi, the minister said “even people in Shaheen Bagh had slept in the open at night... later it came to be known whose money was spent for it”. Reacting to Sarangi’s statement, 30-year old farmer from Jajpur, Partap Nayak, said: “The minister is making the statement to remain in the good books of the Modi government. He has to make such statements and he has no concern for the farmers. The minister is wrong to say that all farmers are not in Delhi. Even our farmer leaders, including Naba Nirman Krushak Sangathan (a farmers’ body) president Akshay Kumar, are camping in Delhi demanding the scrapping of the farm laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||India||Muslim bride and Hindu groom? It’s love, not jihad ||When a Muslim woman eloped with a Hindu man in Bareilly last week, the police saw no love jihad or yuddh, deciding that as consenting adults they had the right to live together. But in several recent instances where the men were Muslim and the women Hindu, the Uttar Pradesh police arrested the men or their relatives under a new state ordinance that criminalises religious conversion for marriage and became law on November 27. While the ordinance is not religion-specific in its phrasing, BJP leaders have made it clear that it’s aimed at checking “love jihad” – an alleged conspiracy by Muslim men to marry, convert and radicalise Hindu women. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had been among the first to allege such a conspiracy. The father of a Muslim woman had registered a case at Prem Nagar police station, Bareilly, on December 5 alleging a young Hindu, Aman Kumar, had lured and kidnapped his daughter. “I registered the case under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. But the police were sceptical from the beginning,” the father told reporters in Bareilly on Thursday. “The police rescued my daughter, who was under the influence of the man with whom she had eloped, on December 6 and produced her in court, where she said she had gone with the man willingly.” The father said Aman was trying to convert his daughter to Hinduism. “But the police let her go with him. They didn’t let us meet her — we wanted to convince her that her future was not safe with the man.” Bareilly city superintendent of police Ravindra Kumar dismissed the father’s contentions. “It’s a case of love between adults. There’s no angle of religious conversion in the case; so they were allowed to go wherever they wanted,” he said. When a similar case was registered against a Muslim man on December 7 in the Kanth area of Moradabad, however, the police arrested the accused and his brother. They sent his “Hindu” wife to a remand home despite her being an adult and five months pregnant. The 22-year-old woman said she had undergone a court marriage with Mohammad Rashid six months ago in Uttarakhand and converted to Islam at the time, and that the ordinance was incorrectly being applied retrospectively under prodding from the Bajrang Dal. She said Bajrang Dal members had accosted the couple on Sunday and alleged that Rashid was pressuring her to convert to Islam. “We arrested Rashid and his elder brother Mohammad Saleem under the provisions of the new ordinance and sent the woman to a remand home when she refused to go to her parents,” Kanth circle officer Balram Katheria said. But before being sent to the remand home, the woman told reporters in Moradabad the case was based on falsehoods. “I’m from (adjoining) Bijnore district. While working at a beauty parlour in Dehradun, Uttarakhand, I met a barber and we had a court marriage there. I changed my religion soon after the marriage,” she said. “But the Bajrang Dal somehow contacted my mother in Bijnore and persuaded her to submit a false police complaint (in Moradabad) saying I was being forced to convert after the new ordinance was issued.” On December 5, the police had arrested seven family members of a Muslim youth from the Tambor area of Sitapur district for allegedly helping him “lure and kidnap” a Hindu girl on November 23. “A relative of the girl lodged a police complaint on November 27 under the new ordinance. Mohammad Jubrail, the main accused, is absconding. We are trying to find the girl too,” Sitapur additional superintendent of police Rajiv Dixit said. Police sources and the families confirmed that the woman was an adult. The Adityanath cabinet issued the ordinance on November 24, and governor Anandiben Patel cleared it on November 27. It criminalises religious conversion for the sake of marriage, and invalidates such marriages. It says inter-faith lovers must apply to their district magistrate two months in advance for permission to marry (without conversion). It prescribes 1 to 10 years’ jail or a fine ranging from Rs 15,000 to Rs 25,000, or both for violations. Days before the Bareilly police let off Aman Kumar, they had arrested Owais Ahmad on December 3 on a complaint from a Hindu man from the Devraniya area of the district accusing the youth of pressuring his daughter to elope and convert. “A case was registered under the new ordinance on November 28 and the accused was arrested after five days,” deputy inspector-general (Bareilly zone) Rajesh Kumar Pandey said. He said Owais had been harassing the woman for the past three years and that she had confirmed this. He added that Owais had been booked under sexual offence sections, too. According to the woman’s father, she had married another man in June but Owais was threatening him to bring her back and hand her over to him. Owais’s father Mohammad Rafiq told reporters the woman had levelled the harassment charge under pressure from her family. “She is an adult and lived with Owais willingly for a few days. Later, she returned home and was married off elsewhere,” he said. “The girl’s father met me recently and said he bore us no ill will. I don’t know why he and his daughter registered the case against Owais after that.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||India||Supreme Court refuses ‘Utopian’ plea ||The Supreme Court on Friday said it cannot provide “panacea” for all evils or evolve a “Utopian” state and refused to entertain a PIL seeking a probe by the CBI, ED, IB and the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) into the alleged criminal nexus between politicians and officials, as recommended by the N.N. Vohra committee in 1993. “Look at the prayers (of the petitioner). ‘I hope the country will be at the top. I hope the world is a beautiful place. I hope every man will live happily.’ These are the prayers. Write a book on it, not petitions. One can understand giving a nudge to the central government, but I cannot encourage petitions like these. These are all Utopian prayers. The petition must serve a purpose and one should understand what directions can be given,” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul observed, making the petitioner withdraw his plea. The court noted that more than 23 years had passed after the Supreme Court directed the government in 1997 to consider the recommendations but no action had been taken so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||India||Protesting BHU students hit by private security guards ||Banaras Hindu University students on a dharna outside the vice-chancellor’s residence demanding reopening of hostels and libraries alleged that they were assaulted with sticks by private security guards in the dead of the night, and that disabled students were also not spared. The students have been organising the dharna since December 5 evening. “It was a peaceful protest and the university administration resorted to violence. Proctors, security guards and private bouncers attacked us around 2.30am on Friday when we were sleeping at the dharna site. They hit us with sticks and removed many of us from the area. However, we have returned to the place where we have been sitting. It has become clear that the VC wouldn’t listen to us, but we have decided to continue the dharna,” said Sushil Kumar, a student. While initially the protest had started with 250 students, the numbers grew to 600 after the alleged lathicharge. Santosh Kumar, a disabled protester, said: “There are at least 20 disabled protesters, of whom 10 are blind. They were also beaten up by the security guards with lathis. The attack was so sudden that we didn’t get time to protect ourselves by running away.” Santosh Tripathi, a protesting student, said: “It has become clear that the VC is against our demand. He should have the courage to come to us and say this. Instead, he is sending security guards to beat us.” The BHU hostels closed in early April in view of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Most inmates vacated their rooms and many of them shifted to rented accommodations after the university suspended physical classes in March. The hostels are yet to reopen. However, some students had stayed back, cooking meals inside their hostel rooms and scaling the boundary walls to buy essentials. Some girls too had stayed back in their hostel, where a small gate was kept open.Over 60 women students are part of the protest on the lawns of the quarters of VC Rakesh Bhatnagar. The university denied having resorted to a lathicharge. “We were trying to convince the students to withdraw their dharna as the administration is reviewing their demand. No force was used last night,” chief proctor O.P. Rai said. He said the hostels were open and many students were living there. The gates had been locked as part of Covid protocol and to prevent outsiders from entering the hostels, Rai added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||West Bengal||New laws to provide flexibility to farmers, says Bengal BJP chief||Amid protests by farmers in Delhi over the new farm laws, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Saturday said the agriculture reform measures will help them get better access to markets and realise a higher price for their produce. Speaking at a party's programme in Paschim Medinipur district, he said farmers in the state have been deprived of getting a remunerative price for their produce. "Earlier, a farmer was forced to sell his produce to middlemen. They sold potato at Rs 5 per kg, while we are buying it at Rs 40. They are unable to sell their paddy at minimum support price," he said. They have been compelled to sell paddy at Rs 1,200- 1,300 per quintal, instead of an MSP of over Rs 1,600, he said. "The new farm laws will provide flexibility to farmers to sell their produce in markets where they get a better price," Ghosh said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the new farm laws which they claim will dismantle the minimum support price (MSP) system. They are protesting against the three new laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Enacted in September, these laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen from the supply chain and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Nadda: central deputation order for 3 Bengal IPS officers ||Two days after the alleged lapses in security during BJP chief JP Nadda’s visit to Bengal, the Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday unilaterally called in three IPS officers of the state to serve in the central deputation, officials said. The three officers, Bholanath Pandey (SP, Diamond Harbour), Praveen Tripathi (DIG, Presidency Range) and Rajeev Mishra (ADG, South Bengal), were responsible for the security of the BJP President. “Three Indian Police Service officers belonging to the West Bengal cadre have been called to serve in central deputation in view of the lapses that allegedly led to the attack on Nadda's convoy in West Bengal,” an official of the home ministry said. This move is likely to escalate tensions between the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress government in Bengal and the BJP-led central government. It follows a Thursday incident, when Nadda’s convoy was attacked on his way to Diamond Harbour, allegedly by TMC “goons”. “The decision has been taken under the rules governing the all India service officers,” the MHA official said. Usually, the state government's consent is taken before any all India service officer is called to serve in central deputation. The three officers are perceived to be close to the present dispensation in West Bengal. On Friday, the Bengal government decided not to send its secretary and police chief to New Delhi in compliance with Union Home Ministry's order regarding the attack. Chief Secretary  Alapan Bandopadhyay wrote to Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, saying he has been directed to request the Centre to “dispense with the presence of the state officials” in a December 14 meeting, indicating that he was acting under orders of the state government. The Union Home Ministry has summoned Bandopadhyay and DGP Virendra on December 14 for an explanation on the law and order situation in the state, following Governor Jagdeep Dhankar’s report on the attack on Nadda. The police have arrested seven persons, including a BJP leader Rakesh Singh, in relation to the matter. Three FIRs have been drawn up for allegedly provoking crowds at Shirakol and Debipur on Thursday. The two other FIRs were lodged against “unknown persons”. Soon after the vandalism, a video footage showing a man resembling Singh urging BJP supporters to attend Shah’s rally with sticks went viral. Singh had said the video had been doctored. “The FIRs are under different sections of the Indian Penal Code, including rioting and obstructing public servants from discharging public duties,” a police source said while explaining the case related to the attack on Nadda’s convoy. Senior officers from  the Diamond Harbour district police said four persons had been arrested from Usthi and three others from Falta after the police had lodged suo motu complaints. “We are trying to find out more about the alleged attackers and more arrests are likely,” said a senior officer of the Diamond Harbour police district. Within an hour of the arrests, the district police bosses submitted a report to the home secretary underlining the arrangements that had been made for Nadda’s public meeting at Diamond Harbour and his journey from Calcutta on Thursday. The report was later handed over to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The BJP had claimed at least 17 cars and 127 bikes had been damaged and 35 bikes could not be found in the aftermath of the attack in Shirakol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||NCW deadline to Bengal over ‘inaction’ on complaints||The National Commission for Women warned the Bengal government of submitting details of over 260 complaints from the state to the Ministry of Home Affairs if the administration fails to address them within 15 days, its chairperson said on Saturday. Rekha Sharma was on a two-day visit to the state to probe into the “inaction” on 267 complaints, which includes two initiated by the women’s rights panel itself. “The worrisome situation in West Bengal is that the police don't reply, and no action has been taken on the complaints,” Sharma said. “Neither the director general of police nor the chief secretary meets me, and this is not the first time. They send their subordinates who are clueless about everything,” she told PTI. “In the last eight months, there have been more than 260 complaints, and no report has been sent to us,” the NCW chairperson added. Sharma further said that she will write to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in this regard. If the commission does not get any response within 15 days, the issue will be forwarded to the home ministry. “We met the governor during our visit this time. I am not saying the government can control things, but it can at least take action,” she said. The NCW has expressed concern over the “rising problem of trafficking of women” from north Bengal and tribal areas. Women and Child Development Minister of Bengal Sashi Panja said women are safer in the state than any other area of India. “The state government has taken all steps for the security of the women. The allegations against the state administration are baseless and politically motivated,” Panja said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb stable now, on non-invasive ventilation ||The health condition of former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was stable on Saturday morning, an official said. Bhattacharjee, who is on non-invasive ventilation, slept well last night, she said. "Mr Bhattacharjee is okay. He is still on NIV and taking it well. He is maintaining all critical clinical parameters. Last (Friday) night was uneventful," said the official said of the south Kolkata hospital where he is being treated. The veteran CPI(M) leader was extubated from mechanical ventilator support on Friday morning. "He is conscious and alert at present. His blood pressure, pulse and oxygen saturation are stable. His urine output is satisfactory. He is on IV fluids, IV antibiotics, IV steroids, and other supportive medications are on," the official said. On Friday, Bhattacharjee, 76, met his wife and daughter and communicated with them satisfactorily. The former chief minister was put on mechanical ventilator support at the critical care unit of the private hospital where he was admitted on Wednesday afternoon as his breathing-related problems aggravated. Bhattacharjee, the chief minister of Bengal from 2000 to 2011, has been suffering from COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) and other old age-related ailments for some time. He has been away from public life for the past few years due to his health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP’s Rajbanshi card in clash that lead to death of worker||The death of a BJP worker and injuries suffered by a few other supporters of the party from the Rajbanshi community, allegedly during the December 7 Uttarkanya Abhiyan protest march, made both BJP and Trinamul leaders fight a vital perception battle ahead of Bengal polls. Deceased Ulen Roy, a small tea grower hailing from Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri, injured Jogesh Roy of Alipurduar and Amardip Roy of Haldibari, are all Rajbanshis. Of 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal, around 15 are reserved for SC candidates, with Rajbanshis in bulk. In at least 10 more seats, Rajbanshi votes play a decisive factor. BJP, which is claiming that police pellets hit all three men, is using the community card to claim that Trinamul and the state government have time and again hurt the Rajbanshis. “The state police have fired pellet guns during the protest which led to Ulen Roy’s death and left some others injured…the party will highlight how the Mamata Banerjee government fired pellets on Rajbanshis,” said Bapi Goswami, the Jalpaiguri district BJP president, adding the BJP had given financial aid to Ulen’s family and is taking care of the treatment of the injured. Five BJP MPs from north Bengal have promised to take care of Roy’s family. On Friday, state BJP Rahul Sinha had been to his house, party sources said. BJP leaders are also referring to the death of Debendra Nath Roy, the BJP MLA of Hemtabad in North Dinajpur and a Rajbanshi, found hanging earlier this year. Though police and the CID have maintained that Roy killed himself over financial issues, BJP leaders have alleged murder. Trinamul leader and tourism minister Gautam Deb rubbished the charges. “BJP is responsible for the unfortunate death of one of their supporters. Once things settle down, I will visit the victim’s village to speak with his family,” said the minister, also MLA of Dabgram-Fulbari where violence had erupted on Monday. Khageswar Roy, Trinamul MLA of Rajganj where Ulen’s house is located, asserted he would meet the family. Next week, chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to address public meetings in Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar with a high Rajbanshi concentration. “There are chances that the chief minister will counter the BJP’s current stoking of Rajbanshi sentiments,” said an insider. He added that Trinamul would play the development card and highlight how during Mamata’s tenure, a university had been set up in Cooch Behar in the name of Panchanan Barma, the most revered statesman of the Rajbanshis, two language academies and a development and cultural board for the conservation and promotion of their language and culture. “Also, our government has met the longstanding demand of former KLO militants and linkmen with jobs,” the Trinamul leader added. Autopsy uncertain The issue of second post-mortem of deceased BJP supporter Ulen Roy remained indecisive even on Friday. The district and sessions court here cancelled the second-autopsy order issued by the chief judicial magistrate’s court on December 8 but also instructed the CJM court to hear the plea of Ulen’s sister Santibala within three days and issue an order. Santibala had pleaded for a second autopsy. “The (district and sessions) court heard the case on Friday and cancelled the CJM court’s order. The court also ordered the CJM court to hear both parties (Santibala and the state) during next three days,” said Somnath Pal, a government lawyer. “We don’t know whether to withdraw the case so that we can take the mortal remains of my brother for his last rites or wait for the next hearing,” Santibala said. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb out of mechanical ventilation||Former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, 76, was put out of mechanical ventilation on Friday. Doctors said the CPM veteran was conscious and alert. A bulletin issued by the Woodlands Hospital, where he is admitted since Wednesday after acute breathing trouble, said his lungs were working on their own. On non-invasive ventilation now, he met wife Mira and daughter Suchetana, the bulletin said. However, he will take some more time to come out of danger. “Treating doctors are observing and managing him 24x7. We have to give some more time to say he is completely out of danger. So the prognosis at this time remains guarded and critical,” said the bulletin. CPM leader and doctor Fuad Halim said Bhattacharjee was better. "I hope he continues like that," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Convoy attack: Seven held, FIR on BJP leader||Police have arrested seven persons for allegedly attacking with bricks and stones the convoy of BJP national president J.P. Nadda while he was on his way to attend a rally at Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas on Thursday. Three FIRs have been drawn up, including one against BJP leader Rakesh Singh, for allegedly provoking crowds at Sirakhol and Debipur on Thursday. The two other FIRs were lodged against “unknown persons”. Singh, a 48-year-old former Congress leader from the Kidderpore area had contested the 2016 Assembly polls from Calcutta Port as a Left-backed candidate. He joined the BJP before the Lok Sabha polls last year. He has cases of arson, rioting and extortion pending against him. Last year, Singh was arrested by Calcutta police in connection with the vandalism at Vidyasagar College, where a group of outsiders barged into the north Calcutta college while a BJP procession led by then party chief Amit Shah was passing by and smashed a bust of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar. Soon after the vandalism, a video footage showing a man resembling Singh urging BJP supporters to attend Shah’s rally with sticks went viral. Singh had said the video had been doctored. “The FIRs are under different sections of the Indian Penal Code, including rioting and obstructing public servants from discharging public duties,” a police source said while explaining the case related to the attack on Nadda’s convoy. Senior officers from  the Diamond Harbour district police said four persons had been arrested from Usthi and three others from Falta after the police had lodged suo motu complaints. “We are trying to find out more about the alleged attackers and more arrests are likely,” said a senior officer of the Diamond Harbour police district. Within an hour of the arrests, the district police bosses submitted a report to the home secretary underlining the arrangements that had been made for Nadda’s public meeting at Diamond Harbour and his journey from Calcutta on Thursday. The report was later handed over to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. At least 350 police personnel of different ranks, including deputy superintendents of police and inspectors, were detailed along the entire route of Nadda’s journey, sources in the know about the report’s content said. He was “covered” by a group of over 20 CRPF personnel and provided with a bullet-proof vehicle in keeping with his Z-category security, said a source. The report mentions except for Shirakol, the convoy was not stopped at any other location despite several people standing along the way with black flags and placards to protest new farm laws. The report also mentions that the alleged attack at Shirakol on Thursday afternoon lasted for about 15 minutes and the situation was brought under control effectively following intervention by the police. The situation could have otherwise spiralled out of control, the officers said. The BJP had claimed at least 17 cars and 127 bikes had been damaged and 35 bikes could not be found in the aftermath of the attack in Shirakol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Convict trailing convoy made lewd gestures: Trinamul||Trinamul on Friday stood its ground on the alleged attack on BJP national president J.P. Nadda’s convoy a day before, questioning the alleged presence of a “convict” and extra cars and bikes en route, accusing the BJP of provocation and challenging the Centre’s authority to summon the state chief secretary and director-general of police over the incident. Trinamul leader Mamata Banerjee, who launched a belligerent counter-attack after the alleged incident on Thursday, was silent on Friday. Trinamul fielded Dum Dum MP Saugata Roy, a party vice-president, and Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee, part of the seven-member apex steering committee of the party, to address the media on the party’s stand. “Mr Nadda was given a security cover...which was adequate,” said Kalyan Banerjee, referring to the Z-category protectee (Nadda), who is entitled to a bullet-proof car, escort vehicles from the state as well as CRPF personnel and personal security officers of the CRPF, among others. “When such an escorted convoy is being taken, others cannot join it. But scores of additional cars in front and behind, besides many motorcycles were seen,” he said. “From such an unauthorised rally accompanying the convoy, a certain (BJP leader) Rakesh Singh — he is a convict, 59 criminal cases are pending against him — opened his car door and kept making lewd, offensive gestures at Trinamul supporters gathered near a party event’s dais,” the Serampore MP added. “The question is why Mr Nadda was going along with such a convict... who kept doing such offensive things while accompanying his convoy? Why was there such provocation? Nadda himself broke the law,” he said. The Serampore MP said three cases were being pursued by the police over Thursday’s incident, one of them against Singh. He said seven persons had already been arrested. “Every meeting, every rally, every political programme of the BJP now has outsider goons, criminals, anti-social elements, with illegal firearms,” he alleged. Dum Dum MP Roy said it was the BJP’s diversionary ploy to take away attention from the “the positive narrative, a development-oriented discourse” his party had been trying to focus on in the run-up to the state polls. Later in the day, the party issued a statement on Twitter in response to alleged acts of vandalism on Banga Bhavan in Delhi and Trinamul heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee’s residence in the national capital. “By vandalizing the Banga Bhawan in Delhi, @BJP4India has once again proven that violence is their only solution to undermine the 10 years of good work by @MamataOfficial!” it posted on the microblogging site. “This attack showcases BJP’s sheer disregard for the cultural sentiment of the people of West Bengal!” it added. Serampore MP Banerjee, who is also a lawyer by profession, questioned the Centre over its summons to chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and director-general of state police Virendra in the wake of the incident. “No central government official has the jurisdiction to issue such summons to the chief secretary and the director-general of police for something like this. They want to discuss the law and order situation? According to the Constitution, it is a state subject. If it is on law and order, these officials and the state government are answerable to the state Assembly. Not anybody else,” he said. Banerjee also added that the letter from the Centre was “not only illegal but unconstitutional”. The party’s top-tier leaders such as state ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim also reacted to attacks from the saffron camp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah visit scheduled to up ante||Union home minister Amit Shah will be in Bengal on a two-day tour on December 19 and 20, the party announced a day after its national president J.P. Nadda’s convoy had allegedly been attacked on its way to Diamond Harbour on Thursday. Multiple BJP leaders said Shah would up the ante against the Trinamul Congress on the alleged attack and lay stress on the “breakdown” of law and order in the state, which would be a major plank of the campaign for the party in the 2021 Assembly polls. “Amit ji will be in Bengal on a two-day tour... He will visit North 24-Parganas and Birbhum,” said BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu. Several leaders of Bengal BJP said Shah’s visit must be seen in the context of Thursday’s incident. “The home minister was supposed to tour Bengal in December. However, after the attack on Naddaji, it is natural that Amitji will politically counter the incident during his tour,” a source in the party said. In spite of condemning the incident publicly, a section of BJP office-bearers said they were happy with the political mileage the attack had given to the party. “We’ve been speaking to people since the incident happened. Even the ones who oppose us ideologically condemned the attack,” a source said while adding that Shah’s presence, after the incident, would help the party. According to the leader, the incident has managed to establish the narrative about worsening law and order in Bengal. Shah may also attend a programme organised by the Viswa-Bharati University in Santiniketan. Shah spoke to BJP’s national vice-president Mukul Roy over phone. “I received a call from Amit Shahji. He asked me about yesterday’s incident,” Roy said. “He has asked me to send a detailed report on how the Trinamul people attacked us unprovoked on Thursday,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Arrest in Manish Shukla murder case||The CID team probing BJP leader Manish Shukla’s murder case arrested one more accused from a hideout in Titagarh, adjacent to the Kalyani Expressway, in the early hours of Friday. Sources in the CID said the accused Nasir Ali Mondal, a resident of Basanti in South 24-Parganas, was a local link of alleged mastermind Subodh Singh. Acting on information gleaned during interrogation of those already arrested in the Shukla case, a CID team raided Nasir’s hideout in Titagarh and nabbed him. Produced before a court in Barrackpore on Friday, he has been remanded to 10 days of police custody. With this, the CID has so far arrested nine persons in connection with Shukla’s murder. Last month, police had arrested Amar Yadav, an accomplice of Subodh Singh, who is an expert in the maintenance of improvised firearms and is currently lodged in a jail in Bihar’s Nalanda. Shukla, a former councillor of Titagarh Municipality, was gunned down on the night of October 4 on BT Road in Titagarh by four motorcycle-borne assailants. CID sources said Nasir, a long-time aide of Subodh, had accompanied the assailants. “Nasir was present during the attack on Manish Shukla and had probably fled to Bihar. He recently returned and took shelter in Titagarh. We got a tip-off about his location on Thursday night and formed a team to nab him early in the morning,” a CID officer said. The conspiracy behind the murder allegedly unfolded with the arrest of local trader Khurram with whom Shukla had an enmity. CID eventually came to know about the Bihar link following the arrest of Subodh Rai, a resident who provided logistic support to contract killers and arranged rented rooms for them in Barrackpore. On October 30, the CID took custody of Sujit Kumar Rai, and Roshan Kumar Yadav, two sharpshooters from Punjab who had been arrested by Punjab police in connection with a robbery case in Ludhiana. Subodh Singh had given away names of Bihar-based criminals Sujit and Roshan and spoken about their involvement in the murder when a CID team interrogated him in Nalanda jail last month. The duo also confessed to their role in the murder. Enamul Haque, an alleged kingpin in the cow smuggling racket operating on the India-Bangladesh border, was sent to judicial custody by a CBI court in Asansol on Friday. Enamul was arrested from New Delhi by the CBI last month but sent to isolation after testing positive for Covid late last month. The CBI on Friday pleaded with the court to grant 14 days’ custody. After hearing both sides, the court rejected the CBI’s plea and sent Enamul to judicial custody. Another accused, BSF commandant Satish Kumar, was again sent to 11 days of judicial custody. Additional reporting by Abhijeet Chatterjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Bolpur breadwinner mom gets help||Tumpa Kundu, 36, a homemaker-turned-cook from Birbhum’s Bolpur town, who had gone to the Duare Sarkar camp on December 1, received her Swasthya Sathi and ration cards on Friday. The Telegraph had reported on December 2 about Tumpa’s plight. Tumpa got widowed four years ago in East Burdwan and now lives in Bolpur town with her visually impaired father, mother and two minor sons. To fend for herself and her family, she works as a cook at people’s homes, but finds it tough to manage her household expenses. Before the Duare Sarkar camp on December 1, Tumpa had gone around asking people, including the councillor, to help her avail government schemes and make her “home management” a bit easier. But, as she had told this newspaper earlier, specific information was scarce. People would ask her to meet officials in the district administration or at the municipality, but she was too nervous to do so. At the Duare Sarkar camp, Tumpa finally learnt that she and her father were eligible for widow and disability pensions, respectively. But a new problem arose. She did not know how to follow up on these pensions as she was not used to talking with officials or even if she had the relevant papers. But when Tumpa’s plight was reported in the newspaper, government officials knocked on her doorstep and resolved some of her problems. Tumpa was called at a government camp near her house on Friday where additional district magistrate (general) Sweta Agarwal handed her Swasthya Sathi and ration cards. Senior government officials said they processed her application for widow pension and enrolled her name for a home under a scheme. Officials also said Tumpa had not been getting her ration under the Khadya Sathi scheme as her ration card had not been transferred from East Burdwan, where she lived with her husband. “We transferred her ration card from Burdwan to Bolpur, and gave her a fresh ration card,” said an official. “We have asked the municipality to enlist her name for widow pension. Once enrolled, she will Rs 1,000 a month,” said a senior official. “I am really happy today. I never imagined that big officials would come to know about my problems. They assured me that I will get my widow pension soon,” said Tumpa. She added that she had also learnt that her father would get a disability pension under the state government’s Manabik scheme. District magistrate Vijay Bharti said they wanted to reach out to people  left out of government schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal|| JMB suspect held in Birbhum||The Special Task Force of Calcutta police arrested an alleged operative of the Jamaat-ul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), a banned Bangladeshi terror outfit, from Paikar in Birbhum in the early hours of Friday. Najibullah, 50, was arrested from his home at Kashimnagar near Paikar after STF officers, who had been shadowing his activities for some time, got evidence of his alleged terror-related activities. “Najibullah had a Facebook account in the name of Saqib Ali and used to spread radical ideas and hatred against non-Muslims,” said a senior STF officer. “He used to inspire youths to take the path of fundamentalism.” Saqib, it now appears, is the name of one of Najibullah’s four sons. Although it’s quite early into the interrogation stage, the sleuths believe Najibullah was part of the gang that was involved in serial blasts at Bodh Gaya, Bihar, in 2013. The police seized several electronic gadgets, including a laptop, a CPU, SIM cards and cellphones, from Najibullah’s possession. The police though have made it clear they were yet to find out whether Najibullah had any IS connection or not, but the investigators said Najibullah’s JMB links appeared to be quite strong going by the types of books and other literature that were seized from a printing press that he used to run at his village. Preliminary investigations revealed that Najibullah had finished his basic education at a madrasa in Uttar Pradesh and later worked as an imam of a mosque in Hiyatnagar in Birbhum district. Family members said he had left his work as the imam and started running the printing press. Najibullah lives in a joint family with six brothers. He has four sons and three daughters. The eldest daughter is 16 years old and the youngest son is one-and-a-half year old. “My father used to take orders for printing. A group of police officers turned up around 1.30am today (Friday) and took him into their custody. We still don’t know what his fault was,” said Sibgatullah , 15-year-old son of Najibullah. He is a Class IX student at a local high school. The arrest comes within a month of the National Investigation Agency picking up madrasa teacher Abul Momin Mondal from Raninagar in Murshidabad. On Friday, NIA officials said they would want to interrogate Najibullah to find out whether he was present during the Khagragarh blast in Burdwan in 2014. A JMB module was allegedly involved in the blast, the NIA said, and it was vital to find out whether Najibullah was a part of that same module.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||2,753 new infections, 23,281 in all ||Bengal on Friday reported a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 46th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, with 2,873 recoveries, 2,753 new infections and 50 deaths, 13 from Calcutta. Since Dashami, active cases have fallen from 37,190 to 23,281. The state also reported less than 3,000 new cases for the fifth consecutive day. Bengal, however, stayed third among states with the most active cases after Maharashtra and Kerala. Bengal has over 6 per cent of the national total of active cases. The state now has over 5.16 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.84 lakh recoveries and 8,966 deaths. Of the total toll, 7,514, or 83.8 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities. In the 46 days since Dashami, the state recorded over 1.74 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.62 lakh cases detected. The state’s recovery rate rose for 50 consecutive days from 87.44 on October 22 to 93.76 per cent now. The national rate now is 94.85 per cent. The mortality rate is 1.73, still behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Calcutta High Court’s intervention to prevent crowding to keep a leash on the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath seem to have worked. “We are trying our best to ensure there’s no new spike from the Christmas-New Year spell of festivals,” said the minister. With 42,131 tests on Friday, the state’s total test count went past 63.4 lakh, at 70,446 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate – the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests conducted -- is 8.15 now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. Bengal reported 22.71 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.23 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Two tea gardens in Dooars get banking ease||Residents of two tea estates in the Dooars can avail banking services from near home from now on, as the State Bank of India (SBI) opened customer service points (CSPs) at the gardens on Friday. This move will be convenient for both workers, and their employers — the tea companies. For the past couple of years, most of the tea companies had been bearing additional costs as the Centre imposed TDS (tax deducted at source) at the rate of 2 per cent on annual cash drawings above Rs 1 crore. This is because in the tea industry, wages, bonus and other payments are still made in cash with most gardens located in remote areas. Workers find it inconvenient to travel so far to banks to draw the money. Sumit Ghosh, the secretary of the north Bengal branch of Tea Association of India (TAI), said they had been working for months now to facilitate the opening of mini-banks or CSPs in the tea gardens itself. “This would, on one hand, reduce the additional expenditure that tea companies have to bear for drawing cash above Rs 1 crore, and on the other hand, encourage tea workers and their families to get into the banking system,” said Ghosh. The association, sources said, could get the support of the SBI to open CSPs in a number of gardens, both in Terai and in the Dooars. “Tea companies have also responded to our call by providing logistic support with room, power supply, water and other facilities so that the CSPs can run. On Friday, we opened two new CSPs at Kurti and Patharjhora tea estates (both in the Dooars). The facility will help the tea garden population as well as residents of adjacent areas,” added Ghosh. A TAI source said that so far facilities had opened in nine tea estates of the Terai while proposals had been submitted to open CSPs in 17 more tea gardens — five in Terai and seven in the Dooars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Barbs fly on TMC-Gurung bonhomie||Senior Left and BJP leaders trained their guns at chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her party on Friday over the reappearance of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung in north Bengal. Gurung has serious charges against him in the wake of the violent Gorkhaland agitations of 2017. A few years back, the same Trinamul government had slapped over 100 police cases on Gurung and declared him absconding, TMC’s rivals said. CPM leaders of Darjeeling district at a news meet here said the recent bonhomie between Gurung and Trinamul deserved to be questioned and chief minister Mamata Banerjee had to answer how the Morcha leader could freely about. Asok Bhattacharya, the CPM MLA of Siliguri, said Gurung’s recent emergence in the state’s political arena was surprising. “We would like to know what happened to the police cases filed against him and whether his name has been dropped from the chargesheets...” Left leaders accused Trinamul of “divisive politics” in the hills. “Trinamul is encouraging both lobbies of the Morcha (Gurung and his rival Binay Tamang) only to draw support during the Assembly polls. It is a wrong strategy that can lead to breach of peace in the hills,” a CPM leader said. On October 21 this year, Gurung resurfaced in Calcutta and announced parting ways with BJP to support Mamata Banerjee in the 2021 state polls. He stayed on the outskirts of Calcutta for over a month. On December 6, he reached Siliguri for his first public meeting after three-and-half years, and is staying at a hotel here. On Sunday, he will address a public meeting at Birpara in Alipurduar. State BJP leader Rahul Sinha on Friday was equally critical about Trinamul’s stand on Gurung. “Bimal Gurung is leading a public life. It seems that Trinamul has suddenly changed its stand. We are firm on our stand, and once Assembly elections are over, will sit with hill residents to discuss their issues,” said Sinha. Trinamul leaders are tight-lipped about Gurung. Sources said Trinamul will keep a distance with him for a while. “The state leadership is monitoring his activities. We have no comments,” said a senior Trinamul leader when asked about Gurung.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||20 injured in campus clash||At least 20 persons, including students, were injured during a clash initially between the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad (TMCP) and right-wing Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) supporters, which the BJP youth wing later joined, at the Gobardanga Hindu College in North 24-Parganas on Friday. ABVP supporters allegedly ransacked the TMCP-run students’ union office, damaged furniture and vandalised over a dozen bikes in retaliation to an attack earlier in the day on its delegation that had gone to the college to submit a deputation demanding justice for an alleged assault of two of its supporters by TMCP students wing on December 8. The clash fanned tension in the vicinity of the college in the town’s Jamdani area, forcing shops to pull down shutters. A large police contingent from Gobardanga and Habra finally brought the situation under control. Barasat superintendent of police Avijeet Banerjee said: “Police teams have been deployed in the area and we have begun a probe to examine what led to the flare-up.” Till late Friday evening no one, however, was arrested. Trouble started brewing around noon when an eight-member ABVP team went to the college to submit a deputation demanding justice for its two assaulted supporters, both third-year undergraduate students, on December 8 when they had gone to submit hard copies of their online exam papers. When the ABVP deputation reached the college campus on Friday, a group of about 30 TMCP activists allegedly barged inside and began beating up members of the delegation. As the news of attack on the ABVP deputation spread, many supporters of the BJP's youth wing rushed to campus and went on a rampage. College sources said violent BJP activists ransacked the TMCP-run student union room, broke furniture, fans, glasspanes and damaged 17 motorcycles. TMCP supporters were chased and beaten up by BJP activists. Police dispersed the warring sides. Anik Chakraborty, vice-president of ABVP North 24-Parganas unit, said: “There was no provocation from us. We came to submit a deputation to condemn the assault on two of our student activists by TMCP supporters and outsiders.” Anik added: “We went to demand a ban on entry of outsiders to the college and this angered Trinamul activists who started beating us. They molested two of our women activists and beat us with iron rods, bamboo sticks. Five of us had injuries that required stitches.” President of the Gobardanga unit of the Trinamul Youth Congress Pradipta Dutta Roy blamed “ABVP activists aided by local criminals” for “unleashing terror on campus. “They assaulted our activists, ransacked our union office, damaged bikes and vandalised college property. At least 10 of our activists have been injured.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Underage bride brought back home||An underage girl, spotted after her marriage was solemnised with rituals on Tuesday, was rescued by the child protection committee, the panchayat, an NGO and the police, from a village under Habibpur police station of Malda district on Thursday. Sources said the 15-year-old girl from a village in Mangalpura panchayat of Habibpur was married off to a youth on Tuesday. After her marriage was over, representatives of the child protection committee of the district got information about it and learnt that the girl was at her “in-law’s” and that a reception would be held on Thursday. They informed the police and on Thursday evening, a joint team reached the groom’s house. The groom fled with some of his relatives. The team members spoke with a relative of the youth and the bride. Baijayanti Sarkar, head of the local panchayat who was with the team, gave a declaration in writing that the girl would be sent to her parents immediately. “She said the girl will not be allowed to live with her husband before she turns 18. The head of the panchayat will keep a watch on the girl,” a team member said. Asked how an underage marriage could be held, Shibendu Shekhar Jana, an officer of the child protection department, said families of the bride and groom might have taken advantage of the pandemic. “We could rescue the girl but got a little delayed. The campaign would be intensified again across the district, particularly in rural belts,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||124-bed Covid hospital soon||The health department of Darjeeling district will open a hospital for Covid-19 patients at a new building on the premises of North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH), Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty (OSD) deputed in north Bengal for Covid-19, said. A 124-bed hospital would be opened in the building that was supposed to be used as a night shelter for families and relatives of patients but had remained unused. “It is a four-storey building in an isolated location. There is space to set up 124 beds. Earlier, we had proposed to the state health department that the building could be used as a Covid hospital. We have received approval and we will soon open this facility here for Covid-19 patients,” said Roy. Since the outbreak of the pandemic in the district, the health department had been using two private nursing homes which it had acquired from authorities concerned to hospitalise patients. Over the past few weeks, the number of cases in the district came down, which made the department plan on running a hospital on government premises and gradually vacate the private nursing homes. On the new hospital, Roy said they would open a 20-bed critical care unit for serious Covid patients with 104 general beds for other Covid patients. “We may need five to seven days to carry out civil and electrical work. The state PWD department will be assigned with this responsibility,” he said. “Once this pandemic period is over, this building would be used as the emergency unit,” said a hospital official.  Shopkeeper tests To prevent contamination, the health department has planned tests for all shopkeepers who deal with hundreds of people every day. “There are plans to start conducting Covid tests for all shopkeepers of the city. If any of them tests Covid-19 positive, he can be an easy transmitter as he comes in contact with numerous people. If he tests negative, the department will issue a certificate that it is a Covid-free shop. The same shop owner will be tested again after seven to ten days,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Centre calls top officials, Bengal demurs||The Centre has called the Bengal chief secretary and the director-general of police to New Delhi next week in connection with the stoning of some cars in the convoy of the BJP national president but the state government has requested the Union home secretary to “dispense with” the presence of the two officials. “While further reports are being obtained and compiled, in the circumstances, I am directed to request you to kindly dispense with the presence of the state officials in the meeting, considering that the state government is already addressing this issue with utmost seriousness,” Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said in a letter to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Friday. The chief secretary sent the letter after the Union home ministry asked him and DGP Virendra to be in Delhi on Monday for a meeting on law and order in Bengal. The Union home ministry had sought a report from the state government on Thursday on the attack on Nadda’s convoy, and the summons to the officials came on Friday. A former special secretary in the Union home ministry in Delhi described the Centre’s action without waiting for the state’s report as unprecedented and political. “The two officials have been summoned on the basis of a report from Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar that he sent on Friday morning on the law-and-order situation in the state,” an official in the Union home ministry said. Officials in Calcutta said they were surprised that the chief secretary -- an IAS officer – had been summoned by the Union home ministry. “The cadre-controlling authority for IAS officers is the DoPT (department of personnel and training, which reports to the PMO), and the home ministry has no authority to summon the chief secretary. The home ministry can summon the DGP as it is the cadre-controlling authority for IPS officers,” an official said. The chief secretary’s letter, a Nabanna source said, was written to explain the “ground reality”. In the letter, the chief secretary detailed the steps that had been taken to provide security to Nadda and the action taken after the incident. The letter said the state government had posted four additional SPs, eight deputy SPs, 14 inspectors, 70 sub-inspectors and additional sub-inspectors, 40 RAF personnel, 259 constables and 350 members of the auxiliary forces on the route and at the programme venue in Diamond Harbour. Nadda was on his way to Diamond Harbour to address a rally. “In addition, the state government had provided a bullet-proof car and a pilot to Nadda,” the letter said. Bandyopadhyay referred to the possible reasons behind the incident despite such a heavy deployment of forces. “The tagging of many vehicles to the protectee convoys, however, made the situation unwieldy, because typically, security authorities are to handle a protectee convoy of a few vehicles only,” the chief secretary wrote. He listed the steps initiated by the state government after the incident to make it clear that the administration was not sitting idle. “Further, 3 cases have already been registered in this connection, while 2 of them are specifically for vandalism, one each in Usthi PS and Falta PS, both under the Diamond Harbour police district. 7 persons have been arrested in these 2 cases,” the letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
12-12-2020||North East||Northeast cry to repeal CAA still rings loud||The first anniversary of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act was observed as a “black day” by leading student organisations of the Northeast on Friday and from all possible indications, the protest to get the legislation scrapped will only grow in the near future. The North East Students’ Organisation (Neso), comprising the Khasi Students’ Union (KSU), All Assam Students’ Union (AASU), Naga Students’ Federation (NSF), Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP), Twipra Students’ Federation (TSF), All Manipur Students’ Union (AMSU), Garo Students’ Union (GSU) and All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU), observed a “black day” by displaying black flags and banners in important public places seeking the repeal of the law passed by Parliament on December 11 last year despite widespread protests in the region. In Assam, five persons died at the peak of the anti-CAA movement on December 12 last year. The Neso said the protest is a message to the Centre that the region remains opposed to the CAA and will keep on fighting for the scrapping of the law, seen by many as a threat to the identity and culture of the people of the Northeast. The law makes it easier for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan to secure Indian citizenship. The Lok Sabha passed the Citizenship Amendment Bill on December 9 last year while the Rajya Sabha passed it on December 11 despite widespread protests in the region. The protest, spearheaded by AASU, Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP), Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), citizen groups and the Opposition parties in Assam slowed down because of the examinations and the coronavirus-induced lockdown. However, Friday’s protest will see the return of sustained public protests in the region, especially in poll-bound Assam, political observers said. Neso adviser and AASU chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharjya told The Telegraph that Friday’s protest shows the Northeast was, is and will remain united against the CAA despite the Centre’s alleged efforts to divide the region by exempting areas falling under the Sixth Schedule and the inner-line permit, a travel document that regulates the entry and stay of outsiders, including those from other states. Bhattacharjya said, “The CAA has to go because the Northeast is not a dumping ground for illegal Bangladeshis. We will continue our fight. On Saturday, we will be holding protests in all district headquarters. In Guwahati, we will hold a meeting in memory of the five CAA martyrs. They were innocent people and till now no inquiry has been instituted into their death by an inhumane government. We reiterate our demand for a probe by a sitting high court judge into the deaths.” The day also saw KMSS members and supporters stage a protest rally in Sivasagar, seeking the scrapping of the CAA and the immediate release of its chief adviser Akhil Gogoi, who was arrested on December 12 last year at the peak of the anti-CAA protests. Akhil said on Friday that the agitation against the CAA has slowed down, which should not happen if the Assamese society has to be protected. A leading anti-CAA protester, Srinkhal Chaliha, said at the protest meeting that Akhil will be contesting in the Assembly polls from Sivasagar and they would ensure his victory by over a lakh votes. Like the AASU, the Coordination Committee Against Citizenship Amendment Act will felicitate the families of the five protest victims so that the people don’t forget their sacrifices at a public meeting to renew its pledge to continue the fight against the CAA which started in 2016, to uphold the secular character of the Constitution. The committee will also seek a thorough probe into the circumstances leading to their deaths. Popular singer-composer Zubeen Garg, one of the leading lights of the anti-CAA movement, also remembered the martyrs in a Facebook post which had all their names — Dipanjal Das, Sam Stafford, Ishwar Nayak, Abdul Alim and Dwijendra Panging — under the headlines “I remember” followed by “WE have not forgotten”, “No CAA” and “Assam Remembers”. By evening, the post had notched up over 18,000 likes and 1,400 comments. Zubeen also urged all users to post a photo having the names of the martyrs. A family member of Stafford, a Class X student, told reporters they are still awaiting justice. In fact, the special investigation team constituted in December last year by the state government to probe the violence that rocked the state is yet to submit its chargesheet because it was awaiting a few technical reports like forensic and analysis of video footage. Two of the original members were transferred after a couple of months. The delay, many say, is perplexing because senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had categorically accused the Popular Front of India, “urban Naxals” and a section of Congress workers of being involved in the violence, at least in front of Janata Bhawan, the seat of power in Assam, during the anti-CAA protests in the city. “Roughly 50 per cent of those involved in the Guwahati violence cases were from lower Assam’s Barpeta, Kamrup, Goalpara and Nalbari districts,” Sarma had said. Sources said the demand for a thorough probe or making the reports of the inquiry held so far will only increase in the coming days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
12-12-2020||North East||Tripura CM cancels public meet on his fate ||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s appeal to the public to gather at Swami Vivekananda ground in Agartala on December 13 and share their opinion on whether he should continue in his post is not happening. Deb had made the announcement at a news meet in Agartala on Tuesday in response to Sunday’s sloganeering — Biplab hatao, BJP bachao (Remove Biplab, save BJP)” and Biplab hatao, Tripura bachao (Remove Biplab, save Tripura) — by a section of BJP supporters in front of party observer Vinod Sonkar in the Tripura capital. “If they want me to leave, I will inform the party leadership and leave. I will abide by the people’s wish. I request everyone to come and share their opinion on December 13,” Deb had said That the proposed public meeting, which made the national headlines, would not be happening was disclosed by deputy chief minister Jishnu Dev Varma on Thursday afternoon. Sources said BJP MLAs and ministers had been meeting Deb since Tuesday night urging him to reconsider his decision. They even conveyed their mind to the national president J.P. Nadda and Sonkar. Both directed him to cancel the meeting as internal issues of the party would be settled internally. “The party leadership has asked him not to hold the public rally. Party MLAs and leaders too have requested him not to go ahead with the rally and he has accepted our request. As such the public meeting stands cancelled,” Varma said, adding that the party will look into Sunday’s anti-CM sloganeering. Before the sloganeering in front of Sonkar, a group of rebel BJP legislators had visited Delhi reportedly seeking a change of guard because of Deb’s style of functioning, a move the MLAs subsequently denied. The BJP had stormed to power with its ally, the Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (IPFT), in 2018 by winning 44 out of 60 seats in the Assembly polls and ending 25 years of Left rule in Tripura. The IPFT has eight MLAs. Sources said IPFT leaders were unhappy with the move because the coalition government was “unnecessarily dragged” into the BJP’s internal affairs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
12-12-2020||Opinion||Dancing in Paris: Breakdance in Olympic Hall of Fame||The news that ‘breaking’ — a popular, cynics would hasten to add ‘plebeian’, dance form — is to be added to the itinerary of Olympic sport in Paris four years from now may well be greeted with strange gyrations — the signature moves of breakdancing — on India’s streets. India has always been the proverbial poor cousin in the global family of Olympic medal-winners. It has been 12 years since the country managed to pocket an Olympic gold. Even though it may be a bit too late for the Indian Olympic Association to get Mithun Chakraborty or Prabhu Deva — India’s Dancing Men — to get ready for the Paris Games, the country should not face a dearth of talented men and women with twinkling feet. Even a cursory glance at a bhashan celebration would prove that scores of Indians can make the right moves. The International Olympic Committee is convinced it is making the right move too. Necessity, as they say, is the mother of invention, and the IOC’s decision has undoubtedly been influenced by the challenge to keep the Olympics relevant to a younger audience with fickle tastes. There is already some concern about modest viewership ratings on account of competition from content on streaming platforms as well as the rising popularity of sporting events within a regional context — the subcontinent’s enchantment with the Indian Premier League is one example. Forced back to the drawing board, the IOC emerged with its ‘Olympic Agenda 2020’, a strategic roadmap that sought to make the Games appealing to modern sensibilities. Breakdance, the IOC deduced, could get the crowds to jive. This is not to suggest that this truly international competition is breaking new ground for the first time. The history of the Olympics is also a history of the induction of the avant-garde. In the 1900, the Games held, again at Paris — the high citadel of the experimental culture — included an unconventional catalogue featuring cannon firing, fishing, pigeon-racing, kite-flying and fire-fighting. Over the years, other ‘demonstration events’ — the medals awarded in these competitions were not part of the official tally — have included ‘bandy’, a crossbreed of ice and field hockey, and the pesapallo — the Finnish baseball. But games, even the not-so-odd ones, doff their proverbial hat to an invisible hierarchy. That explains why some games make the Olympics cut while others remain as pariah. Netball and squash, in spite of intense lobbying, would not get a ticket to Paris. Golf was part of the 1900 Games, then got booted out, only to be reinducted. These crests and troughs in the journeys of individual Olympic sports reveal their vulnerability to commercial as well as cultural imperatives. The Olympics also has a tradition of bridging sport and performance arts. ‘The Art Olympics’ — architecture, music, literature, sculpture and painting being the five ‘games’ — were held along with the Summer Olympics from 1918 to 1942. In that sense, breakdance’s inclusion, even though the puritan stiff upper lip would quiver in horror, in the Olympic Hall of Fame represents a continuity and not a divergence, blurring, yet again, the cosmetic border between sport and artistic performance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
12-12-2020||Opinion||Greedy move: Wealthy nations stockpiling Covid vaccine||Sir — It was shameful to read that a study by Duke University in the United States of America has found that wealthy nations are stockpiling the Covid-19 vaccine to the detriment of middle and lower-middle income countries. There is a huge gap between the vaccine-purchasing outcomes of rich nations and developing countries. Canada, for example, has bought enough to vaccinate its whole population five times over. While India has made an advance purchase of the maximum number of Covid-19 vaccines in the world — it has bought 1.6 billion doses — this will only cover 59 per cent of the country’s population. The propensity of wealthy nations — especially those in the West — to appropriate crucial resources for themselves while leaving less powerful nations to their own devices is not surprising, but one would have thought that better sense would prevail at the time of a global pandemic. While it is understandable that any nation would put the interests of its own people before those of others, common sense dictates that at a time like this it is in the interest of every nation to look out for one another, since the spread of Covid can easily affect even those nations that manage to rid itself of the disease once. Short of indefinitely stopping all international travel — which will only spell doom for the global economy, as has already been evident — there is no way to prevent the spread of the contagion apart from ensuring that everyone has equal access to its prevention methods and cures. Privileged nations would do well to remember that. Mani Koshy,Kochi Sir — No event in recent history has been as eagerly awaited as the rolling out of the Covid-19 vaccine. As such, it is regrettable that rich nations are, as usual, wielding their disproportionate power and stockpiling vaccine doses even though they know that this will put poorer economies at a disadvantage. Now is the time for countries around the world to come together and help one another tide over the coronavirus crisis. Richer nations, in fact, should be pooling in their resources to aid speedier production of the vaccine so that there is enough for all nations in the world to buy. Rishiraj Pandey,Lucknow Great help Sir — The toughest times often help give birth to initiatives that benefit the most marginalized members of society. It was heartening to read about the new e-commerce and hiring website that enables the sale of products and services offered by differently-abled citizens. This constituency is heavily discriminated against in India — openly and tacitly — in spite of the existence of laws that ostensibly protect their interests. As a result, such citizens find it difficult to find basic acceptance, let alone proper employment or ways to earn. It is hoped that this new venture will change that. Aranya Ganguly,Calcutta Welcome gesture Sir — The decision of the government of Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province to purchase the Peshawar houses of the legendary Bollywood actors, Dilip Kumar and Raj Kapoor, to save them from demolition and convert them into national heritage sites and museums is welcome. Peshawar is already known for its rich history. According to the government, the museums will be thrown open to the general public to highlight this history as well as the cinematic contributions of the two Bollywood greats. This gesture of goodwill must be appreciated by all; it is a fitting tribute not only to the actors themselves but also to the world of cinema. It is hoped that, in the future, movie lovers from India will get the chance to visit these places. The gesture also proves that art and culture do not adhere to narrow political and geographical barriers. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — The love of cinema binds people on both sides of the border. Will the declaration about the ancestral houses of Raj Kapoor and Dilip Kumar in Peshawar help in thawing relations between India and Pakistan? Rohini Bhowmik,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
12-12-2020||Opinion||On your screens soon, The Serpent, the life of Charles Sobhra||Hot on the heels of Vikram Seth’s A Suitable Boy, the BBC is doing another big Indian story, The Serpent, based on the life of the serial killer, Charles Sobhraj. It has announced that the eight-part TV drama, a co-production with Netflix, will begin on New Year’s Day. As with The Crown, Netflix has probably taken “artistic licence” with the tale but there is much about Sobhraj still shrouded in mystery. Depending on who you believe, Sobhraj, born in Saigon on April 6, 1944 to a Sindhi father and a Vietnamese mother and brought up in Paris, murdered between 12 and 24 western hippies. I have been discussing the drama with British-Asian actor, Alyy Khan, who plays Narinder Tuli, “DSP, Crime Branch, New Delhi, who actually caught Charles. Sobhraj was involved in a heist when he tried to steal some diamonds. He took a room at the Ashok Hotel, drilled his way into a jewellery store and seemed to pull off a daring robbery.” Khan is currently living in Karachi but also has homes in London and in Mumbai, where he went to school and college and later did much of his work. He says Sobhraj managed to escape twice from Tihar Jail. Now 76, and in poor health, Sobhraj is serving a life sentence in Kathmandu for two murders. “He’s appealing (as a French national) to President Macron to get him free. He is also threatening to sue Netflix because they haven’t taken his approval for this TV project.” Most of the filming was done in Thailand, with Hua Hin dressed to look like a beach in Goa. Renowned French actor, Tahar Rahim, is playing Sobhraj and Jenna Coleman his girlfriend and accomplice, Marie-Andrée Leclerc. Asked whether Sobhraj was a serial killer, Khan answers without hesitation: “Absolutely.” Mirror image After the deaths of Soumitra Chatterjee and Diego Maradona, what I was thinking was put into words by Debanjan Chakrabarti, director of the British Council in East and Northeast India, during a Zoom meeting organized by the Bengal Heritage Foundation in London: “We have lost Feluda and Maradona in the space of a few days.” Chakrabarti felt he had lost a part of his childhood. Since I had once lived in Buenos Aires (during the Falklands War and subsequently), I was comparing how the two cities were marking the passing of their cultural icons. I had noticed how the emotional Argentines express joy, anger and sorrow by jumping up and down with both hands held straight up in the air. They had done so outside the Casa Rosada (the Pink Palace) when they thought they had won the war against Margaret Thatcher, and did that again when they realized that actually they were the ones who had lost. I turned last week to my one-time interpreter and later close friend in Buenos Aires, Jorge Posse, who painted a less than sentimental picture. He said that Argentina’s populist government had tried to exploit Maradona’s death for its own political advantage. It had opened up the Casa Rosada for Maradona’s lying in state. “But the hooligans reacted very violently against the police and broke everything in their way. There was a lot of alcohol and drugs involved.” Jorge, who is coming to London for Christmas, said he would “tell me more personally”. It seems as though Maradona’s departure was marked in a more dignified way by his fans in Calcutta. Chemical reaction Yusuf Hamied, head of Cipla, is trying to do his bit for India. He extended his support to a collaboration programme backed by the Royal Society to bring top scientists to India, as Venkatraman Ramakrishnan stepped down after five years as its president. “The enhancements to this programme will help us to continue bringing together the best scientists from the UK and India,” said Venki. Meanwhile, the chemistry department at Cambridge University, where Yusuf did his degree and PhD, is being named after him. The university’s vice-chancellor, Stephen Toope, explained that “a university would not rename any department lightly” but the decision was made to recognize his “transformational gift”. Yusuf emphasized that “the work that was done [in the department] in the mid to late 1950s led to [James] Watson and [Francis] Crick developing the double helix structure of DNA”. Afterwards, Yusuf assured me his charitable wing would give the Covid-19 vaccine free of charge to people in India who cannot afford the cost. Cambridge University has given him an honorary doctorate of science for helping to save the lives of 15 million AIDS patients in Africa with “dollar a day” drugs. Guest of honour Although there is no confirmation, I have seen reports suggesting that Boris Johnson might be the chief guest at India’s next Republic Day function. Either way, he has promised to visit India as soon as he can. The Sunday Telegraph ran a three-quarter page piece on how Johnson has done a mega deal with Sunil Bharti Mittal to launch Britain into the space race through OneWeb, a satellite operator. I have noticed that stories about Indians are migrating from the news to the business pages. There is much curiosity about how the steel tycoon, Sanjeev Gupta, dubbed the “saviour of UK steel” finances his acquisitions. He has convinced Prince Charles, who has appointed Gupta as his ‘personal industrial ambassador’. Footnote Turkey “with all the trimmings” remains traditional fare at Christmas. But The Sunday Times is promoting what I have long thought of as a good idea — a “curry for Christmas”. It recommends a “gourmet feast” from Gymkhana, “one of the... most famous and in-demand restaurants”, “for those wanting a change from Christmas staples”. A box for four costs £110 and includes “wild muntjac biryani” and “4 tandoori masala lamb chops” — the latter are probably the best in Britain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
12-12-2020||Opinion||Eager to please||Offered West Bengal’s finance ministership, Tulsi Charan Goswami, the brilliant but mercurial Serampore zamindar, laughed that if he managed public money as he did his own, the state would soon be bankrupt. Such levity proclaims generations of idle riches. It is not expected from Rishi Sunak, Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer, who has become the richest member of the House of Commons, and whose wife is reportedly richer than Queen Elizabeth. But such wealthy migrants have a special responsibility in this age of migration. That is not reflected in Sunak’s decision to lop about £4 billion off Britain’s £13.4 billion aid budget. A London commentator attributes the cut to political ambition. He says Sunak is wooing Conservative backbenchers who are notoriously impatient with overseas (read Afro-Asian) aid, and regard anything spent on alleviating poverty in these benighted lands as money down the drain. No doubt Sunak hopes they will overlook his dark skin and foreign origins and, remembering only that he went to the exclusive Winchester College and is immensely rich, both of which count rather more than his Oxford degree, rally round him one day to fight Boris Johnson for the party leadership. Sajid Javid was Britain’s first Asian Chancellor. Sadiq Khan is London’s first Asian mayor. If the calculation proves correct, the ethnic Punjabi Chancellor whom newspapers call “Dishy Rishi” and “Maharaja of the Dales” may be Britain’s first Asian prime minister. The achievement would surpass that of Leo Varadkar across the Irish Sea. But one suspects that a specific pinnacle, however glittering, is subsumed in the greater satisfaction of acceptance, if not assimilation, which most immigrants crave. Imitation being the sincerest form of flattery and minorities being by definition insecure, aping or pandering to the majority is only to be expected in mixed societies. Alberto Fujimori, Peru’s ethnic Japanese president for the 1990-2000 decade, may not have subjected himself to eye or nose reshaping surgery but life abounds with the likes of Hari Kumar in Paul Scott’s The Jewel in the Crown, named to enable him to pass off in England — at least on the telephone — as Harry Coomer. It was saddening when another foreign employee in Singapore did not even realize that local colleagues mocked his attempts to enlist for National Service. But if fawning is undignified, so is the other extreme of hostility towards the host society that Indians in Britain, the United States of America and Singapore sometimes affect. Britain’s Conservative party politics offers two other recent examples of immigrant insecurity. Commentators have not stopped ridiculing the Agra-born business, energy and industrial strategy minister, Alok Sharma, who went overboard to applaud Boris Johnson’s highly publicized approval of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine. More loyal than the king and forgetting that Britain is not Uttar Pradesh (or India), Sharma dutifully warbled that the moment would be remembered “as the day the [United Kingdom] led humanity’s charge against this disease”. Innumerable radio callers are still stressing that his fervour is overdone since the vaccine represents international collaboration. Perhaps Britain and Uttar Pradesh (or India) are no longer so different after all. Another Sunak colleague, the controversial home secretary, Priti Patel, is accused of pandering to native racism by deporting more than a dozen black British residents to Jamaica. It may be recalled that she had to resign in November 2017 as Theresa May’s international development secretary because of her unauthorised meetings with Israeli politicians, including Benjamin Netanyahu. That defiance must have made Patel the darling of the right, the influential Jewish lobby, Donald Trump and of course of Johnson who already had his eye on the crown. Now, as probable second in his cabinet’s pecking order, she has won back more on the roundabout than was lost on the swings. Johnson forced his own ethics adviser, Sir Alex Allan, to quit by refusing to sack Patel despite a formal investigation convicting her of bullying civil servants. The crisis first erupted when the home office’s permanent secretary, Sir Philip Rutnam, resigned, accusing Patel of a “vicious and orchestrated briefing campaign” and of ignoring warnings not to “shout and swear at staff”. What is emphatically not Uttar Pradesh (or India) is Singapore. Instances of political sycophancy or slavishness always remind me of the courage the late Lee Kuan Yew displayed in 1976 by rejecting Chinese Premier Hua Guo Feng’s gift of Neville Maxwell’s India’s China War which he felt was partisan. Leaving aside expectations from shared ethnicity, this was a grave rebuff by a tiny city-state to a formidable power, touchy about protocol and prestige. Ethnic Indian members of Singapore’s ruling People’s Action Party who had been clamouring in parliament for what they called “a more realistic reappraisal of relations with China” — meaning full diplomatic ties — would never have dared take such a step. They expected obsequiousness to endear them to the majority Chinese. Suppiah Dhanabalan, a Christian Tamil politician with an ethnic Chinese spouse who was once talked of as Singapore’s first Indian-origin prime minister, lost no opportunity to say that he shuddered at the thought of India’s roads and airports. While the Chinese were always up and about, doing something, Dhanabalan dismissed Indians in India as “always talking, quarrelling, modifying”. Also a child of the diaspora, Sunak can’t be similarly contemptuous: his wife’s fortune comes from her father, N.R. Narayana Murthy, the Infosys founder, whose own worth Forbes estimates at £1.9 billion. Whereas the Queen is worth £350 million, the Sunday Times Rich List values Akshata Sunak’s shareholdings alone at £430 million. Sunak’s own grandparents moved from Punjab to East Africa and then to England. The Chancellor’s father was a general practitioner with the National Health Service, his mother, a pharmacist. “From working in my mum’s tiny chemist shop to my experience building large businesses,” Sunak says, “I have seen first-hand how politicians should support free enterprise and innovation to ensure our future prosperity”. Starting as a Goldman Sachs financier, he has built up a huge fortune. Sunak and Akshata own property worth more than £10 million in Britain and the US. By reducing foreign aid from 0.7 per cent of GDP to 0.5 per cent, he has robbed Britain of the distinction of being one of the few countries in the world to follow the United Nations’ recommendation. But it’s not the money that matters most. What causes far greater concern is the suspicion that he yielded to backbenchers who were already demanding the cut. “In effect we are sponsoring an Indian moon launch” stormed David Davies, an amateur boxer nicknamed ‘The Tory Tornado’. Another Tory MP, Philip Davies, lamented Britain was “spending money in a country that has not only got its own space programme but is developing its own overseas aid programme”. India’s claims to be a net donor and rejection of specific offers of help suggest a self-sufficiency that seems odd in view of the importance New Delhi attaches to employment and residence in Britain and the US. No successful economy needs to export human talent. The world has moved far since Tulsi Goswami’s ancestor, Raghuram, descendant of Advaita Acharya, a Chaitanya disciple and a leading Vaishnavite, offered to buy Serampore from colonial Denmark. The British raj refused permission. Globalization has become a household word since then. Logic indicates it will not be confined forever to goods and services. Manpower has already pushed a foot in the door. The tide is bound to swell. There may be few spectacularly successful Rishi Sunaks in it, but those few owe it to themselves and to the great mass of fellow immigrants to hold their own against the entrenched majority. It’s the only way of ensuring that migration does not destroy self-respect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||Lalu’s kidney functioning at 25 per cent efficiency, doctors concerned||According to doctors of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Ranchi jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s kidney efficiency has shot down to 25 per cent on Saturday. They added that the state-run hospital had sent a detailed report on his health condition to Jharkhand High Court. “The efficiency of his (Lalu’s) kidney is alarmingly poor. He has several other ailments like diabetes and cardiac problems, which make his condition worse,” said Dr Umesh Prasad, who has been treating Lalu at RIMS. The Jharkhand High Court on Friday deferred a hearing on Lalu’s bail plea for the second time in a span of six weeks. Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has demanded for Lalu to be shifted to the Birsa Munda Central Jail from the paying ward of RIMS so he could serve the remaining period of his jail term as a prisoner. “He (Lalu) needs proper medical care. We may have to put him on dialysis if the condition of his kidneys doesn’t improve,” said Dr Prasad. He refused to comment on the judicial proceedings of the fodder scam case, for which Lalu has been jailed. As per the jail manual, three visitors - former union minister Subodh Kant Sahai and two RJD MLAs from Bihar – Vinay Yadav and Rakesh Kumar Roshan, met Lalu at the paying ward of RIMS on Saturday and had a brief interaction with him. However, the hospital administration did not allow Roshan’s wife Manju Devi to meet Lalu. “Laluji’s supporters should be allowed to meet him twice a week. Since only three people are allowed to visit him every Saturday, many supporters like me have to return home disappointed,” said Devi. Islampur MLA Roshan said that Lalu’s condition was deteriorating on a daily basis. Roshan said that he visited Lalu to seek his blessings after winning in the recently held Bihar elections. A CBI court on December 23, 2017 convicted Lalu in the fodder scam case related to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 89 lakh from the Deoghar treasury between the years 1991 to 1994. A month later, he was convicted in another fodder scam case, for which he was granted five years of imprisonment. A year after his arrest he was admitted in the cardiology wing of RIMS, after complaining of discomfort while serving imprisonment in the Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi. Since then, he has been undergoing treatment at the hospital. In 2018, he was referred to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi from where he was later discharged and sent back to Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand BJP plans kisan sammelans to push farm laws||At a time when the nationwide stir by farmers across the country to protest against the new farm laws has entered day 17, the Jharkhand chapter of BJP has announced on Saturday that they would be organizing farm-centric seminars on December 15 in five different commissionaires of the state. The protesting farmers are showing no signs of retreat. A series of negotiations between the union government and representatives of protesting groups across Delhi borders have so far failed to reach any conclusion as the agitating farmers are firm on their demand – the rolling back of the new farm laws. On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi stepped in, in defense of the new law stating that the ‘reform’ intends to revive the country’s agriculture sector while speaking at a Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) event. Farmers’ bodies on the other hand have announced to intensify their stir till their demands are not met, thereby, prompting Delhi police to deploy additional forces along the national capital’s borders. Jharkhand hasn’t seen any major farmers’ unrest except for demonstrations and protests by non-BJP parties so far. However, BJP, the opposition party in Jharkhand, has decided to conduct seminars in a bid to sensitise farmers about the new laws. Jharkhand BJP’s general secretary Aditya Sahu said, “Unlike Congress and others who are hitting the streets simply to mislead farmers, we have decided to hold sammelans to sensitise the real-kisans about the plus points of the new laws, which we believe is both progressive and in favour of our annadatas. Congress and other parties are resorting to publicise myths and fear.” He added, “The sammelans have been planned in Deoghar, Medninagar, Nirsa, Kanke, and Ghatshila covering five commissionaires in the state. After this, we shall plan district-level sammelans too.” Notably, the incumbent coalition government comprising JMM-Congress-RJD along with Left parties had supported December 8 Bharat band organised by farmers outfits to protest against the new laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city traffic crippled as interceptor vehicle gets defunct||The traffic wing of the East Singhbhum District Police has crippled ahead of Christmas, as its lone interceptor vehicle has got defunct following the damage of its camera a couple of days ago. The interceptor vehicle, which used to curb rash driving by the four-wheelers and SUVs on important roads, including the marine drive, had to be put back in its garage at the police control room after the damage. In its absence, four-wheeler riders have sought to rash driving, leaving the vehicular traffic management at the mercy of God. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Traffic) Babban Singh confirmed the news after, saying the vehicle’s camera broke due to an accidental fall during handling. “The camera of the interceptor vehicle was broken during handling by its technician. We have already taken initiatives to get it repaired by a concerned agency. It is expected that the interceptor vehicle will be back in place for the service in a month time,” Singh said while talking to The Telegraph Online. The official said that the police used to place the vehicle at strategic points in several places, including Bistupur Main Road and Bistupur-Sonari-Kadma Link Road, for taking action on those indulging in rash driving. However, for the past five days, they cannot use the vehicle for such surveillance. Singh said that the 11 kilometres-long marine drive was the main focus point of the vehicle, as drivers tend to reach maximum speeds while crossing the area, often resulting in accidents. “But until the interceptor is not mended, we will try to control the rash driving manually. We have identified points on the marine drive where the maximum speed limit will be on the display board.” He informed that for some points the speed limit has been set at 20 kilometers per hour, while at others, it is 60 kilometers per hour. “We will try to curb the rash driving by putting up traffic police at crucial points,” the DSP said. Since the operations of the Domuhani bridge, which connects the marine drive at Sonari with Dobo in Chandil, started in March last year, traffic on marine drive has increased. Riders, especially two-wheeler ones, from the steel city tend to go on joy rides to the NH-33 through the bridge. Frequent accidents take place at the Chandil side of the bridge, where policing is not too strong making riders opt for high speeds. With the interceptor getting defunct, they have indulged in further reckless driving. It is being assumed that there will be a heavy rush of vehicle riders at the Domuhani bridge point during the coming Christmas and year-end festivity, giving the traffic police a challenging job for managing a smooth passage of vehicles. A senior traffic police officer, who wished to be anonymous, said that a city like Jamshedpur needs more than one speed limit radar (SLR) for curbing unruly bikers. “We have an interceptor vehicle for the four-wheelers, but no such electronic gadget to check on unruly bikers. The district administration should now obtain SLRs and introduce them in the traffic department for effective control of bikers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI to host virtual marathon on Sunday||The athletics wing of XLRI, SportsCom, is set to host a virtual marathon called ‘Xhaust’ on December 13 where participants will be able to take part in different categories of running. Contestants can take part in 3 kilometre, 5 kilometre or 10 kilometre runs in two given time slots of 7 am and 6 pm, as per convenience. All they need to do is install a mobile application, ‘pacer’ on their phones to track the run and share the details of the run from the app within 10 minutes of finishing the run. The run is open only for XLRI students, staff, faculty, and their family members. The participants can run from anywhere they choose to. Fr. P. Christie,  director, XLRI, urged them for maximum participation. The XLRI has been promoting fitness culture through various sporting events, he said. “The virtual marathon ‘Xhaust 2020’ will make our XL community start working out again through an external nudge and keep the XL sporting culture alive, he said. According to him, the Covid-19 pandemic has altered the course of our lives “Xhaust 2020 will help get things kick-started right from our homes so we are fit and ready when the time comes to get back to campus and resume classroom sessions,” Christie said. “Today's challenging times present us with an opportunity to build on our endurance and persevere despite the circumstances,” he added. Urging participants to follow social distancing norms, he said, “As a community, we strive to maintain the undying spirit, and it is expected that participants from across the country would be running in for the event.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tata golf to make a comeback at Beldih greens after 6 years||Big-ticket golf event will make a comeback at Beldih greens after a six-year hiatus. The Tata Steel Tour Championship, which is scheduled between December 17 and 20, will be held at the 18-hole Golmuri golf course and the 9-hole facility at Beldih following strict Covid-19 protocols. The four-day championship, which carries a prize money of Rs 1.5 crore, will be preceded by a pro-am (professional-amateur) event. The pro-am gives an opportunity to local golfers to play alongside professionals. The event was being held exclusively at the Golmuri course since 2014. But with the Beldih greens bereft of any top-notch event, the Jamshedpur Golf Committee has decided to bring the action back there. “Participants will be swapping Golmuri and Beldih courses while completing the customary 18 holes. We can watch some exciting action at Beldih this time,” a member said. Insiders in the Jamshedpur golf committee revealed that the Beldih facility was not being adequately maintained due to absence of competitive events, including local tournaments like Steel City Golf and Jubilee Golf. Both the events, as well as feeder tours, have been reserved for the Golmuri course which has become a most sought-after venue ever since it was turned into an 18-hole course some years back. The Golmuri greens have always won accolades from top golfers who have come to the steel city for the tournament. “With the Tata Steel Tour Championship also earmarked at Beldih this time, we can see upgradation of the greens and the fairways. There will be regular maintenance. The golf course will regain its lost glory,” another member said. Strict Covid protocols would be adopted for the tournament. Players must get their Covid test done 72 hours prior to arriving at the tournament venue for the practice round. Only those with a negative test report will be allowed. Players not carrying their test reports will not be allowed to enter the tournament venue. Players have been recommended to instal the Arogya Setu app on their phones. Social distancing of at least six feet must be practiced at all times at the venue, and masks are mandatory at all areas except while playing on the course and during dining. Gatherings are strictly prohibited and players will be asked to leave the venue as soon as their round has been completed. No practice will be allowed after the round. If a player is showing any signs of illness he will be asked to stay home and follow health protocols as recommended by state health authorities. No player other than those mentioned in the tournament entry list or draw (practice rounds 1 and 2), and those making the cut (rounds 3 and 4) will be allowed entry at the venue. Players can opt to carry their own bag. Starters must wear a mask, a face shield and gloves. Only a scorecard and hole location or local rules sheet will be distributed on the tee. They will be stapled together and given to the marker. There will be no exchange of paper between participants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||IIM-Ranchi issues SOPs for students to return to hostel||IIM-Ranchi has introduced standard operating procedures (SOP) for students to return to the campus in a staggered manner to pursue their academic career. In a notification issued on its website, the B-school said it had come with the SOPs in view of students’ requests centred around the use of the hostel, uninterrupted power supply and internet connectivity. “IIM Ranchi has agreed to consider their request and open the hostel at Khelgaon while strictly adhering to social distancing and other public health norms,” the notice said. The notice said that students would be allowed in batches of about 60-70 at a time. Classes would continue to be held online. “It is therefore suggested that a minimum possible number of students should come to the hostel to avoid the risk of Covid -19,” the notice said. As per the SOP, students would be allowed after considering various factors, like seniority, role in institute committees, placement activities, internet connectivity issues, individual domestic issues etc. “The first priority will be given to final year students and then those who are part of placement activities. The next priority will be given to those who are facing poor internet connectivity and power cuts i.e. rural dwellers etc,” it said, adding that the IIM’s hostel office, in consultation with hostel wardens and the management, would inform students accordingly. An official said over phone that they were now busy preparing the hostel premises. “Selection of students is likely to be over in another few days,” he said. A host of dos and don'ts have also been prescribed. Upon arrival. students are required to bring a Covid negative test report. “On arrival they will report to the asst. hostel warden / hostel office and collect the keys of their allotted room. On arrival, all students will be required to be quarantined for 14 days. In between, if they develop any symptoms then they will be required to take medical advice from the institute doctor and act accordingly,” the notice said. Students have been asked to share their travel plans as soon as they book tickets. “Ensure that you or your family members, whether accompanying you or not, have not tested COVID-19 positive during the last 14 days. Should any one of you have tested positive, then undergo a 14-day quarantine and at least a week-long recovery period on completion of the quarantine,” read the SOP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||Five BIT students selected for 12-week Canadian internship||Five students, including two women, pursuing their B.Tech courses from BIT Sindri have been selected for MITACS Globalink Research Internship for 2021 in Canada. All of them are in their fifth semester of the course, in the lone run engineering college of Jharkhand. The selected students include Afsha Izhar and Sneha Kumar of Chemical Engineering, Abhinav Prakash of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Milan Kashyap of Civil Engineering and Ashutosh Kumar of Mechanical Engineering. Associate Professor of the Department of Physics at BIT Sindri, Ghanshyam Rai said, “The 12-week internship will begin in May 2021. This is a big achievement for the students as well as the institute as so many of them have never been selected for the scholarship before.” MITACS is a non profit national research organisation that operates research and training programmes in fields related to industrial and social innovations, in partnership with Canadian academia, private industries and the government. “From May to October of each year, top-ranked applicants participate in a 12-week research internship under the supervision of Canadian university faculty members in several academic disciplines. This includes science, engineering and mathematics, humanities and social sciences. The objective of the Globalink Research Internship is to build a bridge between Canada and emerging international research talent,” Rai, who is also the Training and Placement Officer of BIT Sindri, said. Last year, Sushant Kumar, a student of Metallurgical Engineering, had also secured the same internship and pursued research in the United States. “Afsha Izhar will pursue the internship at Cape Breton University, Sydney under the supervision of Adango Miadonye, while Sneha Kumari will pursue the same at the same Cape Breton University, Sydney  under the supervision of Professor Cao Thang Dinh,” the professor said. “Abhinav Prakash will pursue the internship at Lakehead University, Thunderday, Ontario  under the supervision of  Yushi Zhou. Ashutosh Kumar  will do the same at Superior Technology School, Montreal, Quebec, Canada under the supervision of Lucas Hof. Milan Kashyap will pursue the internship at Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada under the supervision of Professor Kyle Toushigant,” he added. Congratulating the selected students, BIT Sindri Director DK Singh said “The selection of students for the prestigious foreign internship proves that the students  of our institute are at par with the institutions of the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi's Covid cases on the rise||More than half of the total Covid-19 cases reported in Jharkhand on Friday were from Ranchi, figures compiled by the state health department revealed. However, after reporting a rise in the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection for three consecutive days, Ranchi witnessed a marginal drop in the count of active cases as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection here. At least 94 of the 174 fresh cases of infection surfacing in Jharkhand on the day were reported from Ranchi, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The Covid-19 death toll increased to 995 after two more patients succumbed to the disease, he said. Meanwhile, two more Covid-19 patients, one each from Hazaribagh and Bokaro, died during treatment on Friday, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 995, figures with the NHM stated. Thursday’s casualties take the Covid mortality rate in the state to 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. Ranchi district registered the maximum number of fresh cases at 93, followed by Bokaro (20) and Dhanbad (12). The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 18,344 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 44.51 lakh people and tested 44.33 lakh of them. Around 18,000 swab samples were still pending for tests by the end of Friday. Jharkhand now has 1,694 active coronavirus cases, while 1,08,488 people have been cured of the disease so far, the official said. The state has tested 23,253 samples for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||IMA strike hits OPD services||Health services were badly hit in Jharkhand as out-patient departments in all the 500 government and private hospitals in the state remained closed on Friday in response to the nationwide strike called by the Indian Medical Association to protest against the Union government’s directive to allow post-graduate doctors in Ayurveda to perform surgeries. “My son was suffering from fever and loose motion since yesterday (Thursday) afternoon. I had brought him to the MGM Hospital in Jamshedpur with the hope to get some medicines. However, as the OPD was closed, we had to stand in a long queue at the crowded emergency ward of the hospital to get treatment. We had to wait for more than three hours before my son could receive treatment,” said Nakul Mahato, 53, a resident of Patamda in East Singhbhum. Mahato had hired a three-wheeler to come to the hospital and had to arrange another for returning home, around 25km from the hospital. Similar tales of patients having to wait for treatment at crowded emergency wards at government health centres amid the pandemic were common in almost all the 24 districts of the state. “My daughter was having a headache and fever. I had come to the Ranchi Sadar Hospital on a bike to get medicine and join my duty in the afternoon. But as the OPDs were closed, I had no option but to get her admitted in the emergency ward for treatment. Her treatment got over after 2pm and I was late in reaching my office,” said Dulal Hansdah, a resident of Kokar in Ranchi. IMA Jharkhand state coordinator Dr Ajay Kumar Singh claimed the strike was successful. “All the government and even private hospitals had their OPDs closed as part of the strike call given by IMA between 6am and 6pm. However, we allowed emergency services and Covid-19 facilities to remain operational. Few corporate hospitals, however, preferred to keep their OPDs open for treatment of their employees,” said Dr Singh. The official, admitted about the problem faced by patients but said that the medical fraternity had very few options. “We agree that patients, especially in rural belts, might have faced problems due to the strike but we were left with no option than give a strike call to make the Union government realise the wrong decision they have taken in allowing Ayurveda doctors to carry out surgeries. In fact, the central government is giving license to quacks to kill. The allopathic medical fraternity sensing the seriousness of the issue has raised the banner of protest,” added Dr Singh. The Union government had decided to allow post-graduate Ayurveda physicians to perform certain types of surgeries, including orthopaedic, ophthalmology, ENT and dental in November this year. More than 13,000 allopathic doctors participated in the strike call which also had the backing of the Jharkhand Health Services Association (JHSA). IMA Jamshedpur general secretary Dr Mrityunjay Singh claimed that a MBBS doctor completes a year of internship, a year of house surgery and a total of five years in the course to receive a certificate to perform surgery but the Union government is giving Ayurveda practitioners authority to carry out surgeries after a bridge course of only a year which would be fatal for healthcare services in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
