13-12-2020||Calcutta||Recognition of grit of students||A list of the awardees at the IIHM presents The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2020, 25th Edition, in association with The Bhawanipur Education Society College The Caring Minds Award for a ‘School that Cares’ Special mention (for handling the pandemic) Calcutta Rescue: Distributed smartphones among slum children Adamas World School: Provided a part of its Barasat campus to set up a quarantine centre Joint winners Antyodoy Ashram: Home to 78 children, orphans or children of single parents incapable of bringing them up Batighar Pathshala: School for 56 children, mostly from slums and footpaths Don Bosco School, Liluah: Host of welfare activities like teaching girls over 14 years for free and conducting night schools The Somak Dutta Endowment Award Moner Unmesh: A school for tribal children, mostly first-generation learners, in Garbeta, West Midnapore. The mud building of the school was damaged by Cyclone Fani (2019) and razed by Cyclone Amphan in May this year The Anand Paul Memorial Award for Social Service Chowringhee High School St Joseph’s School, North Point The Ambuja Neotia Award for Excellence in Maintenance and Eco-Friendly Initiatives Adamas World School Tribeni Tissues Vidyapith Scholarships, Section 1 Dr. Ashin Dasgupta Memorial Scholarship Rhichick Dey: South Point High School Lakshmipat Singhania Education Foundation Scholarship Jyoti Mardi: Maladang Koherakuri Bangshidhar Uchcha Vidyalaya, Birbhum Dr Amiya Kumar Bose Memorial Scholarship Indrajit Roy Laskar: Haldibari Uchha Madhyamik Vidyalaya The Late Debaprasad Das Purkayastha Memorial Scholarship Santanu Dutta: Malpar Vivekananda Sikshaniketan, West Midnapore Hariyana Vidyamandir Scholarship Jhumi Debnath: Ranaghat Nasra Girls High School, Nadia The Bansari Saha and Late Malay Saha Scholarship Prerna Rana: Belda Gangadhar Academy, West Midnapore The Sonika Chauhan Award for Courage Yubasana Kapa: Gokhale Memorial Girls’ School Susmita Sarkar: National High School Hazra Road Campus (The Sonika Chauhan 27 Foundation Scholarship) The Surrendra Paul Memorial Award for Courage Aaditya Kumar Agarwal: MC Kejriwal Vidyapeeth Arkojit Mukherjee: Union Chapel School Kinkini Chatterjee: Lakshmipat Singhania Academy Ronit Adhikary: Calcutta Public School Kalikapur (also winner of the Tarun Kumar Sinha Memorial Scholarship) Sk Muhemin Ali: Saifee Golden Jubilee English Public School Sumit Kumar Lal: National High School, Hazra Road Campus (also winner of the Chittajit De Memorial Scholarship) Soumili Hor: The Assembly of God Church School, Park Street (Died on September 17. Diagnosed with a degenerative neurological disease in Class VI, for which she struggled to move even with crutches. She attended school regularly despite her numerous health issues) The IIHM Award for Excellence in Academics CBSE: Lakshmipat Singhania Academy ICSE and ISC: The Heritage School Madhyamik and HS: GB Memorial Institution The Madanlal Dhandhania Charitable Trust Award for Academic Excellence by a Student Special honour Auhona Mukherjee: Delhi Public School Megacity (Humanities stream) Subham Ghosh: DAV Model School, Durgapur (Science stream) Yamini Chetani: Mahadevi Birla World Academy (Commerce stream) Joint winners Sreemanti Dey: Delhi Public School Ruby Park Utsav Basu: South Point High School Scholarships, Section II The Delhi Public School Megacity Scholarship Prabir Mukherjee: Malpar Vivekananda Sikshaniketan, West Midnapore The Admissiontree Scholarship Kajal Das: Paschim Barisha Kamala Vidyamandir The Tarinidas Roy and The Pratibha Roy Memorial Scholarship Piyali Nayak: AK Mitra Institution, Dhakuria The Mayukh Mitter Memorial Scholarship Debanjan Sarkar: Ashokenagar Boys Secondary School, North 24-Parganas The Capt. Sanjib Sen and Mrs Suchitra Sen Memorial Scholarship Barsha Mandal: Kanaknagar SD Institution, Hingalganj, North 24-Parganas The Bhawanipur Education Society College Award for an Educationist Chhaya Biswas: She started at Loreto Day School Bowbazar in 1955 as a teacher, worked in several other schools and more than six decades later, she is still guiding students and this time in online mode. Ratan Chandra Dhara: The teacher of Bonbibitala High School (HS) writes skits to raise awareness against child marriage. Dipak Roy Chowdhury: He uses magic to teach sciences and mathematics at Niva Ananda Vidyalaya, Brahmapur, Garia. Special mention Theo Baker. Now in her 90s, she was associated with many schools as a care-giver to underprivileged children. The Dr Mrs NB O’Brien Memorial Lifetime Achievement Award for a Teacher Mukta Nain: The director of Birla High Schools has been in the field of education for more than three decades and believes in providing all-round education to students. Nazirah Ganjee: The former teacher of La Martiniere for Girls, both “strict and soft”, has involved herself with various occasions like Founders’ Day, Sports Day and Children’s Day. Grace Williams: The teacher at Loreto Convent Entally, also a social worker, has instilled the Loreto values in her students. The Abhirup Bhadra Memorial ‘Thank You Baba-Ma Award’ Rehana Sardar: A single mother of three children in a middle-class family, she took up a job after her husband abandoned them and is bringing up her daughters. One of the daughters, Mehdiya Binte Aftab, of Jewish Girls’ School, received The Dr Krishna Roy Scholarship. Sunil Sharma and Mamta Sharma: They have never let their hard times impact their daughter’s education. Sunil Sharma lost his job a few years back, got a part-time job but met with an accident. Mamta Sharma does a part-time tailoring job. Daughter Anjali Sharma, of St John's Diocesan Girls' Higher Secondary School, received The Saradindu Sen & Indira Sen Memorial Scholarship. Kalyan Adhya and Rupa Adhya: Rupa had to sell a kidney to make ends meet and pay for the treatment of son Acharya, who had a rare disease. Acharya received The Indu Basu & Pritish Chandra Basu Memorial Scholarship. Abhijit Sarkar and Late Mandira Sarkar Chakraborty: The couple’s son, Arkodeep of St Luke's Day School, has scored 96 per cent in ISC. His mother, who passed away last year, played a significant role in guiding him in academics and music. The Kalyan Bharati Trust Award for All-Round Excellence Joint winners Dhruv Banka, of La Martiniere for Boys, scored 94 per cent in ISC. He is a debater and a cricketer, and his social work includes conducting food drives Acharya Adhya, of Abhinav Bharati High School, has fought a disease in childhood, excelled in academics and also in rifle shooting and other sports. The Adamas University Award for Outstanding Talent in Sports Special Honour Shreyas Bahadur Shah, of St Joseph's School North Point, for volleyball, basketball and athletics. Winner Aronyak Ghosh, of South Point High School, an international master who has been playing chess since he was nine The Balrampur Chini Mills Award for Outstanding Talent Nilav Bose (photography): Don Bosco School, Liluah Shivam Agarwal (space technology): Lakshmipat Singhania Academy The Anirban Sinha Award for Outstanding Talent in Music Sagnik Sen: South Point High School Shreyan Bhattacharya: DAV Public School, Midnapore The Shining Star Honour Suchandan Ghosh: K. Carmel School, Sarisha Usha Mondal: Calcutta Public School Kalikapur Mira Das: Silver Point School Biswajit Mazumder: Bhavan's Gangabux Kanoria Vidyamandir Satyabrata Kayal: Gems Akademia International School The Telegraph Education Foundation Award for Excellence in Extra Curricular Activities Joint winners Lakshmipat Singhania Academy South Point High School The Telegraph School of The Year The Heritage School Delhi Public School Megacity Suborno Bose Chairman and CEO, IIHM We are very proud and privileged to be a part of The Telegraph School Awards for the past four years. I would like to congratulate the entire The Telegraph Education Foundation for providing support to students for the past 25 years and this is something that nobody has done. I also want to thank every teacher for their selfless service  towards educating children during the Covid-19 pandemic. Miraj D. Shah Vice-chairman, The Bhawanipur Education Society College Stepping into 25 years is a huge thing for any programme and the fact that The Telegraph Education Foundation has been helping students all along is just amazing. The sheer number of students’ lives it has touched is incredible. We can only wish all the best and want this programme to grow even bigger and better. Barry O’Brien Trustee, The Telegraph Education Foundation Twenty-five years is a long time and over this time period some of us have doubled or tripled our chins. However, The Telegraph School Awards has grown in strength and we are grateful to those who stood by rock solid at our side. Amitabha Datta Chairman, The Telegraph Education Foundation The Telegraph School Awards has become extremely popular over the past 25 years not only in the city but all over the state and it is extremely heartening for us. The programme that we had started 25 years ago has transformed the lives of many young children as it helped them pursue their educational endeavours despite their problems and we are grateful to all the individuals, corporates, schools as well as the teachers who have all made it possible for us.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
13-12-2020||Calcutta||Twenty-five years of stories of triumph against odds||A Hindu youth with a rare blood group travelled 450km from Ahmedabad to donate blood for a little Muslim girl. When asked whether he would like to meet her, the man replied: “She could be Hindu or Muslim or Sikh or Isai, I am just a human being.” Dhiren Pithiya, the youth, came to Calcutta to give away the courage awards at the inaugural edition in 1996. 2020: A 17-year-old, the son of a farmer in a West Midnapore village, has since childhood been loading his father’s broken cycle trolley with potatoes and travelling six miles, selling them and returning home before going to school. Santanu Dutta, who lives in a thatched house, scored 91.4 per cent in Madhyamik and received a scholarship on Saturday. Calcutta: IIHM presents The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence  2020, 25th Edition, in association with The Bhawanipur Education Society College has traversed 25 years and stories of triumph against odds and conviction against fate have kept emerging through the quarter of a century. Forced by the pandemic, the award ceremony moved from the stage to the virtual platform this year. Though one could not hear the thunderous applause online, there were many who sat through the show moist-eyed — not just in Calcutta but across the world. “Twenty-five years is a long time and today we would be celebrating and we would be looking back for strength, we could be looking back to draw from the past and look ahead for the next 25 years with confidence,” said Barry O’Brien, a trustee of The Telegraph Education Foundation who hosted the 180-minute programme. “An extraordinary spectacle,” was how Manmohan Singh described the ceremony when he came to give away the awards in 2003, a few months before becoming the Prime Minister. At Saturday’s event, Santanu Dutta received The Late Debaprasad Das Purkayastha Memorial Scholarship for carrying on despite financial hardship. Acharya Adhya of Abhinav Bharati High School, who got The Indu Basu & Pritish Chandra Basu Memorial Scholarship, has been fighting a physical challenge. Acharya was diagnosed with transverse myelitis — an inflammation of both sides of a section of the spinal cord — in childhood and remained paralysed for more than a year. His treatment expenses forced his mother to sell a kidney to make ends meet. Acharya fought his circumstances to top Class X from DPS Howrah and secure the third position in Class XII from Abhinav Bharati. He is now a medical student. Kalyan and Rupa Adhya, parents from Calcutta, received The Abhirup Bhadra Memorial “Thank You Baba-Ma” Award. Sumit Kumar Lal, a Class XI student of National High School, Hazra Road campus, received The Surrendra Paul Memorial Award for Courage and The Chittajit De Memorial Scholarship for pursuing studies while working as a Rapido captain. “Working is a necessity for me, else I won’t be able to continue my studies,” said the Class XI student, whose father is a driver by profession. Sumit had to work even during the pandemic, delivering food, to fund his education. The school awards honour not just students, who are the “VIPs”, but also teachers, non-teaching staff and schools. “Magic Sir” Dipak Roy Chowdhury, who teaches mathematics and sciences at Niva Ananda Vidyalaya at Brahmapur through magic, received The Bhawanipur Education Society College Award for an Educationist. He has been using the technique even when classes are being held remotely during the pandemic. Among the awardees over the years are “kiptey mastermoshai (miser teacher)” Ashutosh Sheet of Kakdwip Primary School, who lived frugally all his life and saved around Rs 10 lakh to build a primary school at his village; and Yaesin Pathan, a peon at Pathra post office in West Midnapore, who has made it “his mission to save six ancient terracotta Hindu temples from vandals and extinction”. Pathan was a special guest of honour in the 2002 ceremony. The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence gave full monetary grant to him to compile and print his book, which led the Archaeological Survey of India to take note of his mission and sanction Rs 20 lakh to save the temples. On Saturday, Nilav Bose, a former student of Don Bosco School, Liluah, was among the winners of Balrampur Chini Mills Award for Outstanding Talent for photography. He has recently worked in Project Bismillah (helmed by BBC photojournalist Kounteya Sinha), documenting Chillai-Kalan, the 40-day period of harsh winter in Kashmir after the scrapping of its special status. The Heritage School and Delhi Public School Megacity received The Telegraph School of the Year. Moner Unmesh, a 600sq ft school for first-generation learners in West Midnapore, was the winner of The Somak Dutta Endowment Award. The school, founded in 2017 by Aloke Kumar Das, will use the prize money to rebuild its 15x15sq ft classroom that was razed by Cyclone Amphan in May. O’Brien said that The Telegraph Education Foundation in a small way changed people’s lives by motivating them. “We actually have been doubly and greatly motivated and inspired by them since 1996,” said O’Brien. It has indeed inspired many. Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, which has turned 25, has donated Rs 99,000 to The Telegraph Education Foundation. Eleven teachers of the school, who do not want to be named, have contributed another Rs 1,10,000 to the foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
13-12-2020||Calcutta||IIEST sets rules for digital examination||The BTech students of the IIEST will get 45 minutes to write their mid-semester papers and 15 minutes to upload the scanned copies of their answer scripts, failing which the scripts will not be evaluated, an official of the Shibpur institute said. The examinations of the third, fifth and seventh semesters will be held from December 21 to 28 on a digital platform. IIEST has decided against on-campus tests for now because students and teachers are wary of visiting the institute amid the Covid pandemic. A notice signed by deputy registrar (academic) Nirmallya Bhattacharya says: “The duration of each examination shall be 45 minutes excluding a maximum time of 15 minutes for uploading a scanned copy of the answer script. After examination, the student shall upload the scanned copy of the answer scripts in Google Classroom, for that maximum 15 minutes shall be allowed. Any answer script submitted late shall not be evaluated”. The examinees will be sent questions over Google Classroom a couple of minutes before the start of the test. The institute had considered on-campus tests to ensure transparency. But as students and teachers wanted to avoid assembly as a precaution against Covid-19, the institute dropped the idea. IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said that although some NITs were assessing students in semester exams by giving home assignments, they settled for a time-bound test. While writing the papers, the students will have to switch on their webcams or mobile cameras. “Since we cannot hold on-campus tests, we are trying to hold the exams in a time-bound manner to ensure transparency. The questions are being set in a manner that if a student has not studied the chapter in detail, he or she won’t be able to write in 45 minutes. Searching the answers on the internet or taking help of a book won’t help,” said Chakrabarti. According to him, if assignments are sent home, it is difficult to assess whether the student has taken someone else’s help to complete it. The institute will hold its convocation on January 30 in virtual mode as it does not want to risk any physical assembly amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
13-12-2020||Calcutta||Dad, child fall from terrace at Parnasree||A 44-year-old man and his one-and-a half-year old daughter fell from the terrace of a four-storey building while playing, causing instant death of the father. The child, who has no apparent external injury mark, is suspected to have suffered internal injuries and has been admitted at SSKM Hospital in an unconscious state, police said. Subhas Chandra Panda, a resident of Baishalakshmitala Road at Parnasree, was a railway employee. Investigators said the father of two was playing with the little girl with a ball when they fell off the terrace. “A plastic ball has been found on the terrace. The man had fallen around two feet from the child. From the position of his body on the ground and the way the child fell, it looks like the man was carrying the child in his arms when he lost balance and fell over the parapet,” said an officer of Parnasree police station. The incident happened around 11.35am when a fruit vendor in front of the building heard a loud thud and found Panda lying a few feet away, near the boundary wall of the building. “His head was completely smashed. He was taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital, where he was declared dead,” an investigator said. A search was launched for the child, who was spotted lying unconscious on the other side of the wall. Police officers who visited the spot said the parapet was only two-and-a-half-feet high. No evidence of any third person having been present on the terrace when the two fell emerged till Saturday evening. Apart from the daughter, Panda leaves behind his wife and a 13-year-old son. Panda’s body has been sent for post-mortem. An unnatural death case has been registered at Parnasree police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
13-12-2020||Calcutta||Actress  Arya Banerjee died after ‘falling from bed’||Actress Arya Banerjee possibly died after falling from her bed, a preliminary investigation by police suggests. The investigators, however, were yet to know the exact cause of death of Arya, also known as Devdutta. They are probing other aspects, including why the door of the terrace was left open when all other doors were closed. The body of Arya, daughter of late classical sitarist Nikhil Banerjee, was found on the second floor of her house in Jodhpur Park on Friday. She lived alone. The cops have found some prescriptions of drugs in the name of the 35-year-old that are used to treat Hepatitis-B. Her room was littered with blood-stained papers napkins. The police said she did not visit any doctor but went on drinking heavily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
13-12-2020||Calcutta||Convocation medal on tray at RKM, Belur||About 200 graduating students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira came to the Belur campus on Saturday afternoon to collect their degree certificates at a convocation that was held adhering to all Covid-19 protocols. As the degree recipients stepped on the campus wearing masks, their body temperature was measured with thermal scanners. Rows of foot-operated sanitiser dispensers were put up from the entrance to the campus. The degree recipients (undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD) were split into two groups — one group attended the convocation in Vivekananda Sabhagriha and the other in AshaJyoti Conference Hall. This was done to ensure maximum possible physical distance among the attendees. Inside the halls, too, adequate distance was maintained among those present. Before entering the venue, each recipient collected a scarf from the reception desk. The scarves were distributed by student volunteers wearing masks and gloves. Swami Ekachittananda, the principal of Vidyamandira, which has featured among the top 11 institutions in the National Institutional Ranking Framework over the past three years, said they took special care while honouring the medal recipients. “As they came on the dais, the medal and the books were given on a plastic tray. In previous years the medals would be placed around the neck of the recipients and the books on their hands. This year we avoided the traditional practice to comply with the Covid protocol,” he told Metro. The degree certificates were handed to the students from a designated counter in a staggered way in an open space outside the halls. The chairs and tables on the dais were placed at a considerable distance from one another. Pravin Srivastava, a former chief statistician of India, delivered the convocation address virtually. The two-hour ceremony, which started at noon, was live streamed on YouTube so that the family members who could not attend the event because of the pandemic got a feel of it. “This year we did not allow the degree recipients to be accompanied by family members as a precaution against Covid. We hope they got a feel of the event on the digital platform,” said an official of the college. Unlike previous years, the recipients this year were not allowed to put up at hostels on the campus. ’’No one was allowed in the hostels, which are empty because the students are all home and are attending classes on digital platforms because of the pandemic,’’ said a college teacher. Calcutta University’s pro-vice-chancellor for academic affairs, Ashis Chatterjee, called out the names of the degree recipients seated in the halls. Swami Divyananda, the secretary of the college, said in his address: “Dear boys – never forget that it is to this glorious educational lineage that you belong. So you can well imagine the responsibility that you would be carrying to prove your worth as the alumnus of this institute. In other words, have you become a morally responsible person in the truest sense of the term? If yes, you’ve jus-tified your stay in this noble institution for the last few years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
13-12-2020||Calcutta||Covid takes heavy toll but still they dared to dream||The pandemic took away their fathers, pushing their families into deeper poverty. But it could not take away their dreams. Class VI student Kajal Das, daughter of a vegetable vendor who passed away a couple of months ago, continues to spend a long time every day, rain or shine, running on a patch of land in her Behala neighbourhood. She wants to realise her ambition of becoming an athlete. Debanjan Sarkar, a roadside hawker’s son who lost his father to Covid days before the NEET, and was himself afflicted with the coronavirus, still cracked the all-India exam. Both of them were awarded scholarships on Saturday at the IIHM presents The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2020, 25th Edition, in association with The Bhawanipur Education Society College. After Kajal’s father died, the last rites had to be deferred because she needed to go to her school, Paschim Barisha Kamala Vidyamandir, to collect the rice and vegetables being disbursed to students in lieu of the midday meal during the pandemic. What Kajal calls home is a roof of plastic sheets and a tattered tin shed, supported by bamboo poles, at a slum in Sakherbazar. The house lacks a toilet, and electricity is a distant dream. Till the pandemic killed her father, Kajal used to accompany him to a nearby market to sell vegetables. But already a flame had been lit in January when she took part as a sprinter in an inter-district school competition and clocked impressive timings. The dream of becoming a professional  athlete was born, and it drives her on amid the gloom around. On Saturday, Kajal was awarded the Admissiontree Scholarship. “She knows she has to fight in order not to sink into the darkness of society. We salute her fighting spirit,” said Barry O’Brien, a key initiator of the Awards Ceremony, who anchored the event for the 25th consecutive time. Debanjan’s father too was his family’s sole breadwinner, earning about Rs 4,000 a month till the pandemic robbed him of even that meagre income. Then, in the run-up to the all-India medical entrance exam, Covid-19 struck another blow, infecting both father and son and killing the father. Debanjan, a resident of Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas who studied at the Asokenagar Boys’ Secondary School, had never let poverty hold him back, scoring 97 per cent in the Madhyamik and 96 per cent in his higher secondary exams. But he had never faced odds like this before. “I had to clear the test. I had to become a doctor because it was my father’s dream,” Debanjan, who won the Mayukh Mitter Memorial Scholarship on Saturday, told The Telegraph. Debanjan is now a first-year MBBS student at Calcutta Medical College. If individuals like Kajal and Debanjan refused to be cowed down by the pandemic, institutions too rose to the challenge. After the outbreak, the Adamas World School offered a part of its Barasat campus to the state government’s Covid-19 effort. The Nilgunj Road campus was transformed into a quarantine centre for 900 people between April 3 and mid-July, also housing several physicians and trained nurses. The campus catered to the needs of North 24-Parganas. “We all need to help the government by providing either finance or infrastructure. We are all ready to face the situation together,” Samit Ray, the chancellor of Adamas University, had said. He had also contributed Rs 10 lakh to a Covid relief fund. Calcutta Rescue, an NGO that works with slum children, distributed 50 smartphones in 10 slums. Around 300 children are using the phones by rotation to attend online classes. The NGO has provided the children with Wi-Fi connections and is helping them with digital learning. Both Calcutta Rescue and the Adamas World School received special certificates for handling the pandemic under the Caring Minds Award for a “School That Cares”. The Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, Alipore, was joint winner of The Telegraph Education Foundation Award for Excellence in Extra Curricular Activities. The school had contributed Rs 870,000, collected from the management, staff and parents, to the state relief fund in support of those affected by Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
13-12-2020||Business||Government re-invites four coal blocks for bidding||The Ministry of Coal has invited bids for four coal blocks once again, whose tender process was nullified in the first round of auction for commercial mining earlier. This was done as the number of technically qualified bidders for each mine was just one. Three of the four coal blocks are in Odisha, while the other one is in Jharkhand. “The nominated authority conducted the first attempt of the 11th tranche of auction under CM(SP) Act and 1st tranche of auction under the MMDR Act of identified coal mines/ blocks vide tender document dated June 18, 2020,” the coal ministry said in a notice inviting tender. It added that as the number of technically qualified bidders for the tender was less than 2 for Chendipada, Chhendipada-II and Kuraloi (A) North coal mines in Odisha and Seregarha block in Jharkhand, the process was annulled. The fully explored blocks have an annual peak-rated capacity of 52 million tonnes (MT). “The nominated authority is initiating the second attempt of auction of these coal mines with the same terms and conditions as in the first annulled attempt of auction,” the ministry said in its notice. The auction of blocks for commercial mining has opened India's coal sector to private players. In the first-ever auction for commercial coal mining, a “fierce competition” was witnessed. Earlier, Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi said 19 auctioned mines will generate total revenues of around Rs 7,000 crore per annum and create more than 69,000 jobs once they are operationalised. In June, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the auction process for 41 coal blocks for commercial mining. Some of the large corporate groups that have bagged blocks include Adani Enterprises, Vedanta, Hindalco Industries and Jindal Power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
13-12-2020||Business||EPFO likely to credit 8.5 per cent interest by year-end||The Employees Provident Fund Organisation is expected to credit 8.5 per cent rate of interest for 2019-2020 in the employees' provident fund (EPF) accounts of around six crore subscribers in one go by the end of December. In September, the retirement fund organisation had decided to divide the interest into two installments 8.15 per cent and 0.35 per cent during its trustees meeting headed by Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar. The Labour Ministry has sent a proposal to the Finance Ministry to provide concurrence to credit 8.5 per cent interest rate for the year earlier this month, a highly placed source told PTI. “The Ministry of Finance ratification is likely in a few days. Thus the interest is likely to be credited by this month only,” the source said. Earlier, the finance ministry had asked for some clarifications regarding the interest rate in the last fiscal year, which was addressed, the source further said. In March this year, the EPFO's apex decision making body Central Board of Trustees headed by Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar had approved 8.5 per cent interest rate on EPF for 2019-20. In a virtual CBT meeting in September, the EPFO had decided to honour its commitment to provide 8.5 per cent rate of interest for the last fiscal. But the CBT had also decided to split the rate of interest into two installments of 8.15 per cent and 0.35 per cent in view of the pandemic. The labour ministry had given its explanation that “in view of exceptional circumstances arising out of COVID-19, the agenda regarding interest rate was reviewed by the CBT and it recommended the same rate of 8.50 per cent to the Central Government”. “It (8.5 per cent interest) would comprise 8.15 per cent from debt income and balance 0.35 per cent (capital gain) from the sale of ETFs (exchange traded funds) subject to their redemption by 31st December, 2020,” it had said. The CBT had recommended accounting such capital gains (from sale of ETFs) in the income of the financial year 2019-20 as being an exceptional case. As planned earlier, the EPFO had to provide 8.15 per cent interest on EPF soon after seeking the Ministry of Finance nod. It has planned to credit the remaining 0.35 per cent rate by December 31, after proposed liquidation of ETFs. The source also told that since the market conditions are more than favourable as benchmark indices are at record high, there should not be an issue to credit the entire 8.5 per cent in one go.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
13-12-2020||Business||Rs 9879cr capital expenditure plan cleared for 27 states||The finance ministry on Saturday said it has approved capital expenditure proposals worth Rs 9,879.61 crore of 27 states. Of this, Rs 4,939.81 crore has been released as the first instalment. In a statement, the ministry said all states, except Tamil Nadu, have availed benefits of the newly announced scheme for “Special Assistance to States for Capital Expenditure”, which was announced on October 12 as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package. “So far capital expenditure proposals of Rs 9,879.61 crore of 27 states have been approved by the ministry of finance. An amount of Rs 4,939.81 crore has already been released to the states as the first instalment under the scheme,” it said. The ministry said the scheme is aimed at boosting capital expenditure by the state governments who are facing difficult financial environment this year because of the shortfall in tax revenue arising from the Covid 19 pandemic. “Capital expenditure has a higher multiplier effect, enhancing the future productive capacity of the economy, and results in a higher rate of economy growth. Therefore,despite the adverse financial position of the central government, it was decided to extend a special assistance to the state governments in respect of capital expenditure, in financial year 2020-21,” it added. The capital expenditure projects have been approved in diverse sectors such as, health, rural development, water supply, irrigation, power, transport, education, urban development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
13-12-2020||Business||Data policy key to future||Tata Sons chairman N. Chandrasekaran on Saturday said post-Covid-19, the new world order offers limitless opportunity for India but for the country to be ready to participate in it, there is a need to establish regulatory standards on data and taxation in general. If the idea “that the 2020s belong to India” has to be realised, industry should be bold and start visioning all projects at scale, while there is also a need for a new focus on talent, enabling data and bandwidth”, he said at the 93rd annual convention of Ficci. He added that the government should also establish the regulatory standards that are required on data privacy, data residency, data localisation and taxation in general. He stressed on the need to reimagine “the whole technology blueprint nationwide” and make technologies such as robotics and AI (artificial intelligence) become part of the mainstay of manufacturing. Two crucial factors Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said modernisation of the public sector through the use of technology and public-private partnership will be crucial to post-pandemic recovery. The CEO said these two factors would be crucial for the catch-up growth in the next 10 years. “Some of the work that’s happening in India, whether it is the ID system or the banking APIs, it’s pretty enlightening,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
13-12-2020||Business||Start-ups, swadeshi pitch for new India||The backbone of new India would be start-ups and the ecosystem in the country is encouraging innovation by promoting and strengthening new young entrepreneurs, businesses with new ideas and ways of doing business, Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal said on Saturday. Speaking at Ficci’s annual convention, Goyal urged the Indian industry to support start-ups by providing financial support, handholding, opportunities and mentorship so that they can grow without resorting to dilution of their stakes to foreign companies at very low valuations at the initial stage itself. “The scale of manufacturing, along with quality and productivity, can truly make India competitive in several sectors and help move towards an Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” he said. Gadkari stress on reducing imports Raising the swadeshi pitch, road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday said there was a need to reduce dependence on imported electric vehicle (EV) components, including lithium-ion batteries, magnets and find ways to manufacture these in the country without compromising on quality. Citing the example of magnets used in electric vehicles, he asked industry experts to study which parts are being imported. “I am not a businessman but I am seeing a huge potential for electric cars and even electric trucks,” he said at the Ficci event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
13-12-2020||Business||Loan recast on mere request says RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Saturday clarified that borrowers who are seeking resolution under Covid-19 related stress package need not present any resolution plan to their lending institutions, but only submit a request. In August, the central bank had announced a one-time loan restructuring scheme for those borrowers who have been affected by Covid-19 related stress. It allowed banks to restructure loans of borrowers who were regular in their repayments and did not have more than 30 days overdue as on March 1, 2020, without downgrading their asset classification. It had also set up an expert committee under K.V. Kamath which laid out the financial parameters while finalising such resolution plans. Later in October, the banking regulator had come out with frequently asked questions (FAQs) on the restructuring scheme. In its latest revision, the RBI said that the framework does not require any resolution plan in any form to be submitted to the lending institutions at the time of request for invocation. “Rather, for invocation, the borrowers are required to merely submit a request to the lending institutions for being considered under the resolution framework,” it added. After such a request has been made, the lending institutions will have to take an in-principle decision as per their board approved policy on invoking the resolution framework. After such an invocation, the specific contours of the resolution plan to be implemented may be decided by the lending institutions, in consultation with the borrower. For personal loans, the resolution plan is to be implemented within 90 days from the date of invocation and for all other loans a period of 180 days from the date of invocation has been set. According to the scheme, the date of invocation is the date on which both the borrower and the lending institution have agreed to proceed with a resolution plan. If there are multiple lending institutions with exposure to the borrower, the resolution process will be treated as invoked if the lending institutions representing 75 per cent by value of the total outstanding credit facilities (fund based and non-fund based) and not less than 60 per cent of them by number agree to invoke it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
13-12-2020||Business||Modi says signs attest to economic recovery||Buoyed by the better-than-expected second quarter GDP growth and other high frequency economic data, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said economic recovery is faster than expected and indicators are encouraging. “India has been through ups and downs in 2020,” the country’s economic recovery from the setback of Covid-19 is “faster than expected” and “economic indicators are encouraging”, Modi said addressing the 93rd Annual Convention of Ficci. Modi emphasised on the priority given to “saving lives” during the pandemic and said, “the government’s policies and actions were oriented towards that”. Therefore, despite a rocky year for the Indian economy, “there is a roadmap for recovery”, he added. The Prime Minister said the faith that the world placed on India in the last six years has further strengthened in the past few months. Whether FDI or FPI, foreign investors have made a record investment in the country and are continuing to do that, he said. “The V-shaped recovery of economic activity continued in October... IIP & eight-core index further inched up to pre-Covid levels. The broad-based recovery in IIP resulted in a growth of 3.6 per cent in October 20 compared with a contraction of 6.6 per cent in October 2019,” chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian said in a series of tweets. “From 107 items in the IIP recording a growth of more than 10 per cent in January 2020 to 170 items that recorded a growth of more than 10 per cent in October 2020 foretells a strong and robust recovery… Of 407 items in the IIP basket, 276 recorded better growth in October 2020 compared with the growth in September-2020,” he said. The economy could grow at over 11 per cent in the 2022 financial year as it has rebounded spectacularly after the initial loss of production due to Covid-19 this year, N. Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons, said. “In the near term, there are reasons for optimism. Several indicators have rebounded faster than expected. GDP growth may accelerate by over 11 per cent in 2022 after a significant contraction… While this rebound looks spectacular, this is coming on the back of the loss of real output. This means, we should not only recover, but also accelerate,” Chandrasekaran said at the Ficci event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
13-12-2020||India||Farmers block Jaipur-Delhi highway in Rajasthan's Alwar||Farmers protesting against the Centre's new agri laws blocked the Jaipur-Delhi national highway in Shahjahanpur of Rajasthan's Alwar district on Sunday as police stopped them along the state's border with Haryana while they were marching towards Delhi. Several farmers' organisations marched through Behror, Shajahapur and Kotputli regions of the state to reach Jaisinghpur-Khera border. Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav, social activists Aruna Roy and Medha Patkar, and CPI (M) leader Amra Ram also reached Shajahapur along with farmers. However, police did not allow them to proceed forward. “We are squatting on the highway in support of farmers. We are ready to vacate the road if we are allowed to march towards Delhi,” Yadav told reporters while apologising to the people for the inconvenience caused to them. Kisan Panchayat president Rampal Chaudhary is also continuing with his protest along with the farmers on the Haryana-Rajasthan border highway as police did not allow them to move forward. “Farmers affiliated to different farmer organisations are reaching Shahjahapur border. We want the government to repeal the new farm laws and for this, we want to march towards Delhi,” said Chaudhary. While CPI (M) leader Amra Ram said the Centre should withdraw the three “anti-farmer” laws. “We do not have any intention to block the Jaipur-Delhi highway. Police have stopped us from marching towards Delhi, which has led to jam. We want the Centre to withdraw the anti-farmer laws,” Amra Ram said. Due to blockade, vehicular traffic on the Jaipur-Delhi national highway had to be diverted through Bansur and other routes of Alwar, police said. One-way traffic from Delhi to Jaipur was later opened for traffic but Jaipur-Delhi highway is blocked due to the agitation, they said. Police administration is keeping a vigil on the border areas in view of the agitation. "The police department is all prepared to maintain the law and order and have made all arrangements in view of the farmers' agitation," Bhiwadi SP Ram Murti Joshi said. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the legislation would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||BJP President JP Nadda tests positive for coronavirus||Bharatiya Janata Party president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Sunday announced that he had tested positive for coronavirus, and had, therefore, isolated himself at home. Nadda tweeted, “On getting the initial symptoms of corona, I got the test done and the report came back positive.” “My health is fine, following all the guidelines in home isolation on the advice of doctors,” he further wrote in the tweet, in Hindi. The leader also asked everyone who had come in contact with him over the past few days to get tested for the virus. Several people wished the 60-year-old a speedy recovery. “Wishing you a very speedy recovery Mananeeya Adhyaksh JP Nadda ji. Get well soon! Maharashtra awaits to welcome you soon,” former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis tweeted. Union Minister Smriti Irani said, “Get well soon sir.” Nadda, who was recently in Bengal, is now at the centre of a Centre-state tussle over an attack on his convoy at Shirakol in South 24-Parganas on December 10. The BJP has alleged the ruling TMC was responsible for the act, while the TMC has alleged that the attack was "staged". Nadda is one of several prominent political leaders to have tested positive for the coronavirus. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had tested positive for Covid-19 in September and had been admitted to hospital. Recently, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij, who had taken a trial shot of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, had also contracted the virus. Other leaders who suffered from Covid-19 include Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, among others. India on Sunday recorded 30,284 Covid-19 cases as the tally reached 98,57,029, while death toll climbed to 1,43,019 with the virus claiming 391 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||Rajasthan farmers march to Delhi to protest farm laws||After a three-hour shutdown on Sunday, the Delhi-Jaipur highway opened up partially as farmers began their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march from Rajasthan’s Shahjahanpur on tractors, NDTV reported. The farmers’ march began in the morning, with a group of 800-900 of them being led by Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav, according to a report by NDTV. While on their way to the national capital, the farmers faced a blockade at the Delhi-Jaipur highway, which was sealed from both sides by police. Protesters were seen carrying placards and shouting slogans as they slowly made their way to the national capital. Tractors, trailers, and cars carrying banners were also seen as they carried on to their destination. The police had, in the morning, beefed up security in the national capital's border with Haryana as farmers had announced on Saturday that they would block the Jaipur National Highway-8, which passes through Gurgaon, as part of their protest against the Centre's new agri laws. According to a senior police official, several measures had been taken to ensure commuters do not face inconvenience. Delhi Traffic Police had deployed its personnel on Sunday across important border points to ensure commuters do not face difficulties and had been constantly updating people about open and closed routes on its Twitter handle. Meanwhile, Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Som Parkash met Home Minister Amit Shah during the day amid the protests. The ministers were accompanied by BJP leaders from Punjab. Tomar and Parkash met the home minister, an official said. It was not immediately known what transpired in the meeting. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced in a press conference that he will hold one-day fast on Monday in response to the farmers’ hunger strike call. He also asked the Centre to shun its “arrogance” and meet the protesters’ demands. Farmer leaders on Saturday had stuck to their demands and announced that their representatives will sit on a hunger strike on December 14. A nation-wide strike has also been called on the same day. The leaders, addressing a press conference in the Singhu border,had said that they were ready to hold talks with the government but would discuss repealing the laws first. They had also announced Sunday's march in the press conference. The move came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, earlier in the day, had said that the new laws would benefit the farmers and the government is committed to their welfare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||Kamal Haasan asks Modi to explain rationale behind new Parliament building||MNM chief Kamal Haasan on Sunday lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and asked him to explain the need of building a new Parliament for about Rs 1,000 crores, “when half of India is hungry due to coronavirus pandemic triggered loss of livelihoods”. Likening the proposed construction of the structure to that of the centuries-old Great Wall of China, Haasan claimed that “thousands of people perished” while it was being built. But the rulers of the country said the wall would ‘guard’ the people of China. “To protect whom is a new Parliament building being constructed at a cost of Rs 1,000 crore when half of India is hungry due to the coronavirus pandemic triggered loss of livelihoods,” the Makkal Needhi Maiam chief asked on Twitter. “Answer honourable elected Prime Minister,” Hassan demanded, hours before starting off with his campaign for the Assembly polls from Madurai in southern Tamil Nadu. The Assembly elections in the state are due in April-May next year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for a new Parliament building on December 10. He also performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the structure, which is expected to be completed by 2022. Speaking to reporters before leaving for the temple town, Haasan alleged that the authorities had at the last minute not granted permission for MNM to campaign within urban areas, though they had got the nod to go ahead in “many places”. The leader, on being asked about the focus of MNM’s campaign, said his party would be bringing in a complete transformation in Tamil Nadu. “There is no doubt about degeneration in the state...people know that well and there is no point lamenting..MNM will talk about what needs to be done now,” Haasan said in an apparent attack to DMK and AIADMK, who have ruled the state since 1967.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||Police arrest Republic TV CEO in fake TRP case||The Mumbai Police on Sunday morning arrested Republic Media Network Chief Executive Officer Vikas Khanchandani in connection with the alleged fake TRP (Television Rating Points) scam, a police official said. Khanchandani was arrested from his residence in Mumbai by the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the police, the official said. He will be produced before a court for further remand, he added. The police began a probe into the alleged scam after ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Agency about rigging of TRP by some channels. Khanchandani’s arrest comes less than a week after the Supreme Court dismissed a plea of the ARG Outlier Media Private Limited, the owner of the Republic Media Network, seeking protection of its employees. The top court had said that the petition was ‘ambitious’ in nature, and therefore the company should withdraw it. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers. The BARC engaged Hansa to install and maintain barometers which record TV viewership data at sample households. It was alleged earlier that some families are being paid to tune into certain channels to gain more TRP. In a charge sheet filed recently, the police alleged that an official of Hansa paid money to sample households to tune into Box Cinema, Fakt Marathi, Maha Movie and Republic TV. The Republic TV had denied all accusations. Police have arrested 13 people in connection with the case so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||Coast Guard begins ‘Operation Oliva’ to protect Odisha turtles||The Indian Coast Guard has engaged an aircraft in service for ‘Operation Oliva’, the coastal monitoring as part of its annual mission to ensure the safe mid-sea sojourn of breeding Odisha’s Olive Ridley sea turtles. The turtle protection programme is in full swing, in a joint venture with the forest department, to keep vigil on illegal fishing around the turtle concentration zone, a Coast Guard official said. A proactive plan has been prepared to ensure the conversation of the marine animals. “With round-the-clock vigil, the coast guard has been able to provide adequate protection to the endangered species,” an official said. “The CG aircraft will keep a tab on illegal fishing in Gahirmatha marine sanctuary, Dhamra, Devi and Rushikulya river mouths,” he added. It has also organised interactive sessions with fishermen communities to make them aware of the pros and cons of the legal embargo on fishing during olive ridleys' nesting season. “The patrol exercise for surveillance on trespassing sea-worthy trawlers is on as turtles perish in large numbers after getting hit on trawl propellers. Besides breeding animals get entangled in fishing nets and are asphyxiated to death,” the official said. “The coast guard is always on alert to check trespassing of vessels. The patrol vessels engaged by the forest and fisheries department often seek CG ship assistance in the event of emergencies. The operation to save turtles is being carried on in a coordinated manner,” he said. “We are always ready to help the forest and fisheries department for the safety of these delicate marine species,” the CG official added. He informed that this operation will stay in force until the turtles lay eggs on nesting beaches. There is an increase in the awareness level among the fishermen communities. As a result, unlawful sea fishing activity has dropped down considerably this time since the enforcement of prohibition on sea fishing from November 1 within the 20 km radius of Gahirmatha marine sanctuary and river mouths of Odisha. Since November 1 when the turtle protection patrolling was undertaken, the forest department has arrested more than 70 sea-going fishermen and eight sea-worthy trawlers were seized on the charge of infringement of provisions of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and Orissa Marine Fishing Regulation Act, 1982, said forest officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||Covid: India records over 30,000 cases in 24 hours||India’s Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 98.57 lakh with 30,284 new cases in a day, while 93,57,464 people have recuperated so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.93 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 98,57,029 and the death toll climbed to 1,43,019 with the virus claiming 391 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. There are 3,56,546 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 3.62 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a cumulative total of 15,37,11,833 samples have been tested up to December 12 with 10,14,434 samples being tested on Saturday. The active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the seventh consecutive day. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||Vilification by government deepens trust deficit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday rooted for more private investments in farming, only to confirm the protesting farmers’ worst fears and expose the deep fault lines caused by the government’s unseemly rush to push through the controversial laws. The mistrust with which the call was greeted also showed how, unwittingly or otherwise, the Modi government had transformed “private investments” — considered essential for building support systems such as cold chains and logistics systems — and “corporatisation” into dirty expressions. “In the fields of supply chain, cold storage and areas like fertilisers, etc, both interest and investments of the private sector are needed. There is a huge scope in rural agro-based industries and a friendly policy regime is in place for that,” Modi told the annual meeting of industry chamber Ficci on Saturday. “We have seen walls between the agriculture sector and other areas associated with it — be it agriculture infrastructure, food processing, storage or cold chain. All walls and obstacles are being removed now. After reforms, farmers will get new markets, options and more benefits of technology. The country’s cold storage infrastructure will be modern. By doing this, there will be more investments in agriculture that will benefit farmers,” the Prime Minister added. The words are certain to be music to the ears of some pro-reform commentators but the farmers who till the land and are now being forced to spend their nights on highways heard otherwise. The farmer unions, tired of being made to run around in circles in the name of talks and enraged by a vilification campaign by the government ecosystem, read in the Prime Minister’s statement a vindication of their stand that the farm laws were tailored primarily to aid crony capitalists. The government’s agenda is clear and it wants to pave the way for corporate houses to enter the farm sector, farmer leader Kamal Preet Singh Pannu told reporters at the Singhu border near Delhi after the Prime Minister’s Ficci speech. The depth of the trust deficit was on display on a day farmers spread the reach of the Punjab strategy of freeing up toll plazas for a day across the country. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said 165 of the 450 toll plazas in the country were picketed through the day and people were allowed to cross them free of charge. The Prime Minister may have sought to showcase his “pro-reform” face but his colleagues are deploying the other half of the classic “good-cop-bad-cop” tactic. In spite of taking part in talks with the farmers, food minister Piyush Goyal has been suggesting the farmers’ agitation has been hijacked by “ultra-Left” elements. The farmers are reading the statements of Modi and Goyal together, smelling in them a ploy to let crony capitalists seize control of the food chain. Slamming the government for its continuous efforts to defame the movement, the working group of the AIKSCC said the government was resorting to such tactics because it did not want to address the issue at hand. “First, the central government claimed that the entire movement of farmers is sponsored by political parties. Then it said it was being sponsored by foreign forces. Then it said it was a Punjab-specific movement that involved pro-Khalistani forces. Then they said farmer unions had walked away from the talks, even though the unions participated in each round of the talks....” At the Singhu border, farmer leader Pannu said: “The government wants to drag this on in the hope of weakening our struggle. But people are coming regularly from the villages even though the police are putting up barricades to stop them. We will defeat all efforts by the government to break this struggle.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||Delhi asks Bengal to release 3 IPS officers||The Union home ministry on Saturday summoned three IPS officers in Bengal for central deputation amid suggestions that the decision was taken to “punish” the trio in connection with the attack on the convoy of BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Thursday. The Bengal government has informed the Union ministry that it would be unable to release the three officers. The three officers are Rajeev Mishra, additional director-general of South Bengal; Praveen Kumar Tripathi, deputy inspector-general of the Presidency range covering the districts of South 24-Parganas, Howrah and North 24-Parganas; and Bhola Nath Pandey, superintendent of police, Diamond Harbour police district. An official in Calcutta said the Union home ministry had sent a letter on Friday seeking the release of the three officers. “The Union home ministry’s letter said the three officers had been attached to the ministry. Although it was not mentioned in the letter, it is clear they are being punished for the alleged security breach involving Nadda’s convoy on Thursday,” the official said. A retired IPS officer said the Centre’s decision was a clear attempt to scare IPS officers ahead of the Assembly polls next year. “The BJP-led Centre is trying to scare the officers to buy their loyalty ahead of the polls.… This is nothing but a political move,” he said. An official in Bengal said: “The chief secretary wrote to the Union home secretary expressing the government’s inability to release the officers. The state government has not cited any reason for its inability to release the officers as the Centre did not show any reason why it wanted to place these officers in central deputation.” Sources said the Centre had asked the state to send the release orders by December 15. “The Centre has written that if the state does not get back within the given time period, it would be considered that the officers have been released. This is the reason the state informed the Centre of its inability to release the officers,” an official said. Trinamul Congress MP Kalyan Banerjee, too, wrote to the Union home secretary, saying the Centre was trying to exert pressure on the officers as they had been deployed near the “place of occurrence”. Several senior officials expressed surprise at the Centre’s move, saying such decisions were usually taken only after consulting the state government. An official said the Union home ministry normally sent the states a list of police officers empanelled for central deputation for that particular year. “The states are then left to decide and reply with the names of those that can be spared. As the Union home secretary is the cadre-controlling authority, the Union home ministry draws up the list of officers after going through their annual confidential reports and empanels them against different vacancies. But for the process to be completed, a no-objection certificate from the state is a must,” the official explained. Another official said the attachment of the officers because of the security breach involving Nadda’s convoy appeared arbitrary. “It’s clear that they are being punished, but they should have been given an opportunity to defend themselves. Besides, the state should have been asked to conduct an inquiry into the officers’ roles,” the bureaucrat said. Bengal police are continuing with the probe. After arresting seven people on Thursday, the police arrested eight from Usthi and Falta on Saturday for their alleged involvement in the stoning of some of the vehicles in Nadda’s convoy while he was travelling to Diamond Harbour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Sex ratio at birth worsens in Kerala||Kerala is among eight states where the sex ratio at birth, a measure of prenatal sex determination, has worsened over the past five years, the latest National Family Health Survey findings released on Saturday have suggested. The sex ratio at birth — the number of girls per 1,000 boys — has fallen in Kerala to 951 during the NFHS 2019-20 from 1,047 during NFHS 2015-16. The nationwide surveys are intended to help provide snapshot views and trends in multiple household parameters linked to health and wellbeing. Health researchers say a fall in the sex ratio at birth points to possible selective abortion of female foetuses through prenatal sex disclosure outlawed in India but believed to be still practiced. The first phase of NFHS 2019-20 covering 22 states has also recorded reduced ratios in Bihar (934 to 908), Goa (966 to 838), Himachal Pradesh (937 to 875), Maharashtra (924 to 913), Meghalaya (1,009 to 989), Nagaland (953 to 945) and Daman and Diu (983 to 817). But the survey has recorded improvements in the total fertility rate with three of the 22 states in 2019-20 compared with eight states five years ago showing TFRs above what population scientists consider a “desirable” number of 2.1. In Bengal, the TFR decreased from 1.8 to 1.6 and sex ratio slightly improved from 960 to 973. “Only Bihar and Meghalaya are some distance from the desirable TFR of 2.1,” said Shri Kant Singh, a professor at the International Institute of Population Sciences, Mumbai, who coordinated the survey. In Bihar the TFR fell from 3.4 to 3.0, in Meghalaya 3.0 to 2.9 and Manipur 2.6 to 2.2. Kerala has shown a slight increase in TFR from 1.8 in 2015-16 to 1.6 in 2019-20. But, Singh said, this change is “not worrisome” because the TFR is below 2.1. “A TFR significantly lower than 2.1 is not desirable because it would mean there aren’t enough children being born within that subpopulation and we would see a steady increase in elderly  people,” Singh said. But even with this near-uniform decline in TFR, “in some states, we’re seeing signs of prenatal sex determination”, Singh said. Health researchers say the low sex ratios at birth underline the country’s failure to stop the selective abortions of female foetuses even despite a ban on prenatal sex disclosure enacted in 1994. A report from Niti Aayog, the Centre’s apex think tank, had two years ago also found that sex ratios at birth had worsened in 17 of 21 states between 2012-14 and 2012-15. A study by researchers in Austria, France and Saudi Arabia had earlier this year predicted that India could lose on average more than 1,200 female foetuses daily over the next decade through prenatal sex disclosure practices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Farmer protest: Dushyant meets Rajnath, Tomar||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Saturday prodded the Centre to resolve the deadlock with the agitating farmers, under intense pressure from his support base and party MLAs. Jannayak Janata Party leader Dushyant first met defence minister Rajnath Singh and then agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in Delhi and said a “conclusive result” would emerge in the next 24 to 48 hours. “I discussed the matter with the Union ministers. I am hopeful that with mutual consent, a way will be found and the standoff resolved,” Dushyant, deputy chief minister in the BJP-led government in Haryana, said. “I am hopeful that in the next 24 to 48 hours, the final round of talks would be held between the government and the farm leaders and it will lead to a conclusive result,” he added. Sources said Dushyant had communicated to Rajnath that he, like the Shiromani Akali Dal of Punjab, could be compelled to snap ties with the BJP if the deadlock with the farmers was not resolved. The pressure from the Haryana ally came on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi iterated that the new farm laws were beneficial for the farmers, indicating that the government remained firm on not scrapping them as demanded by the farmers. The BJP government in Haryana is dependent on Dushyant’s  support. Many MLAs of the Dushyant-led JJP want their party to sever ties with the BJP if the government doesn’t agree to the farmers’ demands. The JJP draws its strength from the landowning Jat community and is under intense pressure from supporters. Talking to reporters, Dushyant stressed it was his duty to protect the rights and interests of the farmers and disagreed with the charge levelled by sections in the BJP that “Khalistani” elements from Punjab were leading the agitation. “ Those who have come from Punjab have a positive conduct and hope it remains the same,” he said. The government has been desperately trying to divide and isolate the protesters, aiming to paint the picture that only farmers from Punjab are opposing the “positive reforms”. A sustained social media campaign has also been launched to portray many of the farm leaders as having links with “Khalistani” and “Maoist” outfits. But another ally of the BJP, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party chief and MP Hanuman Beniwal from Rajasthan, is firm on his demand for scrapping the new farm laws. “If I were in the Lok Sabha when the bills were passed, I would have opposed them like the Akali Dal and torn the bills into pieces,” he said. Like Dushyant, Beniwal too draws his strength from the agrarian Jat community in Rajasthan. If he too, despite being the only MP of his party in the Lok Sabha, is taking a firm stand, it means there is strong pressure from the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Lead role for Pawar in sync with Rahul||Veteran Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar looks destined to play a bigger role in national politics in the coming years, bearing the primary responsibility of bringing the Opposition parties together to jointly fight the Narendra Modi government. Pawar, who turned 80 on Saturday, is still active in politics, unlike 74-year-old Congress president Sonia Gandhi who is reluctant to carry on. Although both the NCP and Pawar himself have refuted reports suggesting a plan to make him UPA chairperson in place of Sonia, leaders cutting across party lines concede he is going to become the pivot on which Opposition politics would rest in the coming years. Although a section of Congress leaders fiercely oppose the idea, many in the party believe it is wrong to presume that the responsibility of uniting the Opposition being given to Pawar meant a conflict with Rahul Gandhi on the leadership question. These leaders insist that Rahul and Pawar have developed a mutual understanding and could make a great team with a perfect blend of experience and youth. “Both will have different roles to play,” a senior Congress leader told The Telegraph, arguing that Ahmed Patel’s death had necessitated such an experiment. Pawar not only has strong personal rapport with regional leaders, but his capability of garnering resources and creating an axis with the corporate world can also never be overstated. While Sonia is still heading the UPA, her engagement with active politics has been restricted and may further shrink after the Congress elects a new president over the next few months. Rahul, who is expected to return as Congress president, may like to spend his energies on strengthening the party and on public outreach rather than on behind-the-scenes political management. The Shiv Sena, now an ally, is already been pushing for Pawar’s leadership. Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut, who supported the idea of Pawar becoming the UPA chairperson a few days ago, again said on Saturday: “We’ll be happy if Pawar sir becomes UPA chairman. But I’ve heard that he has personally refused it. We will support him if such a proposal comes to the fore officially. The Congress is weak now, so the Opposition needs to come together and strengthen the UPA.” An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Saturday hailed Pawar’s credentials and subtly criticised the Congress for not giving him his due so far. NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said in Mumbai on Saturday: “Pawar saheb had last week said that he wanted the Opposition parties to come together. It is not important who will lead the front. That can be decided later. But, the Opposition needs to come together.” Pawar had recently objected to former US President Barack Obama’s negative views about Rahul but publicly conceded that the Congress leader was inconsistent. But Rahul met Pawar after that and went to the President with him and other Opposition leaders to submit a memorandum on the farmers’ agitation, indicating that he didn’t take the “inconsistency” jibe as a personal attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Why two of the three farm laws are bad in law||Two of the new farm laws that farmers are protesting against are liable to be deemed unconstitutional in a legal challenge because they confer judicial authority on bureaucrats, a measure contrary to several Supreme Court judgments. These are the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020. Farmers are agitating for the repeal of these two acts as well as the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, all of which were bulldozed through Parliament in September. Petitions challenging all three have been moved in the Supreme Court by farmers’ bodies, NGOs, lawyers and even an MP, Tiruchi Siva of the DMK. While the protesters and the petitioners have argued the three laws would end the minimum support price regime and leave farmers at the mercy of big companies, the judge-like powers that two of the acts grant to non-judicial officials have largely passed unnoticed. Unlike any other law in the country, these two acts vest sub-collectors, deputy collectors and district collectors with powers on a par with civil courts in settling disputes arising from these laws’ application. This runs counter to several Constitution bench judgments on the legislative powers of Parliament or state legislatures. Also, these two laws bar civil courts from entertaining any appeal from aggrieved parties but do not provide for, as an alternative, tribunals headed by judges, which too is contrary to apex court judgments. Adding further controversy, the twin acts, notified in the official gazette on September 27, have been given retrospective application from June 5 this year. Section 13(1), Chapter III, in the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act says that every farming agreement must explicitly provide for a conciliation process and a conciliation board made up of representatives of the parties to the agreement. Section 14(1) says: “Where the farming agreement does not provide for conciliation process… (and) parties to the farming agreement fail to settle their dispute… within a period of 30 days, then any such party may approach the concerned sub-divisional magistrate who shall be the sub-divisional authority for deciding the disputes under farming agreements.” Sub-section 3 says: “Every order passed by the sub-divisional authority under this section shall have same force as a decree of a civil court and be enforceable in the same manner as that of a decree under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, unless an appeal is preferred under sub-section (4).” Sub-section 4 says: “Any party aggrieved by the order of the sub-divisional authority may prefer an appeal to the appellate authority, which shall be presided over by the collector or additional collector nominated by the collector, within 30 days from the date of such order.” Sub-section 6: “Every order passed by the appellant authority under this section shall have same force as a decree of a civil court and be enforceable in the same manner as that of a decree under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.” Sub-section 8: “The sub-divisional authority or the appellate authority shall, while deciding disputes under this section, have all the powers of a civil court for the purposes of taking evidence on oath, enforcing the attendance of witnesses, compelling the discovery and production of documents and material objects and for such other purposes as may be prescribed by the central government.” Section 19: “No civil court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceedings in respect of any dispute which a sub-divisional authority or the appellate authority is empowered by or under this Act to decide and no injunction shall be granted by any court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act or any rules made there under.” The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act has identical provisions relating to the conferment of judicial powers on non-judicial officers. Various other laws like the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947; Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016; Representation of the People Act, 1951; Consumer Protection Act, 2019; Companies Act, 2013; and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, have provisions keeping civil courts out of the dispute settlement system. However, unlike the new farm laws, all of them provide for appellate tribunals headed by sitting or retired Supreme Court and high court judges as an alternative. The Supreme Court has repeatedly insisted that these tribunals must be headed by judges or former judges, making it clear that non-judicial officials cannot carry out the function of courts or tribunals. It has also ruled that the heads of the tribunals must be appointed by the judiciary. The apex court has several times quashed rules relating to the appointment of chairpersons or presidents of these tribunals on the ground that their selection cannot be left to the government but only to a panel that includes the Chief Justice of India or a nominee of the CJI who must be a Supreme Court judge. In the Union of India vs R. Gandhi (Madras Bar Association president), a five-judge Constitution bench had in 2010 struck down the appointment of non-judicial officers as presiding officers of the company law tribunal and appellate tribunal. “What is a matter of concern is the gradual erosion of the independence of the judiciary, and shrinking of the space occupied by the judiciary and gradual increase in the number of persons belonging to the civil service discharging functions and exercising jurisdiction which was previously exercised by the high court,” the bench had observed. “There is also a gradual dilution of the standards and qualification prescribed for persons to decide cases which were earlier being decided by the high courts. Higher administrative experience does not necessarily result in better adjudication and... there had been a gradual encroachment on the independence of the judiciary....” A similar point was made by a seven-judge constitution bench in L. Chandrakumar vs UoI, 1997.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Jagannath Temple to reopen from December 23||Puri Shree Jagannath Temple will be opened for devotees from December 23 in a phased manner. In the first phase, only people from Puri will be allowed to have a “darshan” of the deities. Devotees from other parts of the state will be able to enter the shrine only from January 3. Devotees visiting the 12th Century shrine from outside Puri town will have to produce a Covid negative report to be able to enter the temple. The temple, which is synonymous with Odia culture, has been closed for the past nine months because of the corna pandemic. The decision to reopen it was taken on Saturday at a meeting of the Confederation of the Chhattisha Niyoga, the highest body of servitors. According to the decision, in the first phase the temple will be opened for the people of Puri till December 31. “The darshan of the devotees will remain closed on January 1 and January 2,” said chief administrator of Shree Jagannath Temple Krishan Kumar adding that the shrine will reopen on January 3 and welcome all devotees. “But only about 5,000 devotees per day will be allowed for a week. Queue arrangements will be made both outside and inside temple,” he said. Gradually more and more devotees will be allowed to enter the shrine. “Strict Covid-19 protocol will be implemented. Wearing of mask, use of hand sanitiser and social distancing will be insisted upon,” officials said. Puri Shree Jagannath Temple PRO Laxmidhar Pujapanda told The Telegraph: “The devotees from outside Puri wanting to visit the temple will have to produce Covid negative certificates issued following tests done 48 hours before the temple visit.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Spurt in crime forces Nitish to review law and order ||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar called yet another high-level law and order review meeting on Saturday, unnerved by the spiralling crime graph in Bihar. This is the third one since the formation of the new government after the November elections. Previously, such meetings were held just once or twice a year. Nitish holds the important home department, which includes the police. While the Opposition is already going hammer and tongs over the situation, the main cause of concern for him is that ally BJP has also started raising its voice over the deteriorating law and order in the state. BJP state unit president Sanjay Jaiswal and Darbhanga MLA Sanjay Saraogi had recently expressed concern over the increase in crime in the state and the erosion of the fear of police among the criminals. Nitish’s meeting came at a time when the spurt in cases of crimes like murder, rape, loot, robbery and kidnapping have been hogging the limelight on a daily basis. Sources in Nitish’s Janata Dal United (JDU) said that the chief minister is worried about a concerted effort to compromise the law and order situation in the state to discredit him. “Law and order, good roads and development of all sections of the society have been USPs of Nitish’s governance. Among these, any deterioration in law and order has immediate repercussions on public perception and sentiments. It is possible that vested interests are behind in increase in crime so that he could be discredited. The sudden spurt after the elections points towards this,” a senior JDU leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. The same leader said that Nitish was also worried about the deterioration in the law and order situation leading to a demand by the senior ruling partner BJP to relinquish the home department. “Some senior BJP leaders are already commenting about the poor law and order situation. It is a well-known fact that their party would like to have the home department in its hands. Thus Nitish is in a bind; on the one hand the Opposition is baying for his blood, while on the other the allies are also expressing their displeasure. It’s a tough situation,” the JDU leader added.      Apart from senior officials, all district magistrates and superintendents of police also attended the meeting via video conferencing. Sources present at the meeting said that the chief minister expressed displeasure over the unchecked crime and issued several instructions to address the situation. “Maintaining law and order is the foremost responsibility of the state government. Crime should be strongly controlled and there should be no irresponsibility in it. Regular police patrolling apart from night patrolling needs to be ensured. Special focus should be on the security of women and strict action should be taken against the people involved in crime against them,” Nitish directed the officials. “The people of the state would get real benefits of development only with proper crime control and strict law and order,” Nitish added. Asking for utmost sincerity towards crime control, the chief minister also told the officials to strictly enforce prohibition and take action against those involved in illicit liquor trade. Nitish pointed out that as per the state government’s assessment, land disputes are behind 60 per cent of fights and crimes. He directed the officials from police station and circle levels to the district level to hold regular meetings to resolve such disputes in their jurisdiction. The village chowkidars (guards) have been asked to inform issues related to their villages to the police stations in their vicinity every Saturday, so that the circle officers and station house officers could address them swiftly. A senior official who attended the meeting chaired by the chief minister said that the instructions given by him to curb crime were “of basic nature, but showed that the policing at the ground level has broken down. Round-the-clock patrolling by the police remains a distant dream in the state despite the recruitment of around 20,000 constables over the last few years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Expelled BJD MLA  booked for job fraud||An expelled Biju Janata Dal MLA and his would-be son-in-law have been booked for cheating people by falsely assuring them jobs. The Odisha crime branch said that Akash Pathak, the would-be son-in-law of expelled Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Panigrahi, had posed as a managing director of Tata Motors, and he and the politician had collected money by falsely promising jobs to youths. Akash, son of IFS officer Abhay Kant Pathak who is in jail in a disproportionate assets case, has been taken into five days’ custody. Panigrahi is also in jail. According to police, Akash had used a fake logo and stamp of Tata Motors to impersonate as the MD of Tata Motors, passenger division, Pune. Panigrahi’s followers had allegedly supported Akash’s claims of offering jobs at an industrial park Tata Motors is developing at Gopalpur in Ganjam district. Addressing a media conference, additional director-general of police (crime branch), Soumendra Priyadarshi said: “A case was registered with the crime branch on September 23 following complaints by the deputy general manager, ethics, Tata Motors, Trilochan Mohanty. The case was registered under IPC Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 469 (document or electronic records forged), 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly using as genuine documents) and under the Information Technology Act’s Section 66C and 66B (computer-related offices) against Akash Pathak.” Priyadarshi said: “During the investigation by the cyber police, it has been found that Akash had used a fake logo, stamp and visiting card of Tata Motors to impersonate as an MD of the company. He had also created a fake email ID.” Explaining the modus operandi, Priyadarshi said: “Akash had issued fake job letters to job aspirants after collecting money from them through the Gopalpur MLA (Panigrahi). In order to create a sense of confidence among job aspirants, he even imparted online training to them.” The ADG added: “It has come to light during the investigation that six people had given huge amounts of money to the Gopalpur MLA and his associates to get jobs at the Tata company.  “As Akash Pathak is the would-be son-in-law of Panigrahi and identifies himself as the MD of Tata Motors, people believed him. Panigrahi and his associates collected money from the job seekers. Of the six who have lodged complaints, two said they had transferred the money to Panigrahi’s accounts and four job seekers had given money to Panigrahi and his associates.” “Those selected by him for jobs were given online training,” Priyadarshi said. He said the state vigilance had registered a case against IFS officer Abhay Kanta Pathak for amassing properties disproportionate to his known sources of income. Arrested a few weeks ago, he is in judicial custody. “We have taken Akash Pathak into 5 days’ remand and his interrogation is on. Those who have been cheated and have not so far reported the matter to the police should immediately report it. We will initiate action as per the law.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Plea in Allahabad High Court  against ‘love jihad’ law||An appeal has been filed in Allahabad High Court challenging the Uttar Pradesh ordinance against “love jihad”, calling the government move “morally and constitutionally repugnant”. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, passed by the Yogi Adityanath government on November 27, entails imprisonment up to 10 years and a maximum fine of Rs 50,000 under different categories. Police have registered many cases against Muslim men married to Hindu women and arrested several persons even though they were married much before the ordinance was brought into force. Several BJP-ruled states have introduced laws against what they call “love jihad”, or an alleged conspiracy by Muslim men to marry, convert and radicalise Hindu women. Saurav Kumar, an advocate in Allahabad, has in his public interest litigation filed on Friday said the Uttar Pradesh ordinance was “morally and constitutionally repugnant” and should be repealed to prevent atrocities against people. The petitioner has also pointed out that chief minister Adityanath had said in a public speech on October 31 that his government would bring a law against “love jihad”. The chief minister had referred to a single-bench order of the high court that had ruled that religious conversion for marriage was invalid. However, later a two-judge bench of the high court had overruled the order of the single bench and observed that the “right to live with a person of his/her choice irrespective of the religion professed by them is intrinsic to the right to life and personal liberty”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Rampage for pay at iPhone contract unit ||Hundreds of workers went on the rampage on Saturday morning at the production facility of a Taiwanese firm that manufactures iPhones near Bangalore over arbitrary salary cuts and long work hours without compensation. Police detained 132 workers for vandalism at Wistron, a contract manufacturer of iPhones, at the Narsapura industrial area in Kolar district, some 75km from Bangalore. A police source said they would also look into the workers’ allegations. Deputy chief minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said: “Strict action will be taken against those who indulged in this mindless vandalism that damaged property on the premises.” He added: “The investigation will probe complaints about alleged salary deductions. If the workers have any such issue, they should first go to the labour commissioner or the district commissioner.”  Wistron did not issue a statement, and the company’s India managing director Sudipto Gupta did not respond to calls from this newspaper. According to a worker who spoke to The Telegraph, employees had not been paid their full wages over the past three months and their pleas allegedly fell on deaf ears. “We were hired as contract workers with a monthly salary of about Rs 16,000. But I was paid only Rs 11,000 last month. They always cite vague reasons like wrong punching (attendance) to cut our salaries,” said the 20-year-old from Kolar, who was at home when the violence erupted at 6.30am. Video clips showed workers using whatever they could lay their hands on to smash glass cabins, window panes, security cameras in the foyer and what appeared to be a locker room. They also toppled parked vehicles  and made bonfires of broken furniture. They left after the arrival of police who swung batons to disperse them. “I joined the company eight months ago. As per the contract we were to work in eight-hours shifts. But they switched to 12-hours shifts three months ago, leaving us with no choice,” said a worker who feared retribution if he were to be identified. “We have been made to work even on our festivals with the promise of overtime allowances. But once the work is done, our managers refuse to pay for the overtime and ask us to take a compensatory off,” said the worker, also from Kolar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Vijayvargiya calls for deployment of central forces in Bengal||Accusing Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of “banking on violence” to “return to power” BJP General Secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya on Sunday said central forces should be deployed in the state immediately. He said that this should be done to “put an end” to the “political violence” that engulfs the atmosphere of the state these days. The leader urged the Election Commission to ensure free and fair elections in the state in April-May next year, saying there should not be any provision for fear and violence. “Mamata Banerjee knows that the land under her feet has slipped and so she is trying to return to power in the state on the strength of violence,” he said. “I urge the Election Commission to deploy central forces from now itself in order to put an end to the prevailing atmosphere of political violence and terror in the state,” Vijayvargiya told the media at Shantiniketan in Birbhum district. The ruling Trinamul Congress and the BJP have been engaged in a tussle over the attack on saffron party president JP Nadda’s convoy during his Bengal visit on Thursday, while he was travelling to Diamond Harbour. The Ministry of Home Affairs has called on three IPS officers of the state cadre to join the central deputation. The three officers -- Bholanath Pandey (SP, Diamond Harbour), Praveen Tripathi (DIG, Presidency Range) and Rajeev Mishra (ADG, South Bengal) -- were responsible for the security of the BJP chief during his December 9-10 visit to the state. On Sunday, Vijayvargiya met Visva Bharati Vice-Chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty to discuss details about Prime Minister Narendra Modi's virtual programme to mark the foundation day of the central university on December 24. Later Vijayvargiya told reporters, “The PM, who is the Chancellor of Visva Bharati founded by Gurudev Rabindanath Tagore, is slated to address the programme virtually. We discussed the modalities. It was an informal meeting.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Kin of BJP supporter to move high court for second autopsy ||The family of Ulen Roy, the BJP supporter who died of pellet injuries during the party’s protest march in Siliguri on December 7, will file a petition on his second post-mortem at Calcutta High Court circuit bench here on Monday. The saffron party has been claiming that Roy died and some others were wounded by pellets fired by police. The police have denied firing pellets. Soujit Singha, the lawyer representing Roy’s family, said: “As the issue of Ulen Roy’s second post-mortem is indecisive, we will move Calcutta High Court.” On Friday, the district and sessions court here rejected a December 8 order of the chief judicial magistrate’s (CJM) court for Roy’s second post-mortem. But the court also directed the CJM court to hear the state and petitioner — Roy’s sister Santibala had petitioned for a second autopsy — during the next three days. Singha, also district convener of BJP’s legal cell in Jalpaiguri, said they would also petition for a CBI probe on Roy’s death and other incidents. On Saturday, the BJP MP of Jalpaiguri Jayanta Roy took eight party supporters from Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH). All were injured by pellets, MP Roy said. “We found nine more supporters hit by pellets that police fired at our men (during the march). On Saturday, eight of them went to NBMCH... Some have developed orthopaedic complications,” he added. Trinamul leader and minister Gautam Deb said Ulen Roy’s death was unfortunate but the BJP was doing politics over his death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya assures Matuas on CAA||The BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya on Saturday called on the Thakurnagar home of party MP and All India Matua Mahasangh chief Santanu Thakur, who has been voicing the community’s discontent over the Centre’s delay in implementing the citizenship law. During Vijayvargiya’s visit in the backdrop of Amit Shah’s proposed visit to Bengal on December 19, Thakur demanded the Union home minister visit the Matua turf to announce implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. “We have...requested Kailashji to convince Amit Shahji to visit Thakurnagar…There is tremendous pressure on us over the CAA… We are hopeful that the BJP leadership knows it well and Amit Shahji comes here to make the announcement (of its implementation). We have reiterated these points to Kalashji,” Santanu told the media after the meeting. Sources in the BJP said Vijayvargiya went all the way to Thakurnagar to meet the Mahasangh leaders and Thakur as the party was worried over the restlessness of Matuas over the delay in implementing the citizenship law. Speaking to the reporters, Vijayvargiya refuted claims that Thakur was annoyed with the party leadership about the delay. “He is a BJP MP and held a meeting with the home minister a few days ago. The CAA will be implemented by January or February next year,” he said. Vijayvargiya arrived at Thakurnagar around 1pm and held talks with leaders of the Matua Mahasangh and lunched with them before leaving. The visit of BJP’s Bengal minder to Thakurnagar also comes close on the heels of Mamata Banerjee’s December 9 rally in Gopalnagar where the chief minister announced that Matuas were Indian citizens and did not need CAA. She also vouched not to allow implementation of the CAA in the state, while announcing a slew of measures to win over the Matuas. The sudden move of Mamata has left the BJP jittery as the Matuas had largely been Trinamul supporters since the change of guard in Bengal, but the BJP had since managed to make solid inroads in the community by playing the citizenship card. To counter Mamata’s renewed effort to woo Matuas and her staunch opposition to the citizenship law, the BJP wants to use Shah’s visit as the votes of the Namashudra community would decide winners on quite a few seats in next year's Assembly polls. A source in the Mahasangh said one more reason for Vijayvargiya’s visit to Thakurnagar was to personally convince Santanu that the law would eventually be implemented. The source added that even after Saturday’s meeting Subrata doesn’t appear to be convinced. “We have learnt that the Centre is planning to implement the Citizenship Act very soon. But we will be happy if Amit Shahji visits Thakurnagar by January and makes an announcement about its implementation from here,” Santanu said. BJP insiders said efforts were on to ensure that Shah visited Thakurbari to make the announcement as it was crucial to win the support of the Matuas largely spread over North 24-Parganas and Nadia and a few districts in north and south Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Bimal’s Darjeeling public meeting on December 20||Suspense has lifted from the most anticipated development of hill politics in recent times with the announcement that Bimal Gurung would reach Darjeeling next Sunday. Gurung reached Siliguri on December 6 but hasn’t gone to the hills. Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Morcha’s Gurung camp, told The Telegraph: “Bimal Gurung will reach Darjeeling on December 20 and we will hold a public meeting at the town’s motor stand.” The last public appearance of Gurung in Darjeeling was during the Independence Day celebrations of 2017. It was held at Ging tea estate on the outskirts of the hill town. Giri did address a public meeting on November 30 at Kurseong. But Gurung’s presence in the hills is expected to create a different impact. Observers believe Gurung’s arrival in the hills after over three-and-a-half-years is enough to draw crowds throughout his Siliguri-Darjeeling route and to the public meeting. It is not clear whether Gurung would change his base from Siliguri to Darjeeling after the public meeting. Leaders of the Gurung faction’s youth front on Saturday lambasted the BJP and the party’s Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba for allegedly doing nothing to arrive at a permanent political solution for the hills. “We severed ties with BJP because of the doublespeak. We supported the party but for 11 years, it did nothing to address our principal demand. The MLA of Darjeeling is the most inactive public representative we have seen so far...,” said Prakash Gurung, youth front leader, in Siliguri. Ahead of going to Darjeeling, Gurung will be in Birpara of Alipurduar district on Sunday (December 13) to address a public meeting. On the same day, the rival faction of Morcha headed by Binay Tamang will organise a meeting at Sukna, around 10km from Siliguri. “The race to prove the support of the majority of the Gorkhas in the hills and plains before Trinamul leadership is truly on,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||CAA opponents warm up in Calcutta||Kaneez Fatima asked her husband to do her share of work on Saturday so that she could be part of a gathering that not only looked back at the events that unfolded this time last year but also resolved to continue the fight just when storm clouds were gathering again. Over  200 Calcuttans came together at Rajabazar on Saturday, the first anniversary of the citizenship act. The meeting was organised by the Joint Forum Against NRC, a public platform associated with the anti-CAA and anti-NRC movements in Bengal. The forum said on Saturday that its supporters were ready to start protests the moment the BJP-led Centre started implementing the act. “The act came into being exactly a year ago, which led to nationwide protests. If the Narendra Modi government issues a gazette notification to implement the act, we will again hit the streets to prevent its implementation,” said forum convener Prasenjit Bose. “The BJP is gearing up with its politics of communal polarisation as polls are nearing. This is why their leaders are talking about the CAA again,” Bose said, adding these comments prompted them to prepare for protests again. Union home minister Amit Shah’s proposed visit to Bongaon on December 19 was a part of the BJP’s plan to fuel pro-CAA sentiments and polarise Bengal voters, he added. Bongaon and Ranaghat Lok Sabha constituencies, both currently represented by the BJP, are dominated by the Matua community. Some members of the community have problems with citizenship, and the BJP is trying to woo them with the new citizenship matrix. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has told the community that they were already citizens and did not need the laws. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya met the Matua community in Thakurnagar, North 24-Parganas, on Saturday and told them that the act would be implemented by January or February. On Saturday, among the audience at Rajabazar was Fatima, 43, from Narkeldanga. Fatima, who makes cardboard trays for a living with her husband Abu Zafer, 53. They have two school-going daughters. “Today (Saturday) I asked my husband to do my share of work as well, so that I can come here,” Fatima told this correspondent. “This protest was led by women like me and if they need me to come and sit here again, I will. It is, after all, a question of my identity and my country,” Fatima added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker lynched during outreach at Halisahar||A BJP booth committee president was allegedly beaten to death and six  party workers were injured at Halisahar in North 24-Parganas during the saffron party’s outreach programme on Saturday evening. The BJP has accused Trinamul of the attack while the latter has blamed the saffron party’s internal bickering. BJP’s Saikat Bhawal, a contract worker with Halisahar Municipality, was allegedly beaten to death with bricks, iron rods and bamboo sticks while distributing party leaflets in Barendra Para near the municipality in the town. Residents informed the police who came to see Saikat and his party colleague Khokon Das bleeding on the ground. Both were rushed to JNM Hospital in Kalyani, where Saikat was declared dead. Khokon is critical. BJP leaders alleged Trinamul had tagged Saikat, a resident of Dompara Lane, ward 9, an “outsider” and fatally assaulted him. “Trinamul has planned to eliminate our party workers by tagging them outsiders. It is a planned murder,” BJP’s Bijpur MLA Subhranshu Roy said. Local Trinamul leader Subodh Adhikary no party worker was involved. “It is the fallout of BJP’s internal bickering,” he said. Police have been deputed in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul alleges Centre of 'terrorising' Bengal officials||Trinamul on Saturday alleged that the Centre was “terrorising” IAS and IPS officers in Bengal in response to the Union home ministry’s central deputation call for three IPS officers who were tasked with BJP president J.P. Nadda’s security for the Diamond Harbour event on Thursday. The BJP has been blaming Trinamul for the  convoy attack en route to Diamond Harbour, the constituency of Trinamul heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee. Trinamul veteran Kalyan Banerjee on behalf of the party shot a missive to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, urging him not to “behave like a servant of Amit Shah (union home minister)”. “Your motive is very clear that by taking them you want to create pressure upon the said three police officers. It is shameful and dangerous that all laws have been thrown out in the river by your action at the instance (sic) of Shri Amit Shah,” wrote Serampore MP Banerjee, also Trinamul’s chief whip in the Lok Sabha. “You are indirectly trying to impose emergency in the state of West Bengal. You are terrorising all IAS and IPS officers of our state. Your every path suffers from mala fide exercise of power,” he added. Banerjee, also a lawyer, told Bhalla that he disapproved the move through the letter on behalf of his party as Parliament was not in session. “Do not be a servant of Amit Shah but behave like an appropriate central government high official,” he wrote. Sources in Trinamul said it would tackle the problem on both fronts, administrative and political. In the letter, Banerjee also raised questions on the ministry’s summoning of state chief secretary Alapan Bandhyopadhyay and director-general of state police Virendra to Delhi for an explanation on Bengal’s law and order in the wake of the Nadda-convoy incident. “Can you, under the Constitution of India and any other law, intervene in respect of law and order of the state? It appears that with a political motive and at the insistence of your minister, who is a political person belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), you have issued the said letter,” wrote Banerjee. “You are trying to coerce the officers of the state of West Bengal with political vindictiveness. It appears also you are interfering with the federal structure embodied under the scheme of the Constitution of India,” he added. Trinamul also started taking out rallies in every block and ward of the state to condemn Rabindranath Tagore’s birthplace gaffe by Bengal BJP during Nadda’s visit. On Wednesday, the BJP state unit’s official handle had issued a tweet with a quote, attributing it to Nadda, stating that Tagore was born in Visva-Bharati. Sources in BJP attributed the mistake to its IT cell. The tweet has since been taken down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddha is conscious, alert and has also communicated with doctors verbally||Former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, 76, admitted to Woodlands Hospital with acute respiratory distress on Wednesday, is stable now, his doctors said on Saturday. He is conscious, alert and has also communicated with doctors verbally, a news bulletin issued by the hospital said, adding that oxygen saturation in his body is 94 per cent and his vitals, including blood pressure and pulse, are stable. Bhattacharjee, who was brought out of mechanical ventilation on Thursday, showed no sign of deterioration for the next 24 hours.  “This is a good sign,” a hospital source, adding that the CPM veteran had slept well on Friday night. Though Bhattacharjee is being fed through the Ryles tube, doctors are considering its removal in due course. He has expressed his desire to be released from hospital immediately, but doctors are keeping him under observation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati to hold Pous Utsav but not the fair because of the pandemic||Visva-Bharati in a meeting on Saturday decided to hold Pous Utsav but not the fair this month because of the pandemic. In response, the state government is mulling an alternative to the Pous Mela this year. “There will be no Pous Mela this year. We will conduct only traditional rituals and programmes following Covid protocol. We have invited our Chancellor and chief minister for the centenary celebrations. However, we are yet to get their confirmations,” said Kishore Bhattacharya, one of the joint secretaries of Karmi Mandali that conducts programmes in the varsity. Pous Mela started in 1894 and is a key event in Bengal’s calendar. Pous Utsav includes prayers, convocation of varsity’s two schools — Patha Bhavan and Shiksha Satra — and an event to mark Visva-Bharati’s centenary celebrations. This varsity has invited its Chancellor and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee for the centenary event on December 24. However, as Pous Mela is an important event for tourists and traders, the state government is working on a plan to hold a fair on the Dak Bungalow ground in Bolpur town. The government wants to hold the fair with the help of NGOs. “We have received proposals from half a dozen organisations (to hold the fair),” said Abhijit Sinha, mentor of Birbhum zilla parishad that owns the ground. Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, an apolitical platform, is one among those who have approached the zilla parishad to organise the fair. “We want to organise the fair mainly for two reasons. One, the fair gives a steady income to the local artisans who wait for Pous Mela to sell their produce. The fair is important this year because they have suffered due to lockdown. If political rallies can be held, there is no reason for the fair not to be held,” said Samirul Islam, secretary of the outfit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal’s active cases dip to 23,034||Bengal on Saturday logged 2,913 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,710 new infections and 44 deaths, and appeared nearing its goal of having fewer than 23,000 active cases by the end of 2020. The state’s total active cases numbered 37,190 on Dashami on October 26, but have now fallen to 23,034, back almost to where it was on September 7, 96 days ago. The total active cases dipped for the 47th successive day since Vijaya Dashami. On Saturday, the also state reported less than 3,000 new cases for the sixth consecutive day. “Till a few days ago, as the rate of drop in total active cases slowed down, it appeared that we would not be able to achieve our target of ending the year with less than 23,000. But as of today, we are just 35 cases away from sub-23,000,” said a minister. The first Covid-19 death was reported on March 23. The state took 264 days to cross the toll of 9,000. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.73, compared to the 1.45 per cent nationally. However, since Dashami, the mortality rate has improved from 1.85. Prior to this, Bengal logged 500 deaths on June 17, 1,000 on July 15, 2,000 on August 8, 3,000 on August 27, 4,000 on September 14, 5,000 on October 1, 6,000 on October 18, 7,000 on November 3, and 8,000 on November 22. “The latest 1,000 deaths took 20 days, slower and hence, better than the 16-19 days it took in the earlier per-1,000 deaths, the minister pointed out. “We are on track to achieve our other goal, of ending the year with a recovery rate of over 95,” the minister added. The state’s recovery rate has been rising for 51 consecutive days to touch a new high of 93.83 per cent. The national rate now is 94.9 per cent. In the 47 days since the end of Puja, the state recorded over 1.77 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.65 lakh cases. The state now has over 5.19 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.87 lakh recoveries and 9,010 deaths. Of Saturday’s 44 deaths, 16 were from the city. Of the total deaths, 7,553, or 83.8 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. With 42,107 tests on Saturday, the state’s total test count went past 63.82 lakh, at 70,914 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate – the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests conducted -- is 8.14 now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. Bengal reported 22.22 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.25 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Toll boycott brings farm protests to Bengal||The ongoing farmers’ protest in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab borders against the contentious farm laws spread to Bengal on Saturday with hundreds in Hooghly and Howrah taking over toll plazas for a few hours in the day and allowing vehicles to pass without having to pay tax, while demanding the laws be scrapped. Farmers’ unions agitating on Delhi borders had given a call to supporters to take over toll plazas across the country and allow free movement of vehicles on Saturday to escalate their agitation after several rounds of talks with the Modi government stayed inconclusive. The impact of the “takeover toll plaza” call in Bengal is significant as the BJP-led Centre has been trying to downplay the ongoing farmers’ protest as “discontentment” in two or three states only, and projecting the laws as major reforms in the agriculture sector. “If we don’t protest now, we will be forced to buy flour or rice at Rs 500 per kilo as multi-national companies will dictate the price mechanism and create artificial scarcity because the new laws have removed the cap on hoarding,” said a protester among the 300, including women, who joined the social service outfit Sikh Sangat to take over the toll plaza in Hooghly’s Dankuni on NH2 for around three hours. People shouted anti-farm-law slogans and waved placards demanding the laws be scrapped. Similar protests were held at toll plazas at Dulagarh and Bally in Howrah. Sources said that around 500 people in all reached Dulagarh and Bally. Around 150 members of trade union fronts of the CPM and the Congress — Citu and Intuc, respectively — took over the toll plaza on Vidyasagar Setu (second Hooghly bridge) in the afternoon. Baldish Singh, a member of the Sikh Sangat, who protested at the Dankuni toll plaza, said the ongoing peasant movement was “everybody’s”. “Farmers who are protesting against these new farm bills in Delhi and elsewhere are representing not just the farming community but the people of the entire country. The farm laws will harm farmers as well as common people as the price of agricultural produce will spike once multinational companies step in. People must come out in support of the farmers,” Singh said. A toll plaza employee in Dankuni said toll collection had been hit for two hours only — not more — and the protesters did not use force to stop tax collection. He added that the toll plaza employees had accepted the proposal of the protesters to stop collecting toll tax. “A group of people came and appealed to us to stop collecting toll tax for a few hours. We agreed and toll tax collection was stopped from 11.30am to 1.30pm. We lost around Rs 4-5 lakh because of the protest,” said toll collection agency official at Dankuni . Though political parties did not directly participate in Saturday’s protest, those opposed to the farm laws welcomed the movement to take over toll plazas across Bengal. “We are taking an active part in the protests demanding the repeal of these farm laws and therefore we support the Sikh Sangat’s show of solidarity with the farmers at Dankuni toll plaza,” said Debabrata Ghosh, CPM’s Hooghly district committee president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
13-12-2020||North East||Pledge in Assam to continue anti-CAA fight||Leading organisations and citizens’ groups in Assam on Saturday not only paid tributes to the five martyrs of the anti-CAA movement in the state but also staged protests and meetings seeking the repeal of the contentious law, a high level probe into the deaths and release of anti-CAA activists. The All Assam Students Union (AASU), Kriskak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), Coordination Committee Against Citizenship Amendment Act (CCACAA), Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad and Lachit Sena were among the organisations that marked the death anniversary of the martyrs with a renewed pledge to carry on the fight against the “anti-Assam” and “unconstitutional” CAA, which is seen as a threat to the identity and culture of the people of the Northeast. The anti-CAA brigade asserts the law makes it easier for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan to secure Indian citizenship, triggering fear that illegal Bangladeshis will swamp the region. The Lok Sabha had passed the Citizenship Amendment Bill on December 9 and the Rajya Sabha on December 11 last year despite widespread protests in the region, especially Assam, where five persons died on December 12 during the government crackdown on the protests in 2019. Dipanjal Das, Sam Stafford, Ishwar Nayak, Abdul Alim and Dwijendra Panging lost their lives on December 12. Around 18 people were injured. Saturday’s protest rallies, meetings and shraddhanjali across the state come a day after black day was organised under the banner of the North East Students’ Organisation (NESO) to protest against the CAA that had slowed down because of the pandemic. The revival of the protests, sources said, may not see huge participation like last year but will be “effective enough” to keep it in the limelight and the BJP-led government on its toes as the state gets into the election mode. The state Assembly polls are scheduled for early next year. “One of the highlights of the day was a gathering of people at the Guwahati Rotary Club in response to a social media message by conscious citizens in the evening. They lit candles in the memory of the martyrs, raised slogans against the CAA and sang a few protest songs but were not allowed to take out a torchlight rally by police whose numbers were clearly more than the participants," said Bidisha Barman, one of the participants. AASU chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharjya told that the government has not instituted a probe into the deaths even after a year. “The government knows who are the killers and this is why we want a probe by a sitting high court judge. We will also continue our peaceful movement till the law is repealed,” he said. The CCACAA, which offered Rs 10,000 each to families of the martyrs, gave a call to all the organisations and collectives for a united fight against the legislation keeping aside their differences. Deben Tamuly of the CCACC said they have renewed their pledge to fight against the CAA and sought a probe into the deaths of the martyrs. Senior Left leader Hemen Das and Rajya Sabha MP Ajit Kumar Bhuyan flayed the BJP-led Centre for imposing the CAA. “We have also demanded a judicial probe into the deaths of martyrs and the release of CAA detainees such as Akhil Gogoi and Debangana Kalita,” Tamuly said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
13-12-2020||Opinion||Chinese whisper||It all boils down to lip-sync. And that’s what external affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava seemed to be saying last week when he said of India’s continuing standoff with China: “We have taken note of the Chinese side’s statement that it observes ‘strictly the agreements between the two sides and is committed to resolving the border issue through dialogue and safeguarding peace and tranquility’ in the border areas. We expect that the Chinese side will match its words with actions.” When words and actions are out of step, it is a lip sync error. And it is not just a Chinese malaise. So you have a country's top leadership talking about "democracy" and invoking "we, the people...", when the world is witness that hundreds of thousands of farmers belonging to 500 unions are out in the cold protesting farm laws for the third consecutive week. It must be a lip-sync issue because the leadership has pledged on record, "Debate, discussion and dissent are essential parts of democracy", but every time there is debate, dissent or plea for discussion, be it farmers or the women of Shaheen Bagh, the government seems to hear the self-same track --- “Maoist elements”, “anti-national forces”. The ayes have it It is a lip-sync issue or why else would the deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha Harivansh Narayan Singh hear "ayes" when allies and those in Opposition had called for a clear division (vote) on farm bills? And you might remember how when Shaheen Bagh expressed solidarity with Kashmiri Pandits on January 19, filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri heard it as a celebration of the exodus of Kashmiri Pandits from the Valley. Lip-sync error explains why no matter what the visual, when the government tunes in to its people, all it hears is not wails of hunger, anxieties over joblessness, clamour for peace, but roars of nationalism. The visuals are of marching migrants, marching and falling by the way, scattered rotis on the rail-tracks, but the voiceover exhorts “atmanirbhar, atmanirbhar”. Force reboot It is lip-not-in-sync, as the people of Uttar Pradesh will tell you, when love is the proclaimed raison d'être, but the fallout is fractured unions. When you hear Adityanath saying he is committed to ensuring safety of women and yet all you see are reports of a hurried cremation of a gang rape victim. When they call it an election but it feels like a war. But it is not a lip-sync problem when the PM says economic indicators are raising hopes even in a pandemic situation, that recovery is faster than expected and all sectors are looking up, and yet the projected GDP contractions are 9.4 per cent. No Sir. That is the brightness key stuck at a blinding maximum. There is a virus in the system. Force reboot, anyone?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
13-12-2020||Opinion||Meat of the matter||Will New India now be haunted by ghosts of dinners past? In a first-of-its-kind study, researchers at the University of Cambridge have analysed lipid residues in ancient ceramic vessels from the Indus Valley civilization to reveal a dominance of animal products like the meat of pigs, buffalo, sheep and goat. Given the polarized political climate, India’s original inhabitant could well be considered a pariah in New India. Such speculations may not be entirely specious. Even hallowed precincts — museums and cultural institutions — are turning their noses up at certain aromas. Earlier this year, non-vegetarian dishes such as fish in turmeric stew and a steaming pot of offal that were part of an exhibition at the National Museum in Delhi on the culinary taste of the Indus Valley civilization were shown the door at the behest of queasy babus mindful of the tastes of their political masters. Those tasked with the project of rewriting Indian history would, however, smell an opportunity. Turning Indus Valley meatless would be a significant achievement for the fraternity that views history not through facts but through ideological lenses. The ideological contamination of cuisine is, of course, a recent phenomenon. Consumption of food and choice of cuisine are inevitably determined by ecological and economic conditions. Consider the tradition of the sale of unproductive, aged cattle by farmers. It generates the necessary capital for farmers to purchase new animals, lowers expenditures and sustains the meat industry that caters to around 70 per cent of India’s population. A blanket ban on cattle slaughter — Karnataka is the latest state to pass such a bill — would disrupt these interconnected networks and intensify hunger among marginalized people for whom meat is an affordable source of protein. This is all the more alarming since a recent survey by Hunger Watch found that there has been a significant decline in the food intake among Dalits, Muslims and backward classes — the primary constituency of meat-eaters — in recent times. India’s battle against malnutrition could well intensify as a result of economic decline and the passage of thoughtless, puritanical legislations. But a majoritarian turn in the political climate is not the only factor that has turned the weather rough for meat-eating communities. They are facing a global ethical backlash: meat-eating, science is arguing, contributes to climate change. The solutions would make the meat-eater drop his platter of beloved kebabs. Singapore has become the first country to approve a “cultured meat” product — flesh-equivalents produced in bio-reactors that do not require the slaughter of an animal. Mutton chnaap could soon make way for, say, soya steak. But not only are these substitutes nutritionally deficient, they also taste nothing like the real stuff. In countries like India that do not depend on mass-produced animal protein — Indians consumed only 3.16 kilogrammes of meat per capita per annum in 2017 compared to Singapore’s 71 kg and America’s 98.6 kg — lab-grown meat, much like bigoted legislations, can disrupt the links that make agriculture sustainable. Leaving a lighter carbon footprint is a laudable goal. However, imposing a unilateral template of consumption is not only antithetical to choice, the kernel of democracy, but also inimical to community health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
13-12-2020||Opinion|| Wily KCR cosying up to BJP, it's party time for Rajnikanth||If politics is the art of the possible, no one possibly practises it better than K Chandrashekar Rao, the chief minister of Telangana and head of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi. The unexpected performance of the Bharatiya Janata Party in the Hyderabad municipal corporation polls seems to have turned on the wily side of Rao. The TRS chief arrived in Delhi on Friday for a three-day visit and went about meeting top BJP ministers. He was photographed presenting a shawl to the home minister, Amit Shah — the same person who, while campaigning in Hyderabad only two weeks earlier, had launched a bitter attack on KCR, as Rao is popularly called, seeking to make the BJP the main challenger to the ruling TRS. Rao is also likely to call on the prime minister, Narendra Modi. Many feel that the BJP could soon emerge as the principal Opposition in the state replacing the Congress. Rao had managed to first befriend the Congress and then bleed the party out in Telangana. Rao had, it is believed, managed to convince the Congress high command that he would merge his party if his demand for the creation of the Telangana state, by bifurcating Andhra Pradesh, were fulfilled. Just ahead of the 2014 general elections, the United Progressive Alliance government agreed to divide Andhra Pradesh. Let alone a merger, Rao went on to finish off the Congress in Telangana. Is he trying to do the same with the rising BJP? The saffron party, however, feels that their leaders are the champions of the game. On the verge of revealing his political colours — Rajinikanth is set to launch a new political party — the Tamil superstar is offering a different food for thought to his supporters in his ‘home city’, Bangalore. The actor-turned-politician would not want to lose the opportunity of testing his popularity beyond Tamil Nadu. The legion of his die-hard fans, who strive hard to ensure that every film of their ‘thalaivar’ clicks at the box office even in Karnataka, could come in handy in his political career. Born in a Marathi-speaking family as Shivaji Rao Gaekwad, raised and having worked in Kannada-speaking Bangalore before making it big in Chennai, Rajinikanth would certainly aim to cash in on his popularity in Karnataka as well. Unsurprisingly, his recent visit to Bangalore to meet his elder brother created quite the buzz, apart from all the optics. The ruling BJP’s stellar performance in the panchayat and municipal polls in Arunachal Pradesh — scheduled for December 22 — without a vote being cast throws light on the growing strength of its consolidation at the grass roots since the party unseated the Congress in 2016. The BJP has won 96 of the 242 zilla parishad posts and 5,410 of the 8,196 gram panchayat posts uncontested, apart from five of the 58 corporator seats under the Itanagar Municipal Corporation. The results for the uncontested seats also reveal the free fall of the Opposition, the Congress, in the frontier state which had once been its bastion. The response of the political parties also reflects their mindsets. After the results, the BJP radiated positivity, with the chief minister, Pema Khandu, hailing the victory as ‘historic’ and crediting it to the intelligence of the voters and the unprecedented development work going on in the state under the BJP-led government. In contrast, a senior Congress leader told the media that the BJP’s outstanding electoral success was owing to “purchased faith by illegitimate means”. He even went on to attribute the success of the ruling party to the state election commission which conducts the polls, conveying — as political watchers observed — a defeatist and jaded mindset. There has been no talk of ‘looking within’ till now. No wonder the Congress is in what appears to be terminal decline since 2014, in spite of a bright spark here and there. Over the years, HD Kumaraswamy has battled poor health and political pitfalls. A year after he lost power as the BJP poached 17 lawmakers of the Congress-Janata Dal (Secular) coalition, Kumaraswamy seems to have put the past behind him. The second son of the former prime minister, HD Deve Gowda, is on a mission to ‘rebuild’ his party by consolidating its traditional Vokkaliga votes and winning back the trust of Muslims whose support he had pretty much lost on account of his misadventure of allying with the BJP in 2006. As a first step, Kumaraswamy called on his former party colleague, CM Ibrahim, of the Congress. The message was loud and clear: return to the JD(S) and be its Muslim face. Many in the JD(S) feel that Ibrahim would take the offer since he has been virtually sidelined in the Congress. Punjabi pop has become a staple of Indian weddings, particularly in the North. Now, it seems, the farmers’ protests are becoming just as infectious, to the extent that showing support to the movement has become a fad in Haryana and Punjab. Wedding cars now bear banners of solidarity with the protests along with the usual frills. Some families are requesting guests to donate what they would give as wedding gifts for the farmers’ protests. Such is the connect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
13-12-2020||Opinion||Radio days||Home-bound during the pandemic, I’ve rediscovered the radio. As newspapers, with a couple of honourable exceptions, merge into an all-India chorus conducted by the Central government and as television news channels race against each other to make performative sycophancy a competitive sport, internet radio has become a sanity-dispensing machine. The last time the radio was so important to me was more than half a century ago when its monopoly of broadcast news and entertainment made it a necessary part of the desi day. Radio Ceylon, Vividh Bharati, the radio plays on Hawa Mahal, the commercials in between song requests, Ameen Sayani’s magical voice on Binaca Geetmala, the news on the hour with Surajit Sen gruffly going, ‘This is All India Radio, the news read by...’ together made up the soundtrack of our lives. Literally. Anubhav, released in 1971, featured Tanuja and Sanjeev Kumar playing a young couple in a fraught marriage, and it was much praised for its everyday realism because Akashvani’s radio commercials played constantly in the background. One difference between then and now is that the online radio I listen to doesn’t involve fiddling with tuning knobs. It’s available online and via a bit of magic that I never tire of, I can ask a smart speaker to play BBC Radio 5 Live and it will. The BBC is going through a difficult time; the ruling Tories dislike it because they think it’s too liberal and politically correct and doesn’t give conservatives equal time. They want to cancel the license fee and argue, plausibly, that in a world dominated by 24-hour news channels and private subscription services like Netflix and Amazon Prime and HBO, a public broadcaster has no sacred right to an anti-competitive subsidy. Sitting in Delhi, listening to the BBC’s hosts lead conversations about Brexit even as the British prime minister flits between Brussels and London, I know that the critics are wrong. The case for the BBC, which is to say the case for an autonomous, non-partisan, publicly funded broadcaster, is best made by looking at the real-world consequences of not having one. Take the farmers’ protests against the new agriculture laws passed by the Central government. It is obvious that we would be better informed about the issues involved if we had a credible, autonomous public broadcaster capable of organizing discussions and phone-ins and debates in which netas, kisans and the general public could have their say. There are critics of the Narendra Modi government who think that some parts of the new laws are good for farmers in the long run; there are partisans of the Bharatiya Janata Party who think that the government didn’t consult enough before putting the bills to vote; there are others who think these laws are a stratagem to sell Indian agriculture, cheap, to the prime minister’s capitalist cronies and yet others who think that the mandis and minimum support prices merely coddle a class of rich kulaks. There is no forum in which these views are coherently exchanged. That forum can’t be a newspaper, however open it might be to differing political views. Print as a medium is less accessible and, in a country like India, less democratic than the radio. Because people can listen to the radio while doing something else, it is the perfect medium for the mythical public square where citizens talk out their concerns. It can’t be done on television; it has to be aural so that people can be possessed while not paying attention. The BBC is the world’s largest argument for centrism. Publicly mandated to talk out everything in a rhetorically even-handed way, the BBC’s real charter is to sustain mainstream chat that keeps people centered. The BBC is a national conversation and everyone listens in occasionally if only because they pay the licence fee. They overhear arguments about the potential of Brexit, the dangers of vaccination and the prospect of Scotland seceding. First-rate public broadcasting normalizes disagreement. It is not just the medium, it is the mandate. American shock-jock stations demonstrate that it is perfectly possible to be toxic on the radio. During the last British general election, Jeremy Corbyn’s supporters were convinced (with some reason) that the BBC’s political editor, Laura Kuenssberg, was prejudiced against their man. After the election, the BBC’s director-general might have pointed to the Conservative government’s determination to undermine the licence fee as evidence of the BBC’s even-handedness. The bland two-side-ism that so agitates sincere partisans is a necessary formula for broadcasting sanity. It is like a tanpura drone that tells the listener that there is some baseline of truth on which variations are being played. When the drone disappears, all you have is noise, like American talk radio or Indian jock television. The idea that there is an agreed-on common sense that ought to constrain angry rhetoric seems, in good times, like willed blandness; in bad times, like the present moment, the reality of a non-partisan public broadcaster paid for by citizens is a rock on which you might build democracy’s church. This doesn’t mean that a country’s political culture should consist of centrist broadcasters. In England you have papers like The Telegraph, The Spectator and the Daily Mail that rage for a no-deal Brexit and Unionism and rage against Black Lives Matter and every other form of ‘wokeness’ without restraint. And they have their counterparts on the Left. But in the run-up to an election, on the eve of a referendum, in the middle of a controversy on trans rights, the twain do meet... in the BBC’s studios to talk civilly about their disagreements. And they do this because they recognize that the BBC is ideologically neutral ground. It isn’t just journalists and pundits who argue on the BBC; the way public opinion is broadcast, the way the BBC’s hosts canvas public opinion is a lesson in how curiosity and tact can be combined. They flag themes, have people call in, ask their callers potentially provocative questions and yet manage to conduct rolling conversations while steering callers away from bad-tempered ranting. Think of how All India Radio might have covered the farmer’s protest if Prasar Bharati, India’s ‘autonomous’ broadcasting corporation, had been a neutral broadcaster instead of a neutered one. Between Amit Shah’s dissembling, the Akali Dal’s bid to re-invent itself as a critic of the BJP, Rahul Gandhi desperation to make something of the opportunity, the views of contending economists and the testimony of the farmers dug in for the long haul on Delhi’s borders, we could have had riveting radio. But that ship has sailed. What we do have, as a long shot alternative, is the prospect of another kind of BBC, a Bespoke Broadcasting Service that we might create by occupying the airwaves, one podcast at a time, till we have a critical mass of independent voices doing what they can to redress a zombie public broadcaster’s failure to do its job. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
13-12-2020||Opinion||The moving finger fights||This is going to take some time, and this may be more difficult than can be imagined at this moment. This may not be able to go all the way, down the cascading length of this column, no, of that I cannot be sure. There can be no guarantee this will go to the end, this medley of letters and words and the act of arranging them in a way that it becomes possible for some to make sense of; for some, no more, and most certainly not for all. To expect for it to make sense to all would be too ambitious. Even an Act of God would not aspire to make sense to all. But now the arrangement of letters and words into some form of sense and sentence has become tougher than it was before. My finger, you see, has been banned; it is no longer legal for me to use it. So I am using other things, it is a work in progress, learning how to manage without fingers. Fingers have their uses, anybody will tell you that. Sometimes the mere show of a finger is tantamount to the use of it. Do nothing with a finger, just show it. It can get people all worked up; a batsman at the crease shown a finger, for instance, by the umpire. Fingered. Gone. Fingers do other things. For the self, and often, for the other. Good things, and not so good things. Don’t underestimate them, these things called fingers, they can punch way, way above their weight. What would a finger be? Well below the decimal points of the entire mass of your being, a foldable fraction of your bodily deportment? A finger, it is barely even able to cast a shadow unless commanded to flex and stretch. But never underestimate a finger, a finger can trigger a killer bullet, a finger can send you to the gallows. Fingers are able to achieve feats in astounding exaggeration of what their size might suggest. Let’s not talk about all of those things. Let’s leave some of those things to your imagination, if you have such a thing. Imagine what other things fingers can do. Fingers hold. Fingers wiggle. Fingers point. Fingers can poke. Fingers can summon. Fingers can dismiss. Fingers wag. Fingers can be crossed. Fingers can turn into a grip and that grip can help or harm. Fingers can turn into a fist and then they can box you out on your ear. Fingers can also pick you up. Fingers dip. Fingers fish out. Fingers have tips and tiny as they may be, and it is possible to have many things on those fingertips. Including just plain tips. For what reason, or for which of those functions, I have not yet been told, but my finger has been banned. In pursuance of provisions against the established ill-effects of the unfettered use of fingers, you are henceforth banned the use of your fingers, or some such thing the order said, without going into any specifics of which errant act was the offending one. It offends me, that order, but such is its nature that I may not even show a finger to it. And so the going is slow and the going is tough. This, the function of filling up this space, is a finger job, when you come down to the basics of how this space is filled week after week. It’s fundamentally a finger thing. But some think it is fingering, and therefore, perhaps, they have thought it wise to ban it. Who knows? They are banning everything. And then they make a law that would say the ban is just. If somebody raises a finger and wishes to ask under what law, that is. The day they ban birds from flying, they will have put in place a law saying henceforth the snipping and snapping of wings is a patriotic act and anyone not snipping or snapping birds’ wings is in violation of their fundamental duty. They got the recipe, they know just how to do it, and do it for purpose and for pleasure. Chuck into the blender Lime, garlic and ginger For kicks, get that offender And fling in his wagging finger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
13-12-2020||Opinion||Immortal role: Chadwick Boseman's Black Panther||Sir — There can be no doubt that Chadwick Boseman immortalized the role of the Black Panther on screen. But for Marvel to say that the role will not be recast is a huge loss not just for fans of the Black Panther but also the world of superheroes, which is dominated by white males. Even if comic books have made place for a diverse cast of characters, not all of them have found representation on the big screen. Boseman was one of the few to break that ceiling. Surely he would have wanted another black actor of merit to carry forward his legacy? After all, the show must go on. S. Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — The article, “An older root” (Dec 10), by the renowned columnist, Swapan Dasgupta, makes for interesting reading. As is his wont, Dasgupta cleverly based his article on the only quality of the Bharatiya Janata Party-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh combine: Hindutva. He has gift-wrapped Hindutva in terms of Hindu nationalism personified by icons like Bankim Chandra Chatterjee, Swami Vivekananda, Sri Aurobindo and Bipin Chandra Pal. However, he deliberately does not dwell upon the fact that Hinduism as preached by these icons was based on uncompromising inclusiveness as opposed to the bigoted, warped and divisive version of the Hindutva clan. Dasgupta has tried to camouflage the deeply flawed and jingoistic Hindutva agenda by dropping names of Bengali cultural icons. Unsurprisingly, the name of Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, the founder of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, the precursor of the BJP, comes up. One wonders, though, why Dasgupta chose not to mention Nirmal Chandra Chatterjee, one-time president of the Hindu Mahasabha. Is it because he stood out for representing Hinduism without being dogmatic or bigoted? Dasgupta has successfully disguised his deeply imbedded dislike for the largest minority community with his oblique remarks about the apparent impact of Gandhian thinking, which, allegedly, Bengali Hindus failed to come to terms with because of the so-called “Muslim question”. This is a rather blatant example of Dasgupta’s divisive thinking. It remains to be seen which way the voters of Bengal would turn in the forthcoming assembly elections. In my opinion, the wishful thinking of the legions of detractors of the present dispensation that Bengal will be saffronized is likely to come to nought. The saffron party is likely to garner a fairly reasonable number of seats at the hustings, but that hopefully would not thwart the chances of the present dispensation from getting an absolute majority on its own, according a quiet burial to the saffron brand of Hindutva. Dipak Banerjee,Calcutta Sir — To navigate West Bengal’s political labyrinth, Swapan Dasgupta boasts of Bengali exceptionalism and erases out deliberate strands in “An older root”. He seems to dig up before readers West Bengal’s soft corner for identity politics. This is similar to when the BJP says it is taking cognizance of anarchy and sponsored violence in the state. These are attempts to create a narrative that is part of a calculated strategy — playing victim might be an ongoing campaign strategy till the assembly polls. Reinterpreting Bengal’s history is part of a concerted effort to create a collage of Bengal’s political psyche filled with opacities. The BJP’s confidence stems from a 40.2 per cent vote share in Lok Sabha 2019, only 3 per cent less than the ruling party in West Bengal. With the Bihar elections acting as a morale booster and the prospect of a probable Congress-Left alliance eating into the Trinamul Congress’s vote share, the party’s satraps can afford to be optimistic. But for the BJP to wrest Bengal, such strategies will not be enough. C. Haldar,Calcutta Sir — Swapan Dasgupta’s insidious design to present a skewed version of truth fools no one. Bengal has a rich culture of assimilation, inclusiveness and religious fraternity. Neither the saffron party’s political posturing nor Dasgupta’s cleverly crafted history will change that. Akash Chatterjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Bomb hurled at vehicle dealer's house in Dhanbad||Unidentified persons hurled a bomb at the house of a pre-owned car dealer of Naya Bazar locality under Bank More police station area of Dhanbad during the wee hours of Sunday. The house owner Bobby Khan and his other family members narrowly escaped the incident. However, property worth more than Rs 1 lakh was damaged in the fire caused by the explosion of the bomb as furniture including sofa set and bed were burnt. A team from Bank More police station led by officer in charge Veer Kunwar reached the site after getting the information during the morning hours. A forensic team took details from the house owner, other family members and neighbours of Bobby Khan and also collected some samples from the site including remains of the bomb which exploded during the incident. While talking to the media, Bobby Khan said, “We were asleep in our respective rooms. We awoke from the slumber after hearing the bang sound at around 4 am and rushed towards the vacant drawing room to find out a huge smoke coming out.” “I am not aware that who is behind the incident as I have no enmity with anyone. This is the second incident of such kind as earlier this year on November 26 a bomb was hurled outside my house,” said Khan. Meanwhile, talking to the media, the officer in charge of Bank More police station said, “We have collected some evidence from the site and trying to identify those behind the incident however nobody sighted anyone as it was still dark.” Notably, altogether four computer traders of Dhanbad including the owner of City Computers, Vishal Kumar; owner of Jhajharia Computer, Vikash Agarwal; owner of Agarwal Computer, Tinku Agarwal and his elder brother Govind Agarwal had received extortion calls on their mobile phone numbers on November 29 this year in name of People’s Liberation Front of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Three BIT-Sindri students get Rs 10.52 lakh job offer from Tata Steel||Three B.Tech third year students of BIT-Sindri, namely Aditi Sinha and Salique Ahmed of electrical engineering and Abhishek Paul of mechanical engineering have been lapped by Tata Steel for a package of Rs 10.52 lakh per annum. The selected three students were among the 170 who appeared for the online written screening held on December 8 and out of the 19 who were selected for the final round of interview held on December 11. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Ghanshyam Rai, BIT-Sindri training and placement officer said, “The selection in the period of lockdown assumes significance when all tests are being conducted online and few students are getting job offers.” “Though 40 students of our institute of the 2020-21 pass out batch have so far been selected by different recruiters but the selection of three students by Tata Steel has special significance because of the high package of more than Rs 10 lakh per annum,” added Ghanshyam. “Seventeen of our B.Tech students have also been selected by Tata Consultancy Service on October 18 this year out of which 14 secured Tata Ninja offer for a package of Rs 7 lakh per annum, while three others got the Tata Digital offer for a package of Rs 3.36 lakh per annum,” explained Ghanshyam. Divulging more details, Ghanshyam said, “Several other recruiters’ interview are still lined up for the present batch of 725 but the majority of these recruitment process like the previous one will be conducted online. “We are utilising the time of lockdown period for honing up the soft skills of our students and several online workshops, seminars are being organised at the behest of the training and placement cell where the top executives of different companies are providing valuable tips about personality development besides skill for facing an interview, etc.,” said Singh and added that more than 350 students of the 2019-20 batch out of total 725 had already secured jobs through campus placement while the remaining are appearing for off-campus selection. The leading educational consultant and founder of learning also tipped the students of the institute about successful interview facing techniques during an online session held on November 3. Expressing happiness over his selection, Abhishek Paul said, “We came to know about our selection on Saturday night and initially could not believe.” “For other students, I would request them to be very confident while facing interviews and concentrate on the technical part while replying to queries of the HR department,” said Paul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi University tribal languages section gets new building||Students of the tribal and regional languages (TRL) department of Ranchi University will now have access to proper classrooms and seating facilities, courtesy a new building that was inaugurated by Governor Droupadi Murmu on Sunday. Murmu, who is chancellor of all state universities, also inaugurated a newly constructed basketball court at the Morabadi campus in the presence of vice chancellor Ramesh Kumar Pandey, pro-VC Kamini Kumari, among others. University officials said the three-storied building, built at a cost of Rs 3.25 crore, has nine classrooms and a large AC auditorium. Expressing her happiness over the developments, Murmu said that the department was extremely important for Jharkhand. “The tribal and regional languages department is a significant component of Ranchi University which has the mandate to groom future scholars and academicians. I hope the spacious building will now enable the department to provide a better academic ambience to students,” she said.  Set up in 1980, the tribal and regional languages department is one of the oldest of Ranchi University. It was set up to preserve the rich cultural traditions of Scheduled Tribes and other communities inhabiting this part of the country. Currently, it has over 400 students pursuing courses in five tribal and four regional languages. The tribal languages on offer include Mundari, Santhali, Ho, Khadia and Kuruk. The department also offers four regional languages, namely, Kurmali, Khortha, Nagpuri and Panchpargania. Head of the department Hai Oraon said the university had developed all the syllabi and teaching materials in the languages offered. “The new building was long-awaited. Now, we can have subject-specific classrooms for students. Also, we can host literary meets, our own festivals and activities at the new auditorium,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Sky overcast, expect light rain across state till Wednesday||Several areas of northern, central and southern Jharkhand woke up to overcast conditions on Sunday, and many areas experienced light showers, the result of a western disturbance passing through north India. "The disturbance, in the form of a cyclonic circulation, was passing through north Pakistan and Punjab extending between 1.5km and 2.1km above mean sea level," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He said a low-pressure area which had originated over central parts of the South Arabian Sea had become weak. "However, an associated cyclonic circulation lies over the same area extending up to 3.1km above mean sea level. A trough from this system was running towards southwest Madhya Pradesh and south Gujarat coast extending up to 1.5km above mean sea level, " said Anand. Both Ranchi and Patna Meteorological Centres predicted light rain in isolated places over north, central and southern Jharkhand in the next 72 hours, till December 16 (Wednesday) due to the impact of the western disturbance. Minimum temperatures across the state have witnessed an increase due to cloud cover. Weathermen said the night readings would be above normal over the next three-four days in most areas because of the adverse weather condition. On Sunday, Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Bokaro recorded minimum temperature of over 16 degree Celsius, three to four notches above normal, while Daltonganj and its adjoining areas recorded over 17 degrees Celsius, seven notches above normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Red Paws works to keep strays warm this winter||A popular animal welfare association of the steel city went about placing mattresses for strays on Sunday to ensure they are comfortable during the winter. The initiative, organised by Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation (JRPRF), was launched from the Circuit House Area ground. From there, volunteers drove to various places in a van to place the mattresses. “These mattresses would provide a nice and warm place for stray dogs to sleep in, especially at night,” said Aniz Patel, founder of JRPRF, an NGO established in 2018. According to Patel, they covered Circuit House Area, Kadma, Sonari and Sakchi and placed 50 mattresses made of hay and nylon sacks. A similar drive would be undertaken on a larger scale across other areas of Jamshedpur. “Winter isn’t easy for strays in and around Jamshedpur.  Many even die. We felt it is our responsibility to help the strays battle the harsh winter,” Patel added. The foundation has appealed to citizens to come forward and donate blankets, dog-friendly clothes and mufflers to keep them warm during the winter. Apart from Patel, others who were part of the drive included Kunal Venkat, P. Mohan, Pratik Jain, S.K Mitra and Aditi Das. The NGO had organised a stray pup adoption camp on November 29 to motivate people to adopt Indian strays who would otherwise face the wrath of speedy cars on busy streets. Thirty pups were adopted by dog lovers. Red Paws had also organised a “feed the stray” drive earlier this year. It also organised an anti-rabies vaccination drive. The foundation has appealed to the people for support. “We can hold more such activities with support from more volunteers. There is no dearth of animal lovers in Jamshedpur,” a member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Silver and gold ornaments stolen from Lemboiya temple in Chatra||Thieves broke into the ancient Maa Dakshineshwari Bhagwati Devi Chamunda temple in Pathalgadda block of Chatra on Sunday and stole the silver crown and other gold ornaments on the black stone idol of Goddess Lemboiya. Temple committee members informed Pathalgadda police as soon as they came to know of the crime, and an FIR was lodged. Situated on the Lemboiya hill, the temple is several centuries old. Currently, it is being renovated and the thieves took this opportunity to enter the temple through the ventilator. Priests said that when they opened the temple door, they found the crown and other gold and silver ornaments missing from the idol. Temple committee members – Basudev Tiwary, Dhanushdhari Ram Dangi and Bakeshwar Dangi – said they found the main gate of the temple locked. The thieves entered through a ventilator and escaped with silver crown and ornaments worth lakhs. Other than the silver crown, a gold maang tikka, a gold netra (eye) were stolen. We want immediate arrest of the thieves, they added. Officer-in-charge of Pathalgadda police station, Avinash Kumar, who reached the temple soon after getting the information, assured the temple committee members and local residents. He said the investigation started and thieves will be nabbed soon. The theft has sparked anger in the area as local people claimed that the temple was targeted thrice in the past and ornaments were stolen. The police, however, failed to crack the earlier cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Centre helping with vaccine storage and transportation||Jharkhand will be receiving at least 148 ice lined refrigerators (ILR) and 57 deep freezers (DF) from the Centre for safe storage and transportation of the Covid-19 vaccine once it is made available to the state, officials of the health department said here on Sunday. The fresh set of ice lined refrigerators (ILR) and deep freezers (DF) will strengthen the state’s existing infrastructure for vaccination programmes, said state National Health Mission (NHM) director Ravi Shankar Shukla. “We are making arrangements in accordance with the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare,” he added. As per figures with the NHM, Jharkhand already has 1,666 electrical equipment for running vaccination programmes. These include ILRs and DFs. ILRs, officials said, maintain a temperature between 2 degree Celsius and 8 degree Celsius, while DFs help maintain a temperature below 0 degrees for vaccine storage. Deep freezers are also used for maintaining requisite temperature during transportation of vaccines. For storage of the vaccine, Jharkhand already has 275 cold chain points and has proposed additional 30 cold chain points to enhance the storage capacity in the state, a health department document accessed by The Telegraph Online stated. A highly placed source in the health department said the government has also started identifying electrical equipment that are defunct or dated and need to be replaced. He said that the government has the experience of running immunisation programmes regularly, but the demand for Covid-19 vaccine and the temperature restrictions may make the immunisation process more challenging. Different vaccines have different temperature requirements to maintain potency. The Pfizer BioNtech vaccine requires a temperature of -60 to -90 degree Celsius, which is difficult to maintain with the infrastructure available in India. However, Oxford’s AstraZenecca vaccine can be kept at a temperature of 2 degree Celsius to 8 degree Celsius, which is possible with the infrastructure available in Jharkhand, officials said. Besides, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila are developing their own vaccine candidates. Health officials said the government will also be roping in NGOs and development partners like UNDP and UNICEF for facilitating the immunisation programme in Jharkhand. National Cadet Corps (NCC) and National Service Scheme (NSS) cadets will also be involved in providing support to the state machinery during the immunisation process. The government has so far identified 1 lakh frontline workers, mostly doctors and other health workers, for the first round of vaccinations. Once frontline workers are vaccinated, the state will start vaccination of senior citizens and the ones with comorbid conditions, sources said. As per figures with the state health department, coronavirus has infected 1,11,366 people in the state so far and more than 97 per cent of them have recovered. However, at least 995 patients, mostly those with comorbidities, could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand reports zero casualties in 24 hours||Jharkhand reported zero casualties related to Covid-19 over the past 24 hours, while the count of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped close to 1,600 in the state. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on Saturday, figures compiled by the health department showed. The state recorded 189 cases of coronavirus on the day, while 273 people recovered, bringing the number of active cases down at 1,610, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission stated. Ranchi and East Singhbhum were the only two states that had more than 100 cases of coronavirus by the end of Saturday. At least 24 patients recovered in East Singhbhum on the day against 12 fresh cases of infection, bringing the number of active patients in the district down to 171, government data showed. Despite reporting the highest recoveries among all the districts on Saturday, Ranchi’s active cases still accounted for nearly half of the active cases in Jharkhand. At least 79 fresh cases surfaced here against 89 recoveries, which brought the count of active cases in the district down to 791, the health bulletin showed. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported 10 cases against 34 recoveries, while Bokaro reported 12 cases against 11 recoveries. At least 15 people were found infected in Palamu and eight patients recovered from the infection there. The government tested samples of 19,757 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, swab samples  44.94 lakh people have been collected while 44.78 of them were tested. Despite not reporting any new fatality over the past 24 hours, the Covid-19 death toll in Jharkhand has been rising fast. At least 995 patients, 355 of them from East singhbhum, have died in the state, while Ranchi has reported 206 Covid fatalities so far. The Covid fatality rate in Jharkhand was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. As per government data, 1,08,761 people have recovered from Covid-19, out of the 1,11,366 infected with the deadly virus, taking the recovery rate up at 97.66 per cent. The growth rate of the virus, as per the state health department, was 0.14 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.27 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state was 494.21 days against the national average of 258.83 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
